 When choosing broths, go with the low-fat variety. If you are making a creamy soup and the recipe calls for heavy cream, use a lower-fat substitute, such as 2% milk. You could also try a non-dairy milk if you are vegan or lactose-intolerant.


Need a thick soup? Switch out the sour cream for some pureed, mild-tasting white beans. This would also give you an extra dose of fiber, protein, and other nutrients., Cutting fats and calories are not the only ways to make soup healthier. Another common culprit in soup is the excess sodium, and you can make your soup healthier by using low-sodium broths and less salt. This does not mean that your soup has to be flavorless. Try adding some fresh or dried herbs, such as: cilantro/coriander, ginger, garlic, or pepper.


Spices not only add flavor, but they also contain antioxidants and anti-inflammatory properties, both of which are beneficial to your health.Other ways to add a salty flavor is to use lemon juice, lime juice, or rice vinegar.Switch out seasoned salt (ie: garlic salt) for herb-only seasoning, such as: garlic powder or onion salt., Vegetables are a great way of introducing antioxidants, fiber, minerals, and vitamins to your diet. Beans can add fiber and protein while making your soup thicker.You can use fresh, frozen, or canned vegetables. If you are using canned vegetables, however, make sure that they are low in sodium.
 Meat is a great way of adding protein to your meal, but it can also add unhealthy fats. Whenever you can, try to use lean meats, such as chicken and turkey, in your soups.If you can't replace the meat you are using, go for a lean or reduced fat option, such as:Extra-lean or lean ground beef
Ground chicken breast or turkey breast
Turkey bacon or Canadian bacon

, If your soup recipe calls for pasta, noodles, or rice, try using whole wheat pasta, whole wheat noodles, or brown rice instead. If you don't like brown rice, you could also try wild rice or pearl barley.Whole grains are full of beneficial fibers, vitamins, and nutrients.
 There is nothing wrong with adding a little bit of bacon, cheese, or sour cream to your soup. Instead of using them in the main body of your soup, however, use them as a topping instead. This way, you will extra the extra flavor, but not the extra fats and calories. Here are some other ways you can cut corners while indulging in the goodies:Use reduced-fat, finely shredded cheese instead of regular, full-fat shredded cheese.
Love bacon? Try turkey bacon or chopped up Canadian bacon instead of regular bacon.
Need sour cream? Try low-fat sour cream or plain, non-fat Greek yogurt.
Want to add some crackers? Try toasted whole wheat break or whole grain crackers instead.
