 The dehydration caused by alcohol consumption needs to be tackled if you are to get rid of your hangover. The most straightforward way to re-hydrate yourself is simply by drinking lots of water when you wake up. Drinking bland fluids that are easy on your digestive system will help you replace lost liquid without irritating your stomach.Drinking a pint of water before you go to bed will help to lower your dehydration levels before you wake up. Keep a glass of water next to your bed to drink from in the night.;
, As well as water, an isotonic sports drink can be a very effective way to replace fluids and give you some much-needed energy. These drinks contain carbohydrates that release energy slowly, helping you pick up as the day goes on.Look for drinks that contain electrolytes, which you need to replace when you have become dehydrated.Be wary of sports drinks containing caffeine as these will likely make you more dehydrated.
If you feel severely dehydrated, look for an oral rehydration solution. These are specially formulated to treat dehydration, whereas most sports drinks are not.
 Another good thing to drink is fresh fruit juice. The vitamins and minerals will give you a boost.Fruit juices are generally high in fructose, which is sugar that affects your energy as well as the functioning of your liver.


Fruit juices are also often high in vitamin C, something which is often lost in your urine when you are drinking.Tomato juice, orange juice, and coconut water are all good choices., Drinking ginger tea can help to suppress nausea and vomiting. It is often drunk by pregnant women to help with morning sickness and the same principle applies for a hangover.One option is to boil 10-12 pieces of fresh ginger root in about four cups of water and add the juice of one orange, half a lemon and half cup of honey.


This concoction will provide quick relief from the hangover by stabilizing blood glucose levels.
A calm tea is probably better than a carbonated ginger ale. Fizzy drinks increase the pressure on your stomach, and could cause you to feel nauseated., With all of these drinks, there is no fixed amount that you need to drink, it is more a question of drinking throughout the day. Taking regular sips of water, fruit juice and/or an isotonic sports drink will help you replenish your lost fluids, vitamins and nutrients as the day goes on., Just as you are drinking water and juice to help rehydrate yourself, drinking a lot of caffeinated drinks, such as coffee, can make you more dehydrated rather than less. Caffeine also narrows your blood vessels and raises your blood pressure, which can also exaggerate your hangover symptoms.

