 Mostly they are diarrhoea and vomiting of clear-like fluids.


These usually start about 1-5 days after bacteria ingestion.
Fevers aren't common, but sometimes indicate a secondary infection. Blood pressure is also low do to about 10–15 liters (3–4 US gal) of water being expelled per day.
Kussmaul breathing(deep and laboured) can be indicators, also muscle cramping and weakness.
In the severe cases the patient turns blue from lack of a large amount of fluids.;
, Cholera is usually spread through unsanitary drinking water supplies and facial contamination, so this would be a reasonable first choice to investigate.


Check the condition of waste disposal methods at the location of a possible cholera outbreak. Making sure that sewage discharge is adequately treated and disposed of will decrease the potential for spread of the disease.
Cholera in the developed world is usually due to food, more specifically the seafood plankton and shellfish.
 Although cholera is not as communicable as some other diseases, keeping those suffering from the disease from contact with the general public will reduce the chance of spread.


Use PPE when in contact with them and dispose of their faeces properly to stop more infection.
People with medical training should have access to the person to give them proper medical care.
The person should be told to drink water and fluids. Babies should be breastfed or given a bottle even if the person is travelling for treatment.
 Even if only rudimentary latrines are utilized, keeping the waste contained and out of potential water sources is of the utmost importance.


Everything that is suspected for contamination or that was in contact with a person with Cholera should be sterilized or disposed.
Use sterilized water, bottled water, or water from another trusted source if possible during a cholera outbreak. Boil water if you have to.
Wash your hands and peel vegetables.
Food should be cooked well, especially seafood and meats. Food should be hot all the way through before ready and all food should be covered until you are ready to eat.
 The Cholera vaccines take weeks to work and thus should not take over the above methods. They also have incomplete protection over a short time.


Dukoral is licensed by the WHO and in 60 countries. Is 52% effective in the first year and 60% in the second.
Shanchol is licensed in India and pending licensing by the WHO.
Defecation should be buried at least 30 meters (98.4 ft) from every water source or use a latrine.

