 Depression and anxiety are often accompanied by a decrease in sexual drive. It is important to identify and treat depression first before you address your lack of sex drive.In some cases, antidepressants may be prescribed to improve symptoms of depression. Be honest with your doctor about the decrease in your libido, since some prescription drugs can also reduce sex drive. Changing the medication often results in fewer affects on your libido.;
, How do you define yourself as a sexual being: are you sexually appealing? How do you perceive yourself? Why? It is important to have high sexual self-esteem but there can be a number of factors, including abuse, harassment, weight gain, and being called demeaning names, that can negatively impact your sexual self-esteem.If you find the issues involve your partner, keep them in the loop. Find a therapist or counselor who has experience working with low libido and actively work on these emotional causes with your partner., Your libido will have an impact on your partner, so keep them informed to work on your sex life together. Open communication allows you to explore how to enjoy sex and one another’s desires. It’s important to define your sexual expectations together.A lack of communication is a sure libido-killer. Think about it this way: How is your partner to know what you like or dislike if you can’t address it to them? By opening the lines of communication and being honest with yourself, you can tell your partner your desires and dislikes. Perhaps you enjoy a particular touch from your partner and when it doesn’t happen, you have a hard time finding your libido. Being able to pinpoint this and communicate you need to feel sexual will help keep your libido roaring.Keeping communication alive isn’t just about communicating on sex. It’s also important to be able to communicate about other life problems such as work and finances. If your partner is doing everything they should in the bedroom, perhaps your lack of libido is coming from elsewhere, such as resentment over a financial issue., Stress can be brought on by many factors including finances, occupation, health, and family. Identify the main stressors in your life and take the necessary steps to manage a balanced routine.Get massages, exercise, or develop a healthier work/life balance. Only you will know what is the most effective way for you to deal with stress. Communicate with your partner to increase the level of intimacy and help manage your stress levels. Even scheduling intimacy makes it a priority., When life gets busy, you may find your libido is left behind in the dust. As unsexy as it may sound, setting aside weekly times to enjoy your body will help keep you in the routine of having a libido. If you want to include your partner, remember that you don’t have to necessarily have sex, but instead upkeep closeness and intimacy in your relationship.Don’t worry about it feeling unsexy. After the business of getting the kids to school, working all day, making dinner and getting the kids to bed, you likely find that a lacking energy level will plummet your libido. By having a fun activity to look forward to, you’ll have all-day anticipation and a time slot to set aside your daily worries and focus on yourself.