 Walking or jogging is the easiest way to add a little cardio to your overall workout regimen, mainly because you can do them anywhere. You don't necessarily have to join a gym or use a treadmill.If you're new to exercise, start slow, with only a 5 – 10 minute walk a day. Gradually increase the time you're walking each week until you're going on 30-minute walks.
Check your posture when you're walking. Keep a neutral back and engage your abs to straighten and lengthen your spine.
 The flutter kick exercise is based on the flutter kick that you do while swimming. If you have access to a pool, swimming is a low-impact cardiovascular workout that will incorporate the flutter kicks you're already using to tone your abs.If you don't want to swim laps, you can hang on to the side of the pool and kick, or use a kickboard or a swim noodle to keep your head and upper body out of the water as you kick.
 If you want to continue your ab workout even on days you're doing cardio, engage your core with cardio intervals of exercises such as mountain climbers and burpees.For mountain climbers, get in the plank position, then lift your left foot and drive your left knee forward toward the center of your body, between your arms, Then kick it back and immediately do the same with your right knee. Alternate quickly and smoothly, trying to stay in constant motion for 30 seconds. Then rest.
To do burpees, start from a standing position with your feet about hip-width apart. Swing your arms up and jump, bending your knees as you land and lowering softly, dropping your hands to the ground in front of you. Then jump your feet all the way back to a plank position, immediately lowering to a push-up. Jump your feet forward and stand. Do as many of these as you can do in 30 seconds with good form, staying in constant motion.
 You'll get the maximum fat-burning benefits from your cardio exercise only if you're doing it at moderate to vigorous intensity. You can measure intensity either by paying attention to your body or by measuring your heart rate.The "talk test" is one of the easiest ways to gauge the intensity of your exercise, and works especially well if you're jogging or walking for cardio. With moderate exercise, you'll notice that your breathing quickens, but you won't be out of breath. You're able to carry on a conversation, but you're not able to sing. With vigorous exercise, you wouldn't be able to say more than a few words without losing your breath.
You also can look at how much you sweat. With moderate exercise, you should develop a light sweat. With vigorous exercise, on the other hand, you're sweating more heavily after only a few minutes.

