 Start the dance by assuming standard ballroom position. The man's back should face the center of the dance floor, and the woman should face both the man and the dance floor.Note that couples dancing corridos formally will form a double circle around the ballroom and move counter-clockwise.
The man and woman should face each other with their bodies slightly touch. The right half of the man's front should come in contact with the right half of the woman's front, starting at the upper thighs and extending up through the middle of the torso.The man should take the woman's right hand with his left. The two palms should clasp, and the fingers and thumbs of the man's hand should close around the woman's hand.
The man should place his right hand on the woman's back, right at the base of the shoulder blade. This hand should be loosely cupped, with the fingers and thumb together.
The woman should keep her left hand and left forearm on the man's right arm.;
, During the first five measures, the man should take ten step-closes to the right, moving clockwise. The woman will follow with ten simultaneous step-closes to the left.


These first five measures take place during the introduction of the song.
To perform a step-close:

The man steps on his right foot during the first count.
He closes his feet, then steps his left foot beside the right during the second count.
 For measures 6 through 13, the man will make eight grapevine steps to the left, moving counter-clockwise, and the woman will match his steps by moving to the right.


To perform a grapevine step:

The man crosses his right foot in front of the left, stepping down on it during the first count.
He steps sideways and to the left with his left foot during the second count.
During the third count, he crosses his right foot behind his left and steps down on it.
For the final and fourth count, he steps sidewards to the left using his left foot.
 The man should stamp his left foot for a count of two, then swiftly close his feet and stamp the right foot next to the left on the third count of the measure. By the fourth count, the right foot should be freed again for movement.


The woman will also stamp her feet, but her movements should mirror the man's. As a result, she will stamp her right foot on a two count, stamp her left next to her right on the third count, then free her left foot.
 For measures 14 and 15, the man makes four step-closes to the right, moving clockwise again. The woman makes four step-closes to the left.


This portion of the dance usually takes place during a brief musical interlude of the song.
 This portion of the dance is a little complex and involves a series of slides or shuffles. As usual, the woman's movements should mirror the man's; when he moves right, she moves left, and vice versa.


During measure 16, the man shuffles or slides four steps diagonally back and to the left. These steps start with his right foot, and alternate back and fourth between the right and left foot.
During measure 17, the man makes another four shuffles or slides, this time moving diagonally forward and to the left. Once more, he starts with his right foot and alternatives between the right and left.
The above two steps are repeated as a pattern three more times over six more measures.
During the last measure, the man stamps twice with his left foot for a count of two, quickly closes his feet together, and stamps his right foot next to the left by the third count. The right foot is once more freed by the fourth count.
 The first part of the dance is completed with the man taking another eight grapevine steps to the left, then performing the left-left-right-free stamping pattern that followed the initial set of grapevine steps earlier in the dance.


The woman continues to mirror these steps.
 As with the first part of the dance, the second part opens with ten step-closes. The man moves sideways to the right, and the woman moves to her left.


At the conclusion of these step-closes, the two partners release hands and break apart. The man clasps his hands behind his back and the woman uses hers to hold her skirt out to the side.
During this second part of the dance, the measure count resets. As such, these first step-closes for this portion are to measures one through five. Also note that each portion of the dance has the same number of measures (31).
 This part of the dance has its own complexities, as well, and must be broken down into substeps. The full movement set takes place over a series of two measures, though. The woman's moves mirror the man's moves, but the woman does not turn here even though the man does.


The man should cross his right foot in front of the left. Upon stepping back down onto the right foot, he must rock on it gently while simultaneously raising the left foot off the floor. This happens during the first count.
During the second count, the man must set his left foot down and rock on it in place.
On count three, the man closes his feet together and draws his right foot next to the left.
The above three steps are repeated for counts four, five, and six, but the movements are in reverse. In other words, his left foot crosses over the right, his right foot rocks in place, and his left foot draws back to the right.
Immediately after, the man must walk two steps forward (right foot, left foot) and turn to his left in a full circle. This takes place over the final two counts.
 The steps for the pas de basques and the final turn must be repeated three more times.


During the final measure, however, the man must stamp twice with his left foot, close his feet and stamp the right foot next to the left, then free his right foot again.
 Both partners must take four step-closes during the next four measures. The man moves to his right and the woman moves to her left.
 As with the first part of the dance, the couple enters into another soldado. This one follows the same steps and moves of the one performed during the first part of the dance.


The man makes four shuffling steps diagonally back and to the left, followed by four shuffling steps diagonally forward and to the left.
This pattern is repeated three more times. At the final measure, the standard left-left-right-free stamping pattern is performed.
At the conclusion of this soldado, the man must face his partner. Both partners must have their elbows bent. The man's right hand joins the woman's left hand at shoulder height, and the man's left hand must also be behind the woman's back, roughly at the base of her shoulder blade. The woman's right hand should continue to hold her skirt.
 For the remaining eight measures, both the man and the woman should perform grapevine steps. The man should move sidewards to the left, and the woman should move sideward right.


Every other measure, the woman should turn clockwise twice instead of performing grapevine steps. As she turns, she should move under their joined hands and take four walking steps. These steps start with the right foot and alternate between right and left.
 The final part of the dance starts in the same way the first part began. The man takes ten step-closes to the right, with the woman mirroring by moving to her left.


Note that this final part of the dance is almost identical to the first part. The only difference comes in during the final set of grapevine steps.
 The man must make eight grapevine steps to the left while the woman steps to the right. Do this eight times.


At the end of the last step, the man stamps on his left foot for a count of two, closes his feet, then stamps his right foot back to its place beside the left on the third count. For the fourth count, the right foot is freed again. The woman mirrors these steps with her opposite feet.
 Perform four step-closes to the right if you have the man's role. For the woman's role, perform four mirroring step-closes to the left.
 This soldado is exactly the same as it was during the first part of the dance. As usual, the woman mirrors the man's movements with her opposite foot.


The man should take four sliding steps diagonally back and to the left, starting with his right foot. Afterward, he should take four sliding steps diagonally forward and to the left, starting with his right foot again.
This movement should be repeated three more times.
During the final four-count, the man should stomp with his left foot twice on count. His right foot should should stomp next to the left on the third count. By the fourth count, his right foot should be freed up to move again.
 For the final measures of the dance, the partners should perform eight grapevine steps and conclude with another left-left-right-free foot stomping step.


Note that during this part of the dance, the couples should have their inside hands joined instead of being poised in the ballroom position. In other words, the man's right hand should join with the woman's left, while the woman holds up her skirt with her right hand and the man holds the back of the woman with his left hand.
 At the conclusion of the last set of steps, the song should end and the dance will be over. You and your partner can break apart and leave the dance floor.


At the end of the dance, both partners should thank each other.
Leave the floor as quickly and gracefully as possible at the conclusion of the dance. The man should lead the woman off the dance floor by offering her his arm and escorting her back to her seat.