 Some medications, such as prednisone, can cause facial numbness. Contact your doctor promptly if you believe you’re experiencing any side effects due to a medication.Tell your doctor or pharmacist about any medications you take and ask about their side effects or potential interactions. Ask them to recommend an alternative if you believe a medication is causing your lip numbness.
 Among other symptoms, a vitamin B-12 deficiency can cause numbness in the face, hands, and feet. Ask your doctor if they recommend a blood test to diagnose a vitamin deficiency and whether you should take a supplement.You could be at risk of a vitamin B deficiency if you’re over 50, a vegetarian, have had weight-loss surgery, have a condition that interferes with food absorption, or take medications such as Nexium, Prevacid, or Zantac.
 If you consistently experience numbness in your face, hands, or feet, along with coldness or discoloration, ask your doctor if Raynaud’s disease is a possible cause. Raynaud’s disease occurs when small arteries that supply blood to the skin narrow, which leads to decreased blood circulation.If your doctor suspects Raynaud’s disease, they’ll administer a physical exam and blood screening to make an accurate diagnosis.
To manage Raynaud’s disease, you should avoid cold temperatures, wear hats and gloves, avoid smoking, and try to minimize emotional stress.
 While a local anesthetic following a dental procedure can cause lip numbness for two or three hours, prolonged numbness could indicate a complication. If you experience persistent numbness after a dental implant, filling, wisdom tooth extraction, or other dental procedure, schedule a follow-up visit with your dentist or oral surgeon as soon as possible.Numbness after an oral procedure could indicate nerve damage or an abscess.  

, If you’re about to have a dental procedure, you can ask your dentist or oral surgeon for a medication to counteract the numbness that results after local anesthesia. OraVerse, or phentolamine mesylate, is an injectable medication that increases blood flow to soft tissues and helps to speed up the return of normal sensation.Tell your dentist or oral surgeon if you have a history of heart or blood vessel issues. It should not be used in patients with a history of cardiovascular disorders.

