 Clothing can affect the sound quality of the recording of your guitar if they tap or scratch against the body. Usually metal pieces like the rivets on your jeans, buttons and zippers of a jacket, and belt buckles create the most noise when rubbing against your guitar. Be cognizant of how your outfit can affect your recording.;
, The sound that you are trying to achieve determines the type of strings you should use. Steel-cored wound strings come in a variety of different types and each have their own properties. You want a gauge suited for you and you want to make sure that your setup is correct so that there is no buzzing.


Lighter gauge strings like 11 - 50 set are easier to play but produce a thinner sound quality. A heavier gauge set, like one beginning with a 15 gauge top E, will produce a heavier sound that lacks in overtones. Compromise by using strings that are the heaviest you feel comfortable playing.
Use an electronic tuner between each take to ensure you have accurate tuning at all times.
For example, the most commonly used type of strings are bronze, phosphor bronze, and nickel wound for acoustic guitars.
 If you are using a pick, try picks with different thickness. Take your time choosing the right pick before you go into recording as this will make each stage of recording easier. When layering multiple tracks use thin picks.
 The environment in which you play your acoustic guitar will greatly affect how your instrument will sound as they thrive on live acoustics. Home studios may provide insufficient natural reverb. Be cautious of too long a reverb time because this will produce a muddy sound. This usually happens in smaller studios.


You may add artificial reverb after the recording to liven a dead room or to produce a more preferable sound however, live natural acoustics will always sound better.
Try to liven up the sound in your room by playing close to reflective surfaces such as doors, hard floors, and solid furniture. Place a sheet of plywood or a sheet of hard board underneath carpeting if your sound is being dampened. If the sound isn’t working in your studio, run cables so that you may play at a different location while still being able to capture your recording with the studio equipment.
If time permits, experiment with the rooms. Before you begin recording check the sound of each room. The guitar must sound its best both to the performer and the recording engineer. Select your mic only when both are satisfied.
 Create a budget as there are many varieties of microphones for every kind of recording need. Mics for acoustic guitars will often attach directly to your instrument. These microphones will attach to the body of your guitar and will be small, lightweight, and respond specifically to the frequency of your guitar. While they give the performer freedom of movement they can also be at the top of the price range.You may try a USB microphone because of their simplicity and convenience. There are a wide variety of USB microphones including dynamic and condenser mics used for both vocals and instruments. While they range in price, some work with iOS and Android apps to turn your mobile device into a portable recording studio., Commonly aim the mic at where the body of the guitar joins the neck and place it about 40cm from the guitar itself. You want a well-integrated sound where you control the sound hole’s contribution by not pointing the mic directly at it as well as control the levels of reflected and direct sound. Use enclosed headphone to tweak the mic placement as you listen to the instrument but remember to check on your monitors before finalizing mic placement.


To brighten a bassy sound move the mic towards the neck. For a fuller sound with more warmth, move the mic closer to the sound hole. Increase the amount of room ambience that is recorded by moving the mic further from the guitar; however, it will also dry the sound up.
Use headphones to place the mic at less conventional placements. For example, you may set up a mic or two over the player’s shoulder to capture the sound that she hears. You may also point the mic at a reflective surface or underneath the guitar. Try out different locations with your headphones if conventional theory isn’t giving you the sound that you want.
 Make sure you aren’t wasting your time by testing out your mic with all your recording equipment. Whether it’s feedback monitors or the recording apparatus, make sure to have several mic checks before allowing your guitar player to perform.


Allow the performer to hear what the room will sound like so she can get comfortable with the space. A mic check benefits the performer the most, the engineer the second, and the audience third. Use the mic check to get the performer comfortable with the sound coming from the monitors and to balance the sound of the room.
When conducting a mic check you should be looking for issues with feedback, a poor recording, monitor mixes that are unsatisfactory to you or the performer, and glitches or technical issues that may disrupt the performance like bad cables.
 On the lower left corner of your computer screen click on the Start menu icon and click on Control Panel to open a new window. Select Sound and, the second tab from the left at the top of the screen, select the Recording tab., Your recording device will appear as a microphone icon and labelled USB Audio Device. Once you see it, click on USB Audio Device followed by Properties.If your mic is not displaying, move your mouse inside the recording tab area and right click to open a drop down menu and select Show Disabled Devices. Using the right click again, click on “Show Disconnected Devices” and select your recording device., Select your levels and use your mouse to adjust to your recording preferences. You may manipulate your microphone volume and speaker volume at this stage. Begin at a medium level and adjust from there. When done, select OK and then OK again, and finally click on Exit., There are a number of recording programs you can install, from beginner to professional, choose one that suits your recording needs. Read reviews and visit audio forums to ensure the software you use provides you with the functionality needed for your recordings. Your microphone properties should be open by making sure your device toolbar is open.If your device toolbar does not automatically open, click View, select Toolbars, and click Device Toolbar., Press the red button to start recording. When you’re finished your microphone test press the yellow square button. During your test, adjust the volume of your recording to your preference. Play a few bars until you are satisfied with the levels.If the sound does not record well and you feel it’s a software issue, change the sound preferences by again choosing the microphone from the control panel then clicking on Sound. Try to reopen the project or start fresh and open a new project.






If you feel your software is not reading your devices properly, you may also try and click Edit, then click on Preferences, choose the Devices tab, and from the settings in the diagram for recording, choose your device as Microphone USB Audio Device and use channel 1 Mono., When ready play your guitar and perform. It’s imperative to test out your equipment several times before recording your performance to ensure that you don’t lose energy or develop fatigue from multiple false starts. You also don’t want to waste takes if you have to pay for studio time.
 Select the guitar-shaped Garageband icon from your applications folder or open Finder by clicking on the magnifying glass icon on the top right of your screen and typing in Garageband. Once open, select a new project by choosing from vocals, keyboards, piano, voice, song writing, or either electric or acoustic guitar. Each choice will have a corresponding icon so simply click on the acoustic guitar.If you can’t find Garageband you may download it for free from the app store. Garageband is an Apple-made program that is compatible with Macbook, iPad, or iMac.
 Initially, you won’t be able to use an external mic, like a USB mic, without changing your preferences. Go to the top left of the Garageband screen and click on Preferences. From the menu select Audio Input, which brings a dropdown menu where you can choose your microphone. You will be prompted to change your drivers. Follow the prompts until it's indicated that you are now able to record with your prefered microphone., You will be left with a recording window once you have selected Acoustic Guitar as your instrument and selected your mic preference. Set Stereo as your format, set Monitor to On if your want to hear audio from your computer speakers to Off if you don’t, and finally click OK when ready to record., Click the red Record button located in the control bar to start recording. A new red region will appear as you watch the timeline. The playhead will move across the timeline as your record the selected track. Stop recording by clicking the Play button in the control bar.You may listen, delete, edit, save, etc from the control bar.