 Seeing an unattended dog outside may instinctively move you to help, but you want to make sure that you are not making the situation worse. For instance, if you see a dog weaving through traffic, chasing after the dog could put you, other pedestrians, and motorists in danger. Wait until the dog is in a safe place before providing assistance.


If the dog is already in a safe place do not scare the dog. In this situation it is best to not approach the dog. Stray animals can act unpredictably, so be cautious.;
, Before you whisk a dog a way to safety, make sure that the dog is actually alone and not simply separated momentarily from his owner. You can save yourself a lot of time, hassle and potential criminal charges by making sure the dog is actually lost. Simply wait to see if the owner comes to claim the dog.If the dog has a leash and collar on, you can try to safely grab the leash. This will keep the dog in one place while you wait for an owner to hopefully appear.
 Dogs on the street will fall into one of two categories: a dog that has been separated from its owner or a stray dog without a home or loving family. There are some safety concerns with both types of dogs. Owned dog’s separated from their owners may be fearful or aggressive when approached by unknown people, including you. The dog may not be used to “street life” and may bite, scratch or run away in fear when you approach it.


Or, you may be dealing with an aggressive dog that broke loose from his owner’s home or yard looking for a fight.
 Since you're unsure what diseases the dog may be carrying, look for aggression, snapping, and biting at everyone and everything. This could indicate that the dog is rabid. If so, he'll also refuse water and salivate a lot. Or, another type of rabies will make the dog look very sick, prevent it from walking, but it will still salivate a lot. If you see any signs like this in a stray dog, call the police and animal control.The dog may also be carrying any of the following diseases:Rabies
Distemper
Ticks, fleas, mange
Ringworm and other fungal diseases
Heartworms
Kennel cough
Intestinal parasites: roundworms, hookworms, tapeworms, whipworms

, Before finding a home for a stray dog, you'll need to catch and restrain him. This can be a little dangerous since dogs can sometimes be defensive or even hostile because of prior abuse, neglect, sickness, or his general temperament. You can approach the dog with a barrier, like a tennis racket or skateboard. This can keep the dog from biting you while you get closer to it. If you fear the dog at any time or think the situation is beyond your capabilities, retreat to a safe place and call animal control or the non-emergency police line for help.Remember that a barrier object is not meant to be a weapon for you to swing at the dog in an attempt to strike them. It is just a barrier for your own protection.
 If the dog seems open to being approached (he sits or stands without raised fur or bared teeth, and doesn't growl or snap at you), start to gain his trust. Offer something like a treat that builds trust and lets the dog know you have good intentions. Slowly approach him and offer the back of your hand with your palm down for the dog to sniff. Take your time and pause if he becomes frightened or hostile.


Pay attention to what triggers an emotional response from the dog and be sensitive. Pause and allow the dog to get more comfortable before starting to approach the dog again.
Never reach over the dog's head or body. The dog will see this as a threat and either run away or may bite you before retreating.
 Once you've gained the dog's trust and you can get close to him, restrain him. Quickly and quietly slip a leash or rope around his neck. This is important to control the dog and prevent him from running away.


If the dog twists and tries to get away after you've gotten a leash on him, try to verbally reassure him. For example, say, "Calm down, boy," in a gentle, but firm voice., If you take the dog to any veterinary clinic or the Humane Society, they can check for a microchip that locates the owners. If the dog has an owner, the owner will be notified and your job is done. If there's no microchip, you could still try to find the owners by doing any of the following:Post “found dog” flyers around the neighborhood where you found the dog. If the dog has a home, it is likely that he didn’t wander off too far from it.
Notify local veterinary clinics, animal shelters and animal control/police departments that you found a dog. Give a thorough description of the dog—color, gender, breed, weight, and any other distinguishing characteristics.
Call the local radio station to see if a lost dog has been reported or to see if they will mention it on the air. This is a good option in small communities.
Post found dog ads on-line and with local community newspapers.
 If you decide to bring the dog to your home, have him checked out at the veterinary clinic first. The dog will be examined for fleas and internal parasites. This will keep you from bringing these pests into your home or exposing them to your other pets.Talk with your family before bringing home a stray dog to make sure everyone agrees with the decision. You should also make sure your landlord is fine with another dog, if you rent.
 If a home has yet to be located for the dog, you might want to consider adopting it temporarily or perhaps permanently. If you take the dog to the Humane Society, they may not be able to take the dog in right away. But, if you are able to hold on to the dog for a quarantine period of up to two weeks, they may then take the dog and give it all of the necessary tests and vaccines.


Be prepared to pay for medical expenses and other costs. Some shelters may offer discounts for caring for strays.