 It is very important to use a crate inside the house or a dog house, igloo, or some warm, comfortable shelter outside where the dog can rest and feel secure. Put the pup’s bed or blankets, as well as its toys, into the shelter so the puppy will recognize the space as its own.


Recognize that it may take some time for this new place to seem like home to your dog. Take some time to gently teach them to go inside it.
Any crate or kennel needs to be big enough for the dog to stand normal without a hunched back and to allow it to turn in a circle without being cramped.
 Start by leaving the door open and putting a few of its favorite treats inside toward the back of the crate or kennel.As as the puppy goes inside to eat the treats, say “kennel” and shut the door gently behind it. After the dog has finished the treats, open the door and give it praise.


When you shut the crate and the puppy is quiet, make sure give them lots of praise. This helps the pup learn that being quiet and not whining is a positive way to get attention.
Put the puppy's food and favorite toys in the crate, making it a fun environment with positive associations.
 Do this a few more time over the course of a couple of days gradually lengthening the amount of time the puppy is in there with the door closed. Never let him out if he starts to whine or cry; otherwise he will think that is what gets him out of the crate. Wait for him to be quiet before you spring him from the crate.
 When you crate or kennel your puppy when you leave the home, never make a big deal out of it. Give the pup the usual crate or kennel command and walk away as normal. This way the dog won’t associate a bunch of fuss with you leaving the house.


Remember to leave them with distraction like a food-stuffed Kong to divert their attention away from being crated.
When you return, don't let the puppy out of the crate right away. Do a few things first, and wait until the puppy is being quiet to let them out. This teaches them to be patient as well as removing the direct link between the crate and you leaving the house.
 Never leave a puppy under two months of age in a crate longer than two hours or under six months of age in a crate or kennel for longer than four hours.They can’t fully control their bladders for more than that time period. As for older dogs, aim to only keep them in their crate for 4 hours. Its cruel to keep them confined for much longer than that time.

