 Glow sticks only glow for two to six hours, depending on the size. Because of this, plan on making the glow jar just before you plan on using it. This will allow you to enjoy your jar for longer. Here's a list of what you will need:


1 glow stick or 2 – 3 bracelet glow sticks
Craft knife or scissors
Jar with lid
Newspaper
Rubber or latex gloves
Strainer
Glitter (optional);
, This project can get messy, so you might want to protect your table. If you don't have newspaper, paper bags or even a cheap, plastic tablecloth would work.
 Glow sticks have a glass tube inside. When you activate a glow stick by snapping it in half, this glass tube shatters. The strainer will catch the glass shards.


Do not plan on using this strainer for cooking again. Even if you clean it, there might be a glass shard stuck in it.
 Although glow sticks are considered to be non-toxic, the chemicals inside can still irritate skin. You will also be working with shattered glass.
 Hold the glow stick with two hands, then snap it briskly in half. Shake it to mix the chemicals inside. It should begin to glow brightly.
 Hold the glow stick over the jar, and cut it using a craft knife or a pair of sharp scissors. Be careful so that the fluid doesn't spray you.


If you are a child, ask a parent to help you.
 Turn the glow stick upside down so the liquid can flow into the jar. The glass shards will get caught in the strainer. You may have to shake and jiggle the glow stick to get everything out.
 Try to use glow sticks that are all one color. Some colors can look nice when they are mixed together, (such as red and white) but others will turn out muddy (such as red and green).
 Throw everything away into the trash can. Make sure that you shake the strainer against the side of the trashcan to dislodge any glass shards that might be stuck in it.
 The best way to do is to grip the glove by the cuff, and tug down on it. The glove will flip inside out. You won't have to worry about touching the glow stick fluid that's on it.
 Your glow jar is almost ready to be used, but you can make it fancier buy adding in about a teaspoon of glitter. You can use any color of glitter you want, but iridescent or a color that matches the glow stick might look best.
 This will cause the glow stick liquid to coat the walls.
 Enjoy the glow while it lasts. It will begin to fade after two to six hours. If you want, you can add more glow stick liquid to the jar the next night.

