 Whatever your addiction, associating with other people who currently partake in that behavior is dangerous. This can be difficult if you have been addicted for a long time because most of your friends are likely addicts as well. If you are serious about avoiding a relapse you have to avoid these friends as much as possible.It is also a good idea to change your phone number to prevent certain people from contacting you. You may even consider moving out of the area to reduce the chance of running into anyone you want to avoid.
Not only will hanging out with other addicts tempt you, they may not take your recovery seriously. This could result in you being pressured to ‘have some fun’ and go back to your old ways.
 Triggers are things that you associate with the need to use your addiction as a crutch. They can be anything from a particular emotion (like sadness) to a familiar T.V. show. Recognize what you are doing and how you feel when you have an urge to relapse. Write these things down and make a list of your triggers to help yourself avoid and control them.You can also discuss your triggers with your mental health professional and/or your doctor.
 Stress is a major contributor to addiction and relapse. Managing your stress level from day to day with things like mindfulness and exercise is imperative to successfully avoiding a relapse. You should also have a plan for coping with major life events. These major events can introduce a tremendous amount of stress in a relatively short time, so it is important to call your sponsor or a trusted friend or family member right away if one of these events occurs. Some examples are:A change in marital status
A loss or death
A change in finances or employment
A holiday or other family function

, Your willpower largely dependent on your mood and state of mind at any given time. The best way to avoid a relapse is to plan to stay away from places where you used to use, people that you used with, or scenarios that make you want to turn to your addiction again. While you might make it out of one or two situations, if you continue to put yourself in vulnerable positions, you are likely to relapse. Some examples of things you can plan to do to avoid bad situations are:Take a different route to and from work.
Avoid places you used to hang out.
Have a backup plan ready in case you run into an old friend that is still addicted. For example, you could cut the conversation short by saying that you are late to pick up your mother for a doctor’s appointment.
Practice how you might respond to offers for substances. You can do this by role playing and rehearsing your answers with your sponsor or a trusted friend or family member.
 There is a difference between slipping a time or two and having a full relapse into addiction. The main difference depends on how quickly you regain control. Forgive yourself for any mistakes that you make and get back to your recovery plan as soon as possible.It is important to remember that recovery is a long process and a small mistake does not mean that you have failed. A small mistake is also not an excuse to go on a binge.
 Many people relax once they have conquered their addiction for a period of time. This is a common way to fall back into addiction. To avoid relapse, you need to continue with your treatment plan. The plan can change and adapt over time, but if you take for granted that you’ve beaten the addiction, you can fall prey to it again.For example, you might not need to see a counselor every week after a year of treatment, but that doesn’t mean that you should stop practicing mindfulness and exercising.

