 Many young writers completely freeze up when they start writing because they immediately realize that it isn't as good on the page as it is in their head. But every writer in the world, from Margaret Atwood to Aristotle, knows that they need to put something on the page, anything, in order to polish it up and make it better. So take a deep breath and remind yourself that this is nothing new, and your "terrible" first draft won't be terrible for long.


Looking for inspiration that you're not alone? Check out Raymond Chandler's writing process: “Throw up into your typewriter every morning. Clean up every noon.”, As you re-read, highlight the passages that stand out to you. What characters can you not get enough of, or want to keep writing about? What plot continually crops up in your head with new ideas or twists? What locations feel the most lived in. Go into the first revision for an eye for what works, not for what you don't like, and you'll get a blueprint for further revision.


Know that you'll likely need to keep writing, filling in holes you didn't notice on your first draft. Prioritize those areas that grip you the most already, or the characters that seem the most alluring to write.
It is not uncommon for the tone or main idea of a story to pivot at this point -- don't be afraid to forge a bold new direction if it is clearly more enjoyable than the original plot or perspective.<reF.https://www.theguardian.com/teacher-network/teacher-blog/2013/feb/01/teaching-creative-writing-ideas-activities-primary-literacy</ref>

, It hurts to cut, but this is the only way to make your story tight, coherent, and powerful. Everything that isn't essential to your story or idea needs to go, mercilessly hacking and slashing until you're left only with the absolute best. If it isn't necessary to the story, it has to go. The most powerful stories, poems, and works make every single word count, gaining power by cutting straight to the point and avoiding filler.


Make sure your dialogue actually adds something and doesn't simply regurgitate information for the audience. Reading dialogue out loud, with a friend, is the best way to make sure it is natural sounding and worth keeping.Save new copies of your work every day you open it up, allowing you to still keep copies of everything you erase in case you later change your mind.
Hemmingway said it best in a letter to his friend F. Scott Fitzgerald: “I write one page of masterpiece to ninety-one pages of s--t. I try to put the s--t in the wastebasket.”, Writing is a form of communication, and what is communication if it is only with yourself?! Sharing your story is intimidating, but it is the only way to become a better creative writing. Other people haven't lived in your story for as long as you have, and that's a good thing -- they'll have a fresh set of eyes to see holes, issues, and the hidden gems you might not have noticed.


Pick your people wisely-- friends who love to read, and you know will be honest with you, are often the best picks.
Let your friends know that you're looking for constructive criticism. While being nice is great, it won't help you write any better., Don't give a potential editor or publisher an excuse to throw your work in the trash after the first typo (which, with standards and competition as high as they are today, they will). Run through the whole thing 2-3 times to fix the little things like word choice and spelling, and consider using a program like Grammarly or hiring a freelance copy-editor for bigger projects.

