 Remember, this means balancing the band, checking the band, and assuming the starting position.


In each hand, take one of the handles of the resistance band. Hold the handles out in front of you, each at an equal height. The elastic stretching portion of the band should be just barely touching the floor. Keep your hands level and familiarize yourself with the weight of the resistance band.
Step onto the resistance band. Make sure you’re situating yourself in the exact center of the resistance band’s elastic portion.
Stand up straight with the resistance band’s handles in your hands. The band should be stretched up and behind your arms. If someone were standing in front of you, they’d see the resistance band stretched taut in an elongated “U” shape.
Keep your abs and core tight and upright. Bend your knees slightly and keep your head and eyes facing forward.You’re now ready to begin the squat.
 Bend forward slightly from the hips, then bend your knees.Keep your back rigid and your shoulders and head up; you’re not taking a bow. Your kneecaps should extend past the end of your toes. Imagine that you’re lowering yourself into a chair behind you.









Continue to keep your abs tight, and when you’ve reached a position where you feel as if you might tip backwards, hold it for about two seconds.
 Come up slowly, using your heels to push yourself up.Continue to hold the resistance band. Don’t let go! If you let of the resistance band, you won’t be doing squats with a resistance band; you’ll just be doing squats. And anyone can do that, right? Tighten your glutes as you return to the standing position you began from.
 Especially if it’s your first time doing squats, stay conscious of your body’s movement and position. The load of the lift, when you return to a standing position, should be on your legs and hamstrings, not your back. Remember to hold on to the handles of the resistance band.Have a trainer watch you as you perform your squat to give you feedback and pointers on your technique.
If you have a friend or personal trainer familiar with how to squat with a resistance band, have him or her show you how to perform a proper squat with a resistance band. Then try it on your own, using their example to guide your own squatting efforts.
 The squat shoulder press is a variation of the basic squat with a resistance band. Assume the basic squat position and squat down. Instead of just standing up with the handles still beside you, parallel to your shoulders, extend your hands up as you rise. Raise the handles of the resistance band high above your head. Hold the position for three seconds before dropping them back down to your shoulders in preparation for another squat.







