 While straddling the beast like a horse may seem more natural, camel riders have far more comfort when their legs are up and crossed. This better distributes your weight along the humps, saving your tailbone from unnecessary pain. Wrap one or both legs around the saddle post to look like a pro.


Without your legs clamped to the sides, you can sway with the camel's natural gait much more freely.If you're more comfortable straddling, that's fine! The leg cross is not an absolute must, although it is more comfortable on long rides.
 A camel's walk is odd, irregular, and herky-jerky. It is not like the measured gait of a horse, so you need to ride accordingly. Instead of fighting it, let your body swing back and forth, holding onto the saddle post for support.


There is often another post behind your seat. Holding on to both of them, with a hand in front and a hand behind, puts you in line with the camel's body and makes it easier to work with its movements.
Tie in any valuables and electronics. This movement can easily cause things to shake loose and fall if you're not careful.
 Unfortunately, camels won't listen. Camels will listen to their master, however, and follow the line in front of them. While they may respond to the occasional tug or push, you shouldn't try to steer or direct them — they'll just be unhappy with it., This isn't just for your peace of mind. Loosening your muscles and taking a deep breath will also calm the animal down. Other camels may nip or play with your ride, but if you keep calm and cool, nothing will get out of hand. Panicking, however, may cause the creatures to panic as well. The calmer you are the calmer your ride will be.


Once you get used to the gait, relax your grip a bit. Take a deep breath.
Let yourself move around, but trust that you won't fall off. You'll get used to it quickly enough.
 If the camel gets spooked or starts moving too quickly, stay calm. Keep a firm, but not tugging, grip on the reins and speak calmly until the camel relaxes. If you can, try to use the reins to pull the camera into a circle, so that it rides in small area until it calms., If you've never partnered with a camel before, know that this is not going to be the most pleasant ride of your life. You will have some pain in your tailbone, as it's not used to this sort of movement and pressure. Pop a couple of over-the-counter pain relievers thirty minutes before you go, or have some on hand to manage the pain later., Getting off is much easier than getting off. Use the saddle handles to push yourself up, then swing your leg over the hump to one side. You can simply jump off.

