 The inside of the door on a front-loading washer is especially prone to a buildup of dirt and mildew. Take a cloth that has been dipped in a diluted bleach solution and wipe down all the areas of the door that have dirt buildup and mildew growth.

The bleach solution should be made by mixing ½ cup bleach with 1 gallon (3.8 L) water.Wiping down the inside of the door before you run a wash cycle will assure that any bleach that remains gets washed away.
 You should fill the bleach compartment on your washer in order to clean the interior of the washer. This should require less than a cup of bleach, but amounts will vary. Modern, front-loading washers all have bleach compartments, so look on the washer's instructions for the location if you can't find it.You may also want to pour a bit of bleach into the laundry detergent dispenser in your washer. Using about a 1/2 cup of bleach in the detergent dispenser will help to clean out the whole washer.
 Turn your washer to hot. It is a good idea to use hot water when cleaning out your washer. This helps to assure that all gunk and grime is removed.You may also want to turn on the "extra rinse" function on, if your washer has one. This will make sure that the bleach you use is fully removed at the end of cleaning.
 If you have not cleaned your washer in a long time, or ever, you should pick a long cycle to run. If you clean your washer regularly, a regular cycle wash should suffice.Some machines have a special "Maintenance Cycle” or “Clean Out Cycle” that you can run. These cycles are designed to be most effective for cleaning out your washer.
 You should clean and sanitize the inside of your washer every few months. This will help to keep excess detergent and grime from building up on the inside of your washer.

Front-loading washers tend to allow dirt and grim to build up easier than traditional top-loading washers because they use less water and their design allows it to happen. Because of this, it's a good idea to sanitize a front-loading washer more often than you would a traditional top-loading washer.

