 There are a few different products you can use to remove stains from your coffee pot. Whichever one you choose, simply pour the cleaner into the bottom of the pot. Don’t use bleach, as it can corrode the metal.Ideal cleaners to use include:½ cup (118 ml) of vinegar and ⅛ cup (38 g) of coarse salt
½ cup (118 ml) of vinegar and ¼ cup (55 g) of baking soda
½ cup (118 ml) of hydrogen peroxide and ¼ cup (55 g) of baking soda
½ cup (110 g) of baking soda
Four denture cleaning tablets (these are designed to dissolve food particles and stains)
2 tablespoons (30 ml) of liquid dishwasher detergent or powdered detergent
One dishwasher detergent pod;
, Fill a kettle with water from the tap. Turn on the kettle and boil the water. When the water is boiling, add enough water to the pot to fill it. The boiling water will mix with the cleaning solution and help lift the stain from the metal., Coffee stains on the inside of the coffee pot are most common, but it’s also possible to get stains on the outside of the pot. To clean these, place a tablespoon (14 g) of baking soda into a small bowl. Add boiling water a few drops at a time until you have a smooth paste. Use the tip of a butter knife to apply the paste to any stains on the outside of the pot., Set the coffee pot aside somewhere safe where there's no risk of somebody knocking it over or spilling the water inside. In the sink is a good place. Let the cleaning solution inside and the baking soda paste soak for 30 minutes.Letting the cleaning solution and paste soak will give them time to attack the stain, which will make it easier to scrub away.
 After 30 minutes of soaking, it’s time to scrub away the stains. Put on a pair of kitchen gloves to protect your hands from the hot water. Use a cloth, brush, or non-abrasive scrubber to scrub away coffee stains on the inside and outside of the pot., Pour out the dirty cleaning water from the coffee pot. Rinse the inside and outside with fresh water to remove excess cleaner. When the pot has been rinsed, inspect the inside and outside to ensure that all the stains are gone.If there are any stains left, try a different cleaning solution. Add the cleaner of your choice to the pot, fill it with boiling water, and let it sit for another 30 minutes before scrubbing and rinsing.
 Pour a teaspoon (5 ml) of liquid dish soap into the coffee pot. Fill the pot the rest of the way with hot water from the tap. Use a clean cloth or brush to scrub the inside and outside of the pot with the soapy water.This is an important step in the cleaning process because it will remove any leftover traces of the original cleaning solution, which could give your coffee a funny flavor.
 When the stain is gone and the coffee pot has been cleaned, rinse the pot thoroughly with warm running water. Once all the traces of soap have been rinse away, use a clean lint-free cloth to dry the coffee pot.


Drying the pot with a towel instead of letting it air dry will help prevent water marks and mineral deposits from forming on the metal., Coffee contains oils, and it’s these oils that can stain your pot, especially if you leave coffee sitting in the pot for extended periods.To prevent stains from forming, don’t leave coffee sitting in the pot for more than 30 minutes.


This is especially important if there's only a small amount of coffee left in the pot, because the burner can make the coffee evaporate faster, and this will leave baked-on stains in the bottom of the pot.
To avoid having leftover coffee in the pot, make only enough coffee to serve each person one to two cups at a time.
 Trace amounts of coffee left in the bottom of the pot can dry and bake on, and this will leave those annoying and hard-to-clean stains in the bottom of the pot. As soon as the coffee pot is empty, rinse it out with hot water to remove leftover coffee traces.


Rinse the inside and outside of the pot so that spilled drips don’t stain the exterior of the pot.
 When you pour a coffee, there are often a few dribbles that spill down the side of the spout and onto the outside and bottom of the coffee pot. Over time, these can cause stains if they aren't addressed immediately. To prevent stains on the outside and exterior bottom of the pot, use a damp cloth to wipe drips from the outside of the pot after you pour each cup.
 Cleaning the coffee pot every day with soap and water will help to prevent difficult stains that can build up over time. Each morning, after you've made your final cup of coffee for the day, clean the inside and outside of the pot with hot soapy water and a cloth or brush.


When the pot is clean, rinse it with clean water and towel dry it to prevent water and mineral stains.If you don’t have time to clean the pot in the morning, just rinse it out and clean it when you get home from work or school in the afternoon or evening.

