 If you have a final coming up or a paper that's due soon, it's a good idea to take a look back at the work you've already done for the class. This will help you identify your weaknesses, so you can work on improving them.If you look back at your old exams and you still don't understand why you got the questions wrong, be sure to consult your book or ask your teacher for a more detailed explanation.
Consider asking your teacher what she thinks you should do to get a better grade on your next assignment. She may have more advice for you than what she wrote on your last paper.;
, If you really want a good grade on your next exam, you're going to have to commit yourself to studying. Be sure to set enough time to go over all of your material in detail, and don't procrastinate.Start studying well in advance so you don't have to cram and you have plenty of time to take breaks. You will be much less stressed and much better able to learn if you allow yourself to get up and stretch or take a walk every half hour or so.
Make sure you know what kind of learner you are. Some people learn better from reading and writing (visual learners), while others learn better from listening and speaking (auditory learners). Also, some people benefit from studying with groups, while others do not. If you know which methods work best for you, you will be much more successful.
Having a dedicated space for studying that is well-organized and free of distractions is very helpful. If you don't have anyplace to study at home, consider staying after school or going to your local library.
If you have a study hall, use it for studying and completing homework assignments instead of socializing. This extra hour of work can make a big difference in your grades., In order to have the best chance getting good grades, it is essential that you understand how you will be graded and how much each assignment is worth. If you have any questions about this, be sure to ask your teacher right away.Whenever you are working on a project, be sure to understand the rubric that will be used to grade it. This should outline exactly what the teacher is looking for in your work what it will take to get an A. If your teacher didn't give you a rubric, ask for a detailed explanation of how the assignment will be graded.
It's also important to know what else you can get points for. For example, some teachers offer points for participation, so you may be able to get some extra points simply by raising your hand more in class.
 If you have a large project like a research paper to do, don't wait until the last minute to get started. This project will most likely have a huge impact on your final grade, so take your time and make sure you do your best work.If your teacher has not broken the project up into smaller steps, consider asking for advice on how to do so. This will help make it feel much more manageable and less overwhelming. For example, you can break the large task of writing a research paper into the smaller tasks of choosing a topic, finding supporting sources, creating an outline, writing a rough draft, and writing a final draft.
Consider asking your teacher for help along the way. Even if you are not required to hand in a rough draft, ask your teacher to look it over and give you suggestions for how to improve your work.
If you have trouble managing your time, give yourself due dates for each step. Plan on working on the project for 30-60 minutes each day, depending on how much you have to get done.
 It's important to get extra help as soon as you feel like you're starting to fall behind, rather than waiting until it's too late. Addressing the issue right away will help ensure that you will understand the material when it comes time to take a test.If you have questions about anything that was discussed in class, be sure to ask your teacher right away. If you can't ask during class, try to stay after class, show up early, or visit your teacher during a free period.
If you need more help than your teacher can offer you, get a tutor. Many schools offer free tutoring for their students, so be sure to find out what is available for you. If this is not available or if it doesn't work for you, you can also hire a private tutor to come to your home or visit a tutoring center.

