 You have the option of getting temporary alimony by reaching a voluntary agreement with your spouse.Before talking to him or her, you should try to calculate how much alimony you will need to support yourself.


Go through your expenses. If you intend to stay in the house, then you may be responsible for paying the mortgage or rent yourself.
Calculate your other monthly living expenses—food, clothing, educational expenses, medical care, etc.;
, You should also try to get a sense of how much temporary alimony you could get from a court. For example, many courts have a formula they use to calculate temporary alimony. There is no reason to ask your spouse for less than a court could give you.


You can read up on alimony online. Search for “your state” and “temporary alimony.” Many attorneys talk about the formula your state uses.
For example, some courts in California will calculate temporary alimony this way: they take 40% of the amount made by your spouse and then deduct 50% of how much you make. If you make $30,000 and your spouse makes $100,000, then the court would take 40% of $100,000 ($40,000) and deduct 50% of $30,000 ($15,000). You would get $25,000 in temporary alimony for a year., Temporary alimony could potentially be worth a lot of money. A divorce could take a year or more to go through, and you would be leaving a lot of money on the table if you don’t apply for temporary alimony. For this reason, you should think about hiring an attorney to file for alimony on your behalf.


You can get a referral to an attorney by contacting your state or local bar association.When you have the name of someone, call up and schedule a consultation. Ask how much the attorney charges.
The attorney should understand how judges calculate alimony in your county and can provide an estimate of how much you can get.
 If you are on decent terms with your spouse, you could schedule a time to talk and suggest coming to an agreement on temporary alimony. You can get your paperwork in order and show your spouse how much they would have to pay if you ask the court for temporary alimony.


You could say, “Geoff, I want to talk about getting spousal support for the duration of our divorce proceeding. Since I’m home alone, I have to pay the mortgage as well as my classes for this semester. I can ask the court for temporary support, but it might be better if we could come to an agreement ourselves.”
In some states, couples who are divorcing must take mandatory mediation.In mediation, you and your spouse meet with a neutral third party, the mediator, who guides discussion and tries to help you come to a mutual agreement on issues. If your state offers mediation, you could tell the mediator that you want temporary alimony. You can then discuss the issue at one of your mediation sessions.
 If you reach an agreement, then write it down. Both spouses should sign it. The written agreement should be sufficiently detailed that it can serve as a contract between you and your spouse. At a minimum, make sure the agreement contains the following:The amount you get paid each month.
How long the temporary alimony will last (e.g., until the marriage is dissolved).
The date you get paid each month.
The method of payment (direct deposit, check in the mail, wage garnishment, etc.)

, You can turn your written agreement into a court order by submitting it to the judge for his or her signature. Each court may handle this process a little differently, so you should check with the court clerk or with a self-help center in the court (if there is one).


Generally, you can submit a stipulation by filling out a blank motion form with the court. Explain that you and your spouse have reached an agreement on temporary alimony. The clerk can submit the motion and the written agreement to the judge for a signature.
Once the judge signs the agreement, you should ask the clerk to file the original. Make copies of the signed agreement for you and your spouse., You will probably have to provide the court documents that show your annual income. You should gather these documents ahead of time. Typically, you will need the following:a W-2 form to show your annual income
pay stubs
tax returns

, You may also have to provide the court with copies of any bills that you want your spouse to pay during the divorce proceeding.For example, you could provide the court with copies of the following:


mortgage or rent payment
health insurance premiums
extraordinary medical expenses, for example if you are disabled or receiving medical treatment
other monthly living expenses

, You will have to fill out various forms in order to apply for temporary alimony. Each court will have different forms that you need to fill out. You can get the forms by stopping into your local courthouse and telling the clerk you want to apply for temporary alimony. Generally, you will have to fill out the following:an application, called a “petition” or “motion”
an affidavit or declaration which explains in detail your monthly income and expenses
a proposed order which the judge signs if you win

, You should complete the forms neatly, using a typewriter if possible. Some forms can be downloaded as PDF documents.You can then insert the information into the form directly before printing it off.
 Make several copies of the forms and keep one for your records. Then take all copies and the original to the court clerk. Ask to file the original.The clerk can then stamp your copies with the filing date.


You may have to pay a filing fee, which will vary depending on the court. If you can’t afford the fee, then ask for a fee waiver form., You will also need to schedule a hearing date with the court clerk. There should be space on the motion form for you to write in the date and time of the scheduled hearing.If not, then the court should have a separate Notice of Motion form you can fill out.


Each court handles scheduling hearings a little differently. You should work with the court clerk to find out how to schedule a hearing.
 You have to give your spouse notice that you are applying for temporary alimony. You can provide the notice by sending a copy of your paperwork to your spouse. If he or she has an attorney, then serve the copies on the attorney instead.You can generally mail the papers or have them hand delivered. You should arrange for delivery to be made by someone 18 or older who is not a party to your lawsuit.
The person who makes service may have to complete a “proof of service” form, which you can get from the clerk.The server fills out the form and signs it before returning it to you. Keep a copy for your records and file the original with the court.
 If your spouse disagrees about paying temporary alimony, then he or she can file a written response to your motion. It should be mailed to you or your lawyer (if you have a lawyer).
 It is important not to look too good in an alimony hearing. If you wear a three-piece suit or expensive jewelry, then you signal to the judge that you might not need the money.Accordingly, you should look clean and neat but not too professional. “Business casual” is best.


For men, business casual means dress pants and a button-up shirt with a collar and a tie. Wear dress shoes and dark socks.
For women, business casual means a shirt or slacks with a nice blouse or sweater. Fit is important for women. Skirts, in particular, should not be too short.
Although you don’t want to dress up, you also don’t want to look too casual. Appearing in pajamas, belly shirts, shorts, or tight clothing is insulting to the judge.
 You should give yourself plenty of time to find parking and go through any security at the courthouse. Try to get to the courthouse at least fifteen minutes before your hearing is scheduled.


Remember to turn off your cell phone and any other electronic devices before entering the courtroom.You can sit quietly until your case is called and review your paperwork. You should bring a copy of everything you have filed in the case so far.
 The judge should let you go first. Explain why you need temporary alimony and be prepared to discuss any expense you have listed. For example, if you want to go back to school during the divorce process, you should be prepared to explain to the judge why.


Listen quietly to the judge’s questions and don’t interrupt.If you don’t understand a question, then say so.
 Your spouse gets to argue second as to why the judge shouldn’t award temporary alimony. You have to listen quietly as your spouse talks. You can’t interrupt or raise your hand and ask to speak. You should be given a chance to respond when your spouse finishes.Instead, you should write down on a piece of paper anything your spouse said that is wrong or misleading.
When your spouse finishes talking, you can ask the judge, “Your Honor, may I respond?” Then briefly set the record straight.
 The judge should decide whether to award temporary alimony after hearing all evidence. If you win, then you will probably be tasked with having to draft the “order.” Ask the court clerk if there is an order form.


The court may have given you a proposed order form to fill out as part of your initial paperwork to file.If so, then the judge will sign the order. The judge may also make handwritten changes to your proposed order before signing it.

