 If money is not an issue you can buy a vivarium that is already set up for a rodent; however, these are not as enriching or large as others and many are incorrectly marketed as suitable for rats or degus. A 4 feet (1.2 m) Vivexotic Vivarium is a good choice for African Pygmy Dormice and the cheaper Exo Terra can be good for harvest mice, provided you get the larger size. You can also check this guide to building your own.;
, Since water and food bowls on the floor are at risk of being contaminated, you may want to add wooden ledges near the top of your enclosure. If so, make sure you spray a few coats of Plasticote or similar pet-friendly substance to make cleaning easier. You may also want to add some hooks or fasteners to the side of your vivarium to aid in hanging items.
 Some rodents must be kept at a certain temperature to avoid a state of torpor. Considering vivariums are built primarily for reptiles, you must also be careful that they do not overheat.



Reptile logs - these can be placed sideways in your tank or attached vertically. Some may have fake plants attached.
Parrot branches - these may have fastenings for barred cages that you can either remove or bury safely in substrate.
Natural - you can get fallen wood from your local forest. This must be fallen from the tree and completely dry. It must also fit in your oven, because you will need to bake at around 200 degrees for about 20 minutes to kill off any bacteria or fungi. Some keepers recommend you also strip the bark.



Cargo nets such as those made for rats and ferrets are very useful.
Parrot rope toys for hanging, some of which can be bent to suit your needs.
Wooden climbing frames and ladders. Choose the appropriate size for your rodent.
Sisal rope. This is an excellent way of attaching items and if thick enough, can provide great additional climbing material.
If using a tank, then you may need to hang items from the mesh lid. Although this may make opening the tank difficult, it will provide vital enrichment for your rodent.
If using a tank, you can attach items to the side if you put suckers on the glass.
 You must have at least as many nests as animals in your habitat. Rodents like a second exit hole, so don't be alarmed if your rodent chews an additional one. Be prepared to experiment, to find what is preferred. Some good suggestions include:


Grass nests as suitable for canaries and garden birds.
Fleecy hammocks, tubes and cubes. These are often sold with the second exit hole already to minimise chewing. They will be demolished eventually, but will last a surprisingly long time providing your rodents have other things they enjoy chewing.
Hollowed-out golf balls are great as nests for harvest mice.
Hollowed coconuts. These can either be hanging or the ones with the solid base can be placed on the floor.
Reptile caves and dens. These are not ideal as the sole nest, but provide good additional hiding places.
Terracotta plant pots are a good addition, as they provide a cool, shady area that is important for summer.
If given the right materials, harvest mice will construct their own nests.
 Remember to place them either on high ledges, or concealed under an items such as wooden play-stix. You will need several dishes to contain the seed mix, a good source of protein, insect food, and any nectar substitutes your rodents may need. The diet will vary by species.


Normal ceramic dishes. African Pygmy mice can drown in normal dishes, so make sure you leave a layer of pebbles or similar to allow them to climb out.
Hanging food dishes, such as those sold for garden birds.
Live cricket feeders. These allow a secure place to add live food to be released for your rodents, to encourage natural behaviour.
Hanging foods. You can add sprays of millet and monkey nuts in strings around your cage and hang from branches and hooks.



A solid-based silent spinner is a great addition. The smaller size is fine for African Pygmy Dormice and harvest mice, but Zebra mice will need the medium size.
Bendy wooden play-stix. These can be curved for hiding places or as sloping ladders.
Wooden see-saws, ladders and climbing frames. Check that these are the right size for your pet, so that they will not get trapped.
Tubes. Either solid or clear, these can be hung up or on the floor of the habitat. Clear tubes are particularly good as they allow your exotic rodent to feel more secure, while still allowing you to watch them play.



Use no sawdust, or pine- or cedar-based chips, as this can cause serious respiratory problems in rodents.
Something like megazorb, finacard, bedexcel or carefresh is ideal.
Add a layer of hay to provide vital concealment and for good chewing material.
Cotton pods are a great way of giving chewing material and also safe bedding for your exotic rodent to release and distribute.
 Some silk-based plants are safe for rodents, but be aware that they will chew them, so will need replacing every so often. These provide good concealment for your rodent and can also help your habitat look more natural.

