 One option when dealing with a body shaming comment from a friend or family member is to simply say something about it when you hear it. You don't have to be mean or snippy. Rather, just say you don't appreciate that comment, and move on. You could also explain why, if you feel like it.For instance, if your friend says something you consider body shaming, you could say, "I appreciate your concern, but I'm trying to be more positive about my body. I'd appreciate it if you didn't say things like that in the future."

, One option is to simply ignore what the person says. It may seem rude, but it actually gives the person a chance to think about what they've just said. This treatment works well for things like backhanded compliments, since you don't want to thank someone for a backhanded compliment.For instance, say your mother says something like, "That's a pretty dress, but it's not right for you," you may just want to ignore it.
 If the person who's been body shaming is generally a kind person, they may not even realize they're body shaming. They may think they're providing helpful advice, for instance, when in reality, they're saying hurtful things. Try sitting down with them and having a heart-to-heart to talk about why their comments bother you.You could say something like, "You may not even realize you're doing it, but when you say things like, 'Your hair is a little wild today. Why don't you go into the bathroom and fix it?,' it really hurts my feelings. It makes me feel sad because I often work hard on my hair before coming over here."

, Often, people will make assumptions about you based on your body size. One place these assumptions can be especially difficult is at the doctor's office. If you're a large person, the doctor may make assumptions about the way you eat, exercise, and so on. It's important to challenge those assumptions to get the doctor to treat you like any other patient.For instance, if your doctor is suggesting that the only way to treat your illness or condition is losing weight, ask the doctor if they would treat a thinner person the same way.
Additionally, ask your doctor to explain how your weight and condition are related. Say, "How does my weight cause ? Is this condition not diagnosed in thinner people?" Be open minded to what your doctor has to say so that you can see if they are really trying to help you and not commenting on your looks.
Remember that even if your body size is contributing to your health problems, that does not mean that you should feel bad about yourself. Everyone struggles with issues, and you can work with your doctor to make positive changes that are about health and not about body size.
 If someone you hang around with refuses to give up their body shaming talk, maybe it's time to spend less time with them. You don't have to spend your time with people who make you feel bad. As you spend less and less time with them, they may get the picture. If not, you don't have to be around their toxic language.Of course, you can't avoid some people altogether, but do what you can. For instance, if it's a family member you see at family gatherings, try to avoid getting into conversations with them.

