 One way to tell the difference between sinusitis and another condition, such as a cold, is to look at how long they last. A sinus infection will last between seven to ten days, or even longer. During this time, you will not see your symptoms improve.A common cold will only be around for four to ten days, with symptoms getting better as the days go by. The worst symptoms happen within three to five days.
Sinusitis commonly occurs due to a cold, so your condition may start out as a cold and turn into a sinus infection.;
, Colds and sinusitis are extremely similar and sometimes happen at the same time. However, colds go away after a week and don’t often come back. Sinusitis is often a recurring condition.If you are getting sick every month or two, you probably are dealing with sinusitis.
 Another common sign of sinusitis is thick yellow mucus. This will cause you to be stuffed up or have difficulty breathing, and when you blow your nose, you’ll blow out thick yellow mucus.Colds will have clear discharge at first, then it changes to a thicker consistency and turns white, yellow, or green. This only lasts a few days before it clears up.
 Another side effect of sinus infections are various nasal problems. These problems stem from the narrowing or swelling of the sinuses. You may have trouble breathing through your nose. The inside of your nose may feel swollen or blocked even if there is no mucus. Some of these problems may occur with a cold, but if these nasal problems last for longer than four to seven days, you more than likely have sinusitis.You may experience a decreased sense of smell or sense of taste.
Because of these nasal problems, you may have trouble sleeping.
When you have a cold, you may sneeze due to your nasal problems. Sneezing is not a common symptom for sinusitis.
 Because of the infection in your sinuses, sinusitis can cause you to have bad breath. You may also have postnasal drip that tastes bad, which means you have a persistent bad taste left in your mouth.Both colds and sinusitis can cause sore throats, which may lead to bad breath. Sore throats are more common with colds, though.
 Because of the amount of mucus and congestion in your head, you may feel more tired than usual. Your head may even feel like it’s too heavy to lift most days. You may wake up feeling tired despite getting enough sleep, and you may be more irritable than usual.Colds can make you feel tired or achy, but sinusitis can make you feel tired for weeks.

