 Your partner might be quiet, but all relationships depend on communication. You can maintain your relationship by being creative and communicating with your partner in ways other than just talking.


Write notes and letters to each other. This can be as simple as a ‘good morning’ written on a sticky note or it can be a three-page love letter.
Draw your partner a quick doodle, sketch, or picture expressing how you feel. Or ask them to do the same for you.
Use texts, emails, and other forms of messaging to communicate. For example, you could send your partner an instant message to check on how their day is going.
Try video or photo chatting with each other. Apps like Snapchat make it possible for you to communicate in fun ways.;
, Don’t wait for your partner to start talking to you. If you do, you may be waiting a while. Especially if you need to talk about a problem in the relationship or other serious issue, you shouldn’t wait for them to bring it up. Maintain your relationship with a quiet person by being the one to start conversations.For example, if you need to talk about your plans for prom, you could wait for her to bring it up and potentially miss prom. Or, you could say something like, “Mandy, let’s talk about our plans for the prom.”
Or if, for instance, you are wondering about the status of your relationship, you might say to your partner, “Chase, we need to talk about where our relationship is headed.”

, You can maintain a relationship with a quiet person if you let them know what you need from the relationship.You definitely want to think about their needs, but you also have to balance it by communicating your needs.


Let your partner know if you need more social time or even more quality one-on-one time. For example, you might say, “I understand that you need quiet time. Sometimes I do, too. I’d love if we could spend some quiet time together.”
Tell them if you need more affection or even a little space. You might try saying, “Sometimes I’d like to just cuddle. Even if it’s just for a few minutes.”

, When you are in a relationship with a quiet partner you will need to develop good questioning skills. Since your quiet partner may not just open up and tell you what’s on their mind or share their preferences with you, you will need to ask them questions to find out what they are thinking or what’s going on with them. Be sure to share openly and honestly with them as well.


Avoid just asking questions they can answer with one word. For example, don’t ask, “Did you have a good time?” You partner might just respond, “Yes.”
Try asking open-ended questions like, “What was your favorite part?” “What’s your opinion about the situation?” or “What or your thoughts?”
You can also ask more direct questions such as, “What activities do you enjoy and why?” “How do you like to recharge?” and “What kinds of topics interest you and why?”

