;
, There should be a default icon in your Start menu.


You can also click "Run", type in "Control Panel", and then click "OK".
 This will allow you to make changes to system folder appearances.
, This will display a wide variety of previously-hidden system files, including .dll files.
 You should be able to view .dll files and their extensions now.
 This ensures that your preferences are saved.
, Unless you know exactly which .dll files are corrupt--and, therefore, in need of deletion--you'll need software to scan for the afflicted files.


"DLL Files Fixer" and "DLL Archive" are both highly-recommended choices., Make a note of the location to which the software downloads, since you'll need to install it from there.
 Software installation will vary based on its version and brand, so follow the instructions on your screen to install correctly.
, The DLL finder should give you the names and locations of any corrupted or false .dll files. You can use this information later to unregister and then delete these files.
 This will ensure that your current directory is updated to match that of the .dll file.If you are deleting multiple .dll files, they may not be in the same location.
,, This will open the Command Prompt app, which allows you to interact with the operating system via user-entered commands.


If you're using Vista or later, you'll need to boot Command Prompt in Administrator Mode. To do this, click "All Programs" in the Start menu, select "Accessories", right-click the "Command Prompt" icon, and select "Run as Administrator".
 This will reset your Command Prompt execution to your current directory, where the .dll file is located.
 This command finds and unregister  your targeted .dll file. Exclude the quotation marks and the apostrophes; for "(filename)dotdll", insert the name of your target .dll file and the .dll extension., Your .dll file should now be ready for deletion!

,, This will send your .dll file to the Recycling Bin, from which you can delete it permanently.

