 The Red Cross outlines eligibility requirements for giving blood. These eligibility requirements cover illness, travel, tattoos, medications, age, and weight. Visit their website to read the requirements carefully to know if you can give blood.To donate double red cells, you have to be at least 5'1" and 130 pounds if you are male, and 5'5" and 150 pounds if you are female.The Red Cross's website gives a detailed list of eligibility requirements. Check the Red Cross’s website, contact your local Red Cross chapter, or call the Red Cross to discuss your eligibility.
 In most states, you have to be at least 17 years old to donate blood. If you are 16, you can give blood, like at a school blood drive, with parental consent. To give blood, you must weigh at least 110 pounds.The weight requirement changes depending on your height and age. All donors under 18 must meet height and weight requirements. If you are male and 4'10", you have to weigh at least 118 pounds. If you are male and 4'11", you have to weigh 114 pounds.
Female donors who are under 18 have to meet height and weight requirements. If you are under 18, you have to be 5'6" and 110 pounds to give blood. With each inch shorter than 5'6", the weight requirement increases by four to five pounds. For example, if you are 5'1", you have to weight 133, and if you are 4'10", you have to weigh 146 pounds., Sexual history affects your eligibility. If you have tested positive for HIV, exchanged sex for money or drugs, you cannot give blood. If you have had sex with someone who has done any of these things, you have to wait a year.The requirements for men who have had sex with men have recently changed. If you are a man who has had sex with another man during the past year, you will have to wait 12 months before you give blood.
If you are a female who has had sex with a man who had sex with a man in the last year, you have to wait 12 months to give blood.
If you have been treated for syphilis or gonorrhea, you have to wait at least a year to donate blood., If you have ever used any intravenous drugs not prescribed by a doctor, you cannot give blood., Depending on where you have traveled, you may need to wait to give blood. Traveling to Mexico, Central or South America, or the Caribbean requires you to wait 28 days to give blood. If you have traveled outside of the US and Canada in the last three years, you will be required to give a travel history.


You must wait three years after malaria treatments, 12 months after returning from malaria-risk countries, and three years after living more than five years in a malaria-risk country to give blood.
If you have spent extended periods of time in countries with mad cow disease, you cannot donate., To give blood, you need to feel well. If you have a cold or the flu, you cannot give blood and will have to wait. If you are taking antibiotics for any illness, you have to wait until after the treatment is complete.


If you have a blood condition where your blood doesn't clot or are taking blood thinners, you shouldn't donate blood.
If you have high blood pressure, you can give blood as long as it is below 180/100.
If you have had leukemia or a cancer of the blood, you are not eligible to donate.