 Sit your child down and tell her that even though the medication may taste bad, it will help her to get better. Explain that it will help to make her feel more comfortable.


Some toddlers will take the antibiotics immediately if they will know what the medicine is for.
 Toddlers often love to say ‘no’ to things. They like to feel that they are in control of the situation. To combat this, give them choices where they are allowed to say no to one choice, but must say yes to the other. These choices could include:


If they want to take the medication themselves or if you should assist them.
If they want to use a spoon, syringe or dropper to take the medication.
If they want to take the antibiotic in the dining room, bathroom or in their bedroom.
If they want to take the antibiotic standing or laying in your lap.
 Toddlers will often not fully understand the importance of taking an antibiotic, even if you explain it to them. Therefore, helping your child to understand by doing something she will like, like acting out your explanation with the help of your child’s favorite doll, stuffed animal, or robot.You can start by telling your child that her toy is sick and that it needs to take medicine to get better. Act like you are giving the toy the medicine, and then have the toy ‘tell’ your child that he is starting to feel better already.
 Some children will fight back rather than take their antibiotics. If this is the case with your child:


Sit down and hold your child across your lap. Hold your child’s head in the crook of your left elbow (if you are right handed). Have your child place her right arm behind your back, while the left arm gets held against her body by your arm. Tuck your child’s legs in between your own. You can then give your child her medication.
 A syringe ensures that all of the antibiotic is swallowed by your child, so that she gets the right dose. You should use a syringe, rather than a regular spoon.


Avoid aiming at the back of your child’s throat; instead aim for it to go into the side of your child’s mouth so that she is less likely to gag.
 Give your child time to swallow the antibiotic. If your child’s teeth are clenched against the syringe, put the antibiotic in the side of your child’s mouth and wait for her to swallow.
 While giving your child medication, make sure to speak in a calm voice. When she swallows the medicine, make sure to reward her with hugs and praise. Remind her again why she needed the medication., Giving a toddler antibiotics is rarely successful if you are in a hurry. Try not to rush your child through the process of taking the medication, as taking antibiotics can be nerve wracking for a child.


If your child refuses the first time, wait for a few minutes or so, and then try giving your child the antibiotic again.
 Once she has taken the medicine, give your child a reward, like hugs or a prize, like a sticker or a lollipop.


Praise your child’s bravery and make sure that she knows that you are proud of her.

