 An oil drum will work well for this purpose. Be sure to use a metal-cutting blade; when you’re done, the half-drum should look like a cradle. You only need half of the drum to make the oven.
 Be sure to use a scrub brush and pay extra attention to the corners and crevices.
 You will need one large rectangle for the curved interior and two half-circles for the end pieces.


To make the large rectangular piece, one side should equal the length of what was formerly the interior height of the drum; the other should equal the curved length of the interior, which you can measure using a flexible measuring tape (ex. sewing tape).
To make the two half-circles: measure the radius (i.e. half the diameter) of the half-circular ends; tie a marker to the end of a piece of string and then cut that string to the length of the radius; holding the end of the string in the middle, use the marker to draw a perfect circle on the sheet metal; cut the circle out and cut it in half to make each half-circle.
 To attach the pieces with pop rivets, drill holes through both the sheet metal and the drum with a 1/8-inch (3-mm) drill bit, then apply 1/8-inch (3-mm) pop rivets. You can also drill holes through the sheet metal and drum and then attach them together with sheet metal screws; though this will leave screw tips sticking out of the back of your oven, they will later be covered by insulation.
 This will maximize the amount of heat inside the oven.
 This will hold the glass top (which you will slide in and out through the fourth, open side) in place. The easiest way to do this is to with six pieces of metal flashing:


Measure the short top edge of the oven and cut two pieces of flashing to this length. Then, measure the long side edges of the oven, subtract the width of the flashing from this measurement, and cut the remaining four pieces of flashing to this length; this will allow you to apply flashing to the sides while making room for the piece at the end.
Place a piece of flashing over the end edge so that the bent metal “folds” from the vertical outer side up over the horizontal top edge. Place a second piece of flashing over the first so that the vertical sides are flush but the horizontal sides leave a gap wide enough to accommodate the thickness of a piece of glass. Place a strip of something (ex. thick cardboard) between the two pieces of flashing to keep this space open, drill through both the double-stacked flashing and the drum, and attach them using pop rivets. Remove the cardboard and repeat on the other two edges.

Making a flashing “sandwich” (as opposed to simply applying one layer of lip all around the top) will keep the glass from grinding across the uneven edges of the barrel that you cut by hand.
, Simply drill and screw the drum to the base that is most convenient for your location (ex. a piece of wood, a square aluminum frame with wheels, etc.), making sure that the base is wide enough to keep the oven from tipping over. Depending on your location, you may want to angle the oven to make the most of the available sunlight (ex. in the northern hemisphere, you may want to angle it southward whereas at the equator, you should face it directly upwards).
 Simply drill a small hole every few inches in a straight line across the bottom, making sure to pierce the insulation; this will allow liquefied steam that drips down the sides to escape the oven.
 Tempered glass not only is tougher than regular glass, but also comes with the sharp edges ground off, meaning you can use it as is. Since you will be sliding the glass in and out regularly, choose a thicker piece (ex. 3/16 inches / 5 mm) for additional sturdiness. You will have to custom order this at a hardware store based on the dimensions of your solar oven.
 Wood stove thermometers, for example, have magnetic backing and can withstand high, constant heat.
 Simply set a rectangular grill or two in place to allow for easy food placement.
 Though you can reasonably expect a max heat of between 250 and 350 degrees F (90 and 175 degrees C), the size, materials, insulation of your particular oven will determine how hot your particular model gets. Use this temperature to slow-cook meat over several hours as you would in a crock pot. A roast beef or chicken might need 5 hours, for example, whereas ribs might need 3 (plus 5 to 10 minutes of barbecuing at the end). Gauge your meat’s internal temperature with a food thermometer as you would while using an indoor oven.
