 Asylum is a benefit offered to refugees who are fleeing persecution in their home countries. If you win asylum, you can stay in the United States and eventually apply to become a permanent legal resident by getting a "green card," known more formally as a United States Permanent Resident card. Asylum applications can be “defensive” or “affirmative.” A defensive asylum application is one made when you are in removal proceedings in the U.S., either because you are attempting to enter the country without proper papers or because you broke an immigration law when inside the country and are about to be deported. Affirmative asylum applications are ones you file when not in removal proceedings. ;
, In order to apply for asylum, you typically need be physically present in the United States. . You must also have suffered from (or fear that you will suffer from) persecution in your home country. This persecution must be shown to be based on at least one of the following personal attributes:


race
religion
nationality
membership in a particular social group
political opinion

, In affirmative asylum applications, you can include your spouse and any unmarried children under the age of 21. Any other children must apply for asylum on his or her own.
 There are several bars to winning asylum in the United States. Many of these involve criminal activity undertaken either in the United States or elsewhere. For example, if you participated in the persecution of any person on account of race, religion, nationality, political opinion, or membership in a particular group, you would be ineligible for asylum. Other bars include:


a conviction for a serious crime (which includes aggravated felonies)
the commission of a serious, nonpolitical crime outside the United States
your posing a danger to the security of the U.S.
your being already firmly resettled in another country before arriving in the U.S.
 You must make an application for asylum within one year of arriving in the United States. However, you can make an application later if there has been a material change of circumstances. For example, if people from your political party are suddenly targeted for assassination while you are in the United States, you could claim that circumstances have sufficiently changed so that an application after the deadline is acceptable.


If there has been a change of circumstances, you should file for asylum within a “reasonable” amount of time. USCIS does not define “reasonable” with any precision, so you are best advised not to wait.
 To give yourself the best chance of winning asylum, you should meet with an attorney. An experienced immigration lawyer will know how to put together the strongest case. You will be best served by winning your asylum case on the first try.


To find an experienced immigration lawyer, see Find an Immigration Lawyer for advice.
USCIS also maintains a list of attorneys who will provide low-cost or free legal services. You can get this list by calling 1-800-870-3676.You can also seek assistance from the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees by calling 202-296-5191. , Corroborating evidence that supports your assertions that you would face persecution in your home country is absolutely critical to winning your asylum case. Although the asylum officer will consider your own testimony, independent evidence is more persuasive and therefore crucial. Evidence can take many forms: newspaper articles, affidavits from witnesses or experts, photographs, or periodicals that show that persecution against your group is happening in your country. Other forms of evidence can include doctors' statements, journals, official documents, or personal statements or live testimony of witnesses.
You should contact a lawyer as soon as possible so that you can begin to gather corroborating evidence to bolster your case. You might, for example, need to contact academics who are experts in your country’s political situation. They could support your assertion that certain groups are being persecuted.
 If you are including relatives in your asylum application, you will need documentary evidence that establishes your relationship to them. For a spouse you will need three copies of your marriage certificate and three copies of proof of any prior marriages.
For a child you will need three copies of the birth certificate.
If, for some reason, you can’t gain access to the marriage or birth certificates, you will need to rely on secondary evidence. This can take the form of religious, school, or medical records. You may also get affidavits signed by people who know you. The affiants must state how they know you and how they know that you are married or that the child in question is yours.
 You must also submit a passport-sized photo of yourself and each family member included in the application. You must have taken these photographs within 30 days of the date you file the application. On the back of each photograph, you should print each person’s complete name and their A-Number (alien registration number) if applicable. You should also make three copies of all passports and other travel documents. , To file for affirmative asylum, you will need to fill out Form I-589, “Application for Asylum and for Withholding of Removal.” You can get this form mailed to you by calling 1-800-870-3676.Any information that you provide on the form is legally protected from disclosure. You can also download the form at http://www.uscis.gov/sites/default/files/files/form/i-589.pdf.
The instructions, which you should read before filling out the form, are available at http://www.uscis.gov/sites/default/files/files/form/i-589instr.pdf.
 Once you have gathered your paperwork and completed the form, you should assemble the material in the following order: Your original Form I-589
One photograph stapled to the form at Part D
Form G-28, signed by you and any attorney/representative that you have
The originals of all supplementary sheets and statements
One copy of any additional supporting documentation
One copy of the evidence of your relationship to your spouse or unmarried child
Two copies of the items in your original package, as listed above (except for the photograph)

, You must submit three copies of your application to USCIS. If you are including family members in your application, you should include one additional copy per family member. For example, if you have included two children and your spouse, then you will need to submit a total of six copies of the application (three for you and one for each of your relatives). Also keep at least one copy for your records in case USCIS loses your application.
 There is no fee for applying for asylum. You should mail your application as follows: If you are already in immigration court, you will file with the court that has jurisdiction over your case.
If you are not in immigration court, you will file with a service center near where you live. To find the service center you should mail your materials to, visit the USCIS website at http://www.uscis.gov/i-589.
 “Defensive asylum" is the term used to describe asylum requests where you are in the process of being deported, either because you tried to enter the United States without proper paperwork or because you have been convicted of a crime and are about to be removed. You can request defensive asylum by telling the Customs and Border Patrol (CBP) or Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) that you fear persecution in your home country.


After informing the relevant government official, you will be briefed on the defensive asylum process and be given a list of attorneys you can contact. You shouldn’t wait to contact one. The defensive asylum process moves much faster than "affirmative asylum" cases.
If you were stopped at the border and denied entry, you will be screened to see if you have a “credible" fear of returning to your home country. A credible fear is a “significant possibility” that you have been persecuted or have a well-founded fear of persecution. A screening interview will occur within 48 hours. If you violated an immigration law and face deportation, you will be screened within ten days to see if you have a “reasonable" fear of persecution. A reasonable fear is a “reasonable possibility” that you will face persecution if you are returned to your home country. , You must bring certain documents to your interview so that the asylum officer can confirm your identity.Bring a form of identification such as a passport.
Bring a copy of your Form I-589 and originals of documents you submitted with your Form I-589 (marriage certificates, birth certificates, etc.)
If you included a spouse and/or child under the age of 21 in your application, you should bring them to the interview.
 Your lawyer should have an idea of what questions you will be asked and how you should answer. Try to meet with your lawyer, even if only briefly, to talk about the interview. Generally you can expect to be asked the following: Provide specific examples of persecution you either experienced or were aware of.
Explain the difficulties you anticipate if you return to your home country.
Describe the route taken to arrive in the United States.
Explain how you got the money to travel to the United States.
List any criminal charges pending against you or any persecution of others you committed in the United States or elsewhere.
Provide information that proves you belong to a persecuted group. For example, if you claim to belong to a religious group, you may have to answer questions about the religion to show that you are a follower.
 Your interview will typically be held within 45 days of your affirmative asylum application, although you may have to wait longer if USCIS is experiencing a deluge of applications. Your attorney may also attend. The interview should last about an hour. If you need a translator, you will need to hire one at your own expense. USCIS has translators on site, but they are used only to confirm that your own translator is translating accurately.
 If you apply for affirmative asylum, USCIS has 180 days to make a decision on your application. Because the department is sometimes overwhelmed with applications, you might have to wait longer.


If you applied for defensive asylum, the asylum officer will make a decision relatively quickly. You will be given a written decision. If the asylum officer finds that you have neither a “credible” nor a “reasonable” fear of persecution, you can appeal that decision to an immigration judge. If you prevail, you will have a full hearing scheduled to convince the judge to grant you asylum. In other words, those claiming defensive asylum may have two hearings before the judge. However, if the asylum officer believes that you have either a “credible” or a “reasonable” fear, you will have a single hearing.
 If the asylum officer who interviewed you does not believe that you face persecution in your home country, they will recommend against granting you asylum. If you are denied, your case will be referred to an immigration judge, assuming you affirmatively applied for asylum. You will be able to stay in the United States as you appeal your denial. You can also apply for work authorization if you have been waiting more than 150 days.Talk to your lawyer about how to get this authorization.
 Here you or your attorney will present evidence to convince the judge that you are eligible for asylum. The judge will also hear evidence presented by ICE. If the judge finds you eligible, you will be awarded asylum. The judge may also consider other relief, if appropriate. If during the initial application phase you did not present evidence (expert witness affidavits, newspaper articles, etc.) to corroborate your claim of persecution in your home country, you should present it now.
After hearing all of the evidence, the judge will likely issue an oral ruling in the courtroom. , If you are denied by the immigration judge, you can appeal to the Board of Immigration Appeals (BIA). You will need to file within 30 calendar days of the judge’s oral decision. The BIA will not take testimony during the appeal but will look for legal errors while reviewing the transcript of the previous hearing.


You do not have to attend the BIA appeal in person.
It usually takes at least a year to hear back from the BIA. If the appeals board finds an error in the hearing, it will either grant asylum or send the case back to the immigration judge for rehearing. You can keep appealing all the way to the U.S. Supreme Court if you believe you have a valid legal issue. Talk with your attorney about your prospects for continued appeals.

