  Luckily, Remy's style is pretty laid back and easy to emulate.  Her wardrobe mainly consists of tank tops, black pants, jackets, jeans, plain T-shirts, sweaters, sandals, and boxer shorts for lounging around.  Her go-to color is red.  It was mentioned in the book that Remy shops in the clearance section at the Gap, which sells many of these types of clothing articles.  It has been said by Remy's friends that Remy has "really nice clothes," so be sure to stock up on some fashion-forward pieces as well!
,  Remy was a total neat freak.  Keep your closet organized and have a section for each type of clothing.  Don't leave dirty laundry laying around, and fold your clothes immediately after washing them.  Never leave your bed unmade.  Vacuum and clean your room and car regularly.  Keep C.D.'s, books, etc. alphabetized.  Staying organized is worth the extra effort if it makes your belongings easier to locate.,  Remy's goal was to get into Stanford, and she did.  Be sure to challenge yourself like Remy did, and put in the effort it takes to get good grades.  Remy took several AP classes and honors seminars and studied a lot.  She took the SATs three times to get the score she wanted.  Don't get too distracted with extracurriculars.  If you struggle with a particular class (like physics, in Remy's case), do not worry.  Try to find a tutor and remind yourself that you can do this.,  Remy said herself she was known for having an active social life.  She went to parties and night clubs on a regular basis. In high school, Remy had a reputation for partying.  Don't be friends with everybody.  Remy had a small, but close-knit group of girls that were her best friends.  So be supportive of your closest girls, and they will be there for you.,  Remy may have been somewhat of a slut, but she knew what she was doing when it came to guys.  Go out with guys, but still try to have standards.  For example, if a guy cheats on you, make it clear that things between you are over.  Try to have the upper hand and don't get too committed unless he is really worth it.,  Remy was smart and beautiful and she knew it. Many guys find confidence an attractive quality in a girl. However, don't go around bragging about yourself. Remy knew she was one-of-a-kind, and so did others; she didn't need to go around talking about it.,  Remy was not afraid of bullies, and she definitely knew how to stand her ground.  So stick up for your friends and family members, even if you guys have your differences.  Look people in the eye during confrontations so they know that you are a force to be reckoned with.,  If there was one thing Remy hated, it was a loss of control.  Don't get falling down drunk all the time; that is not being in control.  And don't let hookups go further than YOU want them to, regardless of what the guy wants.  Don't be a doormat.  Remy was easily able to say no to people because of her experiences with her mother. Not catering to people helps maintain that "cool" image Remy wanted to project. Remy rarely lost her temper, and she was good at keeping her emotions in tact. Try to emulate her calm demeanor.,  Remy was described and being "blond and thin" more than once.  She drinks lots of Diet Coke and coffee with milk in the mornings.  She eats a healthy breakfast, like oatmeal with bananas and muffins.  If you really need to slide, treat yourself to some cake and champagne.  Also, try to avoid ginger ale and mayonnaise.  Remy hated them.