 Do a combination of dynamic stretching and mobility exercises for a span of time between 30 seconds and five minutes. Dynamic stretching is effective at warming up your muscles and lowering the risk for injury while doing the Heisman, since this exercise works your entire core and lower body.


Examples of dynamic stretching and mobility exercises include jumping jacks, jogging in place, and rotating shoulder circles.;
, Keep your legs slightly bent at the knees, but parallel to one another. Allow your arms to hang at your sides while tightening the muscles in your core.


This is your starting position.
 Lean your body to the left and raise your right knee up toward your core and torso. This causes your left leg to support your full body weight.


Simultaneously bend your left arm at the elbow, with your fingers pointing toward your chin. Your right knee should nearly meet the bent elbow of your left arm.Meanwhile, extend your right arm down toward the outside of your right leg. Your body’s pose should look similar to that of the football player displayed on the Heisman trophy.
 Essentially, you're swapping the positions of your left and right sides: you should now be leaning to the right, with your left knee raised up toward your core, your right leg supporting your full weight, your right arm bent at the elbow with fingers pointing toward your chin, and your left arm extended down toward the outside of your left leg.This Heisman, or "Airborne Heisman," is a basic high-knee run modified to include jumps from foot to foot and more arm movement. The result is a tougher workout that builds your core and burns more fat.
Make sure that you don't kick the leg up and lean backwards as you switch sides. The goal is to crunch your core muscles with each knee lift.
 Jump back and forth between your right and left feet, repeating the full movement for between 30 seconds and one minute. The movement should feel and look as if you’re running in place from side to side.Start out slowly, then work your way up to doing the Heisman as fast as you can for optimal fat-burning results.
When starting, you should also keep your movements contained to a comfortable shoulder-width space or slightly wider. If you want to increase the difficulty of this exercise later on, you can do so by extending it out over a wider space.

