 If you don't have an installation disc, you can create your own installation disc or DVD drive by using your Windows 7 product key. You can usually find this key on a sticker affixed to the bottom of your laptop or the back of your tower. It may be with your computer's documentation or on the case that your Windows 7 disc came in.


If you can't find your product key and can still use the computer, download NirSoft's ProduKey. This is a free utility that will quickly display your Windows 7 product key. Extract the downloaded ZIP file and run ProduKey.exe to view your Windows 7 product key. Write it down so that you can use it later.
Some antivirus programs may report ProduKey as a virus because it accesses the registry to find the key. These warnings can be safely ignored, as this product is well-trusted in the IT community.
Some computers may not be able to display the product key because of the way Windows was installed by the manufacturer. You'll need to contact your manufacturer's Customer Support to get a Windows 7 installation disc and key that will work. This is most common with Dell computers.;
, As long as you have a valid product key, you can legally download the Windows 7 ISO (disc image file) from Microsoft. Visit the Windows 7 Download page and enter in your product key. You will be provided with a link to download the ISO file to your computer. The ISO file provided will match the version of Windows that your product key is for.You may be given the option to choose between the 32-bit and 64-bit version. If you don't know which one you need, press ⊞ Win+Pause and check the "System type" entry.
The ISO file is about 4 GB in size, and may take a while to download.
You should only download your ISO file directly from Microsoft. If you don't have a product key, you can try getting it from somewhere shadier, but your operating system will not be secure. It is also illegal to download the ISO from any source other than Microsoft. If you download the ISO from another source, make sure that you get the version that matches your product key (i.e. Home Premium, Professional, etc.).
 This utility from Microsoft will allow you to create an installation disc or drive using the ISO that you downloaded. You can download the utility here. Once you've downloaded it, follow the prompts to install the utility.
 You can create installation media using a thumb drive with at least 4 GB of storage or a blank DVD. Everything on the thumb drive will be deleted during this process, so make sure you have important files backed up. Any blank DVD will work if you have a disc burner.


Use a USB drive if your computer doesn't have an optical drive on it (common with netbooks and some laptops)., Start the Windows USB/DVD Download Tool and follow the prompts. You'll be asked to select the ISO file that you downloaded. You'll then be asked to select where you want to copy it to (the blank DVD or the USB drive). After the ISO finishes copying, the DVD or drive will be ready to use.


Remember, if you use a USB drive, everything on it will be deleted.
 The installation process will delete everything on your hard drive, so you'll want to ensure that all of your important documents, pictures, and other files are safely backed up. There are a variety of ways you can backup your files, such as copying them to an external hard drive or flash drive, uploading them to a cloud storage service like Google Drive or Dropbox, or burning them to blank DVDs. See How to Back Up Data for more instructions.Programs will need to be reinstalled after you install Windows, as they cannot be backed up. You can, however, backup up many programs' configuration or preference files. The location of these files varies depending on the program.
Make sure to double-check all of your folders for important files. The reinstallation process will delete everything.
 If you're using a laptop, you may want to download all of your essential drivers ahead of time to make getting back online easier. Visit your laptop's support website and download the essential driver files for your laptop's model. Copy these to another USB drive or burn them to another disc. This will let you install the drivers without having to be online later., Insert the USB drive or disc that you created in the previous section.
 You'll need to open the BIOS menu to change the device order so that you can boot from your installation media. You can open the BIOS menu as soon as the computer boots, before Windows loads.


As soon as the computer boots, looks for the "BIOS", "SETUP", or "BOOT" key. This is typically F2, F10, F12, or Del

Open the BOOT menu and change the order so that your installation media comes first. Exit the BIOS and save your changes. If you opened directly to the BOOT menu, just select your installation media.
 You'll be prompted to press any key to begin Windows Setup. Press a key on your keyboard to begin. You'll have to wait a few moments as essential files are copied.
 The first choice you're presented with is your language and keyboard settings. For most users, this should already be set correctly.
 After choosing your language, you'll be prompted to begin the installation. After clicking "Install now," you'll be shown the terms and conditions for using Windows 7. Check the box to indicate you accept the terms and click "Next."

, This will allow you to delete your current partition and install a fresh copy of Windows 7. This is especially important if you are reinstalling Windows 7 to troubleshoot problems that you've been having or to get rid of malware. Remember, a Custom installation will delete all of the data on your hard drive.
 Make sure that the partition doesn't say "System Reserved" or "Recovery". Windows partitions are generally at least 20 GB in size. Make sure you select the correct partition, as all of the data on it will be deleted.
 You will be asked to confirm that you want to delete the partition and all of the data on it. You can delete any other partitions you don't want to keep as well, which will delete all of the data on them.


You can combine multiple unallocated partitions by selecting one, clicking "Extend," and then adding the other unallocated partition to it. This can be useful if had your drive split up, but want to combine it during the reinstallation process.
 The partition should say "Unallocated Space." It will need at least 16 GB of space to comfortably install Windows 7.
 The Windows Setup tool will begin copying and installing Windows system files on the selected partition. This will likely take around 15-20 minutes. Your computer will reboot when the installation is complete. When it does, do not press a key to start Windows Setup. Let it continue to boot as normal.
 After your computer reboots and Windows loads, you'll be prompted to create your user account. This will be the administrator account for the computer. You'll also be prompted to give the computer a name for the network.
 Enter the product key that you retrieved at the beginning of this article. You can skip this for now, in which case you'll be prompted for the key when Windows starts. Check the "Automatically activate Windows" box so that Windows will complete the activation process for you.
 It is highly recommended that you select the "Use recommended settings" option, as this will help keep your computer up to date and secure. If you don't select this option, you'll have to manually check for and install Windows updates.
 Make sure the time zone setting is correct, and that the date and time are properly set.
 Selecting the type of network you are currently connected to will help Windows automatically configure your network settings. If you're at home, select the "Home" option. If you're connected to your work network, select "Work." If you're in a public location or are connected to a mobile hotspot, select "Public."

, Installation should now be complete, and you'll see your new Windows 7 desktop. You can begin reinstalling your old programs and copying your backups back onto your hard drive. You should also ensure that you have all of the latest drivers installed, which Windows Update can handle for you. See How to Find and Update Drivers for more information on downloading the latest drivers for your hardware.If you created a driver disc earlier, insert it and install the essential drivers that you downloaded. This may get you online easier.

