 Free radicals in your stomach can break down your stomach lining, making your ulcer worse.Antioxidants are known as free radical scavengers — they destroy the free radicals that could cause you harm. Because of this, you should eat foods that contain antioxidants. These include:Red wine
Pomegranate juice
Grape juice
Buckwheat
Barley
Beans and lentils
Nuts (walnuts, peanuts, hazelnuts, almonds, etc.)
Chocolate
Berries (blueberries, cranberries, blackberries, raspberries, strawberries, etc.)
Certain spices (including clove, allspice, cinnamon)
Certain herbs (including peppermint, oregano, thyme, sage, rosemary)
Tomato products (sauces, sun-dried tomatoes);
, Flavonoids are found in many plants and are defined as organic compounds of biological pigments. Flavonoids also fight free radicals, meaning they are protectors of your stomach lining, just like antioxidants.Foods rich in flavonoids include:


Blueberries
Strawberries
Peaches
Apples
Oranges
Celery
Black beans
Black, green, and oolong teas
Beer

, While it is an uncommon drink, cabbage juice is very effective in curing stomach ulcers. Cabbage is naturally rich in bacteria that produce lactic acid; these bacteria are essential in fighting and destroying the bacteria that causes ulcers.You should drink 50 ml of cabbage juice twice a day when your stomach is empty.
Cabbage juice can be made at home using a juicer, or can be purchased from some markets and health stores.
 Research has also shown that cranberry juice is powerful when it comes to preventing bad bacteria from fusing to the lining of your stomach.


You can drink cranberry juice, eat fresh cranberries, or take cranberry supplements (available from pharmacies and vitamin stores).
 Research shows that powerful wound-healing agents are found in white sweet potatoes.Eating these may help heal your ulcer. You can find white sweet potatoes at many markets and prepare them in several ways, including steaming and baking.
 Research and tradition demonstrate that honey is a powerful natural antibiotic. For this reason, it can help fight the H. pylori bacteria that cause ulcers.Try to consume a couple spoonfuls of honey each day to combat your ulcer.
 Licorice extract is available from many markets, pharmacies, and health stores.


Talk to your doctor before starting a licorice regimen and discuss other medications you may be taking. Licorice supplements taken with with diuretics, corticosteroids, or other medicines that lower the body’s potassium levels could reduce potassium to dangerous levels.Take licorice supplements as instructed by your doctor.
 Research indicates that eating bananas can help treat the symptoms of stomach ulcers by helping to protect the lining of the stomach.Though it will not heal an existing ulcer, eating bananas may help treat your symptoms.


Dried unripe plantains may also help, but ripe plantains do not seem to have a positive effect., When you would normally put a pat of butter in the frying pan to cook your eggs or vegetables in, you should instead use olive oil. These oils contain healthy fats that are processed more easily than the heavier fats found in animal products like butter.You can also try cooking with coconut oil, rice bran oil, sesame oil or safflower oil

, A bland diet concentrates on easily-digestible, low-fiber foods. These are gentle on your stomach and are less likely to irritate ulcers.You should talk with your doctor about whether or not a bland diet is a good treatment for your ulcer, and how long to follow it if it is. Foods you can eat on a bland diet include:


Low-fat dairy products (milk, yogurt, etc.)
Cooked, canned, or frozen vegetables without seasoning
Fruit and vegetable juices
Applesauce
Hot cereals
Lean, tender meats such as boiled chicken or baked fish, without seasonings
Creamy peanut butter
Tofu

, While alcoholic drinks like wine can have some health benefits, alcohol can irritate the lining of your stomach. When you have an ulcer caused by H. pylori, alcohol only makes the situation worse.,, Spicy foods might make ulcers more painful if you already have one, but they won’t cause one.It is best to avoid all spicy foods (hot peppers, hot sauces, etc.) if you have an existing ulcer or are predisposed to them.
 These fats are hard to digest, which can irritate ulcers.
, If you are addicted to tobacco products, talk to your doctor about treatments that can help you quit so that your ulcer can heal.
 These common pain relievers, fever reducers, and anti-inflammatory medications may cause ulcers in some people, especially if taken for extended periods of time or at high doses. If you are taking NSAIDs for an existing condition, talk to your doctor about other medications you can take instead (such as acetaminophen).
 If you are suffering from one, avoiding or reducing stress factors can help you heal faster. Meditation and breathing exercises are easy, natural ways to relieve stress and treat ulcers.