 You may first notice that one eye looks different than the other. The white of one eye might look red with inflamed blood vessels crossing over the surface of the eye. The cornea that is normally clear may look blue or milky since the cells can swell from glaucoma. Your poodle's pupil may look dilated or larger than usual.One eye can even look physically bigger than the other because of all of the swelling.;
, While the eyes might signal that something is obviously wrong with your dog's eyes, his behavior may be another sign that he has glaucoma. Glaucoma is a very painful condition so your dog might be depressed, quiet, or even irritable. Look for these changes in behavior:Rubs at his head
Tries to protect the painful eye
Snaps if you get close to the eye or that side of the face
Rubs the eye against furniture

, If your poodle has any signs of glaucoma, take him to the veterinarian immediately. The vet will do a thorough exam and measure the pressure within the eyes using specialized equipment. Try to keep your poodle relaxed during the exam since stress can increase the pressure in the eye.Your vet may refer you to a veterinary ophthalmologist or specialist to confirm the diagnosis and recommend treatment.
 If the vet determines that your poodle's eye isn't draining away fluid correctly, the vet will diagnose your dog with glaucoma. The vet will then decide whether or not your poodle has primary or secondary glaucoma. Primary glaucoma is caused a physical abnormality in the eye while secondary glaucoma is caused by disease or injury to the eye.Some dog breeds are more likely than others to suffer from glaucoma. These include the poodle, beagle, great dane, dalmatian, and spaniels.
 If your poodle has severe glaucoma, your dog might need medications delivered intravenously. Medications like mannitol can reduce the pressure in the eye by drawing out fluid. It will take about 30 minutes for the mannitol to reduce pressure. The medication is effective for 6 to 10 hours.Since mannitol can raise blood sugar, your dog shouldn't take it if he has diabetes.
 Once dangerous eye pressure is reduced, you'll need to manage your poodle's glaucoma. Your veterinarian may recommend using eye drops that contain prostaglandin analogues. You'll need to apply the drops 1 to 3 times a day so they can improve the drainage of fluid from the eyes. The veterinarian may also prescribe:Beta blockers (like timolol) that improve the outflow of fluid from the eye.
Carbonic anhydrase inhibitors (like dorzolamide 2% or brinzolamide 1%) which reduces the production of fluid in the eye.
 Because glaucoma is a painful condition, your poodle might need to take a painkiller, like an oral medication from the non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) group. Ask your vet to recommend dosing for aspirin or ibuprofen.If your poodle's eyes seem red or inflamed, the veterinarian may prescribe corticosteroids to reduce inflammation.
 Most dogs with glaucoma will need surgery in order to save the vision (or slow down vision loss) in at least one eye. During the initial exam, the vet will determine which eye has better vision and whether or not your poodle has already lost sight in one eye. A specialist can perform different types of surgeries depending on if your poodle can still see. Types of surgeries include:Creating drainage from the eye by way of a small drain or stent
Using a laser to destroy cells that make excess fluid in the eye
Freezing the cells that create excess fluid
Replacing the lens to get to cells that make excess fluid

, Take your poodle to the vet every 6 months so that his eyes can be checked for increased pressure or loss of vision. Most dogs diagnosed with glaucoma in one eye will develop it in the other eye within a few months to 2 years after treatment.Don't hesitate to contact your vet if you notice anything strange with your poodle's eyes.
 In addition to giving your poodle pain medication, you may need to help your dog adapt to glaucoma treatments. If your poodle has had surgery to remove an eye, your dog will actually adapt quickly and only lose a little of his depth perception. While he's adjusting to his changing sight, make your house safe for him. Clear large or sharp-edged objects out of his way and guide him around the house following his surgery.Pay close attention to your dog when he's outside and off-leash since it will take some time for him to adjust.
Your dog's temperament may improve since he's no longer in pain from the glaucoma.

