 It’s a good idea to update your parenting rules periodically. You might want to give your children more responsibility and freedom as they get older. You might also decide to set stricter rules to prevent bad habits or negative behaviors.For instance, you might give a nine-year-old more daily chores around the house, or you might decide to let a sixteen-year-old have more freedom to go out with friends in the evenings.
If you’ve noticed that your toddler acts hyper after eating sugary foods, you might implement a no-candy rule.
 Make sure your kids understand what is expected of them now. Give examples of which behaviors are okay and which ones aren’t. If your children are over the age of five or six, tell them your reasons for setting the rules, too.For instance, help your middle-schooler understand his new bedtime by saying, “I’ve noticed that you have a hard time getting up for school when you stay up late. If you’re in bed by nine, the mornings will be easier for you.”
To help your kids get used to the new rules, role-play different situations with them. This is especially helpful for younger children.
 Avoid talking to your parents or your in-laws when you’re frustrated with how they take care of your kids. Instead, choose a time when everyone is in a positive, relaxed state of mind.Choose a comfortable place to have the conversation. Try chatting at home or over lunch.
Avoid having the conversation when you’re rushed or distracted. If you show that you take this topic seriously, the grandparents will take it seriously, too.
 Tell your parents or in-laws which rules you’ve changed. Make sure they understand why you chose to make these changes.Say something like, “We’ve decided to limit Dan’s screen time to just the weekends because he’s been having a hard time concentrating at school. We’d really appreciate it if you would help us by not letting him watch TV on weekdays when he’s at your house.”

, Express your appreciation to your parents or in-laws. Make sure to emphasize how much your kids love them and look forward to spending time with them.For instance, say, “Thanks for taking such great care of Dan when he visits. He looks forward to it every week, and we really appreciate your help.”

