 This includes a Motherboard, Graphics/Video Card, Processor, Memory (RAM), Power Supply, Hard Drive, Computer Case, CD Drive, etc.;
, When choosing a video card make sure you have the correct connection on your motherboard (ex. pci-e x16 v2, AGP, PCI, PCI-E x16 v1) and calculate the power usage and buy your power supply accordingly. Check the socket on your CPU to see if it is the same as on your motherboard. If it is different, choose a different one (Ex. socket 1366, 775, 478, am2, etc.) and make sure the components will fit.
 You might think that you know what you're doing but check for things you might need to install that you didn't know (Ex. SPDIF cable on n video-cards).
, If you don't do this step, you might risk damaging your electronic components through a static discharge.
, When using an after-market CPU cooler you might need to install some screws onto the motherboard so you might want to do that first to avoid taking everything apart again later. Simply screw it in to your casing through the screw-holes and make sure that you don't over-tighten them.
 Open the socket according to the instructions in your manual and remove the plastic protection cover. Place your CPU in the right orientation (look in the manual), then close the socket. This might take some force because the pins need to make good contact.
 You need to apply only a thin layer of thermal paste. This is to improve the heat transfer to the cooler. Some coolers have thermal paste already applied to them and don't need any other than that.
, If your motherboard has an integrated one you may not need to install another one.
,, SATA and/or IDE cables , power-cables, etc.
 When you start up your computer you may need to set up some settings in the bios menu like your hard drives and your graphics-card. Set everything according to your needs and reboot.
 whether it is Mac, Windows or Linux ,this is a quite straightforward process and if you do need help you can check out these topics:


Install Windows Using a CD
Install Mac OS X Snow Leopard
Install Linux

