 These stores usually advertise rates for several wireless providers and show the newest cell phones.


You can also go to Walmart.com or Wirefly.com to start your research.;
, You should keep in mind that a "cheap" cell phone plan depends upon the services you require.


The cheapest cell phones are not smart phones. If you don't need email, Internet, mapping and apps on your smart phone, you will be able to find a free phone and a cheaper plan.
Smart phone cell plans usually include data, texting, email and an ability to download apps. It is rare to find a data plan for less than $40 per month. However, some smart phones come free as standard with new contracts.



Until a few years ago, it was common for every free cell phone to come with a 2-year contract. AT&T and Verizon are prime examples of companies that usually require these contracts.
No contract plans are available through T-Mobile, Sprint and many of the smaller companies. Make sure you use this term if you do not want a contract.
Wi-Fi plans are those with calling over Wi-Fi. They generally cost less, include less and are unavailable in certain areas.
 Each area of the country has different mobile phone providers, so not all options are available to you.



Comparison shopping is the best way to ensure that you are getting the best rates.
 They will not be able to change the monthly rates, but they can give away certain phones, give rebates and waive set-up fees.


Sign up for a family plan. If your family does not use a lot of data, a family plan with a major provider may be cheaper than individual plans with the low cost provider.
 You may want to look at other options.


In rural areas, there may only be 1 or 2 major providers, so you may have to choose from fewer options.
 Major and smaller providers provide plans that run for .10 per minute, $2 on days you use the phone and $25 per month for 250 minutes.


You will be asked to buy a phone, if you do not provide your own phone. This can cost between $15 and $150, depending upon your phone preference. If possible, ask a friend or family member if you can have an old cell phone.
 Buy a phone from their limited choices and you can get an unlimited plan for $19 to $29 per month.


Republic Wireless switches to Wi-Fi wherever it is available to save money.
 If this option is available in your area, it may be the least expensive plan on the market.
 You can get unlimited plans between $30 and $50 per month. Some are available without a contract.

