 Figure out a name that not only you like, but everyone else who may want to join your clan will like. Make sure its something that you will represent for a long period of time and that others will as well. You don't want to be running around claiming to be the Bad Kids who Play COD, unless your a noob and that's your style. We're trying to build a good clan here, so take our advice.;
, - You play a specific game or games already. Your clan should be based on one single game while you get it started. You can always expand later on. Figure out which game you play the most and go for that game. Build a clan base of at least 50 members before trying to expand.
 Recruiting is a major aspect in your clan. For your clan to grow and expand, you need to recruit. You need to have methods of getting new players in and keeping them in your clan. Sites like www.xbox360clans.net can help you find recruits easily. However, recruiting on Xbox LIVE is by far your best option.


Send out a message to your close friends and ask them if they want to join a clan. Be sure to include the clan name and the requirements to join.
Ask your friends to join. They will be the first ones to join because they know you and you know them.
Never give someone you don't know leader of your clan. It only spells destruction for your clan and drama.
Set guidelines on who you want to join your clan.
 A rank structure keeps your clan simple, organized and well maintained. Follow a chain of command and there's less confusion when things happen within the clan. For example: Leader, Co-Leader, Captain, Lieutenant, Sergeant, Private, Corporal, and Recruit.
 A Clan Leader has the right to pick and choose who he/she wants in the clan. Make sure you choose wisely because you could spark outrage with other clan members and do more harm, than good. Think about situations before you take action. These members do not need your clan anymore than you need them, there are other clans out there so do not treat them horribly. Ban those who choose to disrespect and not follow clan rules. Honor Codes are good to have setup when a person joins, make sure they agree to abide by the rules and Honor Code so that when the time comes that he/she disobeys it, you can point to the rules and Honor Code and show them that what they did wrong.
 Keeping your clan active, organized and updated is key to a clans success. Many clans today choose to run a website using forum software such as MyBB, Enjin, vBulletin, IPB or another forum software. Some cost money, some are free. A website is a website and the bigger it gets, the more it cost to run. Make sure that you are willing to invest in your clan to make if you plan to expand to become the biggest and best available to gamers.

