 If you can't find a handgrip dynamometer, you can still test your grip strength at home or at the gym. Using a few household items, you can easily find a fairly accurate reading.


You need to make sure you have all the right equipment on hand. You'll need a bathroom scale, a pull-up bar or hanging board and a stop watch.
Position the scale right underneath your pull-up bar or board. These should be high enough that your arms will be fully extended above your head.
You want to test your grip strength for a 5 second time period. Set your stop watch to 5 seconds or have a friend monitor their watch.
To get in the right position, stand on the scale and place your hands on the pull-up bar or board. Look at the scale to make sure the weight reading is accurate.
 To test your grip strength with a bathroom scale, you'll want to see how much weight you can pull up with just your hands.While standing with feet flat on the scale, squeeze your hands around the pull-up bar or the side of the hangboard.


You should not bend your elbows, wrists or knees. Your entire body, aside from your hands, should remain stable. You want to aim to lift as much of your body weight off the scale as you can, with only the strength of your hands.
Squeeze or pull on the bar as hard as you can with your hands. Have a friend record what the new weight reading is on the scale. It will be less than your actual body weight.
Again, it's recommended to take an average of these readings. Do three to five tests and then take the average of these results.
 Once you've noted your current weight and the averages from the tests, you can calculate your grip strength. Follow this simple equation:


Your grip strength in pounds = your current weight - your weight while gripping the bar.For example: 180 pounds current weight - 80 pounds while gripping the bar = 100 pounds of grip strength.
Record this result and continue to track your grip strength using this same method over time. This will help you see any improvements after practicing strengthening exercises.

