 To avoid making your intentions obvious, start the conversation with small talk, and then ask questions about their kitchen. Actively listen to them and take special note of any frustration that they have because of missing equipment. For instance, they could complain about a lack of cutting boards, knives, or other kitchen equipment. All of these things could help you create a mental list of stuff that they may need.


Ask them about missing kitchen equipment by saying, "How's work going? Is everything going smooth? Is your kitchen missing anything?";
, While cooks may have more cooking equipment than the average person, it doesn't mean that all their equipment is in perfect condition. Take note of any dull knives, warped cutting boards, or broken dishware. If the cook has a personal knife set but an old and haggard case, consider buying them a higher quality carrying case.

Survey the quality of their current gear and see if you can find better quality alternatives.

Other things that you could upgrade include new pots and pans made of a better material, a more advanced slow cooker, or high-quality leather oven mitts.Pots and pans can be made from a vast variety of materials including cast iron, copper, and carbon steel. Consider getting one of these more expensive variations for an impressive gift., Purchasing a gift for a cook is as easy as giving them a visit for dinner. Suggest a potluck or social gathering so that you can all participate in cooking together. Take a mental inventory of their kitchen and items that may be missing.


To ask for a potluck you can say something like, "I was wondering if you'd be interested in a potluck at your house. Since you're the cook, I figured you'd have all the stuff we'd need to heat up and prepare the food."
Sometimes a knife set or pan set will have a piece missing because it broke or was lost. This is an excellent opportunity to complete their set.
 If you're totally unsure of what to get your cook friend, you can get them a gift card so that they can get the cookware that they need. Find cookware shops around where they live or get them a gift card that they can use online. You can also look for restaurant gift cards that they can use to get a free meal and give them a break from the kitchen. Think of the types of food that they like and purchase a gift card for a restaurant that they enjoy.


When getting a gift card it's always good to write an accompanying note.
Some of the best cookware shops include Fante's in Philadelphia, The Chopping Block in Chicago, A Cook's Companion in Brooklyn, and Hardisty's in Santa Rosa., If you don't need to keep your gift a surprise, asking them is the most direct way to understand what they want. Give them a call on the phone or ask them in person. The recipient may not even want you to get them anything cooking related, so be prepared for anything.


You can ask by saying, "Hey, your birthday is coming up. What do you want for it?"

