 You need to make sure your squirrel has a healthy, balanced diet. As squirrels are not traditionally kept as pets, this can be somewhat tricky.


Do not attempt to feed a baby squirrel on your own. Baby squirrels need specific vitamins and minerals. Feeding a baby squirrel formula or milk could result in the squirrel dying. Take your baby squirrel to a vet or wildlife rescue as soon as you can. The workers there will know how to feed him properly. In the event you take him back home with you, you can learn how to care for the baby online at TheSquirrelBoard.com. They do make specially designed food for squirrels. It can be tricky to find, however, as it may be sold at your local pet store. Some states do not allow people to keep squirrels as pets. You may be able to order squirrel food online, but it might take a few days. In the event you cannot get squirrel food quickly, TheSquirrelBoard.com has recipes to make temporary formula. , Keep a bowl of water in your squirrels cage or enclosure. Squirrels need plenty of water for their health and wellbeing. You can either leave water in a bowl or use a bottle, like you would in a hamster cage. If you're getting a bottle, make sure you use a glass bottle. Some squirrels chew through plastic.If you're giving water to a baby squirrel, make sure any bowls you use are not too big. You would not want a baby squirrel to accidentally drown in his water bottle. You can place rocks or marbles at the bottom and fill the bowl to just halfway up to the marbles so he doesn’t drown.
 If you found a squirrel in the wild, he may be injured. You should carefully assess a squirrel for injury and get him veterinary care if you see any injuries.


Find a safe spot in your home with good lighting. Stay away from children or other pets. Wear heavy, protective gloves when handling a wild animal. You should also wear a long sleeve coat. If a squirrel has not been handled before, he may bite or scratch. If you are bitten/scratched, rabies is NOT A PROBLEM. Squirrels are cleaner than most other animals. Just rinse out the cut and go about your business. Keep a basin of warm water and a few clean washcloths on hand. Check the face, nose, and mouth for dried blood. If you see any parasites, like fleas or ticks, remove them. Parasites should be killed if still alive to avoid infecting other pets in your home. If you need to wash any blood, wring out the rag thoroughly and move it gently over the squirrel's fur.Pay attention to your squirrel's limbs. Lets and feet may be twisted awkwardly or limp. Baby squirrels are especially prone to injury from falling out of a tree or nest.If your squirrel is injured, contact a wildlife rehabber and/or vet IMMEDIATELY.
 Squirrels need a lot of exercise. If you plan to keep your squirrel for awhile, you need to make sure he spends time building his muscles.


Allow your squirrel access to one room of your house for at least an hour a day. Make sure you remove anything breakable or anything you do not want damaged. Allow your squirrels to run, climb, and play in this room.Do not allow the squirrel outside without a cage. Hawks and other predators are faster than you and can make a meal out of the baby before you can react. Also, the baby may get spooked and run away, to never return, and thus die due to not knowing how to fend for himself. If you're keeping your squirrel longer than a week or so, install some perches in his cage. As stated earlier, bird perches work well for a squirrel cage. They should come with manufacturer's instructions for set up.

