 The towel will keep the glass from sliding around and will catch any small fragments of glass that break off in the cutting process.;
, Using your glass cutter, press down firmly and make one single score, from one edge to the other, where you'd like the glass to break. It is very important to make only one score line in order to get a clean break.
 The simplest way to do this is by holding the glass with one hand on each side of the line. Make a quick snapping motion and the glass will separate along the score line.
 Continue scoring and breaking glass until you create your desired shapes. Most stained glass projects use pieces that fit together like a puzzle. If you are looking for pattern ideas, you can purchase a book from your local craft store that gives examples of popular stained glass patterns.
 Set out your copper foil, liquid flux, and coil of solder. Plug in your soldering iron and allow it to heat to its prime temperature. It is important to have everything set up prior to beginning the soldering process because quick timing is crucial in this project.
 Measure this by lining up the copper foil along the edge of the glass, leaving about 1/8" on each end. Then cut the foil with your scissors. You can also buy strips of copper foil from craft stores

, You should be able to easily strip away the paper backing from the foil, revealing the adhesive side.
 Try to position the edge of glass directly on the center of the copper foil.
 It is helpful to use a pencil to push the small remaining edges of foil onto the face.
 This is very important because it will smooth out the copper foil and create a stronger bond with the glass.
, The flux will encourage the metal in the copper and the solder to adhere more strongly.
 Leave a very thin gap (about 1/16") between the two pieces so the solder will be able to flow into the seam.
 This will melt to form the bond between the two pieces of glass.
 This can be reversed if you are left-handed. Choose whichever is more comfortable for you.
 The best results are achieved by letting the melted solder drop into the seam between the pieces of glass.
 It will immediately begin to melt the solder and the solder will drop into the seam.
 Move quickly enough so that the melted solder does not not bunch up in one area, but slow enough so that the entire seam gets coated with the bead of solder.
 You should see a continuous line of solder along the intersection of the two pieces of glass. The glass is now strongly bonded together.
 The more times you practice this process, the more comfortable you will feel and the cleaner your soldering lines will look.

