 Volunteer to walk dogs at the local pet shelter, offer to help with toy donations at your local elementary school, or even offer your time to your local boy scouts troupe. In volunteering your time, you are giving back to your community, while meeting new people and making acquaintances.When volunteering in a new place, start one volunteering position at a time. Even if you are a volunteer veteran, different cities and organizations place different expectations upon their workers.
Volunteer according to your interests. This will help you find people who enjoy similar things, which will increase the likelihood of making lasting connections.
If you volunteered with other organizations back home, the organization might have a chapter in your new town. Your previous chapter can send an email or make a call to make introductions. Habitat for Humanity and the Special Olympics are two nonprofits that have branches or offices in numerous towns.
 To truly integrate yourself into your new community, you need to know what is going on in your city. Visit your city offices to find out what new laws or ordinances are being proposed, what types of services your city has to offer, and to discover whether or not your city has pressing needs you can assist with.Although many boards will require an election process, city offices often have volunteer opportunities, and are happy to help people get involved.
When visiting your city office, offer your help. You can lead a park clean-up every Saturday morning, or offer a free yoga class during office lunch. The office may not have any available volunteer positions, but either way, you are making yourself known in your new home.
 Although you may be tempted to indulge in your tried-and-true franchised places for food and necessities, step outside of the box and try new eateries and use local brick-and-mortar shops for your daily necessities. You will likely pay a higher price, but you will meet more locals this way, and can talk to the owners and workers about your new town.Coffee shops are often great places to visit as you work to build community. Striking up a conversation with a stranger over coffee can provide a lot of insight into your home.
If you find a place you love, show it! Visit regularly, and let your face become familiar to the workers. You can build connections with the workers, or you might find yourself getting along with other regulars.
 Many cities organize nature hikes, community concerts, and even block parties. Take advantage of these offerings, as time permits, and immerse yourself in your new home.


If your city does not have any events like this organized, offer to help! If you have experience organizing parties or planning community events, offer your services. You might not get paid, but you can certainly get your name out in your new community, and you will come into contact with a lot of new faces.
 Your city likely has basic services such as a library, a park, a community center, etc. Take advantage of these offerings! Check books out from the library, go for a stroll in the park, and enroll in a community class. These are all excellent ways to meet new people and make friends, and they all cost little to nothing--a great option for someone who has just incurred the expense of moving.Most libraries have classes and groups that meet throughout the week. Join a book club, or meet with a “Mommy and Me” group to give yourself some more structure to your week, and meet people in your area.
Community centers typically have classes that might be offered at gyms and community colleges, but at a fraction of the price. Take advantage of these savings, and learn something new.

