 A common facet of 12-step programs, whether you choose to participate in one or not, is that you recognize periods of sobriety and reward yourself for them. Even if the reward means the opportunity to look at your sober self in the mirror and say, "You've been sober for a week," it's important to let yourself celebrate the achievements of sobriety.


Some addicts find it helpful to put all the money they used to set aside for dope and save it up to buy something nice for big sober milestones. Take a trip, or buy something nice for yourself. You deserve it.
 Temptations will happen. It will occur to you eventually that you'll want to score again, to use again, and to feel that feeling. Most relapses occur in the first 3-6 months of quitting heroin.While you might not be able to stop that old bird from landing in your mind, you don't have to let it build up a nest and stay. Some addicts find it helpful to visualize a "trash bin" in a corner of your mind where you can place those temptations, locking them away as soon as they surface.


When you get a temptation, picture the garbage can and picture your temptation as a piece of trash. Put it in the can. Screw the lid on it. Keep it out of sight.
 So you kicked dope. Now what? Boredom can quickly become one of the biggest challenges to a recovering addict. How you choose to fill all that time you used to spend high will be completely up to you, but you're likely to be more successful if you can find a way of productively and healthily reproducing a similar kind of "high." This might mean creating something, taking up challenging sports that'll leave you exhilarated, or even something as simple as going for long walks and thinking. Use your sobriety as an opportunity to create a new life. It's a blank page. Start filling it.
 Your body isn't a slave to heroin. Exercise helps the body excrete all the junk inside, like a natural detox, regulating metabolism and creating natural endorphin highs. Find a regular kind of exercise that you enjoy and that you'll be able to keep up regularly. Play sports or jog. If you can't stand exercise, start going to dance clubs and getting wild. Have fun. You're sober!

, Generally, addicts aren't encouraged to try to give everything up all at once in formal rehab programs. Learn how you're able to cope with sobriety, however, by eliminating as many addictive substances as you can from your life and replacing them with other productive activity.


If you replace your heroin high with other drugs, it may work for a short period of time, but it'll also likely keep you hanging around the same types of people, facing the same types of temptations, and you won't be sober. Know yourself.
If you're still fighting a big battle against heroin temptations and feel like a couple cigarettes a day is your only sane lifeline, don't try to quit right away. Learn your own limitations and set a series of goals for yourself. If you want to quit everything, by when? Next week? Next month? Set a date for quitting pot or booze or cigarettes if it fits in with your goals for your life.
 The concept of eating and enjoying food can be a baffling thing to some addicts, but taking care of your sobriety by embracing a healthy diet can help restore nutrients to your body and keep you healthy.
 Avoid old haunts and old drug buddies, cultivating new sober acquaintances and exploring new hobbies that'll keep you occupied. If you're busy doing other things, heroin is much less likely to creep back into your life.


It may be unfortunate but it's sometimes necessary to sever old friendships with people likely to suck you back into the drug world you crawled out of. You have to be smart and take control of your own sobriety. If you worry that hanging around a certain person might tempt you to use again, you've got to avoid that person. Tell them you don't trust yourself yet to be around them, but you'd love to see them get clean.
 Depressions, guilt, and addictions can sometimes seem like they're lurking around every corner for the addict. Try to look through the windshield instead of the rear-view mirror. Don't focus on the things you've done, and the things that you might regret, focus on where you're going and what you are going to accomplish with your new sober life. Start living it.

