 Simple 4-function calculators will not be able to help you directly find the inverse. However, due to the repetitive nature of the calculations, an advanced graphing calculator, such as the Texas Instruments TI-83 or TI-86, can greatly reduce the work., First, enter your calculator’s Matrix function by pressing the Matrix key, if you have one. On the Texas Instruments calculators, you may need to press 2nd Matrix.
 To reach the submenu, you may need to use the arrow buttons or choose the appropriate function key at the top of your calculator’s keypad, depending on the layout of your calculator., Most calculators are equipped to work with anywhere from 3 to 10 matrices, labeled with letters A through J. Typically, just choose to work with. Hit the Enter key after making your selection., This article is focusing on 3x3 matrices. However, the calculator can handle larger sizes. Enter the number of rows, then press Enter, and then the number of columns, and Enter., The calculator screen will show a matrix. If you previously were working with the matrix function, the prior matrix will appear on the screen. The cursor will highlight the first element of the matrix. Type in the value of the matrix you wish to solve, and then Enter. The cursor will move automatically to the next element of the matrix, overwriting any previous numbers.If you wish to enter a negative number, use your calculator’s negative button (-) and not the minus key. The matrix function will not read the number properly.

If necessary, you can use your calculator’s arrow keys to jump around the matrix.
 After you have entered all values of the matrix, press the Quit key (or 2nd Quit, if necessary). This will exit you from the Matrix function and return you to the main display screen of your calculator., First, reopen the Matrix function and use the Names button to select the matrix label that you used to define your matrix (probably ). Then, press your calculator’s inverse key, x−1{\displaystyle x^{-1}}. This may require using the 2nd button, depending on your calculator. Your screen display should show A−1{\displaystyle A^{-1}}. Press Enter, and the inverse matrix should appear on your screen.Do not use the ^ button on your calculator to try entering A^-1 as separate keystrokes. The calculator will not understand this operation.

If you receive an error message when you enter the inverse key, chances are that your original matrix does not have an inverse. You may want to go back and calculate the determinant to find out.
 The first calculation that the calculator will give you is in decimal form. This is not considered “exact” for most purposes. You should convert the decimal answers to fractional form, as necessary. (If you are very lucky, all your results will be integers, but this is rare.)Your calculator probably has a function that will automatically convert the decimals to fractions. For example, using the TI-86, enter the Math function, then select Misc, and then Frac, and Enter. The decimals will automatically appear as fractions.
 Note: The calculator will not format the matrix until after the enter/equals key has been used (i.e. everything will be one line and not pretty).
