 If you’re not signed in on your computer, go to https://www.twitter.com and sign in with your account name and password.You’ll need to be able to access your website’s source code to use this method. If you don’t know how your website works, ask a web developer or IT person to help you with this process.
If you’re using Wordpress.com, you can use its built-in Twitter widget instead of this method. Click Customize under “Personalize” in your blog’s Dashboard. In the Widgets section, click Add a Widget and select Twitter. You can customize the number of tweets displayed, as well as the look and feel of the widget.;
, This site allows you to quickly customize Twitter widgets for your website.


A widget will make your tweets available to your visitors without them having to leave your site.
Visitors can also click the widget to get to your profile, where they can follow or communicate with you.
 It’s one of the 4 options at the bottom of the page.
 For example, if your Twitter handle is @wikiHow, you would enter https://www.twitter.com/wikiHow.
 Scroll down to see a sample version of the widget. It’ll appear rather large by default, but you can change that.
 The link appears just above your list of tweets.
 Enter your desired height and width (in pixels) into the boxes, then choose a color scheme from the drop-down menu. You can also select a language, or stick with “Automatic” to tailor the widget to your location.


The preview image will update as you move through options.
If you’re not sure what size to make your widget, start with 200 in the “width” box, then increase or decrease the size from there.
 This will save the changes you made to the widget.
 The code necessary to add the button to your website is now copied to your computer’s clipboard.
 You can paste the code wherever you want your tweets to appear. The location varies by site or blog. Here’s how to find the source code for a few popular services:


Tumblr: Click the Profile icon on your Dashboard, then select Edit Appearance beneath your blog’s title. Click Edit Theme, to open the editor, then click Edit HTML to view your source code.
Blogger: In your Dashboard, click Theme on the left side of the screen, then click Edit HTML.
If you’re using another site that’s user-friendly, it may have an "easy editor" on the admin page. Find the "HTML Code" tab or section, then paste the Twitter code.

