 You don’t have to hug your child every five minutes, but one great way to promote good mental health for your child is to let them know that you care.Showing affection can give your child a sense of security and confidence. It can also model appropriate ways to express emotions.


Although older children and teens might resist a bit, give them a hug, pat on the back, or even a fist bump every now and then.
Tell your child that you care about them and that you love them on a regular basis. For instance, you could say, “Love you” when you’re dropping them off at school. Make sure that you let your child know that you love them no matter what. Do not only tell them you love them or offer praise when they do something that is pleasing to you.;
, Talking with your child on a regular basis can help support their mental wellbeing in several ways. Good communication will help maintain and strengthen your relationship. It will also let your child know that you care about them and that you're there for them. It can also make it easier for you to notice if something is wrong and for them to tell you about it.


Talk to your child about everyday events. For example, tell them how your day was and ask how theirs was. Talk about world events and news in your community.
Talk about emotions and feelings and how to manage them. For instance, if you notice your child seems disappointed, you might say, “I see you’re disappointed. I know how that feels. One way to handle it is to think about something positive.”
Send them a good morning text or try video chatting when you can't be face-to-face. It’s a great way to quickly communicate to them that you care.
Remember that half of communicating is listening. Give your child your full attention when they’re talking to you and really listen to what they’re telling you.
 Your child’s physician can be a great resource for you and your child for medical and other issues. In addition to making sure everything is physically okay, their pediatrician can provide you with information and recommendations for others services.


Attend all scheduled appointments. Regular check-ups can help you identify potential problems early on.
Talk to their pediatrician about any questions or concerns you may have. For instance, you might ask, “Can you recommend some resources that can help me to learn more about promoting good mental health for my child?”
Encourage your child to ask their pediatrician questions and talk about issues concerning them. Try sitting down with your child before the appointment and making a list of all of their questions and concerns. It is easy to forget these when the appointment comes, so making and taking this list to the appointment will help to ensure your child can bring up all of their questions and concerns.
 Teachers, coaches, school counselors, and support staff spend several hours each day with your child. They can help build your child’s self-confidence, handle problems, and let you know if there might be something going on with your child.Attend parent-teacher conferences and other meetings with the adults in your child's life.
Ask school and community leaders for support when your child is facing issues.
Make sure your child knows that there are adults they can turn to if they ever need help with anything. For example, you might say, “You can talk to your teachers about homework and anything else that might be on your mind.”

, Just like your child needs a support team to help build good mental health, you also should rely on the people close to you.Turn to friends and family for advice, encouragement, and parenting examples. They can support you, as well as be a part of your child's support team.


Ask other parents you know and respect for tips on promoting your child's mental and emotional wellbeing. You could say, “What are some things you do to support your child's mental health?”
Let your child know that your family and friends care about them, too. For instance, you could tell your child, “You can always talk to your aunts, uncles, or grandparents about things going on in your life.”

