 1 inch (2.54 cm) is plenty thick enough for walls. Any thicker and the boxes will become much too heavy. The height of the walls should be between 4 - 5 inches (10.16 - 12.7 cm); anything less and you might have escapees. The base of the boxes should be cut from a 1/2 inch (1.27cm) plywood of sub-flooring material.;
,, Attach the bottom to the frame in the same fashion.
 Different worms need slightly different types of habitats.


Red Worms or Tiger Worms. These worms are big eaters, and as such, they are big poopers too. Worm castings are extremely fertile and rich. These are the worms to use if you are interested in having a customer base of organic gardeners and those who want to be environmentally friendly. They will have less garbage to put out to the curb for waste companies to pick up and fill our landfills.
Common Garden Worms (also known as Night Crawlers) or Trout Worms. These worms should be kept segregated from each other, but they are for one use: catching fish. Although they too have fertile castings, they do not eat nearly as much, and they do not produce as much poop as Reds or Tigers.
 Sprinkle with water to make it slightly moist. Add your species of worms, cover with a breathable rough covering, such as burlap. The environment must stay cool, moist and dark for the new occupants to be happy.
 Always keep at least one unoccupied farm on hand to change over when one worm farm gets too full of castings or overly populated. Worms will reproduce rather quickly if they have an optimal environment.
 Since these worms are bred for casting supplies, and they poop a lot, you will need to automate your cleaning and cultivating process a little. You will become a high rise worm landlord.


Repeat the first three steps, but in each subsequent bottom, drill holes about 1/4 - 1/2 inch (.635 - 1.27cm) in diameter. Stack the new addition with the holey bottom on top of the single story abode below. Decorate the new section with fresh strips of newspaper and food. The Red Worms and Tiger Worms below will migrate to the upper floor addition, leaving the bottom nice and full of castings to package and sell.
 The new container should have some soil or moss and a little food. They will keep for a long time in the refrigerator until you sell them.

