 Instead of wearing multiple bracelets, just choose one that appeals to you. The same goes with necklaces, rings, and earrings. The more items that you wear, the more you’ll be wiping off sweat. Also, nix any heavy accessories, such as scarves or heavy gloves., A metal folding fan can be concealed easily and pulled out if you feel hot. You can even match it to the lace of your outfit. A handkerchief can be easily tucked into a shirt or pants pocket and used to dab or wipe away any accumulating sweat. You can match a handkerchief to your outfit as well.If the heat is simply too oppressive, you can also dip your handkerchief in cold water and place it against your neck or pressure points, like your wrist.
 Look for a stocking that is the lightest weight available, it is often called a “sheer.” You can choose a textured print, such as feathered lace, or something simpler, like a single calf line. Fishnets are another option as they circulate air well due to their many holes.Because they are lighter, be warned that sheer stockings are more likely to catch or tear.
 The shoes of preference for goths are often combat boots, but these can suffocate your feet in the summer and lead to painful blisters. Instead, consider chunky platform sandals or dark, thin loafers as an alternative. Even a retro men’s dress shoe can look right and hold up well in the heat.You could also go with black ballet flats or dark grey ankle boots.
 These will serve a dual purpose of protecting your eyes and giving you another chance to express your style. Look for ones that have a funkier vibe, such as Ouija patterns on the rim. Or, perhaps a perfectly round shape with colored lenses if that suits your taste.This is a chance to provide a pop of color into your wardrobe, if you wish. Go with a 1950s bright pink or perhaps a sparkly purple.
 This is a fancy, lighter version of an umbrella, often made with intricate fabrics. A lace parasol is easy to carry and can provide a degree of protection from the sun. You can find quite elaborate ones online, made with ruffles and even feathers. If you choose a darker shade, this will not impact its ability to keep you cool too., A traditional top hat is likely to focus more heat onto your head. Instead, look for a hat made of a lighter fabric with a wide brim. If it is plain, you can then adorn it with extra items of your choosing, such as metal elements or black tulle.For example, the black panama hat is a type that is worn by many goths during the summer. You can also choose a simple, wide cotton floppy hat and personalize it with a few well-placed dark ribbons.

