 A baking soda paste works for most copper jewelry and can be made with materials you likely have around the house. Mix equal parts salt and baking soda with a little lemon juice until you have a paste., Table salt and vinegar is also an easy cleaner to make with supplies you have at home. Simply mix equal parts white vinegar and salt to get a cleaning solution for your copper jewelry., If you have a lemon, this can be rubbed on copper jewelry to clean it. Simply sprinkle table salt on the lemon and then rub down your jewelry with it.If you find you need a deeper clean, add some cornstarch and baking soda to the lemon as well. This will provide a deeper clean.
 Ketchup tends to work well for on jewelry with a lot of detailing, such as vintage copper jewelry. Ketchup can be squirted directly on your jewelry and then be rubbed in with your fingers or a cloth., A mild soap, such as dish soap, can also be used on copper jewelry. Just make sure you use a small amount. A few drops of a mild soap is all it takes to clean copper jewelry., If you need a deep clean, use a cleaning solution that can you immerse your jewelry in. Vinegar and salt tends to work best. Simply fill a pot big enough to contain your jewelry with vinegar and salt, or your chosen solution. Bring the solution to a boil. Let the jewelry boil for a few minutes before removing it.Make sure to use tongs when removing the jewelry and let it sit a few minutes to cool before rinsing it. Jewelry should be cool to the touch before your rinse it.
 If you don't need a deep clean, you can simply rub your jewelry down with your chosen cleaner. Use a polishing cloth or something similar to rub your jewelry until it shines and any dirt and debris is removed.To get into nooks and crannies, use a toothbrush to scrub your copper jewelry.
When using ketchup, copper jewelry may come out shinier if you let the ketchup rest on the jewelry for a few minutes.
 You can rinse copper jewelry with a clean cloth dampened with clean water. Then, dab the jewelry dry with a dry cloth.Copper may rust if it's left wet too long, so make sure to dry it thoroughly before setting it aside.
 After cleaning your copper jewelry, give it a good polish by squirting some lemon juice onto a rag. Then, buff the jewelry with the rag until it shines. When you're done, rinse off the jewelry with water.Lemon is usually okay to use, even if you already used lemon for cleaning. If you prefer, however, you can purchase a polish made specifically for copper jewelry.
 Copper jewelry should be cleaned regularly to avoid discoloration and tarnish. Each time the jewelry becomes noticeably dingy or dirty, give it a cleaning.Keep in mind, times between cleanings vary depending on the type and age of your jewelry and how often you wear it. Keep an eye on your copper jewelry and clean it as needed.
 Copper jewelry should be stored in a dry place as excess moisture can cause rust and discoloration. You should also store the jewelry in an airtight container or Ziploc bag to keep out extra moisture., Swimming can damage copper jewelry, resulting in the need for more frequent washing and polishing. Take your copper jewelry off before swimming in a pool or body of water to keep it clean.