 While you were dating your ex, you were more than likely not thinking about dating anyone else. But now that you're single, you can flirt. Go out and mingle with people, flirting with some you see. Even if you don't want to date anyone you flirt with, getting back out there and realizing your are attractive again will help make you forget about your ex.


If you know some people that have flirted with you in the past, call them and arrange to meet. You may not have been able to reciprocate before, but now that you're single, you can get back out there and flirt with them too., Although you feel like you might not be up to dating again, try to go on a date with someone new. They might not be your next relationship, but getting out there and knowing there are people other than your ex to date will help you realize it's time to move on. Face the new date with optimism, keeping her out of your mind and focusing on the new date. Even if it doesn't work at first, the more you date, the better it will get., Although you still may miss your ex, be open to new relationships. Just because your last one ended badly, it doesn't mean that this one will too. You can even tell her about your ex so she understands why you may act and say some of the things you do. Just don't compare her to your ex. This will only end badly and is unfair to your new girlfriend.


Let her meet your friends and family. Seeing her interact with everyone in your life will help you move away from your ex and into a new future with someone else., Do something to take your mind off your lost relationship. Take a hike, drive to the ocean, or go skydiving. Trying new things and forcing yourself into new and different situations will help you remember who you were before the relationship and help you become a better person. It also gets you out of the house and out of your own head, helping you to move on and restart your life without her., Sometimes, you can't stop thinking about the things you didn't get say to her before you broke up. Write her a letter, telling her how you feel, what you think went wrong, what you miss about her, what you won't miss, and anything else you want to get off your chest. But don't send it. Stick it in an envelope and put it away. You don't want to seem like you can't move on and let her know you're still hung up on her, but it will give you a chance to say all of those things that you never could., Sitting around, wallowing in your sadness will not help you get over your ex. Try working out, either at the gym or outside. It gets you out of the house and around other people. It also releases endorphins and reduces your stress, which will help you take your mind off of your ex. It has the added bonus of making you more fit for the next girl you meet. Plus, getting outside and enjoying nature can help you put things into perspective and get your head back on straight.