 Whether you're already pregnant or planning to conceive, it's important to talk with your doctor about taking a prenatal vitamin. Tell your doctor about any lifestyle or diet considerations you have so your doctor can recommend a prenatal that has all of the nutrients that you need.For example, if you're vegan or vegetarian, you may need more vitamin B12 in a supplement since you're not getting it from animal sources.;
, If you're planning to conceive, you may want to begin taking prenatal vitamins. This can ensure that your body is getting the nutrients it needs. If you're not taking a prenatal, you should at least take 400 mcg of folic acid every day to prevent birth defects.If you're having trouble conceiving, talk with your doctor about making diet or supplement adjustments.
 You've probably seen large prenatal vitamins that contain all the nutrients you need. You can certainly take these supplements if you're able to swallow them easily. But if you find that you're having trouble taking a large supplement, look for a different type of prenatal that may be smaller or easier to take. In addition to the traditional large tablet vitamins, you could choose:Smaller capsule prenatals
Gummy prenatals
Liquid prenatals
Chewable prenatals

, You'll need to decide if you want to take a prenatal vitamin once a day or several times throughout the day. Some smaller prenatal vitamins or chewables may need to be taken two or three times a day, so it's important to read the manufacturer's dosing instructions.


If you're worried you'll forget to take the prenatal vitamins, you may want to choose one that only requires one dose.
 Ask your doctor to recommend a prenatal vitamin. Keep in mind that while you may get a brand name recommendation, you could also look for a generic version. Regardless of what you choose, only purchase a prenatal vitamin from a reputable source since vitamins and supplements are not regulated by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration.


If you're still unsure about a prenatal vitamin, you could always take it to your doctor and ask for their opinion.
 You'll be buying prenatal vitamins through your entire pregnancy and even after the birth (if you plan on breastfeeding). You should choose a prenatal vitamin that works for your budget and is easy to purchase. For this reason, you may want to pick a prenatal that's available somewhere you frequently shop.


If you want to buy several bottles of prenatal vitamins at a time, remember that they do expire. Check the expiration dates before purchasing and storing them.

