 Contact your local conservation department to ensure that you do this project safely and get any necessary permits.


In Australia, for example, you will need to get a free permit in order to collect tadpoles for genuine educational reasons.Don’t trespass in order to collect eggs or tadpoles.Never collect eggs, tadpoles, or adults belonging to endangered species. Many kinds of frogs are threatened around the world. Find out which species of endangered frog lives in your area, and learn how to identify their eggs and tadpoles in order to avoid collecting them.;
, Visit a pond, small lake, or creek to find eggs or tadpoles in the spring to early summer. Use small jars or nets to capture the eggs or tadpoles. Measure the temperature of the water, and use insulated carrying cases to maintain that temperature in the jars you used to transport the eggs or tadpoles.


Frogs lay small eggs in clusters or strands, usually under water and attached to vegetation. Tadpoles resemble small, dark fish with large heads.Your area may limit the number of eggs, tadpoles, or frogs you can collect, and it may require you to have a permit.
Keep track of where you collected the eggs or tadpoles to facilitate return later on.
 A shallow bowl with a large rock in the middle works well; you don’t need deep water. Use water from your collection site, and add to it using only de-chlorinated water, providing about half a gallon per tadpole. Never use straight tap water. Aerate the water using an appropriate aeration device. If you have collected eggs, add them directly to the tadpole container – don’t keep them in a smaller container at first., The natural food for tadpoles is algae and tiny plant matter. If you can’t obtain algae, you can replicate this at home or school by grinding up commercial goldfish food and by boiling and cooling lettuce or spinach (not cabbage).Feed tadpoles twice daily, removing any uneaten food within an hour to keep the water clean.
Supplement this diet twice a week with flakes of hard-boiled egg yolks to add protein.
 Tiny frogs need to be able to climb out of the water immediately to avoid drowning. Once tadpoles start to develop hind legs, provide a gently sloping area such as a small pile of rocks or natural (not treated) wood., Frogs eat insects and small crustaceans. You can feed your baby frogs on meal worms or aphids (which can be found on infested houseplants)., Release the frogs early enough that they will have time to hibernate for the winter. Early fall is the latest you should release your frogs.Never transport frogs and release them in a new location. You risk introducing non-native species, diseases, or parasites.

