 Kids learn how to play by themselves when they examine how toys work. You can teach a child with autism how to play independently by teaching them basic play skills. Start small, with one-step toy manipulation. For example, teach the kid how to bang a toy hammer or drum or brush a doll's hair. Once they've learned basic play, you can teach two-step toy manipulation, like:"Feeding" the doll or putting it to bed
Pressing buttons on a phone or musical toy
Placing a spoon into a bowl and stirring with the spoon

, Children with autism might feel overwhelmed if they're immediately exposed to other kids during play time. Other kids can be unpredictable which can make it harder to teach play skills. Start by playing next to the kid with autism. For example, get out a couple of coloring books and sets of crayons. Begin coloring and the child with autism can begin coloring when they feel comfortable.Follow the kid's lead when it comes to playing. Some kids with autism might like having someone sit near them as they play. You may be able to directly play games or engage in cooperative play.
You should also model a playful expression. Sing, laugh, smile, clap, and make funny voices when teaching play skills.
 Once the child with autism has become comfortable playing around adults, expose them to a play group or other kids in a playful space. This will let the kid with autism become familiar with other kids. Try to choose kids who will cooperate and play easily. If the child with autism has motor delays, try to get them to play with slightly younger kids. This way, they'll easily be able to physically interact when they play.Set out motivating toys like balls, blocks, beads or puzzles for the kids to interact with.
If the child with autism show signs that they don't want to play near the kids (showing signs of aggression like hitting or biting), don't force the play time. Work on letting the child become more comfortable by playing around adults.
 While you can encourage a child with autism to play by instructing them, it's better to use small physical prompts. For example, instead of saying, "Put the puzzle together," show the child how the pieces connect. The kid can continue putting together the puzzle on their own. Cut back on the number of cues or prompts you use to get the child to play.Limit the number of verbal prompts you give. This will prevent the child from relying on it and will help them play more independently.
 Kids with autism have different preferences when it comes to personal space. If the kids are far apart when they play, you might need to scoot them a little closer together. As you do this, you should encourage the kids. For example, say, "Good job playing together!" and give them a reward (like a sticker or treat).Consider setting out small squares of carpet or place mats with activities to encourage the kids to play near each other.
Pay attention to how both kids are interacting. If one is struggling with the play time, you may need to move them apart a little and offer more encouragement.

