 Before you strap a saddle on your horse, it's important to ensure that your horse's hair is clean, and that he does not have any sores on his skin.


Use a curry comb to detangle dirt, mud, and any other debris that might be matted in your horse's hair. Do not use the curry comb over any bony parts of the horse's body, as these may be more sensitive and could be injured by aggressive combing. Do not curry comb the neck and face. Use a stiff-bristled body brush, also called the dandy brush, to continue dislodging hard-to-remove debris and remove the debris you've already dislodged. You can use this brush on the neck, chest, and legs. Use a soft brush to gently flick away the debris removed by the curry comb and the body brush. Use this brush to do the face and legs.Finish things off by gently wiping down your horse's face and body with a clean grooming cloth.;
, Inspect the saddle and pad for any foreign objects that could cause irritation to your horse., It's important to position the saddle pad properly, as this will be the barrier between your saddle and the horse's skin.


Put the saddle pad on the withers (shoulders), slightly forward of where you want it to end up. The saddling process will inevitably drag the saddle pad back, so starting slightly forward should allow the saddle and pad to end up where you want them. Never slide the saddle pad forward on your horse's back for you will cause the hair to go against the grain and make it uncomfortable for the horse., Lift the saddle in such a way that none of these attachments will get caught under the saddle., If you have a hard time lifting the saddle, you may need to request assistance during this step.


Stand next to your horse's left shoulder.
Keep your feet shoulder-width apart, with your left foot near the horse's left hoof and your right foot slightly behind your left.Swing your torso and hoist the saddle up, so that your right arm ends up draped across the horse's back. This should land the saddle right on the saddle pad, on your horse's back., Allow them to hang down across your horse.
 Snug the front cinch (also called a girth). This should be done on your horse's left side, and should snug your saddle into place., It's important to keep the back cinch tight, as this will keep the saddle from lifting up during riding. (Some saddles do not have a back cinch. Despite what the picture depicts, please assure that the girth is hooked on before you start with the other cinches), There are a number of different types of breast plate, and each one will require different assembly instructions.


Ensure that the breast collar's center cinch strip is aligned with the center of your horse's stomach.
Thread the latigo from the left side through the ring on the end of the cinch and D ring twice.
Pull tightly, then thread the latigo around the back of the D ring to the left, around front then back through. The end should then come through the middle of the D ring, and thread down behind the loop made (like tying a tie), pulling tightly again.
 One way of doing this is by gently bending your horse's front two legs at the knees, stretching out the belly and freeing any flesh that may have been caught in the cinches., Be sure that your saddle is properly attached before you untie your horse.
 Most horses are accustomed to being mounted from the left, and may become frightened if you attempt to mount from the right. Before mounting, ALWAYS check the tightness of the cinch (or girth).