 Though freshmen in high school aren't quite as outgoing as freshmen on a college campus, you should still try your hardest to be friendly before people fall into their normal social circles and are less open to meeting someone new. So, say hi to the girl in your French class, be friendly with your new lab partner, and get to know the people in your home room -- you may be sitting next to them for the next four years, after all.


Get to know the people in your gym class. You may not run in to some of them academically.
Make new friends with people who sit at your lunch table.
 Though you may be worried about finding the place and group where you really fit in right away, you should explore your options as much as you can. There will be the popular kids, the nerds, the cool nerds, the jocks, the stoners, and all of the other groups you may come to expect -- but you don't have to neatly fit into one category. Don't jump to conclusions and get to know as many people as you can first.


Though many people do remain friends with the same social group throughout high school, social dynamics and circumstances do change. If you find that your new social group isn't the right fit for you after a few months but made no effort to get to know anyone else, then you'll be out of luck.
Being as involved as you can in a variety of clubs and sports can help you broaden your horizons and meet as many people as possible.
Though it's important to be open-minded, try avoiding the kind of people who will get you into trouble by making you smoke, cut class, or cheat on tests.
 Though you may have met your dream lover in your first period physical science class, it's wiser to hold off before you start sending the kid any love notes. If you get wrapped up in a high school relationship right away, you won't have time to branch out, make friends, and figure out what actually makes you happy. Also, let's face it: 98% of high school relationships don't last, so you could put yourself in an awkward situation when you break up and all you have are mutual friends.
 Though you may think you're too cool to go to the school dance or the Homecoming game, you should definitely make an appearance to make some new friends and for people to know who the heck you are. The drama kids may not go to a football game and the jocks may not go to the school play, but if you go to both, you'll be meeting more people and realizing that high school can actually have a lot to offer.


You don't have to go to everything. But in the first few months, make a point of going to as many events as you can before you get a sense of what you really like.
 Just knowing one person in each class will make you feel much less adrift. On the first or second day of school, say hi to a person sitting next to you and strike up a conversation. This person will remember you, and maybe even walk with you to your next class. And when it comes time to do a group project, you already have someone to work with.


And if you find at least one friend, that friend could help you get to know more people.
The friend in your class could also serve as academic support and can serve as a contact person if you missed class or have any questions.
 Your lunch table doesn't have to be set in stone on the first day of school -- not at most schools, anyway. Still, you should figure out this part of your social situation as early as you can. If you know some people who are in your lunch from comparing schedules before school or earlier in the day, then great. Make a plan to meet up and find a table together. And if not, then be friendly, get there early enough to find a seat, and try to find friendly, accepting people to sit with you.


You can also try asking people you meet earlier in the day where they're sitting.
Don't be too shy to ask someone who looks nice and cool if you can sit with him. It's better than getting stuck with people you don't like.
 This may sound like it's nearly impossible during your first year of high school, but you should remember that everyone is obsessing over what people think, over how popular they are, over how they look in their new pair of shoes, and so on. Remember that everyone is feeling just as insecure and uncertain as you are, and be one step of the pack by understanding that none of it matters.


Don't spend more time staring in the mirror than you spend reading a textbook.
Though looking nice will make you feel good about yourself, spending all of your time obsessing over new clothes will not.
Even if you're not feeling confident, you can look confident. Walk with your head high and look straight ahead, instead of crossing your arms and slouching.

