 You may be at home as a result of some unfortunate reason, such as job loss, inability to get into a college or losing a business. If so, you may find that the circumstances can cause you to be in a bad state of being and might even may lead to depression, depending on your personal makeup and what is going on in your life right now. However, this time doesn't define the rest of your life––you have the chance to make changes that will improve things for you.;
, It helps to try to find ways to clear your mind regularly. You won't be able to do away with negative thoughts and feelings completely, as they're part of the balance that is you, but you can start teaching yourself to not give them the whole airtime in your head. Have a short wallow but snap out of it quickly by having a list of things to get on with, a determination to maintain a clear mind that tells you you can do whatever you set your mind to, and a willingness to get out and do things. In such a way, you can advance to opening a new chapter in your life.
 This may include reading fiction or fantasy novels, watching movies or using your PC for gaming, chatting or anything that is distracting rather than constructive. If you are a lover of films or novels, it is time to close that PC or book for a time and only come back to these things when you have begun to "make things work" for you.


Anything that consumes a lot of your time without being productive soon becomes wasteful. Contrast playing games online all day with programming a game of your own, pitching it to a games company and successfully selling the game to the company. The first action is distraction without long-term gain, while the second is focused on creating, making the best use of your talents for a good outcome. This doesn't mean you can't enjoy distractions now and then, it does mean balancing them with constructive action that helps you to achieve and make the most of yourself.
 Write down your name. Follow this with a list, a page or several pages, of your achievements so far. You can write this in any way you like––bullet points, pictorially, upside down and back to front, in poetry, and so on. Just as long as you focus on those achievements and get them down on paper.
 Don't restrict yourself. It's just you and your book, so be free to write it down, whatever it is.
 Keep it close to your bedside, very close. Let it be the last thing you see before you go to bed and the first thing you see when you wake up.
 Use this time to reflect on your list of things you'd like to do. Think about the actions that you can do immediately, the ones you can start up now and achieve soon, the ones you would need a huge capital to start (which you may or may not have) and the ones that make you smile when you think about them.
 Choose the one that makes you happy and that you know you can do. Don't waste your time anymore. Start making your dreams come alive by doing something other than waiting.

