 If they seem older, smarter, or more mature than you, it isn't the best idea to take them "head on". Ask yourself this... If you answer yes to any of these questions, the bully is probably not the most mature, and you may be able to show them that.


Do they make many childish emoticons such as "o3o" or ")8U"?
Does their vocabulary seem less advanced than yours?
Do they often say "le", "meh", "lol", etc?
Do you feel like you're smarter or more mature than they are?
Are their insults silly, when they could be more mature?

, This doesn't necessarily mean to use cruel language. Simply call them out, thus focusing the person towards you. Instead of "You rude little brat!", try just saying "Hey, Crouching!" (or whatever their name might be). You can move on from here.
 Yes, using high level vocabulary does sound snobby, but it usually tends to intimidate the person you are fighting with. Even if you need to grab a dictionary, this step is certainly effective.
 If the person is calling you or somebody else something mean, reverse the insult back to them. For example; if they call you ugly, rhetorically ask: "Are you sure you aren't looking in a mirror?" Responses like this are hard to make a comeback for, and the wittiness will get people to side with you.
 If they are obviously being immature, call them out for it! It may make them feel inferior to you and stop bullying.
 You're trying to deal with the bully, not hurt their feelings. They may deserve to be called names, but that doesn't mean to do so. Argue as passionately as you want, but if they seem hurt, then stop. By continuing you become the bully.
 People use that to their advantage. If you continue to use the same comeback or statement over and over again, they will probably make fun of you for it. This would make the situation even worse.
 There is a time where you should just discontinue the fight. If the person seems hurt, you are hurt, many people fight against you, or the person leaves, then don't keep going. It isn't worth it anymore.

