 Make sure rack is level.;
,, Trace the pan on top of the paper you are using, then cut on the line. Grease the pan before putting the paper in it. Usually the sides are left ungreased, so that the cake can rise by sticking to the sides.
 If you don't have a sifter on hand (which doesn't do a great job anyway), read How to Sift Flour Without a Sifter. Sifting may get rid of those pesky lumps, but whisking your dry ingredients more thoroughly incorporates the leaveners into the flour for a far more even rise. Sifting does NOT do this well, even after sifting multiple times! The best, most complete manner for blending dry ingredients and getting rid of lumps is done by thoroughly whisking the dry ingredients in a large bowl.
, A digital scale makes easy work of making sure there is an equal amount of batter in each pan. If you don't have one, use measuring cups to ensure a balance between the two pans.
, If the cake pans are on different racks of the oven, you should also swap racks so one pan isn't getting more heat than the other, especially if your oven heats from the bottom. This compensates for any uneven oven temperatures. This step may not be necessary if your oven works well. For more tips, see How to Cook Food in a Bad Oven.
 You can also check with a toothpick, inserted in the center and pulled out. The cake is done if the toothpick is clean. If you're into temperature, the doneness temperature of a cake is about 210ʡF (99ʡC).
 A cooled cake is easier to remove from the pan. Be sure to loosen the cake from the sides of the pan by running a knife around the sides of the pan.
 When you're done frosting the cake, take away the strips. No frosting where it shouldn't be; you have a good clean plate.
Put a thin coating of frosting on cakes called a "crumb coat", then put on the normal frosting. This keeps crumbs out of the decorative "topcoat". This works well when using light frosting on a dark cake.
Clean the edges of the cake plate with a damp cloth. Just pick up any crumbs and wipe off any frosting smudges.

