 If they are extremely tight, spray some lubricant on the nuts - a silicone lubricant or even vegetable oil will do the trick very well. (Many modern bikes will not have nuts. They have a quick-release which you can easily loosen and remove the wheel).






;
, Every brake setup is a little different but you should likely be able to slip the brake cable out of a socket on the brake arms to release them. Some brakes may require that you loosen the cable from a clamped position.
 If it's the rear wheel, you will need to lift the chain clear of the gear cluster. To ease the removal of a rear wheel, shift the chain to the smallest gear on the wheel before loosening the skewer or nuts. If it's the front wheel, it will be easier.
 With a presta valve you need to unscrew the top part of the stem to release the air in the tube. During this step you'll also want to remove the lock ring that screws onto the stem and sits flush on the rim if your bike has one.
 With all the air out of the tube squeeze the tire together and you'll see the tire release from the inside of the rim, this will help when removing the tire.
 You can use the handle of a spoon or similar object if you don't have tire levers but be very careful, as you risk scratching or damaging the rims of the wheel and/or puncturing the inner tube. Ease one lever in under the wheel rim and lever out the edge of the tire (taking great care not to puncture the inner tube) and pry it up over the wheel rim. Move around the rim about an eighth of the circumference and repeat the process again, leaving the first tool in place. Now zip the second lever around the wheel and the tire should come right off on one side.
, Best way to find an air leak is by inserting the tube with air in water. Where air bubbles come out , there is a hole in your tube.
 Use caution when feeling inside the tire as a nail, or glass can cut you. Be sure to remove any thorns, glass, or nails with pliers if you find them. Adjust rim tape to cover protruding spoke.
 Unwrap your new tube and remove the plastic dust cap and the lock ring.
 Putting a few pumps of air in the tube before will help to avoid pinching the tube when putting the tire on the rim.
 This process is difficult but try not to use tire levers, a screwdriver, or other similar object as you vastly increase your chance of puncturing your new tube. Check the tire wall for an arrow or similar to indicate the direction of rotation - some tires have a "direction specific" tread pattern. Put one side in first, then ease the partially inflated tube into the tire and put the other side on.
,,,,