 The sockets are color-coded to match the cable (Green, Blue, Red, White, Red) and are typically grouped and labeled. Look for the "Output" or "Out" group. The Green, Blue, and Red sockets (Video) may be separated from the Red and White pair (Audio), so make sure all five cords are plugged in.


You will notice that a component cable has two Red plugs, which can make things confusing. To figure out which is which, lay the cable out flat so that all of the prongs line up. The order of colors should be Green, Blue, Red (video), White, Red (audio).
Some component cables only have the Green, Blue, and Red video plugs. You will need a separate Red and White plug audio cable in order to hear your DVDs, like the one found in the A/V section above.
 Like on the DVD player, these will be color-coded to match the cable and grouped into Input groups. Look for the "Input" or "In" group. They are typically numbered to indicate which Input you select on the TV.
 Match the colored plugs on the cable to the colored sockets on both the DVD player and TV.
 Insert a DVD so that you can test both the picture and the audio.
 Sometimes labeled "input," this button allows you to switch where your TV gets the video and sound information. The input you choose on the TV should match the input you used for the cables.


If there is not a label or you don't know what input to use, leave the DVD player on and test each input for 5-10 seconds to see where the video appears

, If you are only getting video or only getting audio, or you aren't getting any signal at all, your cable may be plugged in incorrectly.


If the video is not showing up, make sure that the Green, Blue, and Red video cables are plugged into the correct Input on the TV and the correct Output on the DVD player.
If the audio is not coming through, ensure that the Red and White cables are plugged into the correct Input on the TV and the correct Output on the DVD player.
Double check that the Red cables are plugged into the correct sockets. If they are in the wrong ones, both the audio and video will be messed up.

