 Salt has multiple healing properties. It is considered antibacterial and anti-inflammatory. It is believed to help reduce mucus and remove pollutants., Salt therapy mimics what happens in natural salt caves. Walls and floors are covered with layers of salt, then a dry salt aerosol is released into the room. This creates an environment that is antibacterial and which has negative ions.Salt rooms use both Himalayan, Red Sea, and Dead Sea salt., Salt therapy is a holistic treatment for many different conditions, most commonly respiratory conditions. It is believed to help improve lung function by removing toxins from the lungs and sinuses. It also helps with asthma, COPD, and allergies.Salt therapy is believed to help clean your nostrils and sinuses.It may also help reduce your snoring.
Be aware that while some scientific research has supported the effectiveness of salt therapy and many doctors advocate for it, many do not. Some doctors believe there isn’t enough medical evidence or scientific proof of the effectiveness. Many believe, however, it does not do any damage., Salt therapy is believed to help and relieve symptoms of skin conditions. These conditions include eczema, psoriasis, dermatitis, and acne., Salt therapy may help strengthen your immune system. This can help keep you from catching a cold and the flu.Salt therapy is extremely relaxing, so it can relieve stress and help promote calm., Salt therapy is used to enhance performance of both athletes and vocal performers. Talk to coaches or a salt therapy center to decide if it would be right for you., While salt therapy is safe for most people of any age, if you have certain conditions, you should stay away. You should never do salt therapy while intoxicated. Do not get salt therapy if you have:Cancer
Infectious diseases
Severe respiratory diseases, like COPD with third stage chronic lung insufficiency
Cardiac insufficiency or diseases, coronary disease, or chronic kidney disease
Bloody coughs
High blood pressure
tuberculosis

, Some salt therapy centers refuse to allow smokers into their rooms. This is mainly to protect the safety of people with respiratory issues, like asthma or COPD. Since most smokers will have smoked just before entering the building, or soon before arriving, the smoke remnants will still be on their person.Salt therapy can be helpful for people who have stopped smoking. The salt therapy can help clear lungs. Two to three weeks should pass since the last time you smoked a cigarette before you go to a session.

