 A medical issue, such as a urinary tract infection, may be causing your cat to urinate on the carpet instead of in a litter box. Before you try any other intervention to remedy the situation, you should take your cat to see a veterinarian to treat any medical issues that may be causing the behavior. Getting your cat checked out right away is important to protect the health and well-being of your pet and to prevent a long-lasting litter box aversion.Squatting for long periods of time, blood in the urine, frequent urination and meowing while trying to urinate are all signs that your pet might have a bladder or urinary tract issue or infection. These health problems can cause litter box avoidance. These signs can also indicate a urinary obstruction, which can potentially be life-threatening. Only the veterinarian can tell the difference so it's important to seek veterinary attention.;
, Cleaning up accidents right after they happen will also help deter your cat from using the same spot again. Use an enzymatic cleaner rather than an ammonia based one. Ammonia-based cleaners may cause your cat to urinate more often on the spot because she may interpret the ammonia as another cat’s urine that she must cover up with her own urine.Consider having your carpets cleaned professionally if they are heavily soiled.
Some rugs may be beyond cleaning if the messes were not taken care of right away. Get rid of rugs that have been soiled repeatedly by your cat.
 If your cat has started going to the bathroom on a rug or carpet, place a litter box over that spot to encourage her to use the box instead. After she has used the box for one month, move it an inch per day until it is back where you want it to be., Cats may develop a preference for a specific rug and begin using it as a bathroom. Turning over rugs and carpet runners may discourage your cat by changing the texture of the surface. Try flipping over your rugs and carpets for a few days to see if that stops your cat from urinating on them., Sticky tape can discourage a cat from urinating on a rug because the sensation of the tape on its paws is unpleasant. Try applying double sided sticky tape to the edges of area rugs as well as over the spot where your cat likes to urinate., Your cat may be urinating on the carpet because she has developed a negative association with using the litter box. Negative associations with the litter box may be improved by doing things like playing with your cat around the litter box. Try playing with your cat a few feet away from her box a few times per day to help her generate more positive feelings about the litter box.


Do not try to reward your cat for using the litter box by giving her treats. Cats don’t like to be disturbed while they use the litter box.You can leave treats and toys near your cat’s litter box, but do not keep your cat’s food and water dish next to her box. Cats don’t like to eat too close to where they use the bathroom.
 Encouraging your cat to use the litter box takes time and effort, but it may not always be successful. Some veterinarians undergo special training to help people deal with problems such as urinating outside of the box. If your cat does not improve over time, consider speaking to a Certified Applied Animal Behaviorist or a board-certified veterinary behaviorist.