 Click on the link, add your relevant personal information, and click "join LinkedIn.";
, Your profile is the condensed picture of how the professional world sees you. A great, detailed profile projects someone who is successful, thorough, and connected. A thin or outdated profile projects someone who doesn't care or who can't be bothered. Make sure your profile says the thing(s) you want to project.


LinkedIn's profile wizard will take you through the steps of entering your region, industry, company and current job title.
You will also be asked whether you are employed, a business owner, looking for work, working independently or a student.
This information completes your basic profile.
 This will help you efficiently complete the next step, which is finding connections.
 Connections are professional contacts whom you know or wish to know. The connections you add on LinkedIn become part of your social network.


LinkedIn will prompt you to search for connections by crawling your email, which you give LinkedIn access to. You can use this to see who among your email connections already has a LinkedIn account and invite them to become part of your professional network.
You may opt to skip this step if you prefer to add connections individually.
 Enter your previous employment details and your education information. Then enter a brief summary and/or headline. A brief summary or headline stating who you are professionally in a few sentences. This headline should give a sense of your most outstanding professional attributes.
 Unlike other social networks, this picture should reflect you at your most professional. No pictures of binge drinking, girls around the arm, or smoke wafting from the background, even if it's a really good picture. Choose an illustration that represents your professional image. This can be a traditional head and shoulders shot, a shot of you at work or a copy of your logo.


Use a clear, vertical rectangular image.
 Including specific skills or specialties, such as veterinary dentistry or congressional campaign communications, allows other users can find you more easily.
 The more ways there are for people to find you, and access information about you, the more valuable your LinkedIn profile will be.
