 A persimmon is a wonderful tree to have in your yard or orchard. They are visually pleasing and bear a delicious fruit. Take care to pick the right time to prune your persimmon.Prune your tree in late winter or early spring. February and March are good choices.
You should prune your persimmon when the tree is dormant. This will ensure you don't interfere with the bearing of fruit.
Prune your tree once a year. This will help improve the structure and limit the chance of alternate bearing.;
, When you are preparing to prune your tree, you'll need to gather the right tools. It is best to use bypass shears and pruning loppers. You can purchase both at gardening supply stores.Make sure that your tools are sharp. You should sharpen your implements each winter.
Ask the local nursery if they offer a sharpening service. If you want to do it yourself, use caution and watch a video tutorial.It is also important to use clean tools. Pour a small amount of rubbing alcohol on a clean rag and wipe your tools in between each tree or shrub that you are pruning.
 In order for your tree to remain healthy, you need to remove the dead weight. Corrective pruning is the process of removing dead or dying branches. You should also remove any diseased branches.Use your bypass shears for any twigs smaller than 1/4 inch. Use pruning loppers for larger dead branches.
You can also cut off any backward bending branches. Those branches do not bear fruit.
Use caution when using sharp tools. Make sure that if you are standing on a ladder, it is steady, not wobbly.
 After you get rid of the dead branches, turn your attention to the rest of the tree. Cut the length of each branch by 1/3. This encourages growth.Cut the branches to a point near a bud. Choose a bud that is facing the direction that you want the tree to grow.
Cut at an angle within 1/2 inch of the bud. The buds look like large lumps, which makes them easy to identify.
Remove the crossed and crowded branches from the center of the tree. This will allow your tree to grow in an open, pleasing shape.
 The younger your tree, the more you will need to prune it. If your persimmon is between 1-3 years of age, you should aggressively prune it. Make sure that you do leave the small, low horizontal branches in tact for future fruit growing.If you have a new tree, cut it to a very short length. Make sure that it is no more than 24-30 inches tall.
Your persimmon tree will require less attention as it grows older. Just remove approximately 20% of the growth during each year's pruning.

