 Finding a rental property is a difficult enterprise in general, and is only made more difficult with the inclusion of a cat. To give yourself ample time to find a cat friendly rental, start looking early.This means that, if you’re planning to move at the start of a new year, you should start looking in the previous spring, around March or April.


Even if the rental owners that you contact can’t guarantee that they’ll have an apartment or house opening, at least you can find out their cat policy.;
, Rental listings compile information about rental houses and apartments in your area, and locate the data in a single publication. This saves you from having to call or email multiple separate rental agencies. Pet-friendly rental listings will inform you if a rental takes cats and if there is a monthly fee.Apartment and rental home listing publications may be available in your local supermarket.
 Many rental listings are only available online, and allow even greater customization. There are even some pet-specific rental listings sites, such as the National Pet Friendly Apartment Directory.Sites like this will present rental properties that allow pets, although you’ll likely need to contact the landlord directly for more specific information regarding cats.


Major rental sites like rent.com or apartments.com will allow you to tailor your search for pet-friendly apartments.Also check popular websites that share apartment listings, including Craigslist and Domu (in Chicago). Listings on these sites should specify whether or not you’re allowed to have a cat. If the listing doesn’t specify, contact the individual who posted the listing and ask if cats are permitted.
 If you’re moving to an area where friends or family members already live, they can be a valuable resource in your search for a cat-friendly rental. Reach out with a phone call, text, or over social media, and ask if they know of any apartments or rental homes in the area that have a cat-friendly rental policy.Word of mouth can also be a useful means to finding out about apartments that permit residents to keep cats. If your family members or friends do not own a cat themselves, ask them if they have any cat-owning friends or acquaintances that you could reach out to.
If all else fails, visit a neighborhood you’re considering living in and take a walk around, noting the location and phone numbers of potential apartments or houses with “For Rent” signs in front.
 Once you have found a rental property that will allow you to have a cat live with you, visit the apartment or house and look inside. Make sure that the rental will make a suitable home for your cat. There should be enough space in the rental to set your cat’s litter box, food and water bowls, and bed without encroaching on your furniture or personal space.


Cats enjoy having one or more windows that they can access and look out of. Make sure that the rental has windows; these will also let in natural light so that your cat won’t be in the dark if you’re gone for most of a day.
 If you and your cat lived in a rental apartment or house prior to this, contact the property manager and see if they would be willing to write you a letter of reference. This document would need to indicate that your cat is well behaved and did not cause damage or any problems while you lived at the rental property.If you live in a different city or state than where your previous rental property was located, ask the owner or landlord to email the letter to you.
 Speak to or email your vet, and request that they write a brief letter stating that your cat is fully vaccinated and in good health. The letter should also clarify that your cat is spayed or neutered. Letters like this are routinely requested from vets, so they should be willing to honor your request.In addition to confirming your cat’s good health, this letter will indicate that you are a responsible pet owner. This fact should impress the owner of the rental property, and may incline them to let you have a cat in the property if they were previously disinclined.
 Once you have a reference letter and a letter from your vet in hand, you can present them to the landlord of the current rental property. Bring the letter from your vet and from your previous landlord with you when you go to apply for a rental house or apartment. These letters should help convince them that your cat will not be a hazard, damage the apartment, or cause their business to lose money.This letter may also influence the rental owner to lower the pet deposit, or to remove it entirely.
 Even if a rental property has an official “no pets” or “no cats” policy, it’s worth asking if they’d make an exception, especially if the rental is one that otherwise meets your criteria. Speak to the landlord and explain that your cat is well behaved and will not harm their property.A face-to-face conversation is best. Speaking over the phone or email will work if the landlord is in a different city, but if the rental property is nearby, arrange a meeting in person.
 Many rental-property owners are understandably nervous about renting to cat owners. Poorly behaved cats can shred curtain, drapes, and furniture, and their urine can permanently damage floorboards. If a property owner is skeptical about allowing you to have a cat, ask if they would like to meet the animal.If your cat is well-behaved, it may change the owner’s mind.
 Even if the property owner has been friendly and has verbally agreed that you may keep your cat in the rental with you, make sure that this is reflected in the lease. Never sign a lease that has a “no pets allowed” clause; make sure that neither your nor your landlord’s copy forbids pets. Also make sure that the lease also reflects the agreed-upon pet deposit amount.If you notice any problems or discrepancies with the cat-related portion of the lease, talk to the landlord before signing.

