 Freshening up an outdated existing or secondhand piece with new hardware is probably your easiest and least expensive option. New, modern handles on a tired old chest can offer new life, especially when you combine new hardware with a new paint color or finish.As for upholstered pieces, new throw pillows can dress up an old sofa or chair.
In addition to modern handles, you could restore and polish vintage knobs or handles. For example, if you have painted brass hardware, you could use a stripping compound to remove the paint, then use brass polisher to shine them.
 If you have a plain, wood item, you can update it using wood or metal appliques. Find an applique design, like a damask pattern, at a thrift or home improvement store. Glue the design and stain it to match the item or give the whole piece a new stain or paint color.


You can also simply spray paint a stencil pattern to add formality and finish to a plain piece.
 Use your imagination and try to use items for purposes other than what they were originally meant to do. Suppose you find a worn door at a secondhand store. You could sand, prime, and paint it and use it as a table or desk.You could get inventive and use found items for the legs, or you could purchase an inexpensive boxed table and screw its legs onto the door.
Get creative with your secondhand finds, especially if you come across a piece but it’s not exactly what you need. If you find a great, inexpensive dresser but need a television stand or bookcase, you could remove and disassemble the drawers, then use the parts to create shelves in the spaces in the dresser that held the drawers.   

, A quick paint job is an easy way to breathe life into your existing furniture or a shabby used piece you found secondhand. Remove any hardware and sand the item to prep it. Give it a coat of primer, then paint it in a color that will add some pop to your space., Refinishing shabby wood furniture isn’t quite as easy as slapping on a coat of paint, but it’s still a fairly simple job. Use a stripper to remove the old stain or paint, sand the piece, restain it, then apply a sealant.Be sure to wear gloves when working with a stripping chemical.
 Having a piece reupholstered is usually pretty expensive, and reupholstering is a challenging do it yourself project. However, if you see an affordable, high quality brand at a secondhand store or estate sale, don’t let an outdated fabric keep you from purchasing it.Suppose you’re at an estate sale and see a gently used sofa with gorgeous form but an ugly upholstery job. Check under the cushions and find the manufacturer’s name, then do a quick search on your mobile device to see how much similar products by that furniture maker cost. You could buy and reupholster a luxury brand sofa for hundreds of dollars instead of paying thousands for a new product.

