 The best way to deal with travel anxiety is to pinpoint what it is that you're worried about. Take note of the situations or stimuli that worsen your anxiety symptoms and keep a log. You may be able to avoid certain situations by pre-planning, or you can relieve the anxiety with relaxation techniques.


To spot your triggers, observe your anxiety when you are traveling. Notice what gets you worked up. Is it flying? Traveling to sketchy areas? Or, having to communicate with foreigners?
Keep in mind that the more aware you are of your fears, the easier it will be to make a plan for dealing with the fear when it comes up. Try running your fears by a trusted friend or family member to get an outside perspective and come up with some ideas for dealing with your fears.
 The many details require to plan a successful trip can cause stress and anxiety. Don’t allow yourself to let the planning lessen your excitement about the trip. Regardless if you are traveling for business or pleasure, there are some positives associated with your upcoming trip. Identify these benefits and focus on them instead of all you have to do.For example, if you are preparing for a work conference, you might remind yourself of the wonderful opportunity to expand your professional network.
If planning the trip becomes too overwhelming, then take a break and come back to it. You do not need to plan it all in one sitting.
 Reciting affirmations has been shown to effectively help you manage anxiety. Determine what’s stressing you out about the impending trip and develop a positive mantra to counteract these thoughts.For instance, if you are worried about traveling alone, you might repeat the upsides of solo travel like “I will have the chance to plan all the activities I want to do” or “I will be free to connect with locals and other travelers.”
Your mantra may also be a travel quote that inspires you.
Remind yourself that feeling uncomfortable is a sign of growth. If you always feel comfortable, then this is a sign that you are not challenging yourself.
 Deep breathing helps kick start the body’s natural stress response. It may be helpful to start a deep breathing practice before your trip so that you can fall back on the technique during moments of anxiety before and during your travels.


To start, sit comfortably. Place one hand on your abdomen and the other on your chest. Inhale slowly through your nose for about 4 counts. You should feel your abdomen expanding while the hand on your chest stays relatively still. Hold the breath for 7 counts. Then, exhale from your mouth for 8 counts, feeling your abdomen deflate beneath your hand. Repeat for several minutes., Some people feel panic due to a fear of flying or worry about some other aspect of traveling. If this describes you, it can help to perform visualization exercises in which you imagine your trip going perfectly. Try this technique in the days leading up to your departure to reduce pre-trip panic.Envision your trip with all the details included. Connect to your senses by imagining the sights, sounds, smells, and sensations you will experience. For instance, if you are flying to a beach, you might imagine the waves crashing against the shore, a cool cocktail in your hand, the sun against your skin, and the smell of salt water.
Bring the details alive as vividly as you can. Take deep breaths. Visualize your trip being completely successful with you trying new foods, meeting new people, and engaging in interesting activities.
Keep in mind that your mind cannot tell the difference between something that is imagined and something that is real and will usually respond to imagined things as if they are real.