 Students will respond to positive treatment. Students notice how you treat other students and will react accordingly. Treat all students with equal respect. In turn, expect respect back from the students.


If you're concerned that the students have a difficult time understanding respectful behavior, besides showing it yourself, it can be helpful to have discussions about respect in class groups. It could even serve as a class topic for a term.
 Occasionally repeating an important phrase or sentence (several times) is an effective way to make it definite and without arguing, being harsh or rude.
 Back away saying: "I'll be back in a minute", if a student becomes emotional when you confront them at their desk. Or, have the student sit down, if you have a problem with one who is out of the student assigned seating. Unruly students or shy students may object (act out) or withdraw if embarrassed or stressed by to much or too close attention.
 The purpose of education is to improve the knowledge of your students. Plan activities and lessons that will increase student achievement, and plan ways of recognizing even small improvements for each individual student.
 You will learn a lot from other teachers on how to deal with students and make your students successful learners. Spend some time talking to them about how they have dealt with particular situations in class and what sorts of things they do to encourage respect, trust, and learning.
 Don't compare one student to another, except saying how great they all are working. "This is so great. Everyone is working." or "What a fantastic job you've all done!"

, Say, "That work was great, so quick." or "Your work is very good, aw perfect." (Not: "You are so smart.") The reason for this is that you focus on the student's effort and therefore don't imply that only smart kids succeed but demonstrate that anyone prepared to put in the effort will succeed.
 Say what you mean. Do not make idle promises: things that you cannot do or wouldn't do.


Don't back down. Bluff with a stone face as in playing cards when you need to make your point. Put on your game-face, namely, be serious and mean it, or students may actually say: "Act like a teacher." Joking around may bring silliness out of students.
 This is important because it engenders an air of authority, which students look up to. Look in control, but kind. Smile, remain positive minded. You may want to act like a coach sometimes. Cross the arms and strut. Or, act a little bit like a soldier or officer. Look like you are not amused by misbehavior (that may simply encourage it), and look like you are not confused or shaken up – though you may be upset, do not show it.


But, sometimes you may need to calmly explain what is what!

Calmly: "I know you are teasing: you don't mean it:"
Misconduct occurs: Such as the student gets up and starts toward the door.

Instruct: "Stop." - "Go sit down." - "Obey me."
The student may turn around and stare at you, or just smile or shrug.

Explain: "Follow instructions. I can not allow that. Do as you are instructed."
If you say something sarcastic, cold, mean or irritating: Apologize quickly.
Say, "I shouldn't have said that. I didn't mean it. I'm sorry."

, Don't rage or cry when you feel embarrassed or infuriated. Observe. If your throat tightens or tears well up in your eyes: Do not wipe your eyes, or sniff. Clear your throat. Breathe. Narrow your eyes. Keep composure. Relax, though you may tremble/shake with anger and dread. Walk. Walk around the room observing.


If a students asks, "Are you crying?"
Say, "No." Don't explain feelings. Act natural.
Just say, "No. No problem." Or, "It's alright. It's okay." (That's you overcoming it.) Get busy, walk across the room and back, observing.
With some students: A teacher who cries, will be crying more and more if the students see that they can trigger such emotions.
 Be persistent. Be fair/wise: sometimes you must (need to) treat everybody the same, whether good, bad or indifferent.



Fairness - Two opposite concepts – (1) You must treat everybody as individuals ("differently" according to events/needs). Or conversely: (2) You must treat them all "the same" in some matters as the only way to be fair.

