 Mood swings can be very common among people with anorexia, because hormones are often imbalanced by the body’s starvation.Anxiety and depression commonly co-occur with eating disorders.People with anorexia may also experience irritability, listlessness, and trouble focusing or concentrating., People with anorexia are often perfectionists. They may be over-achievers, and they often perform very well at school or work.However, they often suffer from very low self-esteem. A person suffering from anorexia may frequently complain that they are not “good enough,” or that they can’t “do anything right.”Physical self-confidence is also usually very low in people with anorexia. Although they may speak about getting to their “ideal weight,” it is impossible for them to attain that because of their distorted view of their body image. There will always be more weight to lose.
 People with anorexia will often feel very ashamed after eating. They may interpret eating as a sign of weakness or a lapse in self-control. If the person you're concerned about frequently expresses guilt over eating, or guilt and shame over their body size, this could be a warning sign of anorexia., People with anorexia may withdraw from their friends and usual activities.They may also begin to spend increasing amounts of time online.People with anorexia may spend time on “pro-Ana” websites, which are groups that promote and support anorexia as a “lifestyle choice.” It is important to remember that anorexia is a life-threatening condition that can be successfully treated, not a healthy choice made by healthy people.
People with anorexia may also post “thinspiration” messages on social media. These types of posts may include pictures of extremely underweight people or messages making fun of people who are a normal weight or overweight.
 There are two types of anorexia nervosa: Binge-Eating/Purging Type and Restricting Type. The restricting type is the one most people are familiar with, but the binge-eating/purging type is also common.Purging can be in the form of induced vomiting after eating, or the person may use laxatives, enemas, or diuretics.


There is a difference between binge-eating/purging type anorexia and bulimia nervosa, another eating disorder. People suffering from bulimia nervosa do not always restrict calories when they aren’t binge-eating. People suffering from binge-eating/purging type anorexia will severely restrict calories when they are not binge-eating and purging.
People suffering from bulimia nervosa will often binge-eat huge quantities of food before purging.People with binge-eating/purging type anorexia may consider much smaller quantities of food a “binge” that requires purging, such as a single cookie or small bag of chips., People with anorexia may be ashamed of their disorder. Or they may believe that you just don’t “understand” their eating behaviors and would try to keep them from performing them. People with anorexia will often try to conceal their behaviors from others to avoid judgment or interference.For example, they may:


Eat in secret
Hide or throw away food
Take diet pills or supplements
Hide laxatives
Lie about how much they exercise

