 While there are some common foods that cause heartburn, everyone has different trigger foods. Keep track of the foods that seem to cause heartburn for you and try to avoid or at least limit your intake of those foods.


Try keeping a food diary to help you keep track of the foods that cause you heartburn.Common heartburn trigger foods include peppermint, caffeine, sodas, chocolate, citrus fruits and juices, tomatoes, onions, and high-fat foods.;
, Plan to have your last meal of the day at least three hours before bedtime, since your body requires about two hours to digest the food that you have eaten. If you lay down while there is still food in your stomach, you have a higher chance of getting heartburn., One study found that eating your food too quickly can increase the risk of heartburn. People who eat their food too fast are also more likely to suffer from gastroesophageal reflux disease, also known as GERD. Take your time while you are eating to eliminate fast eating as a factor in your heartburn.Try putting down your fork between bites and chewing your food more to help slow yourself down while you eat.
 The calcium in milk can act as a temporary acid buffer, which may help to relieve your heartburn. Keep in mind that the effects of drinking milk are only temporary, so you may need to use other methods to help stave off heartburn.A cup of yogurt might provide the same benefit as drinking milk, helping to relieve heartburn.
 Chewing gum causes your mouth to produce more saliva, which acts as an acid buffer. While you chew gum you also swallow more often, pushing acid back down into your stomach. Chew a piece of gum for 30 minutes after each meal to help relieve heartburn symptoms., Some studies have found that chamomile and licorice tea are effective against heartburn symptoms when taken after a meal. Chamomile and licorice both have anti-inflammatory properties, which may be why they help to relieve heartburn for some people. Try both kinds of tea to see if either one works for you.


Ginger has also been found effective against heartburn. You can make your own ginger tea by adding a few slices of fresh ginger to boiling water. Cover the water and allow the ginger to steep for 30 minutes before drinking. For best results, drink ginger tea about 20 minutes before a meal.Be aware that licorice should not be used long term because it contains a chemical called glycyrrhizin, which can cause tissue swelling and high blood pressure. As with any herbal medicine, talk to your doctor first.