 If you're using the Flex or the One, you will need to remove the tracker before it can be charged.


Fitbit Flex - There is a slit on the back of the wristband which allows you to access the tracker inside. Gently pry the tracker out of the wristband by bending the rubber wristband to remove it.
Fitbit One - The tracker fits into the rubberized clip, and can be removed by bending it and gently prying it out.
Fitbit Surge, Charge, and Force - Skip down to Step 2 as these wristbands do not have removable trackers.
 The process varies depending on if you have a removable tracker or not.


Fitbit Flex and One - Insert the tracker into the charging cable. If you look inside the opening of the charging cable, you will see gold contacts at the bottom of the tracker slot. Line up the contacts on the tracker to those in the charging cable, and gently push the tracker in until it is snug inside the housing. You will hear a click when the tracker is in place.
Fitbit Surge, Charge, and Force - Connect the charging cable to the back of the wristband. On the rear side of the wristband, you will see a small port with several gold contacts. Connect the small end of the cable to the port.
 You can plug the charging cable into a computer, a UL-certified USB wall charger (such as an iPhone or Android wall charger), or a DC-to-USB adapter (car charger).


Note: The charging cable is different from the sync cable, and you will not be able to sync your Fitbit information to your computer with the charging cable.
 Different Fitbits have different ways of showing the current battery level.


Fitbit Flex - The lights on your tracker will illuminate as the unit is charged. Each solid light represents one more step towards being fully charged. Once all five lights are illuminated, the Fitbit charging is complete.
Fitbit One - As soon as the charging cable is plugged in, the One's screen will turn on and the battery indicator will be displayed. You can check the charge level at any time during charging by pressing and holding the button on the One. The One takes about an hour and a half to completely charge.
Fitbit Surge, Charge, and Force - When the wristband is plugged in, the battery icon on the display will show how charged it is. Charging completely will take about an hour and a half.
 If you are using a Flex or One, you'll need to reinsert the tracker into the wristband or clip.


Fitbit Flex - Reinsert the tracker in the wristband. Once the tracker is fully charged, you can remove it from the charging cable and reinsert it into the Flex wristband. Make sure that you insert it in the correct direction. You will hear a click when it has been inserted correctly.Fitbit One - Reinsert the tracker in the clip. Once the tracker is fully charged, you can remove it from the charging cable and reinsert it into the One clip. Make sure that you insert it in the correct direction. You will hear a click when it has been inserted correctly.Fitbit Surge, Charge, and Force - Remove the charging cable. Once charging is complete, you can unplug the charging cable from the back of the wristband. Your Fitbit is now charged and ready to use.