 The main colours should be pink, baby blue, or any pastel colour if you really want to be girly. Of course, you are your own person, but this is just for the girly girls.


Summer:Have flouncy little skirts and vest tops teamed with short-sleeved floral blouses in summer, as well as little coloured pumps. Another good summer look is short shorts/cutoffs in spunky, bright colours.
Winter: Invest in cuddly, knitted items in paler colours, preferably grey, blue and silvery colours.
On Christmas day: Wear something red or green, really pretty and cute.
Autumn: Wear browns, reds and autumn-leaves colours look pretty.
Spring: Spring style is the same as summer.
For sleepwear, go for cute PJs like Cookie Monster ones, or really girly ones with PJ shorts and coloured, patterned camis and vests. For colder nights, go for cuddly-warm button-ups with long trousers and long sleeves. Go for a pink knee-length silk bathrobe, too, and fluffy mule slippers or velvets.
For the strawberries and milkshake theme, go for strawberry-printed, pink things.;
, For swimming, dress cutely. Wear pink swimsuits and for beaches have on a wraparound skirt, as well as flip-flops that could match your swimsuit. Have bows in your hair and cute sunglasses/goggles.
 For everyday looks, wear a little no-clump mascara, some natural-looking bronzer, maybe foundation and pink or clear lip-gloss and balm. Have nicely groomed brows too. A girly thing to do is collect lip-gloss and have loads of weird, wacky, girly, pretty, sparkly and seasonal glosses. Stupid.com sell a lot of weird ones (Nacho flavoured, wasabi flavoured and more) and Bath & Body Works Liplicious have some Halloween ones, pretty and cute ones and just gorgeous ones. It's very scented and has a little flavour. For parties and things like that, have sparkly pink or lilac eye shadow or maybe silver glitter, and body glitter, and lip-gloss until your face is positively luminous.
 Being cute isn't all about the outside, though. Having sweet manners and looking out for others shows a sweet temperament and makes others attracted to you.
 Being a pessimist and trying to be Kawaii isn't so cute.
 It's not cute to be obsessed with yourself. Others will think you're arrogant, and being arrogant isn't cute.
 If you're shy, make new friends. Nothing bad will happen to you if you're confident. In fact, others will adore you for being confident and for expressing yourself!

, You'll need deodorant, make-up, body butters, shower gels and shampoos. Choose them in fragrances that are sweet, fruity and light.
 For example, use scents like "Strawberries and Milkshake". Or any "I Love body butter" is nice.
 Wash your face two times a day and every morning apply moisturizer. Also, brush your teeth whenever you get the chance with a whitening toothpaste and an electric tooth-brush. You've got the lips glossed, so you need the sparkling choppers too! Shower every day and wash your hair with a good shampoo and conditioner for your hair colour. Put a lot on your sponge before you rub it on, and then put on another lot, before rinsing it off.
 Exploiting all your things will show people your theme, your love of all things cute and girly and your cuteness.
 Watch stuff like Kawaii Crush...and maybe some cute music videos too, like Caramelldansen. Look carefully at how the characters dress, react to problems and how they care for others.

