 Clean your nails and remove any old nail polish. Trim, shape, and file your nails. Push back your cuticles, but hold off on the cuticle oil. It is best saved for last.

Consider covering your cuticle area with petroleum jelly or white school glue. This will make cleaning up easier at the end.
 This is necessary, even if you want to keep your nails their natural color. It will not only protect your nails, but help your polish last longer. Wait 2 minutes before moving on to the next step., Clear or nude nail polish will look the best with peacock feathers. You can also use a flat white or black color. Avoid using cool colors, such as blue or green, or the feather won't stand out. Allow the base color to dry for 2 minutes., Start painting from the base of your nail, and stop partway up. You will need to leave room for the "eye."

Try to give the stem a slight curve. This will make the feather look longer, wispier, and more peacock-like.
You can paint the feather on every nail, or you can paint it on an accent nail, typically the ring finger.
 Use copper or bronze nail polish for this., Use light, tapering strokes to paint small lines on both sides of the stem. Angle the lines upwards, towards the teardrop. Be sure to outline the teardrop as well.Leave spaces between the black lines. You will be adding more colors.
 Clean your striper brush using nail polish remover, then blot it dry. Paint more wispy, tapering lines to either side of your feather stem. Use shimmery green and copper/bronze nail polish for this., Use a clean spotter brush to add a small drop of blue polish at the center of the teardrop. Use a flat blue, if you can, to create contrast., Clean your spotter brush with nail polish remover, then blot it dry. Pick up some shimmery green nail polish, and paint a bean-shaped dot on top of the blue one.You will have something that looks like an eye.

If you are having trouble, make a green dot first, then add a tiny light blue dot right at the bottom.
Alternatively, you can use a tiny black or green crystal instead. Apply the crystal using a toothpick or dotter tool.
 Using a thin, stripper brush, add a thin stroke of gold to the stem, edges of the teardrop, and into the wispy feathers., Allow the feather to dry for 2 minutes, then apply a layer of clear top coat. Allow your manicure to dry completely., If you used petroleum jelly, now is the time to wipe it off. If you used white school glue, simply peel it away. Use a thin brush dipped in nail polish remover to wipe away any excess nail polish from the cuticle area.

Apply some cuticle oil now, if needed.

