 Pushups are a great bodyweight exercise you can do anywhere at any fitness level. Pushups primarily work the chest, shoulders, and triceps. You can modify to make them easier or harder, or try different types of pushups to emphasize certain muscles.








To do a traditional pushup, start by laying on your stomach on the ground with your hands underneath your shoulders. Push yourself off the ground so you are holding yourself up on your toes and hands in a straight line. Do not sag or arch your back.
If you are unable to do that, you can modify by doing pushups on your knees instead of your toes. You can modify even further to do pushups against a wall or a table.
The placement of your hands can alter the muscles you work. If you place your hands right beside your chest instead of further out, you get a different workout. You can also form a diamond with your fingers under your chest to work different muscles.;
, For this exercise, you need access to some kind of bar, like a pull-up bar. You can also use a hand railing or a towel wrapped around a pillar. Position yourself under the bar and hold on with your hands facing away from you. Your body should be in a straight line. Use your arms to pull yourself up until the bar touches your chest, then lower yourself in a controlled motion.If you are using a hand rail, tuck your feet under the railing, then pull your torso towards the rail.
If you are using a towel or strap wrapped around a pillar or column, stand with your feet touching base of pillar. Then lean backwards holding onto the ends of a strap or towel, then pull yourself back to upright.
If they are too difficult, move your feet back so you are not lying as flat. As you improve, you can move lower.
 You can do dips with any surface you can push yourself off. You can use a chair, a bench, or a machine at the gym. Start by lowering yourself in front of the chair or bench with your hands on the edge behind you. Make sure your hands are around shoulder-width apart. Lower yourself down until your elbows get to a 90 degree angle, then push yourself up until your arms are straight.You can make the dips harder or easier by the placement of your feet. The closer your feet are to your body, the easier they will be. Keep your legs straight to make the movement more difficult.

