 While the term "street musician" implies playing on or near the street, don't actually do that unless you have to, or unless you're a drummer. Cars tend to drown out acoustic music, but if there are a lot of pedestrians on the sidewalks, it might be worth a try. Look for a farmers market with an open booth, a crafts fair, arts festival, or any other place people might appreciate your music floating by. In general, the more foot traffic the better, but if it looks so crowded that you might have trouble finding a spot at all, it might be harder than if there's a few open spaces here and there.;
, This is more effective in retaining an audience. It also makes the statement that you are a serious musician. Also musician's that have movement in their act such as dancing, tap dance for percussion, a tambourine attached to a foot makes a much more interesting show.
 It's a lot more comfortable to play somewhere if you don't have to worry about being run off by store owners, or worse, cops. That said, in the U.S. and many other countries, you're free to set up and play on public property as long as you're not obstructing passers-by or otherwise creating a nuisance. Typically the worst that can happen is that someone will ask you to leave. If you have to plug in an amp or something, however, you should ask permission first.
 Stand up when you play, if at all possible. Standing up to play and/or sing projects the sound better. If you're kind of quiet and you sit down, you might not be heard. Sit down if you have to, though. Keep in mind that the sound of strumming chords on the guitar carries a lot better than finger picking does.
 Smile. Maybe they'll suggest a better place to play. Police and store owners are almost always very nice about asking you to leave, and you should be nice, too.
 Remember to bring your hat or tip cup, or simply open your guitar case in front of you. People can't tip you if they don't know where to put the money. When someone gives you a tip, thank them with a smile or gesture, but keep playing.
 Give them their sonic space. If you cluster too close together, it will hurt everybody's earnings. In some situations, there are too many musicians in an area, so they'll take turns playing.
 A sour attitude drives away listeners. Don't get discouraged if you're not making a lot of money. Maybe you need to try another spot, or maybe it's just one of those days. Playing on the street can be very frustrating, but it can also be very rewarding, especially in terms of getting your music out there.

