 If you don't understand what you did wrong you won't be able to argue your point. If you need clarification, don't be afraid to ask. Asking why they're angry is not at all shameful, but actually makes you seem like you really care from your parents point of view.


Go over the choices you made that led to the reason they're angry at you. Instead of trying to justify them, try to see what negative consequences each of them came with.
Understand that what might seem little to you may seem much larger to your parents, who's main purpose in life is your welfare.
Try to see it from their point of view. Once you understand what you did wrong, ask yourself a few questions that might help you understand your parent's feelings. Does it make sense to you? Can you see how someone could be angry about what you did? Put yourself in their shoes and try to see where they're coming from.;
, It is not weak and does not show weakness to be able to apologize. Try to mean the apology. If you find it hard to apologize meaningfully think of yourself as apologizing for making them angry, not for doing whatever your did. If you can apologize it shows them that you are mature enough to do so, and they will calm down.


Restate what you did wrong in your apology. By saying what you did wrong it shows that you are aware of what choices you made, not only that you regret them.
Allow them to hold on to it. Just because you apologized doesn't mean they have to forgive you right away. Understand and accept that sometimes an apology isn't enough to be forgiven.
Restate the negative consequences of your actions in your apology. Show that you understand that doing the wrong thing brings negative effects, like broken trust or resentment. Sometimes just saying you're sorry isn't enough to heal a relationship, and showing your parents that you understand that will help them be more willing to hearing your side of the story.
 Listen to what they say and then when they have finished say "I understand what you're saying, but..." It does not help you at all to talk over them, it just causes them to raise their voice. Then you raise you voice to be heard again and pretty soon everyone is yelling.


Don't justify your actions. This means that you cannot blame anyone else for what you did, only yourself. Don't make excuses.
Explain the reasons for your actions. There is a difference between making excuses and explaining yourself. Talk to your parents about what you were thinking when you made the wrong choices, but don't try to prove to them that what you did wasn't wrong.
 Yelling intensifies emotions. The last thing you need right now is for your emotions to be running higher than they already are. When you yell at your parents it can seem like you're being disrespectful to them, even though you're just trying to be heard. When you're parents yell at you in can be hurtful and feel insensitive, when they're just trying to be heard. Believe it or not, you can have a serious conversation without raising your voices.


A good way to keep from yelling is think of it like a game. No matter how low your parents are talking, make it your goal to talk lower. This ensures that you will never be yelling, even if they start.
Never do anything that may seem disrespectful to keep yourself from yelling, like coughing, eating or turning around so you don't have to face them. Though these methods may help you restrain from raising your voice they also might be perceived as you not caring and being disrespectful.
 Begin your argument with these words: "I understand why you're angry, and I understand how you could be angry about that, but..." Then begin arguing your point. When you do this, don't try to argue a point that isn't worth it. If you know you can't win, then don't even try. If its worth it then choose your words with care. Find a few reasons your parents should supports what you did, or not be angry about it.


Like previously noted, don't try to justify your actions. Don't try to convince your parents that you didn't do anything wrong, just try to show them that all children, teenagers, even adults make mistakes.
Bring them into the conversation. Ask them to share stories about when they made mistakes that they regret or that made their parents angry. Causing them to experience a nostalgic memory might help soften them up a little, and remembering their own mess ups will help them see that what you did was normal.
Don't lie. Lying doesn't help at all, it only holds the fight off for a few weeks. You will always be caught in a lie, it is inevitable. Tell the truth, even if it means you will get in more trouble. Everything will be over quicker.
 If your parents punish you say "I understand." Wait till they are out of the room before you have any large reaction. It won't help you at all to have a tantrum or start sobbing. If you stay calm for the whole fight it will impress them and make you seem more mature. They will restrain from fighting again, or will at least speak to you like a more mature adult next time you fight.


Often parents yell or threaten harsh consequences because they're nervous. Subconsciously, it can be hard for them to deal with your tantrums. By being more mature and accepting the consequences they give you it will show them that they can talk to you about your mistakes without worrying about your reactions.
Don't punish them. The worst thing you can do is give them the silent treatment or blow them off. Listen to them, understand them and accept it. Next time, they'll go easier on you because they remember how mature you were the last time you fought.
Give them time to get over it. Understand that they won't forgive you as soon as you apologize. You made a mistake, and that was your choice.

