 One of the best ways to keep your liver healthy is to eat a balanced diet that is low in trans fats and fructose (as in "high fructose corn syrup"). These substances are found in many processed foods, including chips, soda, fried foods, etc., and have both been shown to contribute negatively to liver function.


Processed foods also include a host of other chemicals to maintain freshness and appearance, which your liver has to work to filter out.
Your best bet for maintaining liver (and overall!) health is to minimize your consumption of prepackaged and processed foods, and prepare food from scratch using fresh ingredients whenever possible.;
, Organic food is produced using minimal pesticides in the case of produce, and minimal or no added hormones or antibiotics, in the case of animal products.This translates to less chemicals and additives that your liver has to filter out.


It is important to note that organic foods still may contain some residual pesticides, and the jury is still out on how much of a health benefit they provide. However, if you can afford to go organic, it certainly won't harm your liver, and you will be helping the environment, as well., A recent study published in Hepatology found that coffee drinkers, including those who drank decaf, were up to 25 percent less likely to have abnormal liver enzyme levels. Researchers do not yet know why this is the case, but drinking coffee may be helping your liver out., Regular exercise not only helps you maintain a healthy body weight, it does good things for your liver, as well. Studies have shown that just 150 minutes of activity per week (that’s just 1/2 an hour, five days per week) is enough to improve liver enzyme levels, and overall liver function. It can also reduce your chances of developing fatty liver disease., As if you didn't have enough reasons to quit already: numerous studies have shown that smoking drastically increases the risks of contracting both cirrhosis (scarring) of the liver, and liver cancer., Hepatitis is an inflammation of the liver that is usually caused by a virus. There are three main types of hepatitis: A, B, and C, and all are contagious, however hepatitis C is usually only spread by sharing intravenous needles. Vaccines are available for hepatitis A and B.Practice good hygiene: remember to wash your hands after using the restroom or changing a baby's diaper.
Hepatitis B is commonly spread through unprotected sex, so always wear a condom.
Do not share drug needles with another person, or come in contact with another person's blood.
Get vaccinated for hepatitis A and B.
 When your liver processes alcohol, a number of toxic chemicals are released that can cause damage to your liver.Alcoholic liver disease is the result of the overconsumption of alcohol, and is responsible for up to 37% of all liver disease deaths. People who are especially at risk for developing alcoholic liver disease are those who are dependent on alcohol, females, people who are overweight, and people with a familial tendency to develop the condition. The routine consumption of alcohol can also lead to a condition called fatty liver disease. However, the good news is that the liver is able to regenerate itself better than any other organ in the body, and alcohol-induced liver problems can often be stopped, or even reversed! If you have been drinking a lot, take a break from alcohol altogether. Your liver needs 2 weeks alcohol-free to begin the healing process.
After this, try not to regularly exceed 3-4 units of alcohol per day (1.5 pints of beer) if you are a man, and 2-3 units per day (1 pint of beer) if you are a woman., Most people consider the over-the-counter pain reliever acetaminophen to be a safe, almost benign drug. However, acetaminophen overdose is a common cause of liver damage, and is responsible for the deaths of as many as 1000 people every year in the United States alone, most of which are accidental.Remember that acetaminophen is a drug, and use it only as directed!


Even a single overdose of acetaminophen can be enough to cause catastrophic liver failure.
Always consult with a pediatrician or pharmacist before administering acetaminophen to a child to make certain you have the correct dosage.
Avoid alcohol when taking acetaminophen, and check with a doctor before mixing acetaminophen with other medications.
Be extremely cautious when administering acetaminophen to children. Changes in labeling and dosage concentrations can be especially confusing. When in doubt, call your pediatrician or local pharmacist for precise dosing instructions.Be on the lookout for hidden acetaminophen. Many medications contain acetaminophen that do not bear the name "Tylenol." Multi-formula cold remedies, such as Nyquil, Alka Seltzer Plus, and even children's medicines like Triaminic Cough & Sore Throat all contain acetaminophen. Read labels carefully, and be sure not to double-up on medications containing the same active ingredient., All medications put some strain on the liver, as it must work overtime to metabolize the medication and filter out any excess toxins. However, some medications can put an undue strain on the liver, and cause damage, especially when mixed with other substances. Medications that have the potential to cause liver damage include statins (cholesterol medications), Amiodarone, and even certain antibiotics, like the commonly prescribed Augmentin.


Always take these and other medications as directed, and ask your doctor or pharmacist before mixing prescription medications with any over-the-counter medications, vitamins, supplements, or alcohol.Not all antibiotics carry the risk of liver damage, but it's still best to avoid alcohol while taking them so that your body can heal quickly. , Exposure to pesticides, heavy metals, and even environmental toxins found in polluted air and water can increase your risk of developing liver disease. Avoid any unnecessary exposure to these kinds of toxins, and use appropriate safety gear if you cannot.Use natural cleaning products in your home whenever possible to reduce your exposure to chemicals.
Consider using water and air filters in your home to reduce exposure to environmental toxins.
 Because the liver does its work quietly, many people fail to recognize that they are experiencing liver damage or disease until it has gotten quite severe. The following are some of the symptoms of liver disease, which often emerge gradually over time. If you experience some or all of these symptoms, especially jaundice, see a doctor and explain your concerns right away:Loss of appetite.
Nausea and vomiting.
Diarrhea.
Dark-colored urine and pale bowel movements.
Pain in the right upper quadrant of your stomach.
Jaundice: the yellowing of the skin and/or whites of the eyes.
 Acute liver failure can occur very rapidly in an otherwise healthy person, and is often not recognized until significant damage has taken place. If you or someone you know suddenly develops some or all the following symptoms, particularly jaundice (yellowing of the skin or whites of the eyes), unusual tiredness, or unexplained disorientation or fatigue, seek medical care immediately.The symptoms of acute liver failure include:


Jaundice: the yellowing of the skin and/or whites of the eyes
Pain in the upper right abdomen.
Abdominal swelling.
Nausea.
Vomiting.
Malaise: a general feeling of un-wellness.
Disorientation or confusion.
Unusual sleepiness.
 Due to the gradual and quiet nature of liver symptoms, you might need to be proactive about checking your liver health. If you have reason to suspect that your liver has sustained damage due to alcohol abuse, medication overuse, possible exposure to viral hepatitis, a family history of liver disease, etc., schedule an appointment with your doctor and request a routine liver function test (LFT). It is a simple blood test that could save your life!