 Physical activity is important if you have adult ADHD. One of the things that causes risky behavior in people with ADHD is a lack of dopamine. By exercising regularly, you can increase your dopamine levels in a healthy way instead of through dangerous behaviors like speeding, substance abuse, or unsafe sex.Ask someone to exercise with you if you don’t want to do it alone.
Find different ways to exercise. Join a gym and go to different classes, play team sports, or go for group hikes, walks, or cycling trips. Consider what type of setting will work best for you. For example, will you do better in a group setting, or alone? At home? Or at a gym?

, Having a proper night’s sleep is important for helping you manage your ADHD symptoms. Being well rested can also help you limit your risky behavior by helping keep your mind clear and focused.Try to get between seven to nine hours of sleep each night. You can improve your chances of falling asleep quickly and staying asleep by avoiding caffeine in the afternoon and evening, keeping your bedroom dark and cool, and turning off your electronic devices about an hour before bedtime.
 Adult ADHD can lead to strain on your relationships. This may be due to things you impulsively say, anger, mood swings, or impulsive actions. Make a point to spend time with your friends and family and focus on improving the relationships.You should listen to what the other people are saying instead of getting distracted. Try not to interrupt when the other person is talking. Wait for three seconds after someone finishes a sentence before you begin talking. Try to keep your anger in check and don’t impulsively snap at those who care about you.
Spending time with others you care about can help you focus on healthier things instead of risky behaviors.
 ADHD is a neurological and genetic condition that can affect your brain and behavior. It can cause trouble and lead to negative consequences. If your ADHD has lead to risky behavior, don’t be too hard on yourself.Treat yourself with understanding and kindness and avoid blaming yourself. You can’t help that you have ADHD, but you can help yourself by working to treat the behavior.
It may also be helpful to get involved in an ADHD community or online forum.

