 It's the grey gear icon on the Home Screen.
 This option is in the same group as Photos & Camera about halfway down the Settings page., It will turn green. Any Apple Music items you've saved will now display in your iPhone's Music app., It's directly under the Show Apple Music switch on this page., This button is toward the bottom of the page.

If you've already used your three free months, this option will be labeled Choose Payment Plan instead.
 Although your first three months with Apple Music are free, you'll need to enter your payment information for when the free trial is over. You have the following options:


Individual - Pay $9.99/month after your free three months expire.

Family - Pay $14.99/month to allow up to six people to use Apple Music on a family plan.

College Student - Pay $4.99/month for as long as you're in college. Selecting this plan will require you to tap Verify Eligibility at the bottom of the screen to prove that you're a college student.
 It's at the bottom of the page.

If your free three months are up, you'll skip this step.
 This is the password you use to download apps or sign into iCloud.

You can also use Touch ID for this step if you have it enabled.
If you aren't signed into your Apple ID, tap Use Existing Apple ID and type in your Apple ID email address and password.
You can also tap Create New Apple ID to create one from scratch.
 This is on the "Payment Information Required" pop-up window.

If you already have a credit card registered with Apple Pay, you will skip this step and the following one.
 This will include the following information:

Card type (Visa, MasterCard, etc.)
Billing address
Phone number
Card information (e.g., the card number, expiration date, etc.)

, To do so, you'll tap once on a genre button for a genre you like or twice for a genre you love.

You can remove genres from your preferences by tapping and holding their respective buttons for several seconds.
 It's in the top right corner of the screen., You'll do this in the same way you chose music preferences., Now you can access your Apple Music in the For You tab at the bottom of the Music page.