 If you've got nothing else to do, with no car or events on the horizon, head outside and make your own fun. You can go for a hike, build a fort in the woods, or just bike around town. Don't let the weather get you down, either. Sometimes a run in the pouring rain is the most fun thing you can do during a storm. Relish the opportunities to sled, build forts, and make snowmen in the colder months, and jump in a pool or pond when it's scorching hot. For centuries, teens have found endless enjoyment in the great outdoors. All it takes is a bit of sunscreen and a willingness to get out there.


Play some sports. If you're feeling casual, grab a Frisbee and improvise a disc golf course around the house.
Go fishing, camping, or bird-watching.
Offer to help your neighbors to make some pocket change.
 Record something silly, even if you never share it with anyone else. You could put on a play, film a movie or music video, or just start jamming together on your instruments. Collaborative works like this will pass the time before you know it.


Just turn a camera or recorder on and improvise, doing your best to make each other smile, laugh, or tap your feet.
Come up with an idea together and make a plan to finish it. Working together towards a common goal is a perfect way to pass some time with good friends.
 Check online or in your local paper for concerts, events, and movies, and make plans together to see them. More often than not, if you take the time to check out the events schedule in advance, you can avoid sitting around without knowing what to do. However, waiting until the last minute often means you miss the showtime, or can't get a ride down, leaving you stranded at home without an activity.
 From simple and easy cards to complex video & board games, games are one of the best way to pass the time with any number of people. While the number of video, card, and board games is nearly endless, there is even a variety of games you can play without any equipment:


Mafia.
Ninja.
Truth or Dare.

Celebrity.