 Practice lots of different looks and application techniques until you figure out what works best for you. For a camera-ready look, experiment with high definition foundations – these were created to make people look great on camera.Wear bronzer along your cheekbones to highlight your facial structure. This is called contouring and it looks great on camera.


Get a good makeup remover so that your face will be spotless after washing up. This will prevent breakouts caused by leftover makeup residue.
Use oil absorbing sheets in between shots, especially if you have oily skin. These will eliminate shine from your face without messing up your makeup.
 You’ll learn what does and doesn’t work visually and discover what your best angles are by practicing in front of a mirror.


Try lots of different angles and poses until you have built up a mental catalog of your very best ones. These can be your go-to poses/angles.
Use your phone to snap some mirror shots, as well, so that you can evaluate how the poses translate as digital images.
 Healthy food and regular exercise will keep you looking and feeling your best. Eat plenty of fresh fruit and vegetables and increase your water intake to get glowing skin.Sweating during exercise will also help you keep your skin healthy, since it opens your pores and allows dirt and impurities to exit. Cleanse your skin well after you sweat and your skin will look soft and supple.Be sure to eat healthy fats found in avocados, nuts, seeds and olive oil. Avoid a completely fat free diet, which isn’t good for you.
Get protein from high-quality sources like fish, shellfish, poultry and tofu.
Consider taking omega-3 fish oil supplements every day for radiant skin.
 Confidence definitely comes across in photographs, so project it as much as possible. Be proud of your look and comfortable with yourself.All kinds of site models are needed, from young people to elderly, and there’s no rule that you have to be stick-thin or super tall.


Agencies, editors and bloggers are looking for real people of all shapes, sizes, races and genders.
Focus on making yourself look as great as possible in your pictures.
Don’t worry about forcing yourself to conform to preconceived notions of what a model is “supposed” to look like.

