 Recommended dress for an Easter Sunday church service will differ from a family brunch or a backyard Easter egg hunt. To choose your clothing, it is important to determine where and when your Easter events will be. Select clothing that is appropriate for the activities, keeping comfort and location in mind.;
, If you have not attended Easter Sunday worship services at the church, call the church office or ask a family member or friend about appropriate attire. Some churches have traditions of formal attire on Easter, while others are more casual. If the church requests formal attire, ask if the women typically wear Easter bonnets. But do not overdo it.


Select modest styles. The purpose of attending an Easter church service is to worship God and celebrate the resurrection of Jesus Christ, so dress in a respectful manner that does not detract from the worship service. Women should select dresses with hem lines that are knee-length or longer, and avoid low-cut shirts. If women wear sleeveless dresses, they should cover their shoulders with a cardigan or dressy jacket. Men should not wear shorts or open shirts.
Avoid denim. Jeans and denim materials are not appropriate for most Easter Sunday worship services.
Choose business attire when in doubt. If you are unsure about how to dress for an Easter Sunday church service, wear clothing you would wear to a meeting at work. Business attire for women indicates a suit or a dress with a jacket, while business attire for men means a suit and tie.
 In most cases, Easter egg hunts are held outdoors, so dress for the weather. Choose attire that is comfortable and allows you to move freely. Be sure to wear comfortable shoes as you may be walking or running.


Choose Easter egg hunt attire for women. Consider a sundress with a cardigan, a-line skirt with a sweater set, or capri-length pants with a lightweight top. Cardigans, sweater sets and jackets allow for versatility in the event of hot or cold weather.
Choose Easter egg hunt attire for men. Consider khaki pants and a button-down shirt, or khaki shorts and a polo shirt. Bring a sweater or jacket in case the weather is cool.
 Consider an adaptable business casual outfit if your Easter celebration includes both formal and casual events.


Choose business casual outfits for women. Select dressy slacks or a skirt with a silk twinset, or a sundress with a dressy cardigan. Wear high heels to church, and bring a pair of comfortable flats with you for brunch or an egg hunt.
Select business casual outfits for men. Consider dress pants with a lightweight sweater, or khaki pants with a button-down shirt and a sport coat. Wear the sport coat to church and then take it off for the egg hunt later that afternoon.

