 Before you begin snow blowing, stand outside and feel the wind against your face. When you snow blow, you should move in the direction of the wind. Snow blowing against the wind will result in snow blowing against your face while you work.If you can't tell the direction of the wind, try licking your finger and then holding in front of your face. The wetness will help you feel the wind better.;
, You need to blow the snow away from your driveway. Ideally, you should blow the snow as far into the yard as possible. Check your snow blower's capability to see how far you can blow snow using the highest setting. Plan to twist the nozzle as necessary to get the snow into the appropriate spot in your yard.Aim to blow the snow towards an unused area of your yard. Avoid blowing the snow into places like walkways or near the mailbox.
Make sure your snow blower does not blow the snow too far out. You don't want to use a setting that would blow your snow into a neighbor's yard.
 Be sure to check the condition of the snow blower before using it. You may have to make some adjustments depending on the snow blower's condition and your driveway. Check the following:


Fill the machine with fuel before starting, to avoid breaking your routine and walking back to your garage just to re-fuel. This should be done outdoors to prevent vapor build-up. Do not add fuel to a hot engine; a snow blower's engine must be cooled down first.
Check the machine's oil before every use (applies to 4 cycle engines). Snow blowers can often burn oil without smoking, and the lack of the proper amount and/or correct type of oil can kill your machine quickly.
Check the skid shoes, which are the metal pieces on the bottom of the snow blower. If you have a paved driveway, make sure the skid shoes are set to the lowest setting. For a gravel driveway, skid shoes should be set higher up to avoid displacing the gravel.
 Before you begin snow blowing, clear off your car if it's out in the driveway or parked in the street. This will prevent you from having to clear the snow around your car after snow blowing., If there is no wind, start in the center of the driveway. Keep the snow nozzle pointed outward towards the yard surrounding the driveway. Work in circles, moving outward as you go., If there is a wind, point the snow nozzle in the direction the wind blows. Start in the upward direction of the wind, moving your snow blower side to side. Move your snow chute as necessary to keep it pointed in the direction of the wind.
 While you can remove most of the snow with a snow blower, there may be small bits of snow accumulated when you finish. There may be snow stuck in tight or narrow spots in the driveway that are difficult to reach with a snow blower. Use a shovel to clear out these spots., Make sure the area is clear before you begin snow blowing. Keep your children out of the driveway and the surrounding area. Make sure pets are not near the driveway when snow blowing.If you have pets that you allow outside, keep them indoors while using the snow blower.
 Loose-fitting clothes, like loose jackets and scarves, can get caught in a snow blower and cause injury. Make sure to wear form-fitted jackets and, if you wear a scarf, make sure it's tucked into your jacket while you run your snow blower., If you need to step away from the snow blower for any reason, turn it off first. Unless you're only stepping away for a few seconds, it's important to power down the snow blower when stepping away.