 It is not recommended for babies under two months old to swim in lakes, rivers, pools, or oceans. A baby’s immune system is very vulnerable during this time, and contaminated water may make them more likely to become sick.To keep your newborn safe, keep them away from ocean water until they are over two months old.
 It is difficult for babies to regulate their body temperature, so be sure to check the water before your baby goes in. Use your best judgment to gauge the water’s temperature. If the water seems quite cold to you, then it will feel very cold to your baby.Take your baby out of the water if they begin to shiver or if their lips turn blue.
If your baby is too cold, remove the wet swimming gear and wrap them in a warm, dry blanket or towel., Make sure your baby is wearing a flotation device at all times when they are near the water. Although it may be uncomfortable for your child at first, they will get used to it over time.A wave could knock them over as you are holding on to them, or a current could pull them out. Make sure your baby will be able to keep their head above water at all times by placing them in a snug life jacket.


Make sure the life jacket has head support and a strap between the legs. This strap will prevent the jacket from slipping off over the baby’s head., Take your baby down to the tide to wade in a section that is calm and clean. Look to see that there are lifeguards nearby who can help or alert you if there are typically rough currents or waves in that area.Your baby will enjoy watching the gentle tide roll in and will love exploring the new textures in a peaceful wading spot.
 While near the water, make sure you or another adult can easily get to your baby. Make sure they are at an arm’s length away so that they can be easily reached if necessary.
 Even if your baby is taking swimming lessons, it can be dangerous to take them into deeper waters. You cannot see the bottom at many beaches, so it can be difficult to tell if and where the ocean floor drops off. Waves can splash salt water into your baby’s mouth or eyes, causing discomfort. Stay in shallow waters where you can keep your footing., If you take your baby into the water, make sure that you are holding them safely and securely. Waves can be more powerful than they look.Keep a close hold on your child so that the waves do not knock them over or push them under water.

