 For casting a small item such as a hand print or other object weighing less than a few pounds, a 12 inch (30.5 cm) burning chamber with a 1 quart volume crucible should work.;
, We are using charcoal here because it is readily available and inexpensive. It has a flame temperature (heat value) of about 2,300 °F (1,260 °C) with a forced air blower. Coal has a flame temperature oven 3,000 °F (1,650 °C) with forced air, so charcoal is more practical as far as construction materials are concerned, even steel will burn out with a coal fired assembly and forced air. This project uses 14 gauge galvanized steel for the burner container.
 The images show one built by bending 12 inch (30.5 cm) pieces of sheet metal, but people have successfully melted aluminum in steel paint cans and garbage cans. These burn out after a few uses, so you need to weigh the cost of building a more substantial furnace with the length of time you hope to use it.


The inside cylinder should be large enough to accommodate the melting pot crucible you plan on using, allowing space for the fuel to encircle it, and deep enough to allow the crucible to sit beneath the lid you will be adding later. An 8 inch (20.3 cm) crucible will require a 14 inch (35.6 cm) burning chamber, and if the crucible is 8 inches (20.3 cm) deep, the chamber should be at least 12 inches (30.5 cm) tall.
While an outside chamber is required, it adds a significant safety factor in the event the inner chamber burns out, and increases the efficiency of the burning fuel by insulating the inner chamber somewhat. This chamber should be 4 inches (10.2 cm) larger in diameter than the burning chamber, and at least a few inches taller. An outside cylinder suited for the measurement described above would be about 16–18 inches (40.6–45.7 cm) tall, and have a diameter of 16 inches (40.6 cm).
 It can be welded or screwed down. If you build your base larger than the cylinder, it will be more stable and safer to operate.
 These will be the material the burning fuel will rest on, and firebrick have a very high temperature resistance, and will help keep the heat inside the burning chamber as well.
 You can fill this space with flamestop mortar or dry sand to stabilize it, or simply wedge it with metal pieces to keep the cylinder centered.
,, Cut a 6X6 inch hole in the center to allow air flow and so you can add metal to the crucible. You may find it handy to hinge this piece to the outer cylinder or to add a handle to make removing it during use easier.
 An expended refrigerant canister can be used in a furnace of the dimensions described above, or an old stainless steel boiler might be used. You will need to attach a steel handle extending above the burning chamber so you can pull the crucible out to pour your molten metal.
 People have used old hair dryers duct taped to the tube, or a low velocity leaf blower, but if you don't have these available, anything which blows air in sufficient volume that can be adapted to your air tube will work. Keep in mind that too much air will over-burn your fuel, wasting it, and too little will not provide enough air to burn your fuel efficiently.
 Set your crucible in place on this support after placing a layer of charcoal in the bottom of the burning chamber and soaking it with charcoal lighter.
 Add your metal scrap you plan on melting, and light the charcoal.
 This should only take a few minutes, as the charcoal will begin to burn quickly when the air is turned on. Lay your lid on the furnace to trap as much heat inside as possible.
