 R&B beats require smooth instruments. These include pianos, guitars, harps, violins, etc. You also have harder sounds like trumpets and lead synths that can be used to add emphasis to a part. Synthesizers are being used for R&B beats more than other instruments.


Having access to a studio with multiple instruments will benefit you best for creating a beat live.
Recruit musicians to help you write and record beats live.
 A lot of music in R&B is made using a keyboard. Keyboard is a good way to compose different parts of the song. If you want to create a demo for other musicians to play to, record all the parts you’re imagining in your head.


Keyboards have all the octaves that you could need for a song.
Midi keyboards allow you to play software instruments on the keys. For example, you can play an accordion through your midi keys.
 Make sure your drums are fit for the type of track you are making. For slower tracks use a combination of the ride, soft snare, and auxiliary percussion like a shaker or tambourine. For quicker beats go for a more pop feel with heavier snare, kick,, crash, and toms.


Most R&B music has a smooth beat that is held together by the drums and bass.
Listen to multiple styles of R&B to get a better understanding for R&B drums. Listen to The Ohio Players, Funkadelic, and any era of James Brown.
 A lot of beats are made starting with a simple melody, like a bass line or a catchy lead line. The beat comes into fruition by adding harmony with other instruments like the keyboard, guitar, or a woodwind instrument. If you are playing with several musicians, communicate when something sounds good.


Popular chords for R&B are major 7th chords. Experiment with an arrangement with major 7th chords, and see if it works. If you have a composition with major chords, add the 7th to add a smoother sound to the arrangement.
Once the beat and melody come into place, be sparse with additional parts.
Subtly is an underrated trait in music that will sound good., After everyone agrees on their parts of the song to play, you’re ready to record the track. You can either record the song yourself, or go into a recording studio. It is rare for contemporary R&B to be played on live instruments, but that doesn’t mean it won’t sound good. Consider recording a few demos from home before going out and recording at a studio.


Plenty of softwares that can make beats also have recording capabilities built into them. This is a good way to incorporate a live bass player into a mostly electronic beat. To record on a software you'll need an interface and a microphone.If you decide to go to a studio, be sure you can play your songs flawlessly. It is important to be on top of your sound before recording with a producer.
Another popular way to make a demo is by using a four track recorder. Four track recorders can be limiting, but oftentimes the limitations of a four track can benefit the songwriting process.

