 Many parents who are strong believers in Montessori education will only send their children to preschools that are accredited by one of the major Montessori education organizations. This accreditation means a school lives up the crucial principles of the Montessori philosophy.The American Montessori Society (AMS) is the most widely recognized accreditation organization in the US.The Association Montessori International (AMI) performs a similar service both in the US and worldwide., In evaluating a Montessori preschool, it is important to learn about the teachers working there. You should look into the following:How long have the teachers been there? Ideally, you want to find a school where many of the teachers have been working there for a long time. This suggests teachers are satisfied and reasonably paid.
What are their credentials? Choose a preschool where teachers have attended face-to-face Montessori training schools. The best of these schools have teachers interact using actual educational materials and do a minimum year-long internship. Online programs typically lack such requirements.
How do the teachers behave toward students? Montessori preschool teachers should speak softly and at eye level to the children in their care., The Head of School in a Montessori preschool should also be well qualified and experienced. You should scrutinize this person's credentials and experience closely. Similar to evaluating the teachers, you should ask:How long has this person served in this leadership role? What did he or she do prior to this?
Is this person well trained in the Montessori method?

, The classroom environment is crucial to a successful Montessori program. Have a close look at the classroom to ensure it is adequate for your child's needs.If possible, you should observe a classroom session. There should be observation windows for every classroom.If there are not, or if you are not allowed to observe some class time, this should raise a red flag.
Look at classroom equipment and make sure it is adequate and age appropriate. There should be a variety of well-made and attractive learning materials, and enough of them for the number of children in the classroom.
Scrutinize the cleanliness of the classroom. It should be neat and orderly and show signs of recent cleaning. The room should be decorated with natural items, such as plants and seashells.Ask about or observe the teacher-to-child ratio. Montessori education requires a lot of one-on-one attention. The more teachers, the better.
Observe whether the children seem happy and relaxed. A Montessori classroom should be a pleasant, enjoyable place to be, not a place of drudgery or anxiety.
 Before settling on a school, talk to other parents about their experience with the school.Ask parents if they are satisfied and if they have been invited to participate. Parental participation is common in Montessori preschools.

