 Save time and energy by coming up with simple language to reuse for correspondence that you frequently repeat. Have several scripts available for different situations like emails, press releases, or phone calls, which you can copy, paste, and easily edit to suit the specific scenario.
 Jot down notes on your phone, laptop, or notepad for every meeting, phone message, or other important conversation. Place or move these notes into specifically labeled physical or electronic folders so that you can refer to them later and have records of verbal communication that you may forget in the course of a busy day.
 Practice your greeting and other important or common information you need to say over the phone. Have the list of phone extensions for your office right in front of you and work on committing them to memory so you can transfer calls quickly.


Get to know the special features of your office phone, like sending someone straight to an employee’s voicemail or adding people into a conference call, so you can save time and avoid technical difficulties.
 Make sure that every form of written communication you send out is spell-checked and free of grammar and punctuation errors. Spend the extra few minutes to read over emails, agendas, and other correspondence to check that everything is correct and save the later time and embarrassment of having to issue corrections or answer emails from confused recipients.


Turn on spell-check in the applications you use for documents, spreadsheets, and emails. Turn on this feature in your browser as well to catch any errors while typing on a webpage, especially when posting to the company’s website, social media accounts, or other official platforms.
 State your purpose for calling or emailing in as few words as possible. Ask direct questions and repeat your name, company, phone number, and email when needed. Provide a time by which you expect or hope to hear back from them so you can deal with communication efficiently.
 Make sure you’re on the same page and provide reminders by calling or emailing the day before or day-of to confirm appointments and other important engagements. Get back in touch with people you haven’t heard from by sending polite and succinct emails or phone messages to remind them you’re waiting on a response.

