 To lose weight, especially excess fat, you'll need to cut some calories out of your diet. You need this calorie deficit to help you lose weight and decrease excess fat from your chest area.Cutting out around 500-750 calories daily will generally result in about a 1-2 pound weight loss per week. This slower, more gradual weight loss is considered the safest and most easy to maintain long term.Get a rough idea of how many calories you currently consume on an average day. You may want to use an online program or smart phone app to help you get an accurate result.
Subtract the amount of calories you want to cut each day to get an estimate of your new daily calorie limit.
If you cut out more calories in addition to doing a lot of exercise or weight training, you may become fatigued, weak and have poor recovery.
 If you want to drop weight quickly and lose the excess fat in your chest, experts recommend adopting a low carb diet. Studies have shown this particular type of diet results in the quickest decrease in body fat.Carbs are found in a large variety of foods (you won't be able to limit them all). They're found in: grains, dairy foods, fruits, starchy vegetables and legumes.
Depending on how restrictive you want to be, you can limit or restrict a variety of these foods. However, it's not recommended to restrict all of these foods or you'd be eating a very, very limited diet which could result in deficiencies.Choosing to limit grains and some starchy vegetables is a good place to start. These are some of the foods with the highest amount of carbohydrates and the nutrients they provide are also available in other food groups.
Dairy does contain some carbohydrates but is an excellent source of protein and calcium and it can actually help with your weight loss.
Fruit is another higher carbohydrate food group, but comes with a lot of fiber, vitamins and antioxidants. Limit your servings, but it's not wise to completely cut fruit out. Choose whole fruit over fruit juice.
 Protein is an essential nutrient to your diet. In addition it'll help you lose weight, decrease excess fat and support any type of weight lifting routine you start.Protein is very satisfying and incorporating a serving at each meal and snack can help you feel more satiated throughout the day.One serving of protein is about 3-4 oz. This generally comes out to be the size of your palm or a check book.
Most men will get enough protein each day as long as they're including a serving at each meal and snack.
Stick to leaner sources of protein so you don't rack up a ton of calories throughout the day. Try: poultry, eggs, lean beef, seafood, low-fat dairy, tofu, beans, lentils, chickpeas, and pork.
 Vegetables are a very important food group. They are very low in calories, but are typically high in fiber, vitamins, minerals and antioxidants.Most men need several servings of vegetables each day. Aim for 4-5 servings daily.
One serving of vegetables is about 1 cup of denser items (like broccoli or tomatoes) and 2 cups of leafy greens (like salads).
To reach your daily goal, you'll most likely need to eat 1-2 servings per meal.
 Many junk foods (like chips or cookies), fast foods and other indulgent treats should be limited. These food generally carry extra fat and calories and will work against your weight loss attempts.


Skip fast foods or fried foods. Try to make more meals at home or order lighter options or low-calorie options if you need to stop by a fast food restaurant.
Limit sweet treats like sweetened beverages, cookies, candies or pastries. Grab a piece of fruit or have a very small serving of something sweet to take away your craving.
Beware of salty snacks like chips, crackers or pretzels. Eating a lot of these can add in calories and carbohydrates. Get your savory fix with some hummus and raw vegetables or a spoonful of peanut butter and an apple.
Consume your favorite foods or treats in moderation. It's not necessary to completely cut them out, but you should limit them if you're actively trying to lose weight.
 Drinking adequate water daily will help you with your weight loss and workouts. Be sure to avoid alcohol and other calorie laden beverages, like juice and soda. Drink water instead.


Most experts recommend drinking at least 8-13 glasses of water daily. If you're doing a hard workout or sweat a lot during your workout, you may need more than this.Drinking adequate water doesn't just keep your body hydrated. It also helps you distinguish between true hunger signals and thirst signals. The better hydrated you are, the more satisfied and less hungry you may feel throughout the day.