 The way you hold the neck of the guitar effects how long you can barre chords before your hand cramps and hurts. Anchor your thumb close the center-back of the neck and not over-the-top as if it was peeking from the fretboard. Placing your thumb in the center-back of the guitar's neck should help you with the proper form. The proper form will increase your hand’s stamina.Look at the angle of your arm and wrists. You will notice that the more acute the angle of your wrist, the less strength you have in that hand. Keep all your joints from your wrist to your fingers at natural rounded angles.
There isn’t a golden rule with hand placement. Jimi Hendrix held his guitar in a way that his thumb wrapped around the guitar. Do whatever makes you comfortable. In this example, you’d hold the guitar like a tennis racket.
 The proper finger placement helps your sound and your hand's stamina. Place your fingers close to the fret that is closest to the bridge, instead of placing your finger dead-center between the frets. This helps decrease the force needed to barre chords.


You should also get into the habit of arching each finger when playing notes or chords. This way your fingers don't touch other strings and hinder the sound., It is common to feel stressed and strained while playing the guitar. This is especially true for beginner guitarist. It is normal to feel pain when trying out a new guitar shape. When reaching for these tougher hand shapes, it’s important to take note of how the rest of your body is reacting. Make sure you have the proper fingering, then take a deep breath and let your shoulders rest.


Stiffness will only hinder a musician. Keep a relaxed posture to work the instrument into a natural position and feeling., When you are practicing the guitar for longer periods of time, make sure you take breaks. A good guitarist will take productive breaks to ensure the practicing mentality isn’t lost. Take a five minute break to drink water or go on a walk. Avoid sitting on the couch and watching TV on your break.


Maintain your desire to improve as a guitarist. Keep a musical biography around to keep you inspired.

