 While the DOT number application is relatively simple to fill out, it does require a somewhat substantial amount of time. As a result, you’ll need to make sure that you have enough time to complete it before you sit down and do so.


The Department of Transportation estimates that it takes one hour and twenty minutes to complete the DOT number application.
Completion of the application includes time for entering information, reading instructions, and reviewing your entries.;
, Before actually getting started, you’ll need to get all the required information together so you won’t have to stop and search for it while you are completing the application. The most critical information you’ll need is:


Your company’s employer Identification (EIN), tax identification number, or your Social Security number (if you own the business).
Your company’s Dun and Bradstreet Number (if you have it).
The names of your company’s officers and the titles of the officers., If you do not have a DOT number, you must apply for one online. This is the only method that new applicants can acquire a number.


Navigate to: https://www.fmcsa.dot.gov/registration.
Once you arrive at the website, read the directions and then click “TO GET STARTED CLICK HERE.”
You will be forwarded to another page with more information. Read it, scroll to the bottom of the page, and then click “To continue to the Unified Registration System, click here.”
Click whether you are a new applicant and proceed through several pages of directions and information.
If you already have a DOT number, you can renew it by printing the form at https://www.fmcsa.dot.gov/registration/registration-forms and mailing it to MC-RS, 1200 New Jersey Ave., SE Washington, DC 20590, United States., Once you’ve read the initial directions, you’ll be prompted to a screen where you will create an account. By creating an account, you’ll make it easier to access your application later and to track the progress of your application after you’ve finished it.You’ll be assigned a random applicant ID. For instance, “User 354262.”
Enter your password twice.
You’ll have to enter three security questions and answers.
Your account and application will be deleted if your application is not completed and submitted in 30 days after you begin it.
 The first section of the application is where you will provide your company’s identifying information. You’ll have to fill out every box to complete the form. This information includes:Your name or the name of your company.
The principal address associated with your business.
Your Dun & Bradstreet number, if you have one.
The company’s phone number, email address, and fax number.
Your social security number or the company’s IRS tax ID.
 You’ll also have to declare what operator classification you want. The classification gives the government an idea of who you will be conducting business for. Some classifications include:Private passenger
For hire
Federal government
State government
Indian tribe
Local mail

, Cargo classification indicates the type of cargo or freight you will be moving in your registered vehicle. Make sure to check all boxes that apply to your business. Some examples include:General freight
Household goods
Passengers
U.S. Mail
Farm supplies
Beverages

, You’ll also need to indicate whether you will be transporting hazardous materials. This is important, as the government tracks the transportation of certain classes of hazardous material.Indicate whether you are moving the material as a carrier, shipper, bulk shipper, or as non-bulk packages.
 After completing the online application, you’ll need to certify and sign the form. Without certifying and signing, your form will not be complete and you will not receive a DOT number. To certify and sign you must be:The owner of the enterprise
A partner in the enterprise
An authorized representative or official of the company
A holder of power of attorney for the applicant.
 After completing your application, you will be prompted to pay the filing fee for your DOT number. You will not be able to submit your application without payment.The fee is a one-time assessment. You will not have to pay annual fees.
You may need to pay minor fees if you have to change your DOT registration information. For example, if you need to change your name, you will be assessed $14.
You will not be refunded for any sort of mistake or erroneous application.
 Depending on the size and type of enterprise you are applying for, you may have to demonstrate that it is financially responsible. This is important, as accidents related to commercial shipping are associated with potentially large liabilities.This information must be filed electronically with the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration.
If required, financial responsibility must be certified before you will be granted a DOT number.
 If you’ll be moving hazardous waste between states or outside the country, you’ll need a DOT number. This is because the government tracks hazardous waste for public health and safety reasons.


For a list of hazardous materials and their classifications, visit: https://www.phmsa.dot.gov/staticfiles/PHMSA/DownloadableFiles/Files/Hazmat/Alphabetized_Hazmat_Table_Revised_Mar_2015.pdf


, (4,536 kg). If you operate a large enough vehicle between 2 states or outside the country, you’ll need a DOT number. Like with hazardous waste, the government issues DOT numbers to large commercial vehicles in the interest of protecting the public.If you are not sure of your vehicle’s weight, look in its manual, contact the manufacturer, or visit a commercial weigh station.
 If you drive a vehicle that transports more than 8 passengers for compensation, and that vehicle travels between 2 states or outside the country, you’ll need a DOT number.This number includes the driver – which means the driver and 7 passengers.
Compensation is defined as receiving a reward for doing something for someone else.
 Even if you don’t receive compensation, by operating a vehicle that transports more than 15 passengers, you’ll be obligated to obtain a DOT number.


This is only applicable if you travel between 2 states or outside the country.
This number includes the driver – which means the driver and 14 passengers.
 Most states require commercial vehicles to obtain a DOT number when operating within the state. By requiring a DOT number, the state creates an extra layer of regulation on commercial operators within its borders.

For a list of states that require commercial operators to obtain a DOT number, visit: https://www.fmcsa.dot.gov/registration/do-i-need-usdot-number


