 Whenever you have the urge to bite, do that instead. Some people like to drum their fingers, twiddle their thumbs, clasp their hands, put their hands in their pockets, or just stare at their hands. Just make sure it's not a bad habit; choose a helpful one or one that doesn't really matter either way.Carry a rubber band, penny, or something else to hold in your hands. Play with that constantly in place of biting your nails.
Distract your hands at times when you usually bite your nails, such as car rides, or when you're sitting in class. Find a new way to replace the habit depending on where you are. If you're in class, focus on writing extremely thorough notes. If you're in the passenger seat of a car, fiddle with your keys.
Try keeping an "egg" of Silly Putty with you. It is fun to play with and it occupies your hands during biting-prone times.
Try keeping a quarter or other coin in your pocket, and play with it when you feel the urge to bite your nails.
Plus, these don't involve eating or chewing on anything, so they will help break the habit of oral fixation.
 Not only will the new hobby keep you from biting your nails, but you could also discover a new passion at the same time.


A hobby to distract your hands might be making models or maintaining your house, knitting or crocheting, finger knitting, running, or other outdoor pursuits, or even nail care and decoration.
If you are artistic, try doing projects with clay or plaster. It gets all over your hands, and the flavor stays in your nails long after you wash off any visible mess. They both taste bad (clay tastes salty and can leave a slimy texture and plaster tastes chalky) and doing the projects will also keep your hands busy.
 Though you should avoid developing a serious new oral fixation, a few small tricks can keep your mouth busy and will cut down on the amount of time you spent biting your nails. Here are some things you can do:


Chew gum or suck on mints or candies throughout the day. Biting your nails will be tough if you're busy chewing gum or taking in the flavor of a delicious sucking candy. Also, the sensation of your bitten nails mixing with the flavor of minty gum or an orange-flavored candy will just be gross.
Snack small throughout the day. Though you should avoid snacking so much that you end up gaining weight, you should carry around healthy snacks like carrot sticks or celery so you can munch on them throughout the day.
Carry around a water bottle. Bring water with you wherever you go so you can always take a sip of water when you're having a weak moment.
 Putting nail polish on your nails may help to discourage you from nibbling on them since a vibrant color can catch your attention and snap you out of your nail-biting habit. You'll also have more motivation to avoid biting your nails since you won't want to ruin the nice appearance.


Chose a color you like so that you don't peel it off.
Get a design. This will make you not want to peel off the polish if you like the design.
Make polishing your nails a hobby. If you keep nail polish on long enough, your nails will have a chance to grow back!

