 Some adults scoff at the reward element that is inherent in most behavior charts, based on the notion that you’re simply bribing a child to do what they should be doing anyway. There is a difference, however.Bribes are offered (or demanded) on-the-spot as a “carrot”: “Fine, I’ll give you a dollar if you’ll just clean up your toys!”
Rewards are clearly established ahead of time, with a clear process toward earning them: “If you pick up your toys at the end of the day for a week, you will earn an extra hour of TV time.”

, While there is plenty of support among child development experts for the thoughtful use of behavior charts, there are also many advocates, professionals, and everyday parents who are opposed. They claim that these so-called “sticker charts” create “transactional relationships” in which every task must have a tangible, material value attached to it.Essentially, they say it eliminates the notion of doing something because it is the right thing to do, and encourages kids to instead ask “what’s in it for me?”.
Seek out all the advice and expertise you can, but ultimately it’s your decision as a parent whether or not behavior charts are right for your family.
 Should you choose to utilize behavior charts, stay actively involved in your child’s efforts to complete tasks and achieve rewards. Offer advice and encouragement, but don’t do the work for them. Remember, your best bet for short- and long-term success is to set clear, realistic goals; use simple, immediate rewards; and help your child develop problem-solving strategies to achieve their goals.For instance, work with your child to come up with ways to streamline the process of putting away their toys (perhaps by storing items by type) or doing their math homework (like setting up an orderly workspace and process for approaching the problems).
 When you think of offering rewards to kids, the first things to come to mind are probably material things like candy, toys, or money. In truth, though, social rewards like praise, fun activities, and time spent together are at least as desirable to kids and may reduce the “transactional” nature of the process.For small children, saying “You did such a good job cleaning your room — let’s go play whatever game you want” will have a deeper and more lasting impact than a lollipop. And, taking your younger teen to that concert they really want to attend can do more for your relationship than giving them money for new clothes.
That said, don’t make spending time with you something your kids need to earn by way of a behavior chart. Reward them by spending your time together doing something that will be particularly appealing to them.

