 Learning how to best direct your studies can help you improve your understanding of course material. If there's something you do not understand, focus on improving in that area. Identify where you need to improve in each class and direct your focus accordingly.It may be one particular subject that's giving you trouble. You may find history and English courses easy to understand, but falter slightly in your math class. In the coming weeks, make math your priority. Strive to raise your grades in this area.
It may also be one part of a particular course that stumps you. You may be doing great in genetics overall, but don't understand chapter 12 of your textbook. When studying for your upcoming exam, place a lot of energy mastering chapter 12.;
, Most professors will be happy to give you examples of past work. If there's a test or paper coming up, request a sample paper or sample test. Some classes actually provide information like this on a course website. These can be great resources to help you succeed academically.Many teachers keep old papers on hand to give students a writing model. If you can get some old papers, read them carefully and try to emulate their writing style. If your teacher does not have model papers, try asking someone else who previously took the class and earned a high mark if they still have their old papers.
A lot of teachers will be happy to present you with old tests as a study guide. However, do not simply memorize the questions and answers on old test, as a teacher is unlikely to simply repeat old material. Use them as more of a guide, giving you a sense of the type of questions that may be asked. Make a point of reviewing all course material before a test.
 If you're not understanding something, it may be a matter of how it's being explained. Everyone is different, and has a different learning language that works for them. If your professor or your textbook are leaving you baffled, look into outside course material. Maybe lecture notes from another professor, or an alternative textbook, can help you better grasp a particular subject.Textbooks are often chosen because the professors knows their writer. They are not always necessarily the best works. You can find supplemental reading online or at your library if you're not understanding something. An alternative text on the work may help you better grasp the material.
You can find a lot of course material for free online. Many professors will freely post things like PowerPoint presentations online, and you may even find recorded lectures on sites like YouTube. If you're not understanding the way your teacher explains something, see if another teacher can explain it better.
 If you want to understand something, cramming at the last minute will not help. Every day after your classes, review your notes and study a little. If you work on studying a small amount every day, this will help you retain the information longterm.Find a time when you can most easily study. Look for gaps in your schedule. Maybe you could study a bit in the morning on days you have a late class. Maybe you could study after lunch and before a class around 5 at night.
Stick to your routine as much as possible. There may be days where you have errands to run or a social engagement. Slipping from your routine won't be as big of a deal if you're usually stringent with it.
 There's nothing wrong with asking for help if you need it. You may find a certain subject is just not clicking with you, despite your efforts. You can ask your professor for help after class, hire a private tutor, or go to any resource centers available at your college.