 By playing sports with your kids, you’ll keep yourself fit and teach them a specific sport or activity. In addition, you’ll have fun. Ultimately, there really is no substitute to playing sports with your children.


Teach your kids to play your favorite sport, like baseball, football, or volleyball.
Ask them what they want to play. Say “Hey Johnny, let’s play something outside. What are you interested in?”
Don’t require your kids to play with you. Requiring them to play may have the opposite desired effect.
Avoid insulting or being overly critical when you play with your kids. There is a fine line between constructive teaching and being an overbearing parent. For example, never say something like “You’re never going to learn how to throw a ball properly, are you?”, There are a wide variety of competitions that parents can enter with their children. Ultimately, by competing together, you’ll bond and promote the idea that physical activity is beneficial.


Enter marathons together. For instance, you can both enter a charity marathon in your community together.
Join a parent-child sports league, like a tennis league.
Take a leading role in your child’s competitive life by coaching a team they play on. For example, if your child plays baseball, find out if you can be an assistant coach., Ultimately, your kids are going to model the way they behave off the way you behave. By showing yourself to be a person who is physically fit and active, you’ll give them a model for how they should live.


Exercise regularly. If your kids observe you running or working out on a regular basis, they’ll see that it’s a good habit.
Talk to them about how important it is to be physically active. Sit them down and say something like “Jill, I know you’ve been watching TV a lot lately, but it is very important to be physically active.”
Avoid watching a lot of TV or spending excessive non-work related time on the computer. For example, limit your screen time to less than an hour or two per night., Family time is also a great way to keep your kids physically active. Thus, make sure to regularly schedule time that your whole family can be active together.


Reserve time every week or every other week for an outdoor family activity.
Have your family go hiking in a park or forest near you.
Plan family camping or white water rafting trips together on the weekend. This is a great way to get the whole family to bond and to be physically active.