 If you want to make friends, there are a few tips you can follow to increase your chances of success. In general, people like to talk about themselves. So, as a rule-of-thumb, you can connect with others by asking them their stories.

Opt for open-ended questions or statements that allow the person to share as much as they like as opposed to questions which lead to simple "yes" or "no" answers. You might ask at an event, "So, how do you know the host?" or "What kinds of things do you do for fun?", In addition to being able to strike up the conversation and get people talking, you also need to be an active listener. Make occasional eye contact, nod in agreement, and use sounds to prompt the person to continue talking.Engaged listeners make great friends because many people often want to vent their problems or share their points of view. Practice being fully engaged while you are listening and be ready to respond with a statement that summarizes what you just heard.
For example, you might say, "It sounds like you had a really rough day" to sum it up after the speaker is done talking.
 Vulnerability is a necessary and truly beautiful ingredient in a friendship. Self-disclosure is one of the many things that distinguish friends from acquaintances. You might tell your friend about your parent's divorce, but you may not share that info with a random person. Make a minor self-disclosure to show the person that you trust them.Think of something small you can share with the other person about yourself like "I had a pretty rough term last school year. My parents got divorced." Then, see how they handle it to determine if the friendship goes any further.
 If you're ready to take your connection with someone to the friendship stage, you'll have to be willing to take a risk. If you and a potential friend have been hanging out in a group setting, invite the person to a one-on-one outing. This shows that you would like to get to know them beyond the group.

Say, "Hey, you seem really cool. Would you like to catch a movie together this Saturday?"