 Any web browser can quickly save the webpage that you are currently visiting. You will then be able to open this webpage at any time, even if you're offline. If you want to save an entire website, with all of the associated pages, click here., All browsers have the ability to save a webpage, along with all of the media on it. You can quickly open this window by pressing Ctrl/⌘ Cmd+S, or by doing the following:


Chrome - Click the Chrome Menu button (☰) and select "Save page as".
Internet Explorer - Click the Gear button, select "File", and then "Save as". If you don't see the Gear button, press Alt to show the menu bar, click "File" and then select "Save as".
Firefox - Click the Firefox Menu button (☰) and select "Save Page".
Safari - Click the "File" menu and select "Save As".
 By default, the file will be named the same as the title of the page.
 After saving, you'll find the page's HTML file here, as well as a folder containing all of the media from the page if you choose to save the complete page.
 In the "Save as type" menu, you can choose between "Webpage, Complete" or "Webpage, HTML Only". Saving the complete page will download all of the media on the page into a separate folder. This will allow you to see the pictures if you're offline.


Internet Explorer users can select "Web Archive, single file (*.mht)". This is a Microsoft format that stores all of the webpage's data in a single archive file. These .mht files can only be easily opened in Internet Explorer, but can make archiving lots of webpages much simpler.
 You'll find an HTML file in the location that you specified. Double-clicking it will open the saved page in your default web browser, even if you're offline.


Make sure you always keep the associated media folder in the same location as the .html file. If they aren't in the same location, the webpage won't load any images.
If you're offline and the page you saved has streaming video, the video will not load until you connect to the internet again.

