 Crutches require significant arm and upper body strength. In some cases, crutches may not be appropriate for you. If you do not have good arm and upper body strength, or if you have a hand or wrist injury as well as a leg injury, crutches may not work for you.Ask your doctor what she recommends.


For people who have had total knee or hip replacement surgery, or have significant balance problems, walkers offer more stability than crutches do.Walkers or wheelchairs may be more appropriate for the elderly.If you have nerve damage or visual impairment, crutches may not be the best choice for you.
Using crutches requires learning new gait patterns, or how to walk. If you have cognitive impairment, your doctor may recommend a walker or wheelchair instead.
 Underarm crutches have a pad that is held under the arm. These are commonly prescribed, but they are usually meant for temporary use rather than long-term. Long-term use of underarm crutches can cause nerve damage or shoulder tendinitis. In addition, there are several other less-often prescribed crutches that might fit your particular needs:


Forearm/elbow crutches – Crutches with an open cuff that grips the user’s forearm. They are more difficult to master and require more strength, but also offer more control over your movement and are preferred for active patients or long-term users who will have time to build the necessary strength. They are also more comfortable as the cuff takes pressure off the wrist. People with cerebral palsy commonly use this type of crutch.
Strutter crutches – These are a patented type of crutch similar to underarm crutches, but with a larger base to provide greater stability. They may make it more comfortable and easy to walk.Platform crutches – For users with a weak grip. These crutches allow uses to strap their arm to the crutches in a position that keeps their hand resting on the handle.
Hands free crutch – This crutch is for people with injuries below the knee. It straps to your knee when your leg is bent and acts as a peg-leg, allowing you to walk with your hands free. These crutches are usually not covered by insurance unless your doctor indicates you cannot use traditional crutches.
 Most crutches have a rubber tip that takes your weight and prevents slipping. Always make sure the tip is unbroken. If you will be using the crutches for a long time or plan to be very active with them, consider crutches with a flexible tip or a spring-loaded tip that makes walking easier., The handle is where you will put all your weight when you walk, so it needs to be comfortable. Padded ones are generally preferable. If you will be using crutches for a long time, consider purchasing ones with ergonomically shaped handles that fit your left and right hands., Only purchase crutches that are adjustable.Your crutches should be the correct height to ensure you can walk with upright posture and not put too much pressure on your wrists.Underarm crutches – When wearing shoes, the pad at the top of the crutch should be an inch or two below your armpit when the tip of the crutch is resting on the floor about 2 inches in front of your toes. The handgrip should allow for a slight bend (about 15°) of your elbow when standing normally.
Forearm crutches – When wearing shoes, place your arm in the crutch. When correctly adjusted, the tip of the crutch should rest on the floor when you bend your elbow (about 30 degrees) so that the crease of your wrist is level with your hips.

