 The rules for proper patent filings are complex, and the United States Patent and Trademark Office (USPTO) encourages applicants to seek the help of a registered patent attorney or patent agent.An attorney or an agent is critical at every stage of the application process. They can help you draft appropriate claims, negotiate with the examiner, and then appeal any denial.
Only registered attorneys or agents may prosecute a patent application with the USPTO. Should a lawsuit arise concerning the patent, only an attorney can represent you in court.To find a registered attorney or agent, you can visit this USPTO directory. Search by zip code to find attorneys or agents near you.;
, Only the inventor, or a person to whom the inventor has assigned or is under an obligation to assign the invention, may patent it, with a few exceptions.If the inventor of the product is deceased, the estate’s legal representative may patent the product.
If the inventor of the product is legally incapacitated, his or her legal representative (Guardian/Conservator) may patent the product, on the inventor’s behalf.
If the inventor refuses to patent the product or cannot be located, a joint inventor may patent the product on behalf of him or herself and the non-signing co-inventor.
 A product is patentable only if it is new according to the definition given by U.S. patent law. A product is not considered new if: it was patented, described in a printed publication, or in public use, on sale, or otherwise available to the public before the patent's effective filing date.
it was described in a patent issued in the U.S. or in an application for patent published in the U.S., in which the application or patent names another inventor and was filed before the filing date of the claimed invention.
the effective filing date is the actual filing date of the non-provisional U.S. patent application.
 In order to be patented, the invention must be “useful,” which is defined as having a useful purpose. In order to satisfy this standard, the invention must actually work or operate. In other words, a machine that cannot perform its intended purpose is not useful and cannot be patented., A change in color or alteration in size would not qualify for a patent., Before completing a patent application, you will need to do a patent search to ensure that your invention has not already been invented and patented. Follow this process: Come up with keywords related to the purpose, use, and composition of your invention. Ask yourself what the invention does, what the end result of using it is, and what it is made of. For example, if you invented a water bowl for dogs that contains a heating element so the water does not freeze when left outside, you might choose keywords such as bowl, dish, dog, cat, animals, electric, heating element, warming, and controlling temperature.
Look up your keywords in the Index to the U.S. Patent Classification to find possible classes and/or subclasses. Using the dog bowl example, you might first click on the letter “A” (under the HTML version) and scroll down to find the word “animal.” Under “animal,” you will find “watering devices,” with a class of 119 and a subclass of 72.
Click through to see similar subclasses. You can search in PDF or in HTML. Choose HTML. In the HTML results, you can click through by clicking on a subcategory. For example, if you clicked on 72, then you will be brought to a list of similar subclasses. You will see under subcategory 72, “watering or liquid feed device,” similar subcategories, such as 73, “Temperature-controlling.”
Read the classification definitions for all of the subclasses you have located that may be relevant to your invention. You can do this by, once again, clicking on the number in HTML format. Eliminate any subclasses that no longer seem relevant based on the definition.
Click on the red “P” beside any subclass to see patents that have been issued under that subclass. Also, click the blue “A” beside any subclass to see applications filed under the subclass.
Prior patents may also be searched by “Current US Classifications” in the Issued Patents and Published Applications database. Additional databases can be located on the USPTO’s Search for Patents webpage. Enter classifications using the “class/subclass” format. For example, to search for animal water-feeding devices, enter 119/72. This will pull up a list of patents.
Review each prior patent or patent application. Be sure to review each one individually in order to determine if it is relevant to your search. Keep in mind that the title of the patent may not be accurate. The first page of each patent contains the title, description, and image of the patent, and can be reviewed first, in order to determine if you should continue to read the patent document.
Check each relevant patent or patent application’s references for more patents that are similar and are referenced by the current patent.
 In addition to searching yourself, you may also hire someone else to search for you. Be sure to check for the price before hiring.


Patent attorney. You will want to hire someone registered with the PTO. Attorneys who are listed with the PTO pass a PTO examination and have certain minimum academic credentials.University Intellectual Property departments. The IP department of a local university may be able to help you. Staff employed at the university may be able to assist you for a fee in your patent search.Patent search firms. You can find them by doing a web search for “patent search firm” or by looking in your yellow pages. Be sure to ask for references because some search firms are not legitimate., There are 3 types of patents.Utility patent. A utility patent is a patent issued to someone who discovers or invents a new and useful process, machine, article of manufacture, composition of matter, or any new and useful improvement to the same. Whereas a design patent protects the way something looks, a utility patent protects how something works.
Design patent. A design patent is one that is granted to someone who invents a new, original, ornamental design for an article of manufacture. The patent protects only the appearance, not structural or functional design features.
Plant patent. A plant patent may be granted to someone who discovers or creates and asexually reproduces any distinct and new variety of plant.
 These guides include information on what you will need to file a complete application. They also include examples of acceptable drawings.


For the Design Patent Application guide, visit here.
For the Utility Patent Application guide, visit here.
For the Plant Patent Application guide, visit here.
 You can file either a provisional or non-provisional application.


In a provisional application, you provide only a description of the invention and include possibly a drawing of it.The patent will not be reviewed, but it will be given a filing date. The purpose of a provisional application is to secure as early a filing date as possible but then to take a year to discover if the invention is commercially viable.There are many benefits to a provisional application. For example, it has a much lower filing fee than a non-provisional patent application. You also do not need to include as much information, so it is easier to prepare.Furthermore, filing a provisional application allows you to use the “patent pending” notice, which can help deter infringement. Also, a provisional application extends the patent term. A patent lasts for 20 years. By filing the provisional application, you can effectively extend the term of the patent to 21 years.A provisional application also is not published, which helps you maintain the confidentiality of your invention as you test for commercial viability.A non-provisional application requires a much more detailed description as well as drawings.Once it is complete and has been filed, the USPTO will begin examining it.
 To apply online, you may register as a user of the USPTO’s electronic filing system, or EFS-Web. To register, just follow the instructions provided on the USPTO’s Getting Started—New User page.


Full technical support is available by calling 866-217-9197 (toll free) from 6 a.m. to Midnight Eastern Standard Time, Monday through Friday.You may also email ebc@uspto.gov.
Although you do not have to file electronically, you will have to pay an additional non-electronic fee to file a paper application., You may need to submit a pen-and-ink drawing of your invention if a drawing is necessary to show how it works.For example, you would need a drawing to show a mechanical process, such as an engine. But you wouldn’t need a drawing to show how a computer program works.


Photographs are not acceptable substitutes.You should hire a professional draftsman. They charge $75-150 per sheet.The draftsman should provide free revisions, if those revisions are requested by the USPTO., Claims are the critical part of a non-provisional patent application. (They are not necessary to the provisional application.)A claim defines the limits of what a patent covers.Another way to think of a claim is that it will exclude others from making, using and selling only what is claimed.Thus, if a substance is claimed as a binding agent, the inventor cannot exclude those who would use the substance as a flavoring substance.


A product may have several claims, each of which will be evaluated by the patent examiner.
Claims are written as sentence fragments.Here is the claim for concrete: “A rigid building and paving material comprising a mixture of: (a) sand and stones, and (b) a hardened cement binder filling the interstices between and adhering to sand and stones, whereby a hardened, rigid, and strong matrix for building and paving will be provided.”To write a claim, think about all the various components of your product and how they relate and interconnect. You can begin with this template: “A comprising: and .”, You may file a provisional application for utility or plant patents but not design patents.A completed application will require a cover sheet, which may be downloaded and then filled out using a typewriter or a pen. The form is here.


If you have questions then you should contact the Inventors Assistance Center toll free at 1-800-786-9199, Monday through Friday 8:30 am to 5:00 pm, or by email at IndependentInventor@uspto.gov.
 The cover sheet requires much less information than a non-provisional application. You are not required to have a formal patent claim or an oath or declaration. Nor should you include any information disclosure statement.Instead, you will need to provide:


The given names of the inventors and their place of residence (city and either state or foreign country).
A correspondence address for the firm or individual to contact.
Name and registration number of attorney or agent and docket number (if applicable).
Title of the invention.
Identification of any U.S. Government agency that has a property interest in the application.
Signature and date.
 You must provide a written description (the “specification”) of the invention.Be sure to explain how all of the parts work and don’t leave anything out. If you leave something out, then these omissions or inaccuracies could leave you without protection.An adequate description should describe the invention so a person of ordinary skill could understand it (i.e., make and use it).
Also, you should disclose the best mode.Claims are not required in a provisional application.Include drawings, if necessary. Although you are not required to include any drawings, you should include them if they are necessary for understanding the invention. They are probably necessary in most cases., You may file your provisional application either electronically or by mail. To file online, you should visit the EFS-Web Guidance and Resources webpage.


Provisional applications may be mailed to: Commissioner for Patents, P.O. Box 1450, Alexandria, VA 22313-1450.
 A completed provisional application must also include the filing fee. The standard filing fee for a provisional application is $260.If you qualify as a “small entity,” then you will pay $130. A “small entity” is an individual, a small business having no more than 500 employees, a university, or a nonprofit. A small entity must declare its status when paying the fee. However, you cannot declare “small entity” status if you are obligated to license your patent to an entity that wouldn’t qualify as a small entity.Those who qualify as “micro-entities” pay $65. A “micro entity” is a small entity that has not been named as the inventor in a total of more than 4 non-provisional patents. Also, the applicant must have had a gross income in the previous year of less than 300% of the median household income. (In 2014 the threshold was $155,817.)Alternately, a “micro entity” is someone whose majority of employment income comes from an institution of higher learning or who will assign the patent to an institution of higher learning.For questions about fees, call 1-800-786-9199.
 After 12 months, the pendency period expires and the provisional application becomes abandoned.A provisional patent does not mature into a non-provisional application. Rather, the applicant must submit additional information that constitutes a non-provisional application., You may complete the application online or by printing off forms. A complete non-provisional application will consist of:


Transmittal letter. You always need to include a transmittal letter whenever you send something to the USPTO. For a utility patent, use this transmittal form. For a design patent, use this transmittal form. For a plant application, use this form. Use this form for all subsequent communications.
Fee transmittal form. It is available here.
Application data sheet. You must fill out this form.
Oath or declaration. You must include declarations that you are the inventor. You may use this form if you are submitting an application for a design or utility patent. If you are submitting a plant patent, then use this form.
 The specification is the written description of your invention. It includes the title (as heading on the first page), a background and summary of your invention, a detailed description of the invention, your claims, and an abstract of the disclosure.Your title should be as specific and short as possible. After titling the invention, you must list cross-references to related applications.The Background of the Invention should include a statement about the field of endeavor to which the invention pertains. Also, if your invention is a response to specific problems in prior inventions or the state of technology, you should state them.The Brief Summary of the Invention should present the substance or idea of the claimed invention. You can note the advantages of the invention and how it solves existing problems, in particular problems identified in the Background.The Detailed Description should explain how to make and use the invention. It should be sufficiently detailed that a person of ordinary skill in the field could make and use the invention without extensive experimentation. Include a description of each element in the drawings as well.Put your claims on a separate sheet of paper. Number each claim individually. Here is an example from the USPTO. You must include at least 1 claim.The Abstract of Disclosure should be a paragraph, of about 150 words, which should explain what is new in the invention., The specification must be printed either on 8.5x11” white paper or DIN size A4 white paper, with a 1 inch margin on the left and a ¾ inch margin on all other sides. The text should be double-spaced. You should number the pages at the bottom of the page, in the center. Also number each paragraph (e.g., , ).The paper should not have holes in it and should not be “glossy” paper., You must take great care when creating an application. You are not allowed to continue to add to your invention throughout the application process. The original filing must include 100% of everything that goes into the invention.If you need to add to the invention, you will have to start all over with the application process.If you are unsure of how to phrase a claim or whether your drawings are complete, you should contact a registered patent attorney.
 A complete non-provisional application should be assembled in this order:Transmittal letter
Fees
Application Data Sheet
Specification
Drawings
Executed Oath or Declaration
Any chemical sequence listing, tables, or computer listings (if necessary)

, Once you have become a registered user of the EFS-Web system, you can file your patent application online by entering your digital certificate and password here. As a registered user, you will be able to save your application in order to complete it later, as well as send follow-up documents via the online system, and review the status of your application at any time.


Alternately, you can mail your application. Each form will list the address at the end telling you where to mail it.
 Once your patent has been approved, you will need to pay the issue and publication fees. For information about how to pay the fees, and how much each fee is, visit the USPTO’s Fee Information page.


Small entities and micro-entities qualify for a reduced fee, just as they did if they filed a provisional application.
 After receiving your application, the USPTO will check to make sure it is complete. If it is missing anything, you will receive a Notice of Missing Parts or Notice of Omitted Items.A Notice of Missing Parts is sent when a necessary part of the application is missing, such as the filing fee or the declaration. Your Notice of Missing Parts will include a deadline for you to meet as well as the fee you must pay to have your material accepted.A Notice of Omitted Items will be sent when you refer to something in the application that has not been including in the filing.Typically, this happens when you leave a page out of the specification.
 After receiving a complete application, the examiner will do an intensive review of the proposed invention to see that it qualifies for protection. In this phase, the USPTO examiner will tell you what claims are accepted and what are rejected. The examiner can also make suggestions as to how to refine your claims in order to get approval. You then have the option of trying to persuade the agent to accept the patent.


The first thing you will hear from the patent office is a First Office Action on the Merits (FOAM) notice. In this notice, the patent examiner will tell you what she thinks is patentable and what is not.
You will have the chance to respond. You must respond to every objection raised and try to convince the examiner to change his or her mind, but you cannot change the patent application by adding new material to the patent that causes it to deviate from the original application.The timing of your response will determine whether or not you have to pay a fee. You have six months to respond to the FOAM. However, the examiner will also set a “shortened statutory period.” This period may be 1-3 months. If you want to respond outside this shortened period, you have to pay for an automatic extension.After you respond, the examiner will then either accept your argument and approve the patent or issue a Second Office Action. You can respond to this notice as well, but the examiner has the ability to issue a final rejection after this point.After final rejection, you cannot continue to try to convince the examiner to change her mind. You may, however, adopt any suggestions she has made as to how to refine your claims so that they will be accepted.Successful prosecution can be lengthy. On average, the USPTO takes 24 months to approve applications and issue patents., Utility patents require maintenance fees. After it has been issued, you will need to maintain it by paying maintenance fees 3-3 ½ years after the issue date, 7-7 ½ years after issue, and 11 ½- 12 years after the issue date.For complete information about paying maintenance fees, see the USPTO’s Maintain your Patent page.


Design and plant patents do not require maintenance fees., Some or all of your claims may be denied. You then face a choice as to how to respond.


You may choose to file a Continuation or a Continuation in Part. When you choose this option, the allowed claims will issue and you will effectively start a new application on the claims that the examiner did not allow. Accordingly, you must start an application over from the beginning.You may also choose to file a Request for Continuing Examination (RCE). The advantage of the RCE is that you do not have to start all over. Unlike a Continuation, however, your allowed claims will not immediately issue.This means that you will not yet have legal rights even in the allowed claims.
 You can file a Notice of Appeal and pay a fee. You will have to file a brief and possibly attend a hearing.At this point you will need to think about costs. An appeal to the PTAB will probably require an attorney who is experienced in drafting a legal brief and making convincing legal arguments. It may be more cost-effective to simply start over with a new patent application.
PTAB appeals can take several years., As a final step, you can seek review of the PTAB decision in the Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit or you can sue the USPTO Commissioner in federal district court for the District of Columbia.The Federal Circuit affirms the USPTO decisions about 50% of the time.Attorneys recommend appeals only if there is an identifiable error the USPTO has made and which it has refused to correct.