 Almost any jewelry shop that buys jewelry will be willing to purchase yours, provided it's in fairly decent condition. The jeweler will usually pay you up to 40 percent of the gold's current scrap price for gold jewelry, and if the piece itself is signed by a maker such as Tiffany's or another designer, they may pay you more for the jewelry itself instead of only paying you for the metal and the gems. It is best to talk to several jewelers before making a final sale, however, to ensure that you get the best offer. Be aware that most jewelry stores buy jewelry based on scrap prices, not the selling price of gold, so you will likely get approximately 1/10th to 1/7th the selling value of the item. Unless it has a tremendous provenance or value do not expect a very high return when selling vintage jewelry., Create a listing for your jewelry on an auction website, free online classifieds website, or on a website that specializes in the sale of vintage or antique goods. Be sure to include plenty of pictures and to mention any certification that the jewelry has. Also make sure to sell a piece for a cost that is comparable with other similar pieces being sold on the same website.


Set up shop on your own if you have a lot of jewelry to sell. You can create your own webpage fairly easily, and it might be a better option for you if you have a large supply of antique jewelry that you plan on selling on a long-term basis.
 If you are unable to find a buyer interested in your jewelry as a wearable piece, you may need to sell it as scrap. Mail-away gold-buying operations allow you to send your gold in and will send a check back to you in return, but while this is convenient, it pays the least of any of your options. So only do a "Gold Party" or Mail Order envelope as a last resort. Meanwhile, many coin shops are willing to purchase gold jewelry if it is pure enough, though, and will usually pay a higher price.


If your jewelry is in bad shape but the gems are in good condition, a jeweler may be interested in acquiring the piece so that the gems can be removed and reused in another piece, but this does not often happen.
 Pawn shops will test the jewelry to make sure that its metals and gemstones are real, and if everything is valuable, they are usually willing to buy the piece at fraction of it's value, it's how they make money, by buying pieces of jewelry for as little as possible. It is a quick way to make a little money, and as an added benefit, if you change your mind a day or two later, you can return to the pawn shop and buy it back (with interest).

