 To do so, press the Xbox button on the right side of the console.

You can also hold down the Xbox button in the middle of a connected controller to turn on the Xbox One.;
, To do so, simply flick the left analog stick left while on the Home screen., It's the person-shaped icon in the top-left corner of the screen., This option is below any existing account name., This option is to the left of any existing accounts., You'll do so in the text field to which this page opens.

If you don't already have an Xbox LIVE ID, create one before continuing.
 It's a button near the center of your controller.,,, If you'd rather skip through the setup, simply press A until you arrive at the "Xbox Live Gold" screen., You'll see three options:


1 Month Xbox Live Gold - This option costs $9.99.

3 Month Xbox Live Gold - This option costs $24.99.

12 Month Xbox Live Gold - This option costs $59.99 and is the best value.
You can also select Use a code at the bottom of the screen to enter a prepaid code, or you can select No thanks to add a Gold membership later.
 This will take you to the payment page. If this is your first time using a card on this account, you'll just see a button that says Get started! here.

If you've added a card to this account before, skip the next step.
 and press A. Doing so will take you to a page with two payment options:


Credit card or debit card - This option will require you to enter your credit or debit card number, security code, name, and expiration date.

PayPal - If you have a PayPal account linked to your bank account, you can pay for Xbox LIVE through PayPal.
If you've already set up your card or PayPal account on this page, skip to the checkout step.
 Doing so will take you to the payment entry page., For a debit or credit card, this will entail the card's details.

If you selected PayPal, you'll need to log into PayPal to verify your identity.
 Doing so will purchase your selected amount of Xbox Live Gold and apply it to your Xbox LIVE account.