 The typical dosing is limited to a total of 3000 mg in a 24 hour period;follow the specific dosing instructions on the bottle, and pay attention to dose adjustments (to smaller amounts) for children.


Another over-the-counter pain control medication that you can try is Ibuprofen (Advil). Follow the dosing instructions on the bottle, which is typically 400mg every four to six hours as needed. Again, you will want to adjust the dosing for children.
 Many lozenges contain anti-microbial properties to help fight off infection, as well as anesthetic (numbing) properties to help diminish the pain of a sore throat. Do not take more lozenges per day than the number recommended on the label.


Another way to soothe sore throat pain is to try a saltwater gargle, which can be done several times a day.
 Therefore, it is key to consume at least eight to ten 8-ounce cups of water per day, and more if you are feeling thirsty. A fever also worsens dehydration, so it is important to make an effort to stay adequately hydrated.
 If your throat swab comes back positive for Group A Strep, or if you have the characteristic rash of scarlet fever, it is important to follow through with a full course of antibiotic treatment for a number of reasons. These include:


Antibiotics will help your symptoms to clear up faster, and will help your immune system to fight off the infection.Treatment with antibiotics will diminish the risk of your infection spreading to others.
Most importantly, completing the full course of antibiotics, even if you appear to be getting better on your own, is key to preventing antibiotic-resistant bacterial strains from developing.
The biggest risk with scarlet fever is not the infection itself, but rather, the risk of long-term complications.
 Potential long-term complications of scarlet fever include:


Kidney disease
More serious skin infections
Pneumonia
Rheumatic fever (an inflammatory disease that can lead to valvular damage of the heart that leads to heart failure)Ear infections
Arthritis in your joints
Throat abscesses (serious infections in the throat area that can be very difficult to treat)

