 Mutual trust is founded in respect and loyalty toward each other. Strive to understand and respect your differences. Share and clarify your differing perspectives, and try to empathize with each other's point of view.


In some cases, it is better to simply agree to have differences of opinion, or your own ways of doing things. We're all different, and that's okay. You wouldn't want to be dating yourself, would you?
Pressuring your partner to do something that they really don't want to do, or neglecting or abusing them (whether emotionally, verbally, physically, or sexually) hurts your ability to trust and rely on one another.
Be able to trust each other in everything, keeping private your partner's innermost secrets, fears, and struggles. Help your partner overcome them.
When you say you'll do something, follow through. Keep your word. Realize that fulfilling simple, basic commitments every day lays the foundation of trust that extends to more challenging situations.
 Carve out time doing relationship-building activities. Really get to know each other and build a connection between you that's strong and enduring. Talk on the phone nearly every day, and try to see each other at least 2-4 times per week.
 Spend time by yourself pursuing hobbies. Just ensure that no other relationship or pursuit crowds out your partner from being your first priority.


Focus on loving yourself. If you love yourself, your partner is invited to love you more. Do things for yourself that demonstrate your self-respect.
Don't neglect your friends. A lot of people enter relationships and then neglect their friends, feeling lonely when if/when the relationship ends. Don't forsake your friends; they'll help you discover yourself or stay grounded while you're in the relationship.
Don't neglect your partners' friends. You can better understand the person though her/his friends. You might not like all of them, but you should never push your partner into a choice between you and them. There must be a reason why she/he chose those people, try to find it and build up a relationship with them based on that positive aspect of their character.
 Be there through the good, happy, sad, and bad times—no matter what. Be emotionally available when your partner needs it. We go through a lot of turmoil and difficulty in our regular lives; knowing that your loved one is there to comfort, reassure, and encourage you makes the process a whole lot easier.


Listen. Sometimes, all we need is someone who listens to our troubles or is kind enough to sit through our rant. It's simple but profound.
If your partner resists your attempts to comfort them and doesn't want to talk about it, ease off of the subject and wait until they seem to be in a better mood before returning to it.
 This is a form of abuse. If your partner speaks to you, reply with compassion. Never stay silent and avoid them.


Recognize the patterns of a manipulative relationship. If you find manipulative patterns in your relationship, seriously consider whether you and your partner can overcome them, and how detrimental they are to the relationship. Sadly, most manipulative relationships stay manipulative. Here are some signs to be on the lookout for:

Does your partner make you feel guilty when confronted about his/her behavior? Does s/he deflect criticism by saying that you don't love enough, don't do enough, don't help enough?
Does your partner shame or intimidate you in getting something they want? Does your partner then try to pass off insulting remarks as jokes, criticizing you when you take them seriously?
Does your partner rationalize every part of their bad behavior with justifications that are slightly off? Are they long on excuses but short on changes?
Does your partner deny ever doing anything wrong by playing innocent? Are they incapable of acknowledging mistakes by flat out denying that mistakes happened?



, Your wants and needs are just as important as your partner's. If you give nothing of yourself, then you'll get nothing in return. Ask yourself, for big and small decisions alike, if:


Your decision is good for both you and the relationship. A decision that's good for you but bad for the relationship obviously doesn't make things easy.
Your decision is good in the short term but bad in the long run. You might want instant gratification for the relationship, but if it's unlikely to help the relation in the long run, consider other possibilities.
Your decision is good for your partner but bad for you. Thinking of your partner can only happen when you take care of yourself. Don't consistently make concessions for your partner if they aren't willing to make some for you.
 Your in-laws or your partner's parents can be hard to deal with, but if you want a relationship with your spouse/partner, you'll need to have a relationship with them.


Don't try to find fault. We've eager to dismiss the blemishes of our own parents but point out the blemishes of our partner's. Try to break this cycle. Give both sets of parents the benefit of the doubt before your judge them.
Go with the flow. Resist the need to be completely in control with your in-laws. Try things their way. Be accommodating. Bend with the wind, don't break!

, Don't compare your relationship to anyone else's—not your parents or other family members, friends, coworkers, that couple whose relationship seems perfect, etc. Every couple makes their own love rules, love agreements, love habits, love routines, and so on. Just focus on you two and making your relationship the best that it can be.

