 Read some Wikihow articles for scene looks and trends. Find out how scene kids look, act, and talk. Also, Urban Dictionary is a good website for some ideas about what a scene girl is. But note that many of Urban Dictionary's definitions for scene kids are stereotypes, that are often offensive and written by people who make fun of scene because they don't understand it. So be careful.;
, Scene hair is often choppy, slightly roughly cut and full of layers. You can go to your nearest salon and show them a picture of your favorite scene hairstyle and ask them to cut your hair like that. Bangs are always a part of a scene haircut, whether it's straight across or a side "fringe". Also, make sure you have the tools to work with your new hair after you get it styled. These tools include: heat protectant to keep your hair from frying when using hot tools, a ceramic flat iron to straighten and give your hair that choppy/feathery scene look, hairspray in case your hair is frizzy, and a good moisturizing shampoo and conditioner to make sure your hair stays healthy throughout the styling process. Keep your hair a pretty, natural color instead of dying it bright (remember, you're going for a natural scene look).
 Scene makeup varies from very light, to very edgy and heavy. For a natural scene makeup look, go easy on the colors. You'll want to keep your makeup nude and natural. Use a light cover up and foundation for blemishes and making sure your skin tone is evened out. Eyeshadow should be light or natural as well. Instead of using black for a smokey scene eye look, blend dark brown (it looks better anyway) shadow into the outer corners of your eyes. Apply a light cream eyeshadow or eyeliner to the inner corners of your eyes to make them look brighter and more awake. Use eyeliner sparingly and only on the top and outer bottom corners of your eyes to give you a sexy cat-eye look. Use mascara only on the outer corners of your lashes. Remember, the idea is to keep it dark but not too dark. Scene makeup tends to look too goth when you use colors like black, red, and harsh white. Use a color of blush that matches the color you naturally flush after running or blushing. Keep your lips nude with chapstick, rosy pink, or clear/nude glossy. When doing your eyebrows, it's best to go with a powder rather than a gel or a liner. Using a flat angled brush, lightly fill in your eyebrows with a shade of eyeshadow or brow powder that's three shades lighter than your natural hair color if you're dark-haired, OR three shades darker if you're blonde or fair-haired. Also for a really natural look you could try just wearing a light color eyeshadow, with mascara and a rosy or clear lipgloss.
 Places to consider shopping at are: American Apparel, Forever21, Urban Outfitters, and thrift stores (yes, even Goodwill). When browsing the clothing selection, try to pick out colors that emphasize your eye color and skin color. Stay away from anything too gaudy (i.e. Hello Kitty, rhinestones, glitter) and remember that basics are always trendy, simple, and inexpensive. For pants, go with skinny jeans or cigarette skinny jeans. Also, keep in mind that when you pair natural/bohemian with scene, you border on indie. Shoes to consider purchasing are: Converse, Vans, Keds, flats, flat-heeled boots, gladiator sandals, and ankle boots.
 Trendy facial piercings include: lip rings, monroes, septum piercings (bull nose ring piercing), and nose rings/studs, nose piercings being especially popular. Often times, other facial piercings receive bad rep and can make you look trashy. Keep the actual piercing itself small and minimal using a small silver ring or a small silver stud. Scene girls also often have gauged ears. Google pictures of gauged ears to browse different types of gauges and plugs.
 What images do you get when you think of scene girls? Partying? Tons of friends? Great style? When you get the look, often the friends come with it. People are naturally attracted to others that have good style. Don't try too hard when trying to make friends. Start out by talking about similar music interests or similar fashion interests. When you are at a party, have fun and don't drink or smoke too much. Everyone loves a party animal but no one loves a sloppy drunk.
 You can still listen to artists you may like that major scene kids like, but your music should kind of go along with your style. Some artist you may like are The Ready Set, Owl City, Miniature Tigers, etc. Maybe some light screamo here and there.

