 Any well-designed room starts with walls, because they set off the whole feel of the room. Pick a Taylor-ish color. Calm blue, bright purple, soft pink, or even white. Just make it Taylor-ish. Some stores have scanners where you can scan a picture and it color matches the paint with the closest color. So, you can scan your "Red" booklet to get a pretty red or the "Mine" lithograph to get the pretty green shade. Mix some glitter in the paint can to add some dazzling features.;
, Try "I had the time of my life fighting dragons with you", "This love is difficult, but it's real", "You're beautiful, every little piece love" "Loving him was red", and/or "I'm captivated by you baby, like a fireworks show". If you like you can add little drawings like a butterfly to the quote. It makes the whole quote stand out.
 Taylor LOVES hardwood floors so that's the best option. If you can't or don't want hardwood floors, a simple, classy white carpet is best. But if you DO go for wood floors, get a pretty rug. Maybe involving birds/butterflies/hearts; Taylor loves that kind of stuff.
 Taylor had a canopy bed with pink/purple velour weaved through the top rungs. Try that. Bedspread: she had a quilt with a bunch of random patches, all in deep shades of red, purple, green, blue, etc. Or on eBay they have custom bedding with her picture on it. And for throw pillows, go with butterflies, sparkly things, or even pillows shaped like iPods/music notes. Have a nice desk, and with a good bookshelf built in you can display all your Taylor merchandise, teddy bears, CDs, books...etc. If you want something besides a dresser, try a stand-up wardrobe. Very classy. She had a stand-up light that had 4 colored lights attached to it available at Walmart.
 Lots of stores have adorable containers made of fabric bins with things like sparkly butterflies and "love" written on them. They are adorable. Try to find some of those to store books, homework, or even socks/underwear! You should have a nightstand to hold nail polish, deodorant, perfume (your Wonderstruck, Wonderstruck Enchanted or Taylor by Taylor Swift collection if you have any!) and makeup. Nightstands come in many beautiful varieties, such as Victorian, Western, or simple wood. They are all very Taylor-esque. You can even find tables that have wooden violin-shaped bases. That would fit with the music theme. Your garbage can can have music-note stickers all over it. Have a big shelf on your wall to hold your prized possessions, or even Taylor's Barbie dolls. If you have a broken guitar, take the body without the neck and glue some thick wooden doilies on the bottom for an awesome table. Make sure you use wood glue, and perhaps decorate/paint it. Get creative!

, This is going to take some time! First, string a neat-looking clothesline across the ceiling, against an empty wall or at the bottom of a long shelf. Get cute plastic clothespins in various colors and buy some of Taylor's greeting cards (In the US: Walmart, Ben Franklin, Kmart, American Greetings, Target; in Canada: Zellers, Carlton Cards, Shoppers Drug Mart) and clip them on the clothesline. Then print out sheet music of Taylor's or any other of your favorite songs/artist's and dip the sheets in a pan of coffee. Then bake in the oven for 3 minutes at low heat. They now look antique. Clip these on the clothesline as well. Make a giant collage on your wall of all of your favorite artists: include posters, clothing/perfume ads they endorse, song lyrics written on paper, and magazine clippings. Buy some of Taylor's Wonderstruck car air-fresheners and hang them on doorknobs, curtain rods and bulletin boards. Invest in some rare posters, and get them framed. Get some shadow boxes--let's say you went to the Speak Now tour, so include one or two of your favorite pictures in the shadow box along with some of the confetti that fell during Love Story, your tickets, a bracelet, and a glow-stick, depending on the size of the shadowbox. Buy her Cover Girl makeup (though they test on animals so if you're against that just be aware) and display it all like a beauty shop would. If you have one of her blankets and don't want it on your bed, pin it on your wall and then use safety pins to pin greeting cards, locker posters, tickets etc if you don't want to try the other ideas mentioned above. Lots of online stores have vintage wire mannequins for $40 or less; buy one of these and display one of her LEI dresses or a concert tee if you have one. Put your cowboy boots on shelves. Hang a birdcage from your ceiling. Spray Wonderstruck, or even Fantasy by Britney Spears (one of her favorite perfumes). Take some glitter and throw it in the air; it will settle on tables, floors and rugs and give the whole room a shimmering look. Buy some music-note wall decals and decals of Taylor's quotes. Remember, if you also happen to like Selena Gomez, Carrie Underwood, Scotty Ms.Creery, Owl City, etc also have things pertaining to them as well, because having ONE solid theme is sort of boring. Buy some inflatable guitars/pianos that they use at birthdays. That will add a fun touch to your room. Display all your real instruments, like violins, guitars, flutes, etc proudly. Buy tins of guitar picks just to spread around and add to the vibe. Get a bulletin board to display all your other interests/pictures of family. Pull out articles on Taylor in magazines and put them in a scrapbook and put this scrapbook on your desk. Use ribbons and blank CDs to weave a CD curtain and put it over your real curtains. Pin some vinyl records to your walls or dangle some from your ceiling. Have paper butterflies on the walls and hanging from the ceiling. All of this will give it a very vintage/classy/country/Taylor/girly/music vibe all in one.
 Don't over-do it. Pick six or seven ideas you REALLY like and go with those.

