 By passing this examination, your education and/or experience requirements will surpass the two lower levels and you will become a Certified Dental Assistant (CDA). The Certified Dental Assistant Examination consists of three sections: Radiation Health and Safety (RHS), Infection Control (ICE), and National Level General Chair-side (GC). A CDA must also be CPR-certified and remain current on all credentials by meeting professional standards.
Many of the expanded functions of a CDA require further certificates and experience. For example, the Pit and Fissure Sealant and Coronal Polishing Certificates require at least two years experience, eight hours of further education, and registration with the TSBDE.
 Some people are more ambitious than others and get satisfaction from expanding their role in the workplace. If this is you, becoming a Certified Preventive Functions Dental Assistant might be an attractive option. The DANB provides a four-part examination on Coronal Polishing (CP), Sealants (SE), Topical Anesthetic (TA), and Topical Fluoride (TF) that can be taken all together or in separate parts but has to be completed within a three year period. There are no prerequisites to take the exam.
Fees for each part of the exam range from $100-175.
One of the major advantages of acquiring this certification is to not only career advancement but also staying current on new technologies and trends in the profession.
 The U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics forecasts more than 74,000 new openings for Dental Assistants by 2022. That accounts for a 24.5 percent growth rate, which qualifies as “much faster than the average for all professions.” Growth is pinned to increased population size, higher demand for dental services, and greater emphasis on preventative dental care by all age ranges. This positive career outlook opens opportunities to pursue different working environments within the profession of Dental Assistants. In addition to working in private dental offices, clinics, and hospitals, open positions are also available in universities as teachers; in public health offices across all of Texas; working for insurance companies by processing dental insurance claims; as sales representatives for dental products; and in consulting.
 The SBDE registration requires annual renewal that can be done online along with a fee.

