 Sharks need to be caught using heavy-duty deep sea poles and line with a high tensile strength. Try to keep it as light as possible, and try to use lightweight rod and reel combos specifically designed for braided monofilament. If you charter a fishing boat to go shark fishing, gear should be provided for you.Fishing harnesses to lock yourself in and secure you to the boat are also common in shark fishing. Worn like seat belts, these will lock you in place for the long-haul.
Use circle hooks instead of J-hooks. To make catch and release easier, use circle hooks, which tend to get caught nicely in the shark's jaw, making them easy to remove and relatively painless. J-hooks can get lodged in the shark's stomach, making releasing the shark extremely difficult., Sharks are predators, meaning that you've got to throw something tasty and bloody in the water to get them going. The most common bait used in fishing for sharks is usually jackfish, mackerel, mullet, whiting, sandtrout, or ladyfish, though different regions often will have specific bait fish local to the area that the sharks are used to hunting. Go out with experienced deep sea fishermen to get a sense of the best bait for the job.


Try to rig your bait live, through the lips. Sharks are attracted to the smell of blood and also to signs of struggle, making live bait ideal for attracting sharks.
 Sharks are commonly hunted from chartered fishing boats, off piers, and even off shore, depending on where you’re fishing. Talk to local anglers to find out where the best places to catch sharks are and post up with your gear.


Look for ledges and rip lines. Shipwrecks, deep underwater drop-offs, and other unusual underwater textures are great habitats for hunting sharks. If you want to attract sharks, look for places with dynamic underwater landscapes. Rip lines or little disturbances in the water can suggest underwater feeding frenzies, the presence of schools of baitfish, and generally just good underwater action. That means it's a good place to lay some chum.
 Most commercial fishermen will bring as much as 5 gallons (18.9 L) of bluefish or bunker to make "chum," which is a crude slurry of stinky chopped up baitfish that sharks love. Typically placed in bags and hung off the bow and the stern of the boat, this chum attracts schools of sharks reliably and quickly. And they'll be hungry.
 Since you're boat fishing, most commercial boats will set up the rods and wait for signs of a bite. If you're out on a chartered boat, put your line in the water, crack open a cold one, and enjoy the sunshine until you see the line being taken out. You should notice and hear the line start to be taken out rapidly. Once you get a bite, clear all the other lines out of the water and cut the engines to get ready for the fight.


After the shark takes the line, wait about five or ten seconds before setting the line, pulling sharply on it with two quick pumps and reeling it until taut. This should set the hook in the thickest part of the shark's jaw, where it will be secure. Continue reeling in part way and letting it fight the line back out. Keep the engines on and stay ready for the endgame.
Bringing the shark into the shallows to "ground it" can be an effective way of tiring out the shark and giving it less opportunity to dive. Depending on where you are, this can be an effective technique.
If you've been wrestling with a shark for 20 or 30 minutes and intend to release it eventually, some fishermen prefer cutting the shark loose, as opposed to continuing to fight it and wear it out. Over-tiring the shark can endanger its health and its ability to recover from the fight. Consider cutting him loose.
 Remove the tackle in the water to decrease the stress on the shark as much as possible, holding the shark firmly by the dorsal fin and the mid-torso, and pulling the hook loose with pliers. Then let the shark go.


If you don't want to release, larger sharks need to be gaffed, and the whole group needs to coordinate to make the process as safe as possible. In this process, the shark needs to be brought up alongside the boat and allowed to calm down some. The first thing to bring out of the water is the tail, which is the part that can shoot the shark off in a new direction, and typically this is done using a winch and tail rope. Typically, the shark will be left to hang like that for as much as an hour, to avoid lots of threshing and moving around inside the boat, which can be extremely dangerous.There’s little reason to hunt sharks for keeps. There's little to no meat and the thrill can be gotten more from looking at them up close. Hunt something regulated and with a more secure population, like swordfish, marlin, or other deep-sea fish if you want to keep animals.
Most arguments that the culling of populations in Australia can help to keep swimmers safe have been debunked. Shark attacks, on an uptick in some areas, can be attributed to changing patterns in fish migrations moving closer to populated shores, which is in turn attributable to global climate change, not rising populations of hostile sharks.
 The quickest way to kill a shark is to use a sharp knife, at least 6 inches (15.2 cm) long, to stab the shark’s brain. To do this, stab through the back of the head, 2-3 in. behind the eyes, slicing forward. This is extremely difficult, since the shark’s brain is very small.


Stabbing the shark in the gills will kill the shark eventually, but although this is a mortal wound, it’s an inhumane method of killing the shark.
There's little reason to kill sharks, because the dwindling populations are already in constant threat from human intrusion. If you want to kill sharks, the best way to do it is to continue polluting the oceans. If you want to fish, practice catch and release.

