 Lack of sexual stamina, for both men and women, can be a symptom of larger problems with your health and diet. To have a great sex life, eat healthy foods and maintain a healthy weight.


Avoid foods that are high in saturated fats and cholesterol, as these can clog your arteries and reduce blood flow. Good blood flow is vital to having the best sexual experience., Good sex can be hard, tiring work! Like any physical activity, your stamina in bed can be improved by staying fit. Shoot for 30 minutes of aerobic exercise at least five days a week, plus strength training twice a week. Regular exercise, especially aerobic exercise, will keep you healthy, promote good blood flow and give you the energy to have great sex. Plus exercise can improve your body image and make you a more confident lover.
 Stress can make it hard to stay focused, aroused and happy during sex—and it can constrict the blood flow necessary for healthy sex. To improve stamina and enjoyment, both men and women should reduce stress in their life—or at least learn to leave it outside the bedroom.
 As with any activity, practice makes perfect. Have more sex with your partner using the techniques above and soon enough your stamina and control over your orgasm will improve and come more naturally.


Masturbation is also a good way to train yourself to control your climax. Practice getting close to orgasm but stopping right before. Repeat several times before you finish. This will help you learn to notice when you are at the edge of climax, and control yourself when you get there. You don't have to do this every time you masturbate, but occasionally challenging yourself to see how long you can last can be fun and helpful.
Masturbating too often in the same way, however, can train your body to only respond to certain kinds of stimulation—which can be troublesome when you want to reach your climax during intercourse. Be sure to vary your routine: switching hands, using lube, trying sex toys, and exploring different kinds of mental and visual stimulation.

