 A guardian can be a grandparent or other relative, or a friend or appointee of the state, who is interested in caring for the child while the parents are unable or unwilling to do so. It is not the same as a full adoption.Adoption legally erases any rights of the birth parents and declares the adopting parents to take on those rights.
Guardianship just establishes custody, and leaves the birth parents an avenue to reestablish custody.



Following the instructions included with your forms, type or print neatly in blue or black ink, filling in each numbered item as necessary.
California family court services can provide assistance. Just check with your local county court or online at the California court website.
 You county facilitator can look at forms to make sure that you have filled everything out correctly.


You can find your family law facilitator by following the link for your county from the California Court’s Family Law Facilitators List.
 You need to make a copy for yourself as well as both parents and any other relatives or agencies who are concerned with the child. The original will be filed with the court.
 The court will stamp the papers as "filed," keeping the original and returning the copies to you.


Once the forms are filed, the court has approved the order and it is legally in motion.
 Serve the copies of the papers to the relatives and agencies who previously were caring for the child.


To insure that everyone is fully aware that you have taken custody, the papers must be legally served by someone unconnected to the case, who is 18 years or older, to every concerned party.The server must fill out a "proof of service" form and return this to you. You will need one for each person you are giving notice to, or "serving" the forms to.



If the server gave the papers to the concerned parties in person, he or she will fill out the Proof of Personal Service form.
If the server sent the papers by mail, they will fill out a different form, the Proof of Service by Mail form. Both of these are attached to Notice of Hearing--Guardianship or Conservatorship.
 You will be granted a hearing at which interested parties will have the opportunity to make statements regarding the motion. There may be an investigation or interview before the official hearing.Arrive on time, answer any questions clearly and politely, and do your best to make a good impression.
The judge will then decide whether to grant your petition.
 If you are granted custody, you need to file the Order Appointing Guardianship of the Child with your county clerk.This confirms that the decision of the judge was what you were seeking and tells the city what has happened.


If you do not file the official order it has not been certified.
If your petition is granted and certified, you will need to follow up with yearly reports to the court on the status of the child and your guardianship.

