 Don't lie to make it sound better. Consider including some basic details such as your first name, what country/town you're from and your age.


Don't be afraid to tell a personal anecdote or story about how you were first inspired by their work or what their work means to you. Keep it short.
At the same time, avoid sharing too many personal details. Even though you might be familiar with this celebrity's work, this is still a stranger you are writing to.
You may want to start with writing a draft on the computer first and then using the finished draft to write a real letter.
 Was it through a friend? Radio? Maybe it was through a TV show or a movie that you happened to see at the cinema. Whichever it is, include a few sentences about that so that the celebrity will understand the connection.
 Are they good musicians? Actors/actresses? Do you have a huge crush on them? Tell them, although you might want to hold off on that last one! Express what it is you enjoyed about their work.


Be specific, honest and sincere with your praise.
If you're really stuck for ideas on how to approach this, you might find that it helps to check out some online examples of the types of things other celebrity fans have written - just to get an idea.
Alternately, if it's at all possible, ask somebody you know who's written a fan mail to a celebrity before for inspiration.
 For example, if it's an actor, maybe they played a character in a story that happened to go through something that you personally experienced in your life and could relate to.


Or maybe you're writing to a singer, and she went through a similar childhood as you, offering you hope.
 Tell them you liked their outfit at the Grammy's, or appreciated how they dealt with criticism or pressure from the media. Everyone likes getting compliments...including celebrities!

, If you want the celebrity's autograph by all means go ahead and ask. But be sure to keep the tone of your letter polite and respectful without coming across as pushy. The celebrity you are writing to is very likely to appreciate it and be more likely to respond.


You could consider saying something along the lines of "If you could find some time to respond I'd appreciate that, but I'll understand if you don't."
Don't make up a lie saying you'll die in a month and the only way to cheer you up is to hear from them. That's the wrong kind of attention. Be honest about what you're writing.
 Make sure to wish the celebrity luck with their future career when ending the letter. Again, this is something that they are highly likely to appreciate.


You could also consider adding a line about how much you are looking forward to seeing their future work, if you feel that way about them.
 Do not use Lots of Love or Love from, etc. as it might scare the celebrities away from writing back.
 This will help save the celebrity time if it happens that they get to read your letter and consider replying to you. You might also want to consider including an index card - or maybe a published photo of the celebrity you might have around - for the celebrity to write his/her autograph on.
 Use the internet to locate the address of their agent, publisher, management company, or record label. Label the envelope and send away!


Some celebrities have their own website. Exploring this will give you a better idea of where to mail your letter.

