 Acetaminophen is used for mild to moderate pain. It is available over the counter and is one of the most common drugs used for knee pain.


Take 325 to 650 mg every 4 to 6 hours.Higher doses damage the liver. Patients with liver disease should be monitored for side effects.
 Ibuprofen belongs to a class of drugs called nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDS). These drugs work to combat both pain and inflammation.


Take 200 to 400 mg orally every 4 to 6 hours.Ibuprofen may cause your stomach to become upset. Patients with ulcer and kidney diseases should avoid NSAIDs.
 Hydrocodone is used for moderate to severe pain, usually in combination with acetaminophen. It belongs to a class of drugs called opioid analgesics which are morphine-like drugs and are powerful painkillers.


The common dose is either 5 mg, 7.5 mg, or 10 mg, depending on the amount of acetaminophen you are taking., Physiotherapy is helpful in maintaining muscle strength during the healing process when activity is limited. Do some light exercise every three to four hours for five to ten minutes.


Try walking normal with your heel down first. You can use crutches in the early days after injury to avoid bearing weight on your knee.
Lie down and bend and straighten your knee for 10 seconds. Repeat this exercise multiple times in a day.
Sit and straighten your legs. Place a small pillow beneath your affected knee and exert pressure downwards for 10 seconds. Repeat this multiple times a day.
 A knee brace can be very helpful during the healing process as it will prevent unnecessary knee movements and will give stability to your injured joint. However, do not wear the brace for long periods of time, as it may weaken muscles.A knee brace should not be too tight or loose. A tight brace can cut off circulation to your feet and ankles while a loose brace can slide down the knee and be of no use. A simple method to see if you are wearing the brace correctly is to slide down two fingers behind straps. If you are unable to pass two fingers under the straps, then the brace is too tight; loosen the straps. If after passing two fingers you can pass the third finger too, then the brace is too loose; fasten the straps and repeat the two finger method.
 When ligaments are torn, they do not heal with simple measures. Surgery is the only way to treat torn ligaments. An MRI will decide whether ligaments are only stretched or torn too.Surgery may involve using part of another ligament or tendon to repair the injured ligaments. Tendons are strong fibrous bands, just like ligaments, that anchor muscles to bones.
Partial ligament tears can take about three months to heal while complete tears need six months to one year for complete recovery. You should not return to full activity until the ligaments are fully healed.

