 The SSA's starter kit will help you familiarize yourself with the application process and understand the information you'll need.


The SSA makes the kit available online at https://www.ssa.gov/disability/Documents/SSA-1170-KIT.pdf. If you're unable to download the kit online, you can request one be mailed to you by calling the SSA's toll-free number.
The disability starter kit provides information about the federal law governing Social Security benefits, what you can expect from the application process, and the type of benefits you will receive if you are approved., The starter kit includes a checklist you can use to make sure you have all the required documents and information before you call.


Generally, these documents include information about your medical treatment, your health care providers, and your employment and income history.Make sure you have all documents together and organized before you call so you can find the information you need when asked.
 You can begin your application by calling the SSA at 1-800-772-1213.If you are deaf or hard of hearing, you can call the TTY line at 1-800-325-0778.The SSA representative will ask you questions similar to those asked on the online application or that you would be asked if you applied in person.Make sure you have all your documents organized and available as you may need to refer to them to answer questions about your disability, medical treatment, and work history.
 Although you can begin the application process over the phone, you'll have to mail documents to your local office to complete your application.


You must mail originals, not copies, of most documents. After reviewing the originals, the SSA will make copies of them for your file and return your originals to you.If you need the address of your local office, you can look it up using the Social Security Office locator available at https://secure.ssa.gov/ICON/main.jsp.
Mail your documents using certified mail with returned receipt requested, and make sure you include your Social Security number so the documents can be connected to your application., Once all your documents are received, the SSA will begin its review of your application.


Your application will be sent to your state's agency and reviewed by medical and vocational experts. They may contact you or your doctors to get further information about your case.SSA representatives may call you for additional information, or to send you to another doctor for a medical examination.