 Cut a piece of fabric or find a ribbon of suitable thickness. Use a pencil to draw an unbroken line on your upholstery where the trim will go. Attach the ribbon or fabric to the upholstery with tape so it follows your trim outline. Pound in nails or a pre-made trim to attach the ribbon or fabric according to your trim pattern.For certain kinds of fabric, like braid, it might be easiest to draw your nail placement on the fabric, push the nail through the fabric, then pound in the nails with the fabric already attached.
 Get a piece of semi-rigid card stock that will flex if it's bent. Cut a thin strip from it that is 1¼ times the size of your edge. Hold the ends of your strip at the start and end of your planned arc. Flex the strip so it bows in an arc shape. Draw a guide line with a pencil by following the arc formed by the strip.In some cases, you might need to adjust the size of your card stock to achieve the right kind of arc.
 Bright silver or gold nails are the most common colors in nailhead trim, but a different combination of finishes in your nails can create a new dimension in your trim design. Try mixing and matching burnished or tarnished colors to add character to your trim.Some nails have a colored finish that might look great when added to uniform designs. Nails with different finishes can be found at hardware stores and craft stores.
 Nails come in many different shapes and sizes. Alternating between square and circular head nails, for example, can create a pleasing pattern. Explore different nail shapes at your local hardware store or craft shop.Nails are relatively cheap, and even if you find some don’t work with your design, you can always save them for a later project.
 Corners form the outside boundary for the lines of the trim and are natural places the eye is drawn. This is why corners are often embellished with larger or more ornate designs. For this reason, you might want to use a larger or more ornate stud or nail in the corners.


You can find ornamental and large sized nails at most hardware and craft shops. If you’re looking for something fancy, a craft store might be your best bet.

