 Find ways to express yourself creatively that makes you happy. Try to paint, draw, or sketch if this is something you enjoy. Acrylic paints are inexpensive and can be used on just about any surface. Tune into colors and what emotions you feel they express.


Get a sketch book that is unlined and try drawing or sketching, tuning in to how you feel inside. Many art schools and museums offer free drawing sessions if you want to start off in a more structured environment.
Allow your inner self and inner emotions to guide you as you create. Taking time to sit and paint or draw can also be relaxing. Don’t judge your abilities. Expressing yourself creatively is not about becoming the next Leonardo Da Vinci, it’s about the act of creating. Learning to express yourself means learning to get to know yourself. Unleashing the creative side of yourself can be a surprising and fulfilling way to get a handle on who you really are inside., Collaging is a fun craft that will allow you to express yourself. All you need are some old magazines or anything with images printed on it, some cardboard, and a glue stick. Find pictures that resonate with how you feel and what you want to express. Use words and headlines to accentuate the visual images.


Don’t limit yourself to just cardboard. Collage the cover of your emotion journal or sketchbook. Decorate an old box, a folder, or anything you might have laying around that you want to express yourself on. Express how you feel politically, spiritually, globally, or make it personal to your life. , Sometimes, expressing yourself with physical movement can help free up your inner feelings and desires. Get comfortable in your own skin by moving around and dancing. Dance in the privacy of your own home, or go out to a dance club. Listen to music that fits your mood and that you enjoy.


If you are angry, put on some music that reflects that anger and let your body move. Do the same thing is you feel happy, sad, or afraid. Try dancing to music that will help change your mood, such as dance to music that makes you feel empowered if you are afraid or to happy music if you are sad.
Also try classes if you want to dance in a more structured environment. There are dance studios that offer programs for beginners that don’t require a huge time commitment. Take a beginner class in hip hop, jazz, or ballet class, as long as it fits you and your personality best., A great way to express yourself is through writing. Write poetry or short stories using imagery based on your authentic feelings and life. Focus on how you feel and just write. Let go of any expectations of perfection or even showing your writing to anyone else. Expressing yourself creatively is about you and taking the time to learn about who you are and the intricate person inside you.


Freeing yourself by writing can be extraordinarily illuminating and give you rich insights into thoughts and feelings you may not even be aware you had inside you., Singing is a great activity, even if you are not great at it. You can sing anywhere, such as in your car, in the shower, or in your living room. Leave any expectations of perceived talent or vocal mastery out of your mind and let your voice be heard. Tune in to that emotional place and sing songs that resonate with you.


Sing songs that honor your feelings, such as sadness, loss, anger, love, and happiness. Allow yourself to be yourself through song.
If singing is something that really makes you feel like you, you can take it out in the real world as well. Try karaoke or join a community singing group. Connect with music that makes you feel like you are expressing your life, your feelings, and yourself.