 Explain to them what you would like to do. If you are kind and polite about it, they will be happier to give their permission.;
, You shouldn't have an extremely large party because that will be hard to handle. Between 4 and 6 guests should be enough.
 It shouldn't be more than two and a half hours long, unless you want to do something else besides spa treatments. You could have a sleepover, or a movie night.
 You can make or buy them, but it is really nice if you make them. Put time and effort into it to make handmade invites. Be sure to list the date, time, place, and anything else your guest need to know. Give them to your friends at least a week before the spa party. Do not hand out your invitations at school, it will look weird.
, Your color palette shouldn't have extreme colors because this is a relaxing event. Use soothing colors like pale green, light blue and pink.
 Think about the services real spas have to offer, and try to choose those as activities. Recommended activities include doing pedicures, facials, manicures, french manicures, and foot massages. Do not do anything that has wax, unless there is an adult helping and all girls have gotten permission from the parents to have a wax done. The same thing applying with plucking eyebrows. If you have a friend who doesn't enjoy nail polish, plan an activity where they get their nails buffed and cut.
 That doesn't mean you have to spend an arm and a leg on the makeup, you can search online for deals and some cheap but still quality brands. Once you find the brand you want, buy the colors of the rainbow, and additionally black, gray, white, gold, and silver.


Buy the lipsticks and glosses, buy different colors of lipstick, maybe a soft plush pink, a juicy light berry-looking red that's appropriate for tweens, or a sparkly lipstick. There are many colors to choose from.
Buy some blush, you can get a dusty rose, a caramel color, or a dark brown. Something that will complement the skin complexion instead of standing out.
Don't forget the applicators, you can buy the disposables.
 Put up signs on your doors; for example, put a "Ladies Only" sign on your bathroom. On your front door, your sign could say, "Welcome to (name of your salon). Enjoy your stay!" Near your front door put a table with enough towels for your guests. Set up a sign-in sheet. Include schedule for activities, and maybe add a flower vase with flowers in it. Put relaxing music on, and light some candles.
 If there are constant loud noises, your guests will be annoyed.
 Spas usually have something to relax and entertain their customers. Play a funny movie, or play relaxing music.


Rent or download a movie. Ask the girls want kind of movies they like and what kind of movies their parents allow them to watch, remember, just because your child may watch PG-13 and above doesn't mean her friends can.
 One friend can be getting their feet done and the others get their nails, hair and makeup done.


Tell your friends to bring a robe to put on during your spa day so it can be a more relaxing evening.
Play some games, take all of the nail polish out and have one girl start and pick a color. Spin it in a circle and whoever it is facing has to paint just one of her nails that color. Whoever it landed on will spin the bottle next. Games like that.
Do cool and creative hairstyles, but ones that don't require clipping of any sort.
 Have all of the girls try on outfits with their makeup, it'll make for exciting memories!

