 While SSRIs are commonly prescribed to treat depression, they can help ease symptoms in other disorders as well. People with generalized anxiety disorder (GAD), obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD), panic disorder, phobias, and post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) can safely take SSRIs to treat symptoms.Occasionally, SSRIs are prescribed to treat certain medical conditions including premature ejaculation, premenstrual syndrome (PMS), fibromyalgia, and pain.;
, Therapy is an important part of treatment for depression. A therapist can diagnose depression and help you treat symptoms. Research concludes that cognitive therapy is as effective as medication.For many individuals, therapy alone is the best course of treatment.While medication can help manage symptoms, therapy is beneficial at helping to identify negative patterns in your thoughts and behaviors. Your therapist can help you learn coping skills and to change your thoughts and behaviors to be more positive and adaptive in your life.For many, a combination of therapy and medication is effective at treating more severe depression.
 Once you receive a diagnosis of depression, you likely will treat it with therapy. Some therapists may recommend supplementing treatment with medications. The decision to take medication is a serious one requiring much consideration. To help you make this decision, schedule an appointment with someone who can help you navigate medications. While some people feel most comfortable seeing their general practitioner, you may find more support and information from a psychiatrist who specializes in treating mental health.You may receive a psychological diagnosis from a therapist, who can refer you to a psychiatrist.
If you take other medications for a medical or psychological condition, it’s important to make sure medications are compatible, which is where a psychiatrist can be very helpful.
 Know your medical history and discuss it openly with your prescriber. When considering SSRIs, make sure to tell your prescriber whether you have diabetes, epilepsy, or kidney disease. While SSRIs can be used in conjunction with these diagnoses, they should be used with caution and under strict medical supervision.Don’t hide anything from your prescriber. Be open and honest about your medical history.
Discuss any medications you are currently taking. This includes vitamins, herbs, and supplements. Note any allergies or adverse effects you’ve encountered with other medications., Prior to taking medications, be advised on possible side-effects from your prescriber. It’s not uncommon to experience side-effects related to medication use. When taking medications, be aware of any unpleasant symptoms that develop that may be attributed to SSRIs. Some common side-effects include:Nausea/vomiting
Restlessness, agitation
Blurred vision
Reduced sexual desire, problems with orgasm or erection
Weight gain
Headache
Dry mouth
Diarrhea

, Do not take SSRIs if there is a risk you may be allergic to the medication. Inquire about family history with antidepressants. Avoid SSRIs if you have taken the following medications within the past two weeks: thioridazine (Mellaril), pimozide (Orap), or monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) such as phenelzine (Nardil) and tranylcypromine (Parnate).Additionally, avoid MAOIs and thioridazine for at least five weeks after stopping SSRIs.SSRIs are not recommended if you’re pregnant or breastfeeding., SSRIs are not compatible with natural remedies such as St John’s Wort. When combined, a person is at a higher risk for Serotonin Syndrome. Serotonin Syndrome occurs when a person has dangerously high levels of serotonin in the body and can include symptoms such as agitation, anxiety, tremors/shaking, confusion, sweating,restlessness, and lack of coordination. If you show signs of any of these symptoms, seek medical attention immediately.If you take St John’s Wort, let your prescriber know.
 Even if you have a friend with depression, do not offer to share your medication. Instead, refer your friend or family member to a psychiatrist or therapist for diagnosis and treatment. It is illegal and unsafe to share medications. Under no circumstances is it advised to share SSRIs., Your prescriber will likely start you on the lowest dose to help you manage symptoms. You may not experience the benefits of medication prior to the first 2-4 weeks. If no benefits are experienced after 4-6 weeks, you may need to return to your prescriber to discuss changing medications. He or she may increase your dose or switch you to another medication.To reduce the risk of nausea, take the medication with food., The Food and Drug Administration (FDA) of the United States of America requires that all antidepressant medication receive the strictest warning for prescription drugs. Children, teenagers, and young adults (up to age 25) are warned for increased risk of suicidal thoughts and behaviors while taking SSRIs.Suicide risk is highest in the first weeks and months of taking medications as well as when changes are made in dosage.
If you experience suicidal thoughts or behaviors seek help immediately. Contact your therapist and psychiatrist. Go to the Emergency Department, call a hotline, or call a friend to help you.
 If you experience any disruptive or unpleasant side-effects, let your prescriber know. Some side-effects may outweigh the benefits of medication and may require a change of medication.You may feel overwhelmed by side-effects or that you cannot get through the day. Let your prescriber know of any difficulties as soon as possible.
 Especially at the start of your course of treatment stay in regular contact with your prescriber. Communicate any side-effects, changes in thoughts, moods, or behaviors. Make regular appointments to discuss mental health and medication, and take note of any emerging or persistent symptoms.It’s important to receive regular support during medication treatment. Check in with your prescriber regularly and discuss how treatment is going. You may need to adjust your dose or change medications.
 Be careful not to miss or skip doses. If you do forget a dose, take it as soon as possible. Do not “double up” your dose if you forget one day and take your medication the next day. If you take more medication than your prescribed dose, contact your prescriber immediately., Typically, a course of treatment with SSRIs lasts 6 months. For some, treatment may last longer. For those with persistent symptoms, treatment may last for 2 years on medication. For very severe depression, medication may be prescribed indefinitely., Do not stop taking SSRIs without consulting with your prescriber first. If you stop taking medications “cold turkey,” you may experience withdrawal symptoms. These symptoms may include nausea, dizziness, anxiety, stomach upset, or flu-like symptoms.If you wish to stop taking SSRIs, meet with your prescriber and discuss a plan to safely remove yourself from medication.


You will likely decrease your doses slowly over several weeks or months. Follow your prescriber’s plan and use as directed.

