 Knowing the goal of the spa treatment helps. In other words, are you seeking a spa treatment for relaxation and to rid unwanted stress? Or perhaps to gain more energy? Many go for the outcome of clearer skin, such as in getting facials. These two goals may require different services therefore know beforehand so you can communicate this with your spa therapist.;
, As stated in step 1 communicate the ultimate goal outcome with your therapist. It is helpful to communicate any discomforts you may have and problem areas that you want special attention focused on. This also includes the amount of pressure applied to a massage. Most Swedish Massage is fairly light. If seeking "deep tissue massage" than you'll have to communicate the right amount of pressure with your therapist.
 Top Spa Treatments are:


Massage: This can include Swedish Massage and Deep Tissue and everything in between. This is done with an assortment of oils for different effects. In addition aromatherapy is often combined with good spa treatments. Many resorts will have their own "signature" massages.
Hot Stone Therapy: The use of hot stones for massage and acupressure has become a staple on nearly every spa menu throughout the world.
Facials: This can be as non-invasive as through gentle cleansers and massage, or through botox. There are as many variations of facials as there are massage.
Body Wraps: Most Body Wraps include herbal remedies such as with clay, mud or even seaweed and paraffin. The ideas is to cleanse the skin and weight reduction.
Salt Scrubs and Glows: This is a remedy that is used for deep exfoliation of dried or dead skin cells. It is primarily done through brushing of salts on the body , or through certain herbal scrub remedies such as with almonds or walnut paste.
Acupuncture/Acupressure: These remedies have been proven to alleviate all sorts of maladies and disorders, not just of the skin.
Colonics, also known as Colonic Irrigation : Though this may not seem the most pleasant and perhaps is not, it is however one of the more effective methods for removing toxins from the human body. Usually performed in a series of 6 or more sessions. High on the list at most Wellness Clinics and Medical Tourism destinations.
Ayurveda: Using a holistic philosophy dating around 5,000 years ago, it uses natural remedies and time-tested practices. Ayurveda has become a recognized treatment option for medical issues, as well as a relaxing spa favorite.
Aromatherapy: The basic term refers to the therapeutic use of essential oils—based on the specific healing property of each oil—in such treatments as massage, diffusions, body wraps and soaks.
Paraffin: Paraffin is a a soft, liquid wax—plain, or juiced-up with essential oils.Because of its heat-conducting and moisture-retaining properties, the ingredient is most commonly used to hydrate, soften and relax dry skin, or prep hands and feet pre-mani or pedicure. The result is soft, moisturized skin devoid of cracks or dry patches.
Reiki: Reiki is a Japanese technique for healing and stress relief based on the movement of energy—and the practice is steadily growing in popularity in US spas.
Shiatsu: It’s on pretty much every massage menu, right there between Hot Stone and Swedish Massage. At its core, the technique emphasizes a combination of diagnosis and therapy. Using just their palms and fingers—in particular the thumb—trained practitioners are able to identify trouble spots on the client, including blocked toxins and muscle distress.
 Most day spas, wellness clinics and resort spas carry great spa treatment menu options to satisfy even the most seasoned spa goer. If you need a special treatment call the spas directly.

