 A good bra supports and lifts your breasts, and this will increase the amount of cleavage you can show.


If you don’t know your bra size, you can either measure your bra size on your own, or you can have a professional bra fitter or tailor measure you.;
, Underwire supports the breasts and gives them a slight, natural boost.Avoid bras without an underwire. These offer less lift and support, and will make creating cleavage more difficult.
 These usually come in fabric, silicone, or foam, and can add a little extra volume to your chest.


Silicone bra inserts (sometimes called “chicken cutlets”) come in a wide variety of styles that fit comfortably inside most bras. Silicone inserts will look and feel the most like a real breast.Fabric and foam inserts feel less realistic, but are soft and can help create the appearance of an ample bosom.
 A push-up bra has a little extra padding at the bottom of the cup, helping to naturally enhance your bustline.


Look for a push-up bra made with minimal fabric that cups the breast properly.
Push-up bras made with too much fabric do not look as natural, and may overwhelm your bust instead of creating attractive cleavage.
 You can create and accentuate cleavage with a couple of simple, temporary bra adjustments. Try twisting the front of your bra, clipping the back two straps together, or even wearing two bras to create some cleavage.


Twist the small piece of material between the cups once, and then put the bra on as you normally would. The small twist will bring the cups closer together and give you some cleavage.
Use a safety pin or hair tie to fasten the two back straps of your bra together towards the top of your back. This will create a sort of halter in front, lifting your breasts and bringing them closer together.Wear two bras for extra volume and lift in your chest. The first bra you put on should push your breasts together (try the twisting technique if you don’t have a bra that naturally does this). The second bra should be one that provides lift, like a push-up bra. Two bras may seem like a bit much at first, but you’ll get accustomed to the feeling, and they will do the trick.