 In some communities there is a homeowner’s association that can serve as a mediator to resolve problems between neighbours. If you have already spoken to your neighbour and the problem is not resolved, consider contacting the homeowner’s association to share your concerns and provide the details that you have gathered.If you decide to handle the situation with anonymity, contact the homeowner's association before speaking with your neighbor and ask to remain anonymous.
 There are authorities designated to assist neighbours with dispute resolution. While problematic, your situation is far from unique and many homeowners have experienced the same issue. Local or municipal authorities may assist you with finding a quicker resolution. Start by contacting city hall.


You will need to read the local regulations to ascertain the procedures more clearly in your jurisdiction. In addition to the homeowner’s association and municipalities, you may also find assistance and direction through the fire department or police department, depending on the nature of the problem., If you do not have a homeowner’s association and the problem is escalating, consider contacting a mediationservice to assist you with resolving the problem without involving attorneys. A mediator is a neutral third-party who can assist with establishing communication until a resolution is found.
 Recognize that this is a problem that could take some time and effort to completely resolve. Before you start, realize that engaging with your neighbour regarding this issue may result in a long-standing feud that lasts for years. Be prepared to engage in the process and mend the relationship, if necessary.Some homeowners have found this type of issue to be so disruptive, that they chose instead to sale their home (when they were not otherwise planning to do so) and move on with their lives. While this may be a last ditch solution, it may be something worthy of your consideration depending on the complexity of the situation and your ability and willingness to relocate.
 You probably do not want to contact an attorney until you have made a sincere effort to resolve the issue. However, there are some instances when the situation is so contentious that you simply have to seek legal assistance.