 UV rays are the most intense at this time. The longer you're outside, the longer your skin is exposed to the radiation. Get your exercise and activities done earlier or later in the day, when the rays aren't as strong.


In some latitudes, you should stay out of the sun between 11am and 4pm. Do your research before you go on vacation, especially if you'll be close to the equator. Err on the side of safety during the hours suggested., Cover up as much skin as you can, using lightweight fabrics when it's really hot and uncomfortable. Choose materials that won't itch, scratch, or overheat you. Wear reflective colors, such as yellow or white, to stay cool. , This will protect your scalp, face, and neck from too much exposure. Opt for a hat whose brim is at least 3 inches (7.6 cm) wide. Make sure it's not too tight to avoid discomfort. If you're standing in one spot for a long time, tilt the brim as the angle of the sun shifts., The sensitive skin around your eyes is prone to fast aging. Worse, too much sun can raise your risk of ocular melanoma and cataracts. Choose sunglasses with strong UV protection and select the color of your lenses based on your needs. For example, you should choose:

Gray for truest color correctness.
Brown for truest color contrast.
Yellow for enhanced depth perception., Sunbathing or using a tanning bed increases your chances of developing skin cancer. Moreover, sunbathing can add 20 years to your age by dehydrating and wrinkling your skin. Use mineral bronzer if you must have a tanned look.Be careful with spray-on tans or other “fake tan” products. They contain a lot of chemicals that can be harmful for your skin and your whole health. Check the EWG Skin Deep website for the safest products.Dark skin is vulnerable to sun damage, too. Even though you may not be able to see the damage, it's still there., Chlorine can dry out your skin and result in an allergic reaction. Even if you've been swimming in a natural body of water, hitting the post-swim shower will rinse harmful bacteria and irritants off of your skin. Use soap and shampoo as you would during a regular shower., Do this at least once a month. Keep your eyes peeled for moles that have changed shape or size or that hurt, itch, or bleed. If you see any signs of skin cancer, contact your doctor as soon as possible.