 Fear of flying stems from multiple sources. Does it make you feel claustrophobic? Do you stress over lack of control? Are you fine until the plane hits turbulence? Is the anticipation of the flight worse than the flight itself? Once you acknowledge the cause of your travel jitters you can begin finding methods to help prevent it. , Once you book your flight, begin learning calming breathing techniques. The more you’re able to practice these exercises, the easier they will be to use when travel jitters strike. A good exercise for beginners is abdominal breathing. Practice for ten minutes every day, a good time is right when you wake up and your mind is still calm. For added benefit, whenever you encounter a stressful experience, an important work meeting or a 3-hour pot roast burns, practice the breathing exercise. This will give you the opportunity to feel the helpful benefits before the pressure of flying! Place one hand on your belly and one on your chest.
Breath in through your nose, expanding your diaphragm, for a count of five. (Your chest should not rise during your breath.)
Breath out through our mouth for a count of five. Focus on pushing all the air out of your lungs.
Repeat 6-10 times.
 Travel jitters generally come from a mental, rather than a physical fear. Meditation focuses on overcoming those fears or anxieties. Through meditation you can learn to recognize and move past those anxieties. There are multiple forms of mediation but two that may be most beneficial to overcome travel jitters are mindfulness and visualization. Both are best practiced through finding a class or downloading a class from the internet. Mindfulness. Practicing mindfulness is about learning to live in the present moment. It does not banish travel jitters, but rather helps you acknowledge and move past these feelings.
Visualization. Often, when you find yourself in a situation that causes panic, it can be helpful to visualize yourself in a different location. So when you sit down on the plane and begin to feel anxious, visualization can help you escape the immediate fear by placing your mind in a safer “happy place.”

, Once you’ve packed, go back through everything and double check that you have all the necessities. You don’t want to be on your way to the airport and realize you forgot your wallet! The length and location of your trip will affect your list, but here are a few necessities to help get you started. Once you’ve ensured you have everything you need, set it together by the door so you will not forget it when you leave the next day.


purse/wallet
phone charger
passport and foreign currency (if traveling out of the country)
appropriate clothes and shoes for your destination
medications
ticket (if possible do an early, online check-in to avoid standing in an extra line the day of)

, Look up the travel time and have a plan to stay distracted during the flight. Reading a book, doing puzzles, or watching a movie are all great ways to stay busy. Make sure you consider time during take-off and landing (often some of the most stressful moments in flight) when you can’t use electronics! , If you have an early flight, allow yourself plenty of time to get up, organized, and to the airport. If your flight isn’t until later in the day, set an alarm to remind yourself when it is time to leave. Remember, for most domestic flights you should try to arrive at least 60 minutes, if you’re not checking baggage, and 90 minutes, if you are. For international flights you should arrive at least 2 hours early. If you are driving yourself, add an extra 30 minutes to your travel time, as parking is often a shuttle-ride away from the airport.
 Is a friend driving you? Send a text to confirm the time. Taking a cab? Call and order one the night before. Driving yourself? Make sure your car has enough gas.
 Drink a cup of tea, make your bed, or do some simple stretches. Whatever your normal routine, the more you’re able to stick to it on travel day the less stressful the day will seem. Just try your best to avoid extra caffeine as it increases feelings of anxiety.
 About 10 minutes before your boarding time try to use the restroom. After you get on the plane there will likely be at least 30 minutes before the plane is in the air and you’re free to walk around the cabin. Additionally, if your anxiety over travelling stems from a fear of enclosed places, not having to use the small aircraft restroom will take an extra stress off your mind.
 Mention your anxiety to the flight attendant or have a conversation with the person seated next to you. Don’t let the conversation spiral into a discussion about all the terrors of flying, but just having someone that knows how you’re feeling can be enough to keep travel jitters away. Remember 25 percent of people have some fear of flying and talking to those around you on the flight can help create a support group to help you through the flight. , Now is the perfect time to use the breathing and meditation techniques you’ve been working on! Remember deep abdominal breathing and whichever meditation technique you have been studying. Focus yourself as soon as you get on the plane and then at any point when you begin to feel jittery. Don’t wait until you’re feeling overwhelmed. The best way to deal with travel jitters is to keep them from happening!

, After you get settled on the plane get out a book and start reading. Find an interesting book before your flight, something by an author you know you enjoy. Begin the book a few days before the flight, stopping a few chapters in, preferably at a cliffhanger or plot twist. Then when you start reading during the flight you’re already into the story and more likely to keep your attention. , New regulations allow you to use small electronics during take-off and landing. Once the plane starts taxiing to the runway, take out your smartphone, iPod, or small tablet. Before flying download a new album from your favorite artist or put together a playlist of your favorite songs and listen to it during takeoff. Having headphones in will block out any noise from the plane during takeoff and help you feel more relaxed.
 Once the flight gets going you’re able to take out your laptop. An engrossing two hour movie is a great way to use the majority of your flight time. If possible, pick a movie you’ve never seen before that has been on your “must watch” list for a while, or chose one of your favorites that you know will make you laugh.
 The most important thing to remember during the flight is to keep yourself distracted. Go back to your book, listen to more music, play a game, meditate, or watch a TV show. Find whatever is best at keeping your attention and mind off of the flight stick with it!

