 The most important thing is to make sure that you have tomatoes handy. You need to use fresh tomatoes, not canned. Fresh tomatoes will not have added preservatives or seasonings, so they will be most effective for your skin.Use full size tomatoes, not cherry or grape. These will be easier to handle and will give you more material to work with.
Choose tomatoes that have a vibrant color and are firm. Make sure they smell sweet. If you wouldn't eat that tomato, don't use it on your skin.;
, Why should you use a tomato? Because they are filled with vitamins and antioxidants that are great for your skin! One of the main benefits is that tomatoes are packed with lycopene, which is a powerful antioxidant. Lycopene increases your skin's protection factor, increases collagen production, and helps your skin cells regenerate.Tomatoes can reduce redness caused by acne and can also help to try out problem areas, reducing blemishes.
 The simplest way to get skin benefits from a tomato is to just apply it directly to your face. Cut the tomato in half, and rub the cut side onto your problem area(s). After the juice is on your face, use your fingertips to gently massage the liquid into your skin for a few seconds. Then rinse your face with warm water.Make sure to do this over the sink, as it may be a bit messy. Have some towels nearby in case you drip.
Repeat once daily, and you should see results within one week.
 If your acne is worse than a mild case, you will want to try this method. Mash a whole tomato--you can use regular kitchen utensils to do this in a bowl. Use the pulp (inside part) of the tomato as a facial mask. Spread it on your face and leave it there for one hour. Rinse your face and then apply a gentle moisturizer.


Do this 3-4 times a week. You will begin to see your acne lighten within a matter of weeks.
You can also create a mask using a combination of tomato and avocado. Mash a tomato and an avocado together to combine, and then apply to your skin. Leave in place for 15 minutes, then rinse thoroughly. This will help reduce oil in your skin.
 Tomatoes can be combined with other common household ingredients to give you additional benefits. For example, you can combine tomato juice with honey to make a thick paste. Simply squeeze a tomato to get fresh juice and then combine with a small amount of honey.Apply this combination to your skin and leave in place for 15 minutes. When you rinse it off, you will see that your skin has an extra glow.
Another method is to combine a tomato with yogurt. Crush half a tomato and mix the pulp with two tablespoons of plain yogurt. Apply to your skin for 20 minutes, then rinse. This will help with inflammation.

