 You will sleep the most soundly if you go to bed and wake up around the same times every day. This rhythm helps your body prepare for sleep. Work, children, and other demands on your time may determine your rhythm.


Many sleepers, especially night owls, may be tempted to sleep in longer on weekends. Try to keep the same wake-up time, even on weekends.
If you have been sleep deprived, you may need a little extra sleep for a few nights.
If you are sick, let yourself sleep extra.Reestablish your sleep routines as soon as you can.;
, If you have the freedom to determine your own sleep schedule, do so around the rhythms of your body. Your body has natural waking and sleeping moments. Notice the when you feel sleepy, and when you feel the most awake.


To establish a natural sleep rhythm, spend a week or two waking up without an alarm clock. Keep a log with all the times you wake up.
Keep a parallel account of the times at night you feel sleepy enough to put yourself to bed.
You may find that these numbers become more consistent after a few days without your alarm.
Formalize your bedtime. Once you have established your natural waking and falling asleep times, set a routine around them. Wake up and fall asleep on that schedule consistently.
If your natural sleep routine seems to be inconsistent, you may need to experiment with setting different bedtimes and seeing which ones feel best.
"Morning" people tend to have an easier time setting their sleep schedules. If you tend to be more energetic in the evening, you may just need to set a sleep time.Make sure your formalized sleep schedule gives you the right amount of sleep. If it doesn't, your numbers may be off.
 Most adults need to sleep between seven and nine hours a night. Teenagers need eight to 10 hours of sleep, and school-aged children need at least 10 hours.Sleeping too little can expose you to higher risks of illness, anxiety, and disease.


Sleeping too much, however, may reduce the quality of your sleep and may actually leave you feeling groggy when you wake up.
 Do everything in your power to avoid waking up at night. This can be difficult if you are an evening person, if you have children, or if you are a light sleeper. Making arrangements in your bedroom and winding down properly can make a huge difference, but so can prioritizing staying asleep. Tell yourself and tell everyone you live with that you need to stay asleep all night.


Limit liquids in the hours before bed if you are someone who gets up to use the bathroom during the night.
Remove as many distractions as possible (as detailed in part two) to make a sleep-friendly environment. Lights, sounds, and anything else that might wake you up should be eliminated.
Older adults still need seven to eight hours of sleep, but may sleep more lightly and wake up frequently. If you are elderly, take naps and spend a little more time in bed than eight hours.
If you have a baby under a year old, sleep deprivation is part of the deal. You can help by maintaining a few boundaries. Establish a wakeup schedule with your partner or other adult sharing parenting duties with you. Your baby should sleep in their own crib, though you may bring your baby into bed for nighttime nursing.
Try waiting the baby out for the first few fusses or cries. Don't ignore the fussing, but give it a chance—a few minutes of noise might just mean your baby is settling down., Your bedtime routine should be consistent. Start brushing your teeth, washing your face, and doing your final shut-downs of the house at the same time and in the same order every night. Add steps that you find soothing so that your body knows it is time to relax.You might take a warm bath or shower every night, for instance.
Dim the lights to encourage your body to produce melatonin, a hormone that makes you feel sleepy.
Play soothing music rather than watching television or looking at a screen. Screen time before bed may keep you awake.
 Although you are best off getting in bed and falling asleep at the same time every night, some nights you can't fall asleep right away. If you haven't fallen asleep after 15 minutes, get up and do a brief, relaxing activity. Read a magazine, do some gentle stretches, or listen to a. Then put yourself to bed again as soon as you feel sleepy.Laying in bed and stressing about how you can't fall asleep can keep you awake and can create an association between your bed and feeling anxious. Getting up and doing something else can help ensure you only associate your bed with sleeping.
If this happens frequently, you may need to adjust your sleep schedule.
 Alarms interfere with your quality of sleep. Try training yourself to wake up at the same time every morning, but if you can't rely on your natural body clock, go ahead and set an alarm., It may be tempting to do work, read, watch TV, or play with your phone in bed, but this may make it hard for you to fall asleep when it's time to go to bed. Try to use your bed only for sleeping or sexual activity so that your body makes an association that when you hit the mattress, it's time for sleep., Get good curtains to block streetlight, and consider getting blackout curtains if you are really disturbed by light. Eliminate light sources in your bedroom — anything that emits light should be turned to face the wall, covered, or turned off. Nightlights are a bad idea.


In the hours before you sleep, dim the lights in your house and avoid screens.If you share a room with someone who needs lights on in the morning or after you have gone to bed, sleep with a soft cotton sleep mask.
Light inhibits the production of melatonin, a hormone that makes you feel tired. The light emitted from electronic devices like smartphones, tablets, and laptops is particularly stimulating, preventing your body from making melatonin and making it very difficult for you to fall asleep. Try to avoid using these devices before bed.
 Though some ambient noise may be comforting, you are less likely to sleep well in a house full of irregular noises. Consider earplugs if you live with other people. Set a noise policy with your housemates or family that will keep the house quiet at nighttime.The sound of a fan or white noise machine may help you fall asleep and stay asleep. White noise combines sounds of many different frequencies, which can mask other sounds that might disrupt your sleep or wake you up., Piling on blankets may make you feel sleepy, but being overheated can actually interfere with your sleep. Regulate your room's temperature and toss off blankets if you are hot. Sleep naked if you feel comfortable doing so, so your body can self-regulate its temperature.Lower the heat at night. Your core temperature goes down at night, so keeping your room cool will help you stay comfortable.Some people believe that taking a cool shower at night may help you fall asleep, as it lowers the body's temperature to the level it's at when you sleep.
 The quality of your mattress and pillow can affect your sleep. You will sleep best on a mattress that feels right to you. Your mattress may need replacing every seven years, or earlier if it is sagging or uncomfortable.If you wake up with a sore neck or back, or if you sleep better in other places than you do at home, you may need a new mattress.


Make sure your bed is the right length and width. If you are sharing a bed, make sure there is space for both of you to move naturally.
Set limits with pets and children if sharing your bed wakes you up or crowds you.
 It's hard to relax in a cluttered room. Tidy up at night, and put away anything that reminds you of daily cares. Your work should be out of sight. Remove any unnecessary belongings from your room, and store them elsewhere.Keep a clear path between your bed and the door.
 Unless you are a baby or an elderly person, napping will lower the quality of your sleep. If you must nap, keep it under 30 minutes. Long naps will make you sleepy all day and wakeful at night. Take your naps in the mid afternoon. This is the time least likely to disturb your sleep schedule., During the day, get out your natural physical energy. Go for a run, a walk, or a long bike ride. Get at least 150 minutes of exercise a week if you are a healthy adult. Get a mix of aerobic activity and strength exercises, and break up all periods of sitting with breaks in which you move.Cease all vigorous exercise in the two hours before you sleep. Exercising too close to your bedtime may make it difficult for you to fall asleep.
Moderate stretching and walking in the evening will not interfere with sleep.
 Going to bed hungry or stuffed will disrupt your sleep. Try to finish your eating two to three hours before you go to bed. If you are prone to stomach acid, be especially vigilant about this. If it's been four or five hours since you've eaten, however, eat a light snack before you settle down.Try a slice of wheat toast with peanut butter, which can help you feel satisfied and may even promote sleepiness.
 Caffeine may interfere with your sleep if ingested within the six hours before bedtime. Avoid coffee and tea in the evening, as well as caffeinated soda and dark chocolate.If you are having an alcoholic drink, have it at least an hour before bedtime. For every drink you have, add another hour for your body to process the alcohol.


For example, if you go to bed at 10 and you want to have two drinks, finish drinking them by 8.Although alcohol can help you feel tired and relaxed, it actually interferes with the quality of your sleep.Alcohol plunges you into deep sleep, pushing you past the REM stage and causing you to wake up early and unrested. It can also cause you to urinate, sweat, and snore, all of which can disturb your sleep.
If you like a warm drink at night, try herbal tea, warm milk, or just warm water.
 Sleep medication can interfere with the quality of your sleep and the consistency of your sleep routine, so it's best to avoid it if possible. If you practice good sleep hygiene and are still unable to fall asleep, you may want to talk to your doctor about short-term use of sleeping medications.Avoid smoking or doing drugs before bedtime., Stress and worry will keep you up at night. Establishing a consistent wind-down routine will help you communicate to yourself that it is time to sleep. If you are plagued by thoughts of things you need to do, keep a pad by your bed where you can jot them down before you go to sleep. After you write them down, remind yourself that you cannot worry about them right now.


Tell yourself "Now is not the time to solve problems. I can do that in the morning. Now I just have to sleep."

, The National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute reports that certain medical conditions have been linked to poor quality sleep, such as heart failure, heart disease, obesity, stroke, depression and ADHD. If you treat the disease/disorder, your sleep may also improve. See your doctor at least once a year for a checkup to rule out these possibilities.