 Everyone experiences negative emotions on a regular basis. It’s part of being human. Understanding that your anger, sadness, or rage is temporary and will not last forever is a critical step in processing negative emotions in a healthy manner. If you feel overwhelmed with anger, try saying to yourself, “I am very angry at my husband right now, but I know this anger is not permanent.”

, Sometimes you have to give yourself time and space to effectively process negative emotions. This could be as simple as taking a walk during lunch after your boss upsets you, or soaking in a long, hot bath while crying about your best friend’s bad behavior. Whatever the activity, be sure you let yourself feel the range of emotions associated with a particular person, event, or situation.
 Understand that negative emotions are as much a part of the human experience as are positive emotions. Don’t try to bottle them up or ignore them. Accept your anger, sadness, rage, or grief as part of your journey as a human. Try telling yourself that this emotion is exactly what you need to be feeling at this particular moment in time., Having a person you can confide in will help you respond to negative emotions in a healthy manner. Instead of reacting immediately to the nasty email you received from a family member, try calling your best friend instead. Talk to them about what you are feeling and what is causing the negative emotion. Having a second opinion will broaden your perspective on the situation and help you respond in a more controlled manner., Having a healthy outlet can help you manage your emotions. Your outlet can be a journal in which you write about your emotional experiences or a kickboxing class where you let go of your anger through a high intensity workout. Whatever the medium find an activity that will help you process and manage your emotions in a healthy way.


Try going for a run or long walk the next time you feel angry about work,
The next time you feel sad, try turning on your favorite album and singing at the top of your lungs.
 It’s easy to get wrapped up in your emotions and let them dictate even the tiniest parts of your life. Understanding that how you’re feeling today and that the events or situations that facilitated these emotions are part of the bigger picture of your life will help you gain some perspective.