 On April 6th, 2015 an update to World of Warcraft introduced WoW Tokens. These are items that players can redeem for 30 days of a World of Warcraft subscription. Tokens can be purchased for real money and then sold in the in-game Auction House for Gold. This allows you to effectively purchase your subscription from Gold you earn playing the game.Because Starter Accounts can't access the Auction House, and because WoW tokens are very expensive, this isn't a viable method for free Starter accounts. You'll need to be a paying subscriber in order to access the Auction House and earn enough gold to extend your subscription.
 When the Wow Tokens launched, they were put on the Auction House for 30,000 Gold. The price is now set by the players, and fluctuates based on supply and demand. Regardless, WoW Tokens are still quite expensive, so you'll want to have an ample regular income of Gold to afford it monthly.


If you farm for Gold efficiently, you can earn around 1,000-2,000 Gold per hour. This means you could reasonably expect to be able to afford a WoW token after 15-30 hours of farming.
 You can use your gold to purchase WoW Tokens from the Auction House. You can access the Auction House from most major cities throughout World of Warcraft, and many cities have more than one Auction House location.


Auction House listings are linked for the whole faction, so you'll find the same listings from any Auction House you have access to.
 This will display all of the active listings for WoW Tokens.
 The Token will be delivered to your Inbox. Click the Token in the Inbox message to add it to your inventory.
 Click the "30 Days of Game Time" button to confirm that you want to add the time to your account. 30 days of playtime will be added to the end of your current subscription. Your new renewal date will be displayed in the window. Finally, click "Accept" to confirm again.


You will receive a confirmation email at your Battle.net account email address letting you know that the transaction went through.

