 If you're using live food, no preparation is necessary as long as the food was raised in sanitary conditions. Frozen food, however, needs to be thawed properly and heated to a temperature that makes it more appealing for a snake. If you're using frozen pinkies, fuzzies, hoppers or rats, follow this method for thawing and preparing the food:


Lay the frozen food on a paper towel and set it near a fan. The small body will quickly thaw. Optionally you can put the food in a plastic bag and then submerge it in warm water. Thawing can take anywhere from 10 minutes to a few hours depending on method and size of food. Check every so often to make sure the food is thoroughly thawed. Thaw only as much as you need for one feeding.
Heat the food. Many snakes won't eat if they can't sense the correct temperature that mimics a live food. You can heat the food in a bag with hot water or use a blow dryer for about ten minutes. Never use a microwave or oven as this can cause the food to explode.
 You'll have to get to know your snake before landing on the best way to offer food. Some snakes prefer to have the food set into the cage so they can find it for themselves, while others prefer to have it dangled in the cage, attracted by the movement this creates. Try both methods to figure out what works best for your snake.


When you offer food by placing it in the cage, you may put it on a small plate or in a shallow bowl that will keep it separate from the snake's bedding. A snake may rarely swallow its bedding.
When you offer food by dangling it in the cage, use a pair of tweezers or forceps. Some use their hands, but this is not recommended. Snakes with a strong feeding response may accidentally bite you confusing your hand's heat or mixed smell with the food's.
Whichever method you choose, give the snake time to decide to eat. Research your snake's species. Some may feed within a few minutes, but others (like ball pythons) may require leaving the thawed food in overnight. For most cases, if the snake does not eat the food over a short period, it may be re-frozen for later use if it is still fresh and not spoiled.
 Never leave your snake unattended with a live feeder. If the snake isn't hungry and the prey stays in the cage, it might try to bite or scratch the snake in an attempt to save itself. Place the prey back in a holding container and try again next scheduled feeding.
 In general, baby snakes generally only need food about once a week. As they get larger and older, snakes need to be fed less often (keeping in mind the feeder will be larger). Be sure to check out some care sheets and do your research to see how often and at what sizes you should be feeding your snake.


As you change the feeding schedule, keep in mind that you shouldn't try to force a snake to eat. Offer the food, then take it away if it isn't wanted.

