 This is the most common use for handmade 3D boxes, and adds a personal and unique touch to any gift. It works best for small and lightweight gifts, as the boxes can become unwieldy as they get too big.

You can use decorative paper for more ornamental boxes. Use printed paper, such as cardstock made for scrapbooking, or create your own unique paper by water-coloring designs on cardstock, allowing it to dry flat, and then using it to create boxes.
Hang them from a Christmas tree as decorations with a surprise inside. Glue or tape a loop of string inside the box as you are sealing it, and use the loop to hang it from the tree.
Make boxes of progressively smaller sizes and nest them together like nesting dolls, with the "real" gift inside the smallest box. This would be a cute way to present someone with a piece of jewelry-- maybe even an engagement ring!

, If you celebrate Christmas (or if you want to adapt the Advent calendar tradition for your own holiday or birthday month for a loved one), you can make one box for each day leading up to Christmas in the month of December.

Traditionally, there are 24 small spaces on an Advent calendar and each one is either filled with a scripture reference to look up or with a small candy, or both.
Make 24 3D boxes of the same size. You can make them of decorative holiday cardstock or you can paint them yourself. Don’t close the tops yet! On the tops of the boxes, write the numbers 1 to 24 in a calligraphy or other fancy print to suit your style.
Glue the 3D boxes together with the tops unsealed and facing up. You can glue them in any configuration that looks nice to you or fits your space. You might try 8 boxes long by 3 boxes wide, or 6 boxes long by 4 boxes wide, or 12 boxes long by 2 boxes wide: whatever you prefer! You can even glue them together in one long line and then place the whole thing atop your mantle or down the runner on your table for a decoration.
Place a small trinket, toy, gift, candy, or scripture reference inside each box and then close carefully with a small amount of clear tape. On each day of the month leading up to Christmas, you or your loved ones can open the box with the corresponding number.
 If you blog or sell items online, you know how frustrating it can be to try to take a simple yet attractive photo of a small object, from a plate of food to a tube of lipstick. Using an open 3D box as a lightbox for your items can be a great way to get good shots.

Make a solid white 3D box but instead of sealing it, cut off one side so that it is open. Place it on its side so that the open side is facing you.
Place a small object inside the box toward the back. Since you can make 3D boxes in any size, you can make a bigger box for a bigger object. You will need to be able to light the whole box to get a good picture.
For a very small object in a small box, the flash from your camera should be enough to fill the box with light. For bigger objects, set up a small lamp near the light box to shine inside as you take the pictures.

