 Feta is a popular Mediterranean cheese that contains plenty of flavor and is also full of proteins. A little bit of feta goes a long way, so you won’t need to add an overwhelming—and unhealthy—amount of feta to your food in order to taste it. If you limit yourself to a one-ounce serving, you’ll ingest 4 grams of protein and 74 calories.Feta is commonly served on top of Greek salads, or on other Mediterranean dishes, including gyros. It can also be crumbled on top of sliced tomatoes, or on top of a rich soup.
 Like feta, goat cheese is a crumbly, low-calorie cheese that has plenty of flavor. An ounce of goat cheese contains 5 grams of protein, so it could even be used to replace meats in certain dishes (such as a Greek or Mediterranean salad).Goat cheese is available in many different flavors and varieties (including both hard and soft), so it should be easy to purchase at your local supermarket.


Goat cheese is delicious and filling when eaten by itself—try spreading it on crackers. It can also be incorporated into many recipes, including salads, soups, eggs, and dishes with beets.
 Parmesan is a hard, dry cheese that is typically used as a flavorful garnish, rather than as an integral part of a main dish. Consequently, it’s easy to go light on the parmesan and still receive the full impact of the flavor. Parmesan contains only 110 calories in a 1-ounce serving.Parmesan is most often served with Italian dishes: try it sprinkled over spaghetti or fettuccini, or on top of lasagna. Parmesan can also be shaved into a salad, or eaten by itself (in thin slices) with an apple.
Note that parmesan is relatively high in sodium: an ounce contains 449 milligrams. For this reason, make sure to eat parmesan in moderation.
 Hard cheeses typically include larger amounts of healthy phosphorous than their soft counterparts, and so it should be incorporated into your diet. Swiss cheese is a good option; it contains relatively few calories and has a well-known, potent, nutty flavor.Add slices of Swiss to your lunchtime sandwich, or grate an ounce of Swiss into your morning eggs.


Depending on the nuances of your specific diet, you may want to look for a low-sodium or low-fat Swiss. Many types should be available at your local grocery store.

