 If you are trying to make a reader joyful, then writing a poem when you are upset isn't going to work. Your emotions rub off into your poetry, so make sure they match the mood of the poem. You can help yourself get in that mood by listening to music that matches it as well- if you are going to write a happy and inspiring poem, listen to uplifting and lively music beforehand, and so on.;
, Try reflecting upon a strong memory that makes you joyous or tearful every time you think of it, such as losing a best friend. If the poem doesn't make you emotional, it probably won't make the reader emotional either. You can keep the memory you're using as inspiration, or the main topic.


Refrain from writing about subjects you have little or no experience with or knowledge on. Chances are you'll be forcing yourself to come up with ideas and such, and this never ends well. It most likely will be evident in your writing that it isn't heartfelt.
 Without being able to "see" what's going on in your poem, your reader is more likely to become confused rather than be moved by your poem. Using metaphors is a great way to assist readers with this, especially with more abstract or complicated ideas in your poem. Be sure to make the metaphors compare to places or items that most people have already seen or used. For example: "her eyes were a dreary winter day, full of hues of gray and overcast clouds turning sunlight into hazy glows".
 This will truly make the reader feel like they are actually there, and when a reader feels immersed in the poem it makes it much easier for them to feel emotional. Be creative with some senses- for example, taste may seem inapplicable at a playground but young children can gnaw on their dirty fingers all the time. However, if a sense can't be used in the place you're describing, don't try to force it in, as it will only confuse the reader. An example of using sense is below:


Sunlight filters through emerald leaves and highlights grapes in deep shades of purple, (see)
Smooth grapes slide through fingers as do vines with little bumps (feel)
The fruity, tart taste of the plants exploding upon tongues (taste)
Leaves rustle as gentle wind whistles through them (hear)
And a fresh aroma of fresh soil, fruit and leaves swirls through the crisp air (smell)

, (e.g. differences between good childhood, sad present.) Many readers who are teens or adults can easily relate to this, especially if it's true in their lives. It could also be how the character in your poem has changed after some sort of traumatic or upsetting event, such as death of friend or family. It should have enough before examples to sadden the reader when the "after" change happens.


You can also focus this before-after change on some sort of item instead of the person. The character changes through unfortunate circumstances, but the item is the primary focus of the reader. For example: "she used drag it wherever she went, wet soil and grass lodged in its fur/then she only hugged it when trying to fight off her demons at night/but now it lies abandoned in the attic, hugged by spiders and cobwebs/its only blanket made of powdery dust". This a short example but gives a general outline.
 For a reader to be emotional, they have to feel with the character, relate with them, understand them, and sympathize with them. If the character is just some random figure, it's unlikely the reader will feel anything if something significant occurs in the poem. So tell the reader a little bit about the character's history (if it's important to the poem), and always include the character's emotions with each event.


Show, not tell, the character's emotions. Nobody's going to get emotional over your poem if you state "they are feeling sad". Show all the little signs of how the character is affected by the events in the poem.
 Clichés are overused literary elements, which can often make works seem boring and tire the reader. Since the reader has already seen the same cliché so many times, they most likely won't like the poem and will have read lots just like it. Clichés:


Work against original communication and people value creative talent. They want to see work that isn't the normal thing they see every day. When they see a work without clichés, they know the writer has worked hard doing whatever it takes to be original. When they see a work full to the brim with clichés, they feel that the writer is not showing them anything above the ordinary and didn't put that much effort into it.
Dull meaning. Because clichéd writing sounds so familiar, people can and often do skim through lines. If they don’t bother to read your poem all the way through, they certainly won’t stop to think about it. If they do not stop to think about your poem, they will never encounter deeper meanings and emotion.
 Concrete words describe things people feel with their sentences, such as "orange, cat, warm". Abstract words describe concepts or feelings, such as "liberty, happy, love". Concrete words help the reader get a picture of what the poem is talking about and helps them easily visualize. When the reader can visualize the poem, he/she can better understand what the poet is talking about, hence making it much easier for them to get emotional reading it.
 The poem has to come from you, and you alone. Poems aren't forced onto the paper- they happen. If you force yourself to write a poem it sounds strained and weak and it becomes clear it was a forced poem. Don't write about something just because it is popular and everyone likes it. Write it from you and people will connect. Nobody will get emotional over a forced poem; it's evident the poet didn't put any emotion into it, and the reader won't feel any emotion over it either.
 Sentimentality is false or excessive emotion, which is the exact opposite of what the reader needs to get emotional over your poem. It can make the reader feel like they're having emotions rammed down their throats, instead of letting them choose. Plus, having it in a poem can end up feeling whiny, self-pitying, insincere, or sickeningly sweet, depending on which emotions the poet is overdoing. To avoid this, let the readers decide their emotions for themselves. Instead of telling them that something is sad, show them what makes that thing sad (this also helps with show-not-tell, which increases chances of readers feeling emotion over your poem).
 Sometimes it takes a good ending to get the reader emotional. You can stun the reader by building a positive mood, then shattering it, such as recalling good memories as a person until a sad ending, such as death or illness. You want the reader to remember your poem, and a memorable ending is essential to that.


Try having the last line only consist of one word (as long as that word is meaningful), or don't add a period to the end. It'll feel like a stunned ending, almost like a cliffhanger but with no sequel.
Since periods end sentences, they are often associated with finality. Because of this, you can use a period after the last word to give the poem a sense of stunned closure. It makes a greater impact if you haven't used a single period throughout the whole poem.
 There's always a chance you had some sort of mistake in there, which can even ruin part of the poem, depending on the magnitude. Scan your poem for any grammatical or spelling errors. Check for any words that stop the poem from flowing smoothly, and either remove them or replace them. See if there's any weak or basic words you can replace to create better imagery. Read it out loud if you'd like. Lastly, if you'd like, ask a family member or friend to read and review your poem as well- they may catch something you didn't!


Be sure to check your punctuation as well. Though punctuation use varies from poet to poet (some may only use one period their whole poem, and others will be full of commas), review to see if any punctuation should be added, or if some should be removed as it impedes the flow of the poem.

