 With close friends and family, you’re likely going to want to take a more conversational tone with the message. In business, however, it’s generally expected that you will communicate the point of your message without wasting time on pleasantries.Even with friends and family, if you want a message to be as clear as possible, consider dropping pleasantries like “how are you,” and get straight to the point instead.
 Just like when writing a text, knowing the point of your email message will help you stay focused on it. Popular message topics include: making plans, clarifying business matters, asking questions, and so on. Keep yourself on track with your message by looking at each part of the message and asking:”Is this part of the message necessary to communicate my topic?” If not, you should delete the unnecessary part.
”Would the meaning of my message be changed if I deleted this part?” If not, go ahead and delete it.
 Subject headings can be tricky. The key here is to convey your topic. Your subject heading doesn’t have to be artful, like the title of a book. It could be something as simple as:Quick question
Status update on project
RE job opportunity
Birthday party

, Messages that sound too clinical can also make them sound distant. This can make it seem like your message doesn’t actually pertain to the recipient. To prevent this, use inclusive language, like the pronouns “you” and “I.”


For example, instead of saying "Clients should arrive 15 minutes early with all their paperwork" you could say, "You should arrive 15 minutes early with your paperwork."
Another example, instead of "ABC Corp does not refund customers' items after 30 days" you could say "We cannot refund your items after 30 days.", Generally, you should be able to glance through an email and pick out most spelling and grammar errors. With business emails, you may want to spend an extra minute or two double checking everything.Oftentimes in business situations, correct spelling and grammar are interpreted as more professional.
Many email services offer a spellchecker. Especially if you're not confident in your spelling ability, this is a quick and easy way you can proofread your emails

