 Think about the kids who are likely to attend the event, whether they’re your kids or your relatives’ kids. Be aware that each age group will have different interests and attention spans.For infants and toddlers, toys need to be simple like stuffed animals, dolls, building blocks, and picture books.
For preschoolers and kindergarteners, toys can be more complex such as simple puzzles, things for pretending and building, and simple toss and throwing games like ball toss.
For elementary school kids, try toys like board games, building blocks, puzzles, sports games, and electronics such as video or computer games.;
, Kids love to do interactive activities like crafts. At family gatherings, have a kid’s area with arts and crafts supplies. Be mindful of how old the children are who are likely to attend. Have supplies that fit the age group, and make sure there are enough supplies for all the children.Have coloring books, colored paper, crayons, and markers on hand.
Have clay and dough to make shapes and creatures.
Have jewelry making and bead kits.
 Depending on the family gathering, there may be certain themes like Christmas or Easter that help to guide your choice of games and activities. The same can be done for family reunions or birthday parties. Even if the event seems more for adults, give kids some activities to keep them interested.If it’s Christmas and it’s been snowing, get the kids outside for a snowman building contest. Or keep the fun indoors with a snowball toss game using Styrofoam cups decorated like snowmen and white pom-poms for tossing.
If it’s a family reunion, have the kids gather around for a “story time” in which some of the adults tell fun and silly stories about growing up as kids. Include pictures and possibly re-enactments to make the storytelling more entertaining.
 Kids love adventure and mystery. If you’re hosting the event, before the guests arrive create clues and a list of objects that they need to find around the house. This will work best with kids who are able to read and follow directions.The scavenger hunt could also be a family game in which both kids and adults participate. You could have teams that work together on the mystery clues.
Have some prizes ready for the kids when the scavenger hunt is over that can keep them entertained throughout the event.
 Create a room or area where kids can be kids and feel like they can have fun together. Consider a space that's separate from the adults where they can get a little loud without interfering. They can feel like they're having their own party in this space.


If it's an indoor space, choose rooms like a family room or basement play room that's away from the main gathering area.
If it's an outdoor space, choose an area that's not too close or too far from the main outdoor patio area, such as a playground space, tree house, or open lawn area.
 Have a place where kids can be entertained in their own way, with games, movies, and music that are kid-oriented. This can help to keep kids engaged and focused if the main family activities aren't as interesting.Have a few movies ready that kids enjoy watching, such as some animated classics.
Have some video games available if you already have a game center. Pick out a few that are kid-friendly.
Get karaoke set up for them to sing and be silly.
 At family gatherings, you may be so focused on getting some elegant dishes out for your relatives that you forget that kids can be picky eaters. Consider making a special food table with kid-friendly snacks for them to enjoy.


Place the snacks in the "kid zone" so that they can feel special with their own table of goodies.
Be mindful of your relatives' expectations for their kids' diets. Have healthy snacks as well as salty or sweet treats on hand.
With a snack table available, they'll be able to stave off hunger if the event is long.
 Kids love to get their hands messy with baking and sweet treats. If you’re planning to have them over for a holiday feast, give them a side project to work on making cookies or decorating some goodies.Have some pre-made sugar cookies ready for them to decorate with icing and sprinkles.
Have a variety of chocolate, peppermint, and candy goodies on hand. Have them make little marshmallow snowmen or possibly some cookie ornaments. Even if the treats that they make aren’t eaten, they can be fun to show off to guests., Make them feel like an important part of the event. Have them partner up with one of the other kids or a trusted adult. Give them a small task to do throughout the event that makes them feel like they’ve helped out.


Let’s say that they’re bigger kids at a holiday party. You could ask them to monitor the crafts table and help other kids engage in the fun. Maybe the kids know how to draw or make origami. Ask them to act as a teacher for the other kids.
Maybe there’s a shy kid who feels left out. Have them buddy up with a friendly and trusted adult at the event. Have the adult and kid pass out food to the guests or help out setting up the table.
 Kids enjoy little prizes as something to look forward to. Have some goodie bags on hand for the kids when they’ve been helpful during the event. If you do have them help out by baking, serving guests, or other activities, give them an incentive to help through small prizes.


Consider small prizes from dollar stores that they may find interesting or fun.
Have the prizes be something they can enjoy at the event itself. If it’s a holiday party, consider prizes with themes related to the holiday.
 Get the whole family involved in games with the kids. Instead of having the kids sidelined while the adults talk amongst each other, have games and activities that allow interaction between adults and kids.


Set aside time during the event to play board games or charades.
Have some adults and kids interact with outdoor games like soccer, badminton, or cornhole toss if it’s good weather outside. Set up some games in advance so that kids and adults are more likely to pick up and start the games themselves., Kids and adults alike love to dance. Have an area where people can dance. Set up speakers that don’t overpower the event, but help to get people in the mood to boogie. Play music that can appeal to young and old alike, and that doesn’t offend people.


If it’s a holiday party, try a combination of festive music with dance music.
Get a small group of kids and adults to start dancing at first. More than likely, more people will join in after the dancing starts.
 Some kids will get bored more easily without structured activities. Recruit a few trusted adults that enjoy playing with kids. Ask them to help out at the event by overseeing some structured activities.Talk with a few guests possibly before and at the beginning of the event to recruit them as “volunteers.” Most people will be happy to help if they are already interested in spending time with the kids.
Get artistic and creative guests involved. For example, if you have a relative that plays guitar and knows some songs, have them play for the kids and other guests, after asking for their help.

