 It's okay to feel apprehensive, disappointed, scared, frustrated, sad, numb, or anything else. There's nothing wrong with feeling the way you do. Take time to sort out these emotions as you are able.


Consider your emotions, and what they say about your values and perspective. What insights do your feelings give you about what is important to you?
Some people feel personally threatened by Donald Trump. There are valid reasons for this.You aren't irrational or overreacting. Allow yourself to process these fears.
Different people cope differently, and that's okay. Find a constructive way of coping that works for you.
 They can help you put things in perspective, and remind you how much you are loved and cared for.


It may also be helpful to be talk to a counselor or therapist if you are having a very hard time.
 This can help you feel validated in your concerns, and remind you that you aren't alone.


Comfort other people who may be upset about the political situation. Listen, validate their feelings, and offer reassurance. Show them this article if you'd like.
 If reading or hearing about Donald Trump stresses you out, it may be good to avoid the news for a day or two. While being informed is important, your mental health comes first.


Any time you feel the urge to check the news, stop, take a few deep breaths, and refocus on something else.
Spend less time on social media, where people may talk about the news. Some sites allow you to blacklist hashtags, so you could blacklist tags like #election, #trump, #donaldtrump and #politics.
If a friend starts talking politics, say "I'm a bit overwhelmed with all the news. Can we talk about something else?"

, These conversations can be confrontational and very stressful, so it may be best not to engage in them for now.You may find it better to limit your social media exposure for a few days, and temporarily avoid political conversations with people who support Trump.


This doesn't mean never talking with people who disagree with you—it means waiting until you feel confident and emotionally balanced enough.
 Don't talk about the election. Instead, do something fun together. Think about people who make you smile, and go see or call them.


Talk about your day-to-day lives.
Play board games or video games.
Get outdoors and explore nature or your local area.
Go to a restaurant
Play casual sports, like a pick-up game of basketball

, If anxiety is beginning to consume your thoughts, take a step back and do something that relaxes you.


Call or visit a loved one (don't isolate yourself)Write in a journal
Meditate
Use progressive muscle relaxation
Focus on your senses
Exercise
Do yoga
Get a back rub or give yourself a hand massage
Use visualization techniques
Go outside in nature
List the things you're grateful for

, Some people, especially those with anxiety/depression and other mental health disorders, may struggle to get frightening thoughts out of their heads. The best thing to do is distracting yourself with something else.


Lists of websites and activities are available online., Checking some things off your to-do list will help you feel productive and good about yourself. It will also encourage you to focus on things that you can do now, instead of being consumed by worries about the future.
 Remember that worst-case scenarios generally don't happen. Tell yourself that you'll be able to adjust and adapt to whatever changes take place, and that these changes might not be as drastic as you think they might be.


Use visualization techniques to imagine yourself in the future, doing okay and staying calm.
 Helping others empowers you to make a change and remember the good parts of the world. Voting is only one of many ways to effect positive change. View the election results not as an ending of despair, but as a call to action.Volunteer for a social justice organization, such as Campaign Zero, Council on American-Islamic Relations, Showing Up For Racial Justice, or another.Create or edit wikiHow articles on your favorite topics.
Donate to a cause you care about. RAINN, Planned Parenthood, ACLU, and Friends of the Earth are examples of organizations you may be interested in supporting.Support your loved ones and the people around you. Spend time with them, assuage their worries, and remind them how much they are loved.

