 Although there are many similarities in the techniques for concluding an essay and a presentation there are some important differences too. Because a presentation is delivered orally rather than read, it may not always be so clear when you are beginning the conclusion. For this reason, it is advisable to clearly indicate when you are starting your conclusion.


Phrases such as "in conclusion", and "to summarise", which you wouldn't use in a written essay, can be useful for a spoken presentation.
Indicating that you are about to conclude will encourage your listeners to focus on what you are about to say., Once you get your audience's attention for your conclusion you should demonstrate how your presentation has travelled full circle by returning to the initial question or problem you set out to tackle in your introduction.Doing this will help you present a coherent and comprehensive argument. You can attempt to do this using similar techniques as an essay conclusion, by returning to an explicit question you set yourself, or returning to a key phrase or quote you established early in the presentation.For example, you could ask yourself the main question at the start of the conclusion. "So, how do I suggest we improve our sales in the Mid-West?" before going on provide a summary of your key points.
 In an oral presentation a clear summary of the key point in your talk can be a very important element of your conclusion. It is possible that your audience's attention will have drifted a little while you were talking and a brief summary can reinforce your argument.Generally, listening to a presentation will be more passive than reading an essay, so it is more beneficial to summarise your key points in the conclusion of a spoken presentation.
The last things your audience hear will most likely be what they take away with them, so be sure all your key points are covered in the conclusion., When you conclude a presentation, it is essential that you finish with conviction and enthusiasm that leaves a lasting impression with your audience. There are a number of ways to do this, such as using to-the-point phrases, memorable and meaningful soundbites, and making strong eye contact with your audience.You might also include a short anecdote that supports your argument and acts as a call to the action to the other people in the room.
A strong ending can make a personal connection with the audience, by demonstrating how you can resolve a problem for the audience member., When you are signing off you should try to make a lasting impression and engage you audience in the topic of your presentation. This can be achieved with a strong call to action. A call to action encourages your audience to actively respond to you and your ideas, while also demonstrating the relevance of your talk for members of the audience.


Using an action verb in your final sentence can highlight exactly how you want your audience to respond.
For example, when John F. Kennedy said, "Ask not what your country can do for you, ask what you can do or your country," he was encouraging action from the audience.Finishing this way both demonstrates your personal conviction and indicates that you think your ideas should be followed up.

