 Plug the exterior power cord into a wall outlet and wait for the unit’s power indicator light to come on. If your razor’s dock has a separate power switch, make sure to flip it into the “on” position.Many newer electric razors come equipped with a separate docking base that cleans and charges the razor automatically. This is the easiest way to keep your shaver cleaned and maintained.
Keep your razor’s dock at a safe distance from the sink or shower to prevent it from getting wet., Fit the the head of the razor carefully into the base of the dock. You’ll most likely hear a click or see a separate light that will let you know the razor has been attached successfully. With the razor in place, the dock can clean, polish, oil and dry the cutting head in just minutes with the push of a button.If your razor has a protective cap over the cutting head, be sure to remove it prior to docking.
Follow the instructions specified in the user’s manual if you’re unsure how to proceed., To begin, locate and push the button on the base that indicates the dock’s cleaning function. More advanced units may have several different cleaning options. In this case, you should select your preferred option.The different cleaning options will likely include a quick, normal and intensive setting. Each subsequent setting will offer a more thorough clean, but will also take longer to complete.In addition to cleaning the blades or foils, the dock will also typically apply a fresh coat of lubricating oil and rapidly dry the razor using an internal heat source.
 Wait for the dock to finish cleaning the razor. Then, take it out of the base and use your stiff-bristled brush to clear away any hairs or debris remaining on the outside of the razor. Replace the protective cap, if your model has one, and leave the razor in a clean, dry place until your next shave.

Your razor will be ready for use as soon as the automated cleaning cycle is complete.
Invest in an inexpensive storage bag or hard-shelled case for your razor to keep it from being exposed to moisture and other elements that could speed its deterioration.

