 An undergraduate degree takes approximately 4 years to finish. When selecting your college, consider the biological science specializations each school has. For example, larger universities may offer a major in botany along with specializations such as plant pathology, agronomy or horticulture. However, a smaller college may have only a general botany major.


Take core requirement courses such as physics, biology, chemistry, plant pathology, horticulture and agronomy.
Complete undergraduate electives like math, English and speech, paying close attention to what might be useful in your career path.
Complete an internship in botany. The internship helps you gain the experience you need to become a botanist.
 Many careers in botany require graduate training (at the Master's or doctoral level), but attending graduate school takes some forethought and planning. Don’t rush into it: it is a huge commitment of time and money, and you want to be sure you find the right program for you.


Research graduate school programs and find several you're interested in attending. Consider the programs of study offered, the program's prestige, the location of the school, and the packages available to graduate students (tuition waivers, stipends, health insurance, research opportunities, teaching opportunities, etc.) when narrowing down your choices.
If you plan to attend an American university, take and pass the Graduate Record Examination (GRE), a standardized test needed to enter graduate school. The GRE tests verbal and quantitative reasoning and writing skills.Ask professors for letters of recommendation. Hopefully you established close mentoring relationships with your undergraduate professors and they will be able to attest to your work ethic, interest in plant science, and experience in research to date. Don't ask anyone if you are unsure what type of review they would give you.
Complete application requirements such as sending in a letter of intent, application fee, official transcripts and a resume. Graduate school admission committees are typically composed of faculty who will be working with the admitted students, and they tend to admit students that they think will help them with their own research, so be sure to tailor your letter of intent to mention your specific interests in botany and the faculty you want to work with and why. Consider applying to several of your top schools because you are unlikely to be accepted to all of them, especially if your GRE or undergraduate grades are less than stellar or if you have no research or other background in botany.
 Depending on your program of study, this could take anywhere between two and seven years to complete.


A master's degree in biological science usually takes 2 years to complete. You take courses in botany, participate in fieldwork and complete a thesis.A doctorate degree in biological science takes 5 to 6 years to finish if you are able to attend full-time, and longer if you have to work and attend part-time. A doctorate degree generally combines fieldwork and classroom instruction, extensive laboratory research and the completion of a dissertation., Now that you have completed your advanced training, you can begin to apply for and accept a position as a botanist in your field of expertise, working in industry, government, public policy, or as a professor.


You can gain practical experience and additional job opportunities through temporary postdoctoral positions at a local university. Temporary postdoctoral fellowships provide a way to publish research findings and earn a permanent faculty or researching position and also help fill up your resume or curriculum vita.
You can obtain a job through the college career placement center, online job websites, networking or classified job advertisements.
Advancement opportunities for botanists include becoming lead researchers, consultants and managerial positions. Working as a lead botanist researcher includes directing other botanists and botany technicians in research projects. A botanist consultant consists of helping government agencies and businesses with botany issues. A managerial botanist means handling administrative duties such as obtaining funding for research projects.
Attend seminars, workshops and courses and read academic journals to keep up to date with plant science advancements.

