 He has a girlfriend and it is not you. It happens. This is not going to change until further notice. This is difficult to accept sometimes, but you won't be able to get over him until you do.;
, It could be that you're not even attracted to him and there are other reasons why you're pursuing him. Perhaps you don't like his girlfriend and are trying to hurt her. Something else in your life may be causing his attraction as well.
 This includes friends of his and ex-girlfriends, if possible. In learning about his personality or certain character flaws he has, you may find yourself becoming not attracted to him.


Be aware that the reverse issue could happen and you may become more smitten with him the more that you learn. If this happens, realize that there plenty of other guys out there for you.
 Don't spend all day obsessing. Figure out ways to fill up the time and it will become easier to move past this. Join a sports team, an arts class or volunteer within your community. Meeting new people and being exposed to new activities is a great way to take your mind off something that you'll realize is not very important in the long run. The goal is to get him out of your head!

, Plan a trip to the park or beach, or indulge in a day of retail therapy.
 A great way to get over a guy is to dress up in some of your most stylish clothes and go dancing. Clubs are a great place to possibly meet other guys. Even if you don't meet any, the music and physical activity from dancing will put you in a better mood. Dance until you feel better.
 In the early stages, don't put yourself in a situation where you have to be around him. If you share a class or work together, make an effort to limit your time around him to as little as possible.This helps you to move forward with your life.
 The best way to get over a guy is to see who else is out there! Flirt with other boys. If you become attracted to someone else, you'll quickly forget about this other person.
 Does he chew with his mouth open? Does he smoke? Does he not like your favorite band? Seeing the flaws in him will help you get over him.

