 Wipe your cat's feet off with a damp cloth. If it stepped in something really yucky, consider bathing your cat's feet in a large bowl filled with a few inches of lukewarm water. Gently massage the feet to loosen any stuck-on bits.
 Keep your cat off hot metal surfaces like ovens and very cold surfaces like frozen sidewalks. If your cat’s paws look dry or cracked, consult your vet about applying a moisturizer and use as directed.
 If you notice sores, swelling, splinters, or cuts, investigate for the source. Remove foreign objects like staples or splinters which the cat may have lodged in its paw.If you notice sores or raw areas, take you cat to the vet for an examination.
 Long-haired cats might have hair coming out between their toes. If you notice hair growing from between the toes, or notice your cat licking its toes constantly, trim the hair coming from between the toes with a pair of scissors., Cats have an outer sheath on their nails and smooth claws beneath. To remove this outer sheath, they scratch whatever they can.If you don’t provide a scratching post on which they can scratch, they’ll be using your dining room table and sofa.


Provide a variety of scratching posts. Some cats like natural wood logs, others like wood covered in rope. Set up several about the house to give your cat a variety of options.
Your cat will be interested in scratching the post if you sprinkle some catnip on it. Pinch a bit in your hand and sprinkle some on the base of the post, or rub it into the surface of the post.
 Besides uncovering the outer sheath of their claws, cats use scratching posts to mark their territory. Cats might leave their scent on scratching posts to let other animals know that they’re in the cat’s territory. For that reason, it is important to place your scratching post in a location everyone will see it.For instance, you could choose a location near the living room or kitchen. Whatever room is the most prominent, place a scratching post there.
Having multiple scratching posts helps, too.
 Gently massage the innermost toe on one of your cat’s feet, then press the toe pad. The nail will come out of the toe pad. Trim the sharp, white end of the nail.


Continue trimming across the cat’s foot. When you’ve finished with one foot, move on to another.
If your cat becomes agitated or antsy while getting its nails cut, give it a treat before and after to calm it down and reward it for sitting still.
You could also split the trimming into two sessions by trimming the front feet one day and the back feet another day.
Do not cut the pink part of the cat’s nail. This part of the nail is known as the quick and contains many sensitive nerves and blood vessels. Keep some styptic powder or sticks on hand while trimming your cat’s nails just in case you cut the quick.
Use specialized cat or pet clippers for your cat, not human nail clippers, which can cause your cat’s nails to split. Pet nail clippers are available at pet stores.
 While you might be tempted to declaw your cat to protect your furniture, the declawing surgery removes the ends of your cat's toes. The recovery process can be very painful for your cat.Find alternatives to declawing like regular nail clippings and providing numerous scratching posts.

