 Eating nutritious foods is part of your diabetes management, but it can also help with your depression. Eating carbs in the form of fruits and vegetables instead of high glycemic index carbs may help alleviate depression symptoms. Fruits and vegetables also provide your body with needed nutrients, like magnesium, folates, and riboflavin, which can help with depression.\


High glycemic carbs include white pasta, white breads, white rice, potatoes, corn, and many cereals.Eating healthy fats and lean sources of protein also may help with depression symptoms.
Talk to your doctor about dietary choices that will help with both your diabetes and depression management.
 Exercise can help reduce the symptoms of depression and boost your mood. Getting half an hour of physical activity five days a week can help with mild to moderate depression symptoms.Exercise also provides health benefits for your diabetes management. Regular physical activity can help lower your blood glucose levels. Try working out with friends or family instead of by yourself.Try to get 30 to 45 minutes of physical activity five days each week. Alternately, you can try to get 60 minutes of exercise three times a week.
Engage in a variety of activities. Try walking, swimming, cycling, strength training, yoga, or other aerobic activities.
 Diabetes and depression can lead to problems sleeping. Getting proper sleep can help regulate your moods. Shoot for seven to nine hours of sleep each night. Try to go to bed at the same time each night and wake up at the same time each day.Lay off the caffeine close to bedtime. This can keep you up. Avoid other things near bedtime that can keep you up, like alcohol, exercise, housework, working, or even checking your email. Make sure to give yourself a period of time to wind down.
Take a warm shower before bed and turn off all the lights. This can help your body prepare for sleep.
 People who have depression may not want to leave the house. This may increase when you have diabetes. Though you may feel bad and like you don't want to do anything, try to go out and do something. Staying home and being alone can worsen your depression symptoms. Make it a point to go out and meet up with friends or family at least once a week.If your diabetes makes you feel uncomfortable going to dinner, find something else to do. Go to a movie, go shopping, or visit a museum. Remember, though you may feel self-conscious about your diabetes, your family and friends accept you for you and won't judge you.
Consider going to a social function in your area, like a meetup or a volunteer opportunity.
 A great source of support when you have diabetes and depression is your family and friends. Having diabetes may make you feel isolated or different, and depression can make this seem even worse. Make an effort to connect with your family and friends.Spend time with them socializing. Invite them over for dinner where you cook a diabetes-friendly delicious meal, or go out and do a shared activity.
Talk to them when you feel overwhelmed. Try saying, “I am suffering from depression in addition to diabetes. I was wondering if I could talk to you about how I’m feeling. I think it’ll help.”

, Many people who are depressed turn to certain substances to help them feel better. This is not a healthy way to manage. Many substances used to make someone feel better can lead to substance abuse, which is an additional serious condition.People often turn to nicotine, coffee, alcohol, drugs, or tranquilizers to make them feel better.
If you feel the need to turn to these substances, consider talking to a mental health professional to help you cope in more effective ways.

