 When someone is lashing out at you in a bad mood, the first step is to depersonalize. It can be very easy to be affected by someone's bad mood, to the point where you feel negative about yourself. Before reacting, remember it has nothing to do with you.Moody people are subject to sudden changes in mood, and just about anything can set them off. Try to remember this when someone is experiencing a mood swing.
For example, your boyfriend was in a good mood, only to lash out at you because you disagreed with him about something. Remind yourself he's a moody person by nature. Keep in mind other times he's suddenly lost his temper when it had little to do with you. If it hadn't been you disagreeing with him, it would have been something else.
It can be helpful to think of a moody person like the weather. Their unpredictable nature can be frustrating, but it is never something you can control.;
, It can be helpful to reach out to someone having a mood swing. Sometimes, a moody person just needs to talk it out. Mood swings are often irrational responses. If someone is directly asked what's wrong, they may be confronted with the fact they have nothing to be upset about. This may help quell the bad mood.Make sure to ask gently. Even if the person is being very frustrating, being aggressive in return won't help. Do not ask, "What is wrong with you?" Instead, say something like, "I feel like you have snapped at me a lot today. Is there something that's bothering you?"
However, you should never put up with someone being aggressive towards you, physically or verbally. If he's yelling at you, calling you names, or using foul language, do not ask what's wrong. Instead, leave the situation until he calms down. You can talk it out later.
 Remember, you can't control someone else's mood. You can, however, control your own to an extent. If someone is having mood swings, you may end up becoming moody in return. Try to keep your composure as best you can. Staying calm on your end can prevent the situation from escalating.It's normal to feel frustrated by mood swings, especially if they're directed at you; however, repeat something to yourself like, "I can't control his mood, but I can control mine."
Say your boyfriend is taking you out to dinner, for example. The waiter forgets to bring out your drink orders and your boyfriend gets very angry suddenly. The restaurant is busy, and you understand why the waiter forgot, but your boyfriend is going off loudly about it.
You do not have to be angry in return. You do not have to agree with him about the waiter and express anger on your own end. Instead, stay calm. Try to disengage and avoid taking on your boyfriend's anger.
 Remember that moods, even bad ones, are temporary. If someone is prone to mood swings, negative reactions will not last long. Chances are, he'll calm down as quickly as he was set off. Remind yourself that he'll calm down eventually when he experiences a mood swing.This is not a permanent solution. Mood swings are a problem, especially if they're taken out on you. Keeping things in perspective can help you stay calm in the moment, but the underlying problems behind mood swings should always be addressed.

