 Like a cold or flu in humans, a URTI will be uncomfortable for a cat because of the symptoms associated with it. A cat suffering from a URTI will usually exhibit nasal discharge and the irritation associated with that.Nasal discharge can cause the cat to have a very crusty nose. When the discharge is not wiped away, it can dry under and around the nose area.
In an effort to get rid of the moisture, the cat may use its paws to wipe away the discharge. This means that the cat's paws may also be covered in moisture.;
, While the occasional sneeze or cough is perfectly normal, repeated and excessive sneezing and coughing can be a sign of an upper respiratory tract infection. Combined with the nasal discharge, the sneezing can be very noticeable when it makes a mess all over the cat, and whatever the cat is sitting on., Watery eyes are also a symptom of an upper respiratory tract infection.This is caused by the cat's immune system trying to flush out the infection.


There may also be swelling around your cat's eyes. This is caused by inflammation in the sinuses that lay below the eyes.
 Your cat's mouth may be red, swollen, and covered in sores. You may even be able to see down a sick cat's mouth into its throat, which is likely to also be red and swollen.The lesions in the mouth can be on the tongue or the hard pallet.
These lesions will probably burst at some point. They should heal once you have the infection under control.
 If your cat is feeling unwell, it will most likely show up in it's behavior. This illness usually causes lethargy or lack of energy. , A lack of appetite is a sign of an upper respiratory tract infection. This is due to the cat feeling generally bad but it can also be caused by the lesions that can occur in the mouth. Lesions in the mouth can make eating painful, and thus the cat will avoid it as long as possible., A URTI can be caused by viruses or bacteria or, in some cases, both.This means that is a wide variety of things that could be causing your cat's illness. This is why a veterinary diagnosis may be important, especially if your cat's symptoms are severe.


The most common viruses that cause feline URTI include feline viral rhinotracheitis (FVR), feline calcivirus, or a feline retrovirus, such as feline leukemia.The most common bacteria that cause feline URTI include Bordetella bronchiseptica, Chlamydophila felis, and Mycoplasmas., A cat that has severe symptoms may need veterinary care to speed and ease its recovery. After a medical examination and history taking, your veterinarian may diagnose your kitty with a URTI. Generally, a URTI is diagnosed based on clinical signs.Your vet will check to see if the cat has a fever. A high fever, which can peak at 105 degrees but usually sits between normal and 103 degrees, is a very common symptom of an upper respiratory tract infection.A blood test may be done to determine if the body is responding to an infection. This blood test would be a complete blood count (CBC) to check the white blood cell counts. White blood cells show if the body is responding to an infection.
Another blood test that may be performed is to check for feline leukemia virus infection.
 In some cases, the treatment for a URTI would be the same no matter what additional testing says about the specific cause of the illness. However, by combining examination findings with diagnostic testing your veterinarian may be better able to diagnose feline URTI and to determine a good course of treatment.


Depending on your cat, and the severity of the signs, blood chemistry tests may be done to see how the kidneys and liver are functioning. Electrolytes can also be measured with these tests to see if the cat is dehydrated.
There are also a few other diagnostic tests which can be performed to more definitively diagnose the cause of a feline URTI. However these tests generally do not change the treatment course but they are worth mentioning. These include swabbing the nasal cavity or mouth and sending the swabs to a diagnostic testing laboratory to isolate any viruses or to do further testing, such as polymerase chain reaction (PCR).These are highly specialized tests which require sophisticated techniques to perform.
 Most of the time, a cat's immune system will effectively eliminate the illness in a week or two. During this time it's important to ease your cat's symptoms and to make it as comfortable as possible.If the illness is severe, your veterinarian may prescribe an oral antibiotic.This will help the cat to eliminate the infection.
During treatment you need to keep your cat away from other cats. URTI can be very infectious, so try to avoid letting your cat infect other cats.