 This shows a parent that you are engaged, intelligent, and responsible. While you don't want to grill the parents over the phone, you do want to know a little bit about the kids you'll be watching before you say yes. The basics you need to cover include:


How old are the kids?
How many kids are you watching?
How long will you be babysitting?
How much will you be paid an hour?;
, Ask 2-3 thoughtful, detailed questions about the kids before taking the job. Not only does this show parts that you are punctual, it lets you see how the kids behave with their parents and get a feel for any behavior you'll have to control. Get some information from the parents about the child, including:


What are their favorite things to do?
Do they have any dietary restrictions or preferences?
What time is bedtime?
What things are off-limits (games, places in the house, etc.).
Who do I contact in case of emergencies?

, While you don't want to be dressed up, you should have a clean shirt and pants and show up on time. Remember that, for some parents, leaving their children with a stranger is a stressful event. Make it easier on the parents by exuding professionalism and confidence.


Avoid talking about babysitting "horror stories" or saying that you "prefer a different age." Don't give the parents any reason to doubt your ability.
Nice pants, like jeans and a clean shirt, should suffice., Knowing that you will be able to handle an emergency will put you and the parents at ease when you're alone with the child. These classes are usually $100 and certification lasts for 2 years.Bring a copy of this certification with you. Most parents won't ask for it, but it is good to have in your backpack or purse if they do.
 If the parents want the kid in bed by a certain time or don't want them watching TV, follow their rules. Some children will try to convince you that "they break that rule all the time," that their parents "don't really care," or that you heard the rule wrong. Stay firm and consistent -- the parents are paying you, not the child.


Put the child to bed at the right hour. Even if they "won't fall asleep" they should be in bed when you promised.Kids tell their parents everything. If you slipped them a piece of candy they weren't supposed to have, chances are it will get back to them.
 If a child spills their dinner on the kitchen floor it is your responsibility to clean it up, While you are not a maid and should not clean the house unnecessarily, you need to make sure everything is tidy before leaving. Some tasks all babysitters must do include:


Cleaning up dishes.
Tidying up toys.
Folding blankets or clothes and putting them in the laundry basket.
Cleaning up any messes or spills made on your watch., Having positive word of mouth around the neighborhood is often the best way to get new jobs and boost your reputation. If the parents seem happy with your job or invite you back again, give them a card with your contact info and politely ask them to share it with friends.


For example: "Thank you so much for the opportunity! If you know anyone else that needs a sitter, please give them my information."

