 These special clinics run on a confidential basis; many preserve anonymity by assigning patients identification numbers to match them with their test results. Some run on an appointment basis, while others let patients drop in. Most collect information about patient ethnicity, sexual orientation and activity, drug use and prior HIV tests. Patients are counseled before and after the test. The test takes one of several forms:


A blood sample test from a vein that looks for the presence of HIV antibodies. It takes 1 to 2 weeks to process for results.
A saliva sampling test from between the cheek and gum. This test also takes 1 to 2 weeks to process.
A urine test. However, this test is less accurate than the blood and saliva sample tests.
A rapid sample test, where blood is taken from the finger and processed in 20 to 30 minutes. Patients who receive this test may receive less counseling than with the other 2 forms of testing, depending on how busy the testing site is.
All tests must be confirmed with a follow-up test, using the same bodily fluid that was sampled for the original test. In addition, if you test negative for HIV within 3 months of potential exposure, you'll need to be tested again 3 months afterward to rule out the possibility that the first test missed the presence of HIV antibodies.
 You may not be as likely to be tested anonymously in either of these settings as at a dedicated HIV testing site or receive the same level of counseling, but you may have more flexibility in making an appointment and not have to wait as long to be tested.


In addition to the tests listed under the previous step, if you visit your doctor just after taking part in HIV-risk behavior, he or she may administer an RNA test, designed to find the virus itself instead of antibodies it causes the body to produce. Typically, antibodies don't show up in detectable quantities until 2 to 8 weeks after infection (12 weeks at the outside), while the RNA test will detect the virus within 9 to 11 days after infection.
 More correctly a "home collection kit," this test involves pricking your own finger with the included device, putting drops of blood on a treated card to be mailed to a laboratory for treatment. Anyone taking the test is assigned an identification number to preserve anonymity. Counselors are available by telephone before the test, while waiting for results and after receiving them.


While several HIV home test kits are advertised online, the only one presently approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration is the Home Access HIV-1 Test System. Even so, it requires a follow-up test to verify the results, and anyone who receives a positive result is given a referral for such a test.
In some countries, the sale of home testing kits is illegal.

