 The first thing you need to do to draft your fantasy football team in the FanDuel app is to make your way to the roster screen. This is a step-by-step affair, with the process starting from the FanDuel home screen and ending up in the roster screen.Starting up the FanDuel app and logging in will lead you to the FanDuel home screen—the lobby, to be specific. Once in the lobby, tap the football league you want to participate in (either the NFL or the CFB.) Doing so will reveal a list of dates and times where the contests will draw their players from.;
, After selecting a date and time, you will be led to another screen asking you what kind of contest you want to join in., There are six types you can select from: featured, league, 50/50, tournament, head to head, or multiplier. These types of contests each have their own rules—rules which will play a very large role in determining the strategy and reasoning behind your FanDuel fantasy football teams. More on this in a later section dedicated to your scoring strategy., Once you pick a contest type, you will then move to a screen where you will select the specific contest you want to join. You can sort these contests by name, by the number of other fantasy managers that have entered in, by the total size of the contest, by the entry fee required to join in the contest, or by the amount of prizes being offered up in the contest., Selecting a specific contest will lead you to a lineup screen where you’ll have to fill out the respective positions of your roster. You need to pick one quarterback (QB), two running backs (RB), three wide receivers (WR), one tight end (TE), one kicker (K), and one defense (D). Each player for each positions will need to be paid a salary, and you’ll be limited to having only $60,000 to fill up all nine positions while staying under the $60k salary cap., Now that you have filled up the slots in your lineup, the next thing you need to do is take advantage of the wealth of player information available on the FanDuel app to further refine your lineup. You can review yards, intercepts, passes and even the latest updates on an individual player’s performance by tapping the portrait of an individual player while on the lineup screen. This will lead you to a separate screen where you can review player statistics at your own time.

Each player has a Fantasy Points per Game (FPPG) score beside their name. Compare their FPPGs to their peers, and you’ll have a general idea of how well that particular player will perform, especially if you can pick up a player with a decent FPPG yet is available for a low salary on FanDuel. Do note, however, to review how the player got his FPPG score. A player that can consistently churn out points across multiple games is good for a high floor lineup, while a player that can hoard lots of points in a few games is good for a high ceiling lineup. , These signify an injury or some other circumstance that could force the player out of the field, and resulting in zero points for your fantasy lineup if that happens. A “P” means that the player is probably going to play despite minor injuries. A “Q” signifies that the player’s injuries are severe enough to make his participation in contests questionable. A “D” means that it will be doubtful that a player will play due to serious injury, and will most likely not play. “NA” means that a player is not going to be active in the season, while an “O” means that the player is out for the season.

Likewise, drop any players who have been marked “IR,” as being in in the injury reserve means that they won’t be able to play for the rest of the season. , An orange text box within the player’s portrait indicates that there’s been an update on the player’s status within the last 24 hours. A gray text box, on the other hand, means that the latest news on that player is beyond 24 hours. Be especially mindful of orange text boxes, as these indicate recent developments that will be useful for gauging how your player will perform in future games., If you like a player enough to consider him for your fantasy lineup, you will want to take an in-depth look at the yards, receptions, interceptions, touchdowns, and other relevant stats he has accrued over his career. To do this, tap the portrait of a player in the lineup screen and tap “Game Log.” This log will show you the stats relevant to the player’s position, as well as the amount of fantasy points he has generated in each game of his career. Use this information to finalize your fantasy football team in the FanDuel app., Now that you know how to draft a roster using the FanDuel app, as well as how to interpret the wealth of information you can access using the FanDuel app, the next thing you need to do is formulate the rationale behind your final lineup. The $60,000 salary cap prevents you from snapping up all of the elite players in your football league, so you’ll have to carefully balance between elite players and less-than-elite players in order to stay within the $60,000 cap. The key here, however, is finding a lineup that is most likely to win the specific contests you want to join.

In selecting your approach to risk, a high ceiling lineup involves investing in players that have the potential to score big when they manage to get a good game going, while a high floor lineup involves investing in players that consistently churn out a predictable number of points in each of their games. These are important concepts to remember when determining the overall strategy of your lineup, especially when you consider the conditions for victory in the contests that you joined., These types of contests will reward those make it to the top or manage to place high in the contest. This means that your lineup needs to score a lot more than most of your opponents in order to win these kinds of contests. You will thus want to formulate a fantasy football team with a high score ceiling. The risky lineups are worth it considering the payouts are immense should your lineups perform well enough to beat the competition away., The victory conditions for these contests involving scoring just enough just to beat your opponent or half of your opponents, since you’ll still win the same amount whether you win by one point or one hundred points. This is why these kinds of contests tend to favor players who pick lineups with high score floors in the long run. A lucky opponent may win against you a few times, but a consistently performing team will win most of the time in these kinds of contests.