 Make your party memorable by giving it its own drink! Providing a couple of signature drinks will also cut down on stress for yourself as the host. This way you can concentrate on making sure your guests are having a great time instead of being stuck behind the bar frazzled by complicated drink requests.Make a mixed drink, such as rum punch, that you can prepare ahead of time and in great quantity so your guests can grab a drink as soon as they arrive.Prepare in advance a batch of signature mocktails, such as sparkling peach punch, for those who prefer not to drink alcohol. This would be especially relevant if you know there will be children at your party.You can assume each guest will down 1-2 drinks per hour. Count up your guests and the length of your party to get a good idea of how many drinks you should provide.;
, While a signature drink will cut down on individual drink requests, make sure that you still have a fully stocked bar for that guest who just isn’t into the cocktail you’re serving. Happy guests equals a fun party!


Make sure you provide a few types of beer and red and white wine for those who don’t find themselves wanting a mixed drink.
Have the basic spirits on hand, such as whiskey, gin, tequila, brandy, rum, and vodka. You’ll be able to whip up a martini in no time!
Don't forget mixers and garnishes. Basic mixers include tonic, club soda, and a variety of sodas. Cut up lemons and limes ahead of time as a garnish for drinks. Then you’ll be all set for any guests wanting a gin and tonic., You should have a variety of glasses on hand depending on the types of drinks you plan to offer. A good plan is to have twice as many glasses as guests. It’s a party and glasses will surely be broken.You can always rent glassware if you’d prefer not to invest in large amounts of cocktail glasses.
Basic glassware to have around includes wine glasses, straight-sided highballs, pint glasses for beers, tumblers for liquor, martini glasses, and champagne flutes.
Provide glass charms for your guests to identify their glass since they’ll be moving around socializing and might lose track of their glass., Ice will run out more quickly than you’d think at a cocktail party so stock up! Remember that you're not just using it for drinks, but also for chilling.


Larger ice cubes will melt less quickly in cocktail drinks so purchase a silicone mold and make several batches ahead of time.
Don’t place all your ice out for your guests at once - it will melt so keep some reserves in the freezer., Since a cocktail party doesn’t need a sit-down meal, be sure to provide your guests with plenty of snacks. Alcohol and an empty stomach simply don’t go well together! Plan on each guest eating 2-3 appetizers.Common snacks include cheese and meat boards and assorted olive, nut, or fruit platters.
You should also include a few sweets, such as cookies, in addition to more popular savory appetizers., Since appetizers can be fussy, streamline your party prep by making large amounts of simple dishes. A table filled with overflowing platters and bowls looks better than sparsely populated trays of a variety of dishes.This also allows you to easily replenish any serving platters that begin looking sadly empty.
 Skip fussy appetizers that require a seat, plate, and silverware to consume. Guests will find it easier to socialize with finger foods that require only a napkin or toothpick to consume.Meatballs on a toothpick or bite-size cheesecakes make for easy eating., It’s always a good idea to provide some veggie options for those friends who don’t care to eat meat. A good crudite platter will do the trick and will accommodate vegans as well.


You can have fun with the veggie options by putting out a bruschetta or go with a simple dip, such as spinach-artichoke., Providing locally sourced food and goodies will not only be supporting your community, but it also makes for a good conversation starter! This is a great way for you to engage with your guests and get your guests to talk to each other., Make sure you to include the time of your cocktail party on the invitation. Cocktail parties generally last only for about 2-3 hours. They can be held at any time between 4 P.M. and 10 P.M.
 Nothing is worse than showing up to a party underdressed. Be explicit whether guests should show up in cocktail attire or in casual clothing.If it’s a weeknight party you could keep things casual, leaving fancier dress for weekend or special occasion cocktail parties., Since cocktail parties mean lots of standing and mingling make sure your guests aren’t tripping over bulky furniture. Place some seating groups in small clusters for those who prefer sitting. Make sure to have a few tables around for guests to put down a drink while they’re chatting., Make up a playlist ahead of time and have it playing when guests arrive. This will make the environment more welcoming and fill up any awkward silences until the party gets going., You don’t need fancy decorations to make your cocktail party look classy. Simply put out a few accents, like vases of flowers, to jazz up your party.If your cocktail party is outdoors, string up some lights to set the mood and make sure your guests can see where they’re going., Provide a table for empty glasses or enlist a friend to help you go around and collect empty glasses as the party goes on. This will make cleaning up the next day less of a headache.Have an empty dishwasher ready to receive all those dirty glasses.