 This leads to healthy skin and helps your makeup stay on your face all day. At the very least, wash your face, pat it dry, and apply a light, oil-free moisturizing lotion.






;
, A well concealed, prepped face serves as a great canvas for whatever makeup you're planning to do! A simple liquid concealer should be used to clean up the dark spots under your eyes and hide any imperfections.









To apply a concealer: Don't take too much product on your finger. More product doesn't necessarily mean better application. Take a little bit of concealer on your finger tip, rub it between the thumb and the finger (to warm it up so that it applies smoother) - and apply in gentle tapping motions.
 Many people don't really wear foundation during the day, as it can dry your skin up and look cakey over time. If you have dry skin, use a moisturizing foundation, if you have oily skin, you may go for something that has a matter texture. Also make sure that you choose your foundation according to:









The climate of the place where you stay (in colder regions, you'll need more hydrating foundations while in hotter regions you'll need long stay foundations with more SPF).
The time of day. Avoid wearing heavy coverage foundations during the day as they can look a bit too overwhelming during this time (they are better for night-outs).
Your age. Many foundations have anti-aging ingredients like Olay's. They also have light shimmer in them that reflects well in light and helps in the reduction of appearance of wrinkles. If you are young, you have a wider range of foundations to choose from.
The occasion. As a general rule of thumb, you should do all your makeup according to the occasion. If you are going for a day at the beach, heavy makeup would not make any sense as it will not last too long.
 Even if you are not an expert in this area, the one thing you can easily do is make your nose look slimmer and smaller. Take a dark brownish lip color or eye shadow and with your finger tip apply a very small amount of the product on the sides of the nose bridge. Smudge it well so that no obvious lines are visible anymore.









Try choosing something in a matte finish, if not you can choose something creamy. But at all costs avoid anything with glitter, shimmer, gloss in it as it will give the most unnatural appearance to the nose. Choose a lipstick/eye shadow shade that is at least 2 shades darker than your own skin tone.
 On darker skin tones, the combination of green and blue eyeliners mixed with black looks really good. Line the inner half of the eyes with green eyeliner and the outer half with blue. Then take black eyeliner and draw a very fine line close to the eyelashes to add definition to the eyes.









You can use any two color combinations of eyeliners, not just blue and green. It will depend on your personal style and what you are comfortable with.
 Save the bright colors and dramatic shades for late night events and glamour.
 Your eyebrow grooming routine may include waxing/ tweezing/ trimming or threading. Although some people like to leave their brows alone and keep them natural. If you'd rather not trim, you can still use some clear eyebrow gel to brush through the brows for a neater, more maintained look. Use a good brow pencil that matches your natural brow hair in color and make small strokes with it to fill in any gaps in your brows. Then finish by brushing through with a clear brow gel.









Never use pure black, even with dark hair. It almost always looks out of place.
Don't use long, harsh strokes to fill the brows. Use small, light-handed (as light as you can manage without dropping the pencil) strokes to achieve the most natural looking strokes that resemble real brow hair.
 To give the illusion of heavier lower lashes, you can use an eyeliner to draw tiny dots and dashes along the lower lash line, then smudge these dots and dashes a little bit for a gradual look.









Avoid using a waterproof mascara unless you'll be going in the water or humid regions. They are more taxing to take off than regular mascaras, you end up rubbing your eyelashes a bit too hard and breaking them.
 Aim for blushes that actually fit your skin tone well, so that the blush is more of an accent and not an attention-drawing brightness. Use your blush brush for a nice, light dusting.
 Gloss goes well with this look, but you may choose another finish if you please. Before application, make sure your lips are well exfoliated and moisturized. Otherwise, you'll see flaky lips that aren't attractive no matter how pretty the lip color.









If your eyeliners consist of cooler shades such as blue and green, then make sure that your lip color also has a cooler undertone to it, like a darker red. If you've avoided eye shadows or coloring, find a lip coloring that matches well with your blush for a truly put together look.