 If he or she wants to hang out with friends, encourage it––you're not joined at the hip. Let your partner know that you want him or her to have a good time and to spend as much time with friends as liked. If you have to, fake your enthusiasm and put on a brave face. There will be times when you'd really rather spend that time with your beloved than seeing him or her out with friends; however, forcing your partner to spend time with you usually results in further pulling away, mostly out of fear that you'll insist on this state of affairs eternally and he or she won't ever be able to spend time with friends. If you're able to encourage and support your beloved's time away, it will reinforce his or her belief that you want what is best for him or her, which strengthens your relationship.
 The key to longevity in any relationship is to make it clear that you're neither threatened nor resentful about your partner's distinct interests. By encouraging your partner to pursue his or her interests, you will strengthen your togetherness. And by assuring him or her that you love spending time together while making it clear that his or her hobbies and interests are also important, you remove the guilt trip. It's even more helpful if you clarify that you can––and will––find enjoyable things to occupy your time when apart, freeing him or her up to enjoy the time spent apart. Just be sure that you don't say one thing but show you really mean something else; that's manipulative and will result in resentment.
 By showing a willingness to be interested in his or her endeavours beyond your own interests, you establish that you aren't obsessive about forcing your partner to "join only your clubs" and that you're not jealous of his or her interests. While you don't have to continue participating directly in your partner's interests, displaying an initial interest and making it clear that you respect his or her choice will go a long way to proving that you can handle any differences between the two of you and that you won't turn alternative interests into a guilt-trip. It might be as simple as helping him or her to find a place, a club, an item or a book––whatever the interest is––to get things started. Then, give him or her the space to enjoy the interests without being crowded by you.
 Learn a little body language so that you can note when he or she is feeling a bit crowded or cheesed off about spending too much time together. Indicators might include turning away from you, not making eye contact and refusing to cuddle or touch as usual. Verbally, you may hear sighs, mumbling or sounds of derision when you suggest spending time together on that occasion. Don't presume the worst but equally, don't ignore the signs––ask what's wrong and be very open to hearing the answer. Listen attentively to what your partner explains and listen also for what's not said. It should be fairly clear to you that this is an issue about wanting more space and rather than feeling threatened, try to respond with openness and a willingness to find solutions.


Don't probe too deeply––ask a few questions but not so many as to be invasive and cause your partner to not respond at all.
Listen to what your gut instinct is telling you. Most times, it'll be plain as day that the excessive time spent together is at the core of the discontentment. Don't play coy or naive; facing the matter is much fairer on both of you.
If you feel your partner is pulling away, don't force yourself on him or her more. It may be tempting to cling even more but you'll need to resist this response. Let go and have faith in the one you love.
 Let him or her know you're available as soon he or she wants to catch up again. In the meantime, find other things to do with your time. If you really must talk over what's happening and he or she isn't ready to do so yet, talk to someone you can trust, in very broad terms so as not to give away your intimate trust. Simply talking it through might help you to realize that you're overreacting.
 If lack of trust is at the heart of your obsessiveness, the relationship is doomed and the obsessiveness will only increase over time. If you have trust issues, deal with them before they eat you up and establish an unhealthy pattern toward all of your relationships. While someone may have breached your trust in the past, assuming that every person will do the same thing to you restricts your opportunity to discover that trust is more often returned than not. Many people, when given trust, will feel so deeply grateful for the trust placed in them that they'll do anything to repay it in kind. Ultimately though, if you don't trust your partner, you have a bigger problem than obsession and you really shouldn't be in the relationship. Either you trust your partner, or you don't––which is it to be?

