 Arrange it in a diamond shape. The blanket should be at least 40"x40" and if you can buy a blanket specifically for swaddle, this is best.


You will also want to make sure that the swaddle blanket is a very thin, stretchy material. This will make it easier to swaddle the baby but will also keep him or her from getting too hot.;
, The fold at the top should be about as long as the baby is tall.
 Lay down the baby on the blanket, so that his or her neck is on the fold. If your baby is very young, be sure their head and body are properly supported while you do this.
 Gently place the baby's arm at his or her side, and hold it in place. Alternatively, you can hold it bent towards their chest/tummy, like they are in the womb. This is harder to swaddle tightly, though your baby will be more comfortable.
 Pull one corner of the blanket (the same as the arm you're holding in place) over the baby's body, and tuck it underneath his or her back. The blanket should be tucked snugly enough to hold the baby's arm in place at his or her side.
 Gently place the baby's other arm at his or her side, and hold it in place. As with the previous arm, you can also move this one to the chest/tummy as well.
 Pull the bottom corner of the blanket up toward the center of the baby's shoulders. Tuck it behind the baby's left shoulder so that it's between the shoulder and the bottom layer of the blanket.



Important: Leave plenty of room for the baby's feet to move within the swaddle. This will prevent overheating and, over the long term, hip dysplasia.
 Fold it so that the left and right corners form a V-neck swaddle. Don't tuck the end anywhere yet. Using your left hand, gently hold the blanket in place on the baby's chest.
 With your right hand, flip over the right corner which should be somewhere near the baby's feet.
 Pull the flipped right corner up over the baby's right shoulder, and tuck it into the back of the swaddle. You'll probably need to lift the baby to complete the final tuck.
 Make sure your baby doesn't get too hot and that their airway is not blocked. Never swaddle a pacifier into a baby's mouth.

