 It's easier to grow tropical flowers indoors than outdoors, as you can regulate the temperature inside your home. It’s important for some tropical flowers to have a cooler nighttime than daytime temperature, so ease off on the heating overnight or move the plant to a cooler spot overnight - such as a conservatory

, Tropical flowers usually prefer a bright environment that is not in direct sunlight. A window ledge that does not receive direct sun is ideal.
 The best way to water potted tropical flowers is to water from the top, until water drains out the bottom of the pot. Don’t let the plant sit in a saucer of water.


Many tropical plants will prefer to dry out between waterings. For example, flowers such as orchids and bromeliads will tolerate drought but won’t appreciate their roots sitting in water.
 Tropical plants would ideally like more humidity than the typical home can provide. This is a particular problem over the winter months when central heating systems dry out the air in the home.


A simple way to improve local humidity is to put a layer of pebbles into a deep tray. Add water to the tray until it comes halfway up the pebbles, then put the plants on top. The water should not touch the base of the pot, but it will still help to improve humidity around the plant.
You can also help the plant by misting the leaves with water (don’t do this if your plant has hairy leaves). Other ways to improve humidity include buying a humidifier or putting the plants in a terranium.
 Air circulation is important to tropical flowers, so they will do well in a room with a fan. Avoid crowding them together with other plants or jamming them too tightly into a corner as this will impede the flow of air around the flowers.
 Tropical flowers that are growing in a pot will prefer a regular feeding regime. Try feeding fortnightly during their growing season (spring-summer) , then ease off to monthly feeding over the colder months.
 Although these general guidelines will help you to care for most species of pot-grown tropical flowers, it's a good idea to look at specific care instructions for the particular species of flower you wish to grow, for example:


Care for Orchids
Care for Bromeliads
Care for Peace Lillies
Care for Anthurium
Care for Bird of Paradise

