 Lay your paper on a flat surface and position it so that it is in landscape with the longer sides on the top and bottom. Perform a book fold to begin. Use an ordinary 8 ½ in (21.5 cm) by 11 in (28 cm) sheet of printer, or A4 paper.








Align the edges of your paper and crease your center fold.
Unfold the paper after you crease it so the you now have a piece of paper with a vertical valley crease.
 With your paper in landscape position, take the top two outer corners and fold each one to meet at the center crease.









Your paper should now look a bit like a house. The two folded triangles should come down to about halfway on your paper.
 Now take the tip of the triangle that has been created by your previous folds and fold it back down to the edge.









You should now have a top layer of paper that resembles an equilateral triangle pointing down. This triangle is overlaid on top of two equilateral triangles on either side pointing up.
 Take the diagonal portions of your paper that form the outer sides of your two triangles and fold them in. Align the upper sides so that the diagonal edges are now vertical, meeting along the center.









With these sides folded in, you should have a flat nose at the top of your paper that looks like a triangle pointing downward.
 You should now have the flat side of your paper with no folds facing you. Take the top half inch of your paper and fold it backwards towards you.









You should see a trapezoid shape with two triangles pointing at about a forty-five-degree angle outward on either side of it.
 Now fold the plane in half in a book fold. You should begin to see the final form of your jet plane.









The part of the plane you just folded over should be showing at the nose of the plane, overlaid on top of your original crease.
 The body of your paper jet plane should be about half an inch tall.









The wings don’t have to be folded even with the base of the plane. They should go slightly past.
 Pinch the base of your jet and fan out the wings slightly so that the top of your plane is a flat surface.








You can apply a small bit of tape to both the front and back of your plane to keep the wings closer together if you wish.
Keep your plane level with the ground and flick your wrist to send it flying.

