 To make a single card vanish, you will first need to work on holding the card the right way.This trick may be difficult if you have particularly small hands.Bend you two middle fingers towards your body with your index and pinky fingers extended and your thumb out to the side.
Place the card on top of the bent fingers, high enough so that you can see your fingernails, and pinch it slightly between your index and pinky fingers.
Place your thumb over the center of the card to stabilize it and hold it in place.
 To make the card disappear, begin with it in the appropriate hand position, then move your thumb and straighten your two middle fingers.


As you straighten your two middle fingers, the corners of the card will be pinched between your outside and inside fingers and the card will move to the back (top side) of your hand.
Keep your palm facing out, where your audience will be.
Repeat the motion over and over again until it can be done without effort. You want to master this move before performing for an audience.
 Making the card reappear the process of making it disappear in reverse.


With the card pinched between your inside and outside fingers on the back side of your hand, bend your two middle fingers inward.
Use your thumb to grab and stabilize the card, then present it to the audience.
You can try different ways of making the card reappear. You may try flipping it up between your index and middle finger, for example.
 The key to this trick is mastering the sleight of hand. You will need to practice the moves over and over again in private so that you don’t have to go slowly or think about it too much in front of an audience., Part of any magic trick is putting on a show for people, so decide how you want to execute the trick.Shaking the card in your hand while you perform the trick can help obscure how you do it.
You may want to pretend to throw the card up in the air, or you may want to “reveal” that it was behind someone’s ear.
Distracting the audience from trying to figure out how you’re doing a trick can be the easiest way to keep your trick a secret.
 This is part of showmanship, but you may want to consider creating a story around performing the trick. Instead of just saying “hey, watch some magic,” you can distract and surprise the audience by misleading what you’re about to do., After you have mastered the trick and worked on your showmanship, try your trick out on an audience. You may want to start with a small group of people before performing your trick to larger groups. Be sure that no one is behind you, where they see the back of your hand.

