 There are a few superstitions aimed at bringing you luck that you might like to try:


Get out of the bed on the right side (that is, not the left side). This side is guaranteed to make your day luckier according to some superstitions. If you can't get out on that side because it is next to the wall or for another reason, just skip this step.
Wear red underpants. Apparently this color will bring you more luck than other colors. Whatever you do, don't choose green underpants or luck might abandon you.
Get your most trusted lucky charm out. Place it in your pocket and wear it all day.
Forget the cleaning. Few need to be told this most days but Friday the 13th is a great excuse because apparently handling a broom is unlucky on this day, as is changing the sheets, flipping the mattress, or doing the laundry. So forget the cleaning and just enjoy your day.;
, Make this the day to put aside bad moods, irritability, and your ongoing petty argument with a co-worker or family member. This is the day for choosing good things, good thoughts, and good outcomes. Indeed, not believing in bad luck is a good approach because research has shown that people who believe in bad luck tend to bring it on!Tell everyone that 13 is your lucky number. Let them know how excited you are that the date has fallen on the 13th again, and that you expect this to be a great day.
 Go out and deliberately do a few things that involve chance and where your luck takes you. Buy a lottery ticket for the next big draw, buy some scratch tickets, play a game at the casino, or place some sports bets. If you're too young to gamble, or dislike it, play some games of chance at home with friends and guess who is going to win, or watch a game on TV and guess who will win.


Apply for a new job you've really been wanting. Realize that the very superstitious don't all think that Friday 13th is a good day to start anything new, not even opening a new packet of cereal. But why not turn that superstition on its head and do something to force Lady Luck's hand? Today could be the day luck sways your way!

, Mark the day by celebrating and having fun with your friends. Go to a concert, eat out, visit a bar, watch a show in the park, etc. Just use the day as an excuse to party!

, Spend a little part of your day counting your blessings. What are all the things you're grateful for in your life? Who are the people in your life that matter most to you? What wouldn't you change about your life for all the world? Remind yourself of all the people, opportunities, and things that make you feel lucky in your life whenever you feel a sense of impending doom about anything!

, If you carry on thinking about luck all day, you're likely to be distracted and possibly something less-than-lucky might happen. Eyes open, head up, and brain in charge! Moreover, psychologist Richard Wiseman who carried out the study on believing in bad luck mentioned earlier, suggested that believing in superstitions can actually be a way of avoiding taking responsibility for your own failings.So perhaps this is as good a day as any to re-examine any loopy superstitions you might have inherited through the grapevine of folk gossip and finally take a stand to let logic rule your concerns rather than fears and half truths.

