 If you are a person who struggles to accept homosexuality for whatever reason, and believe that it is wrong then you may feel tempted to be mean to a gay or lesbian person. Try to remind yourself that you won’t accomplish anything by doing this. If you find yourself in the presence of a gay or lesbian person, and you need to interact with them, treat them with respect.They did not choose to be gay or lesbian any more than you chose to be straight so there isn’t any reason to be rude.
 Lecturing a gay or lesbian person about why homosexuality is, in your opinion, wrong will not make them suddenly say, “Oh, you know what, you’re right. I’ll be straight now.” This is because they didn’t choose to be the way they are. Therefore, you won’t get yourself anywhere by trying to force your own ideas on to them, and you might also miss out on the chance to get to know a really cool person.


Think about how you would feel if the situation were reversed. Would you change your mind about being heterosexual if a gay or lesbian person came up to you and started talking about why heterosexuality is wrong?

, It is easy to get caught up in our own ideas about right and wrong, but try to remember that you probably have lots of friends with differing views. Keep this in mind when you meet a gay or lesbian person. They are still a person, and whether or not homosexuality plays a big role in their life they still have other things they care about and are interested in.If a homosexual person does ask you about your views, then feel free to talk about them, but do it with kindness. Don’t be defensive. For example, if they are religious reasons, talk about what you have been taught and why it makes sense to you. Don’t assume that a conversation about differences has to be a huge fight.
If you do have this conversation, listen to what they have to say too.
 If you do not understand the person's sexuality, then expressing this in a respectful, but clear way may be a good option. If you have a good relationship with this person and you want to understand his or her sexuality better, then you might ask the person to speak with you and help you understand.

For example, you might say something like, "I respect you and I care about you. However, I do not fully understand what it means to be gay/lesbian. I was hoping you might be willing to tell me more about it and help me to develop a better understanding of that aspect of your life."

