 Homemade ceramic filters work by filtering water through a layer of porous ceramic. The holes are small enough to filter out contaminants, but large enough to let water pass through into a container. To make a ceramic water filter, you'll need the following equipment:


A ceramic filter element. You can buy a candle filter or a pot filter for this purpose. The filters are available online or at hardware stores. Be sure to choose one that meets or exceeds National Safety Foundation standards, which specify what percentage of impurities must be filtered out of the water in order for it to be drinkable.Two food-grade buckets. One bucket is used as a receptacle for the impure water, and the second bucket is for the purified water. Food-grade buckets are available from restaurant supply stores, or you may be able to obtain used buckets from a restaurant in your area.
A spigot. This is attached to the bottom bucket to access the purified water.
 In total, you'll need to drill 3 holes: one in the bottom of the top bucket, one in the lid of the bottom bucket, and a third hole in the side of the bottom bucket (for the spigot).


Start by drilling a 1/2-inch hole in center of the bottom of the top bucket.
Drill a second 1/2-inch hole in the center of the lid of the bottom bucket. This hole should align exactly with the hole in the first bucket. The water will pass from the first bucket through the filter and drip into the second bucket.
Drill a 3/4-inch hole in the side of the bottom bucket. This is where the spigot will be attached, so it should be just an inch or two from the bottom of the bucket.
 Following the installation instructions that came with your spigot, place the back of the spigot into the hole you drilled in the bottom bucket. Tighten it from the inside and make sure it's firmly in place.
 Install the filter element in the hole in the top bucket, so that it sits in the bottom of the bucket with its "nipple" poking through the hole. Set the top bucket on the bottom bucket, making sure that the nipple pokes through the hole in the top of the bottom bucket, too. The filter is now installed., Pour impure water into the top bucket. It should begin draining through the filter and come out the nipple into the bottom bucket. The filtration process may take a few hours, depending on how much water you're filtering. When a good amount of water has collected in the bottom bucket, use the spigot to transfer some water to a cup. The water is now clean and ready to drink.
 The impurities in the water will collect at the bottom of the top bucket, so this should be cleaned out from time to time. Take the filter apart and use bleach or vinegar to thoroughly clean it every few months, or more often if you use the filter frequently.

