 Drink at least eight glasses of non-caffeinated fluids a day while you are constipated. Dehydration is a common cause of constipation, and can make it worse if you continue to drink too little water.Once you're back to normal bowel movements — at least three a week, passing them comfortably — you can stop measuring your water intake. Just drink enough fluids that your urine is colorless or pale yellow, and drink whenever you are thirsty.;
, Dietary fiber is the most significant component of your diet for encouraging healthy bowel movements. Adults should eat 20–35 grams of fiber each day, but gradually work your way up to this amount to avoid gas and bloating. Try getting your fiber from multiple sources for a healthy diet:Bread and grains: 100% bran cereal (9g per ⅓ cup/80 mL), shredded wheat (3.5g per ½ cup/120 mL), oat bran muffin (3g)
Beans: 6–10g per ½ cup/120mL cooked, depending on type
Fruits: pears (5.5g with skin), raspberries (4g per ½ cup/120 mL), or prunes (3.8g per ½ cup/120 mL stewed)
Vegetables: potatoes or sweet potatoes (3–4g, baked in skin), green peas (4g per ½ cup/120 mL cooked), or green vegetables (3g per ½ cup/120 mL cooked).
 Adding fiber to your diet won't help as much if you simply add it to the rest of your diet. Meat, cheese, and processed foods contain little to no fiber, and can lead to dry stools if they make up a large portion of your diet.Eat these in small portions only while you are constipated, and try to replace some of them with fiber foods in your regular diet.
 Try doing without milk and other dairy products for a few days, to see if it helps. Many people have trouble digesting lactose, which can give them gas or constipation.Most lactose intolerant people can still enjoy pro-biotic yoghurt and hard cheeses.
 The following foods are usually fine in moderation. If they make up a large portion of your diet, however, they are probably contributing to your constipation:High-fat meats
Eggs
Rich, sugary desserts
Processed foods (typically low in fiber)


, Hard evidence supporting this is thin, but many doctors and patients report that magnesium helps. Take no more than 350 mg a day in pill form, or 110 mg for children aged four to eight.Bran contains both magnesium and fiber, making it an excellent choice of food.
Magnesium may be dangerous for people with kidney disorders.
 In almost all cases, changes to food and drink are enough to help the constipation pass and avoid it in future. Dietary supplements (besides fiber supplements) and home remedies are rarely necessary, and may be unwise to take without talking to a doctor.


The most common home remedies are mineral oil and castor oil. These are effective, but should only be used as a last resort. Overuse can cause vitamin deficiency or damage your intestine, causing further constipation down the road. Do not take these if you are on blood thinners, antibiotics, heart medication, or bone medication.