 There are many free self-evaluation tools "out there" on the internet. While none of them is perfect, each of them can help give you insight into the types and themes of your strengths.;
, Do you agree with the results of the surveys or tests? Do people who have known you for a period of time agree with the results? Are they meaningful to you? Did you discover something about yourself that you had not noticed before?

, Who are your most loved friends? What ever you find valuable in them, you are likely to have a heaping helping of yourself.
 Find ways to use your new insights about yourself to make your life better.
 What engages you for which particular side of the argument? Are you for or against...the topic under discussion? Understanding whether the opinion of others is something you are concerned about can help you map your response to any given situation. Are you a people pleaser? A loner? Perhaps it is your strength to bring others to consensus? All of this is helpful to know about yourself.
 When looking at something you don't want to do, reflect on how you could use one or more of your strengths to approach the challenge. Leveraging a strength is generally easier and more fun than pushing against a weaknesses, and can make problem solving much less stressful.
 What gets your creative and learning juices flowing? Chances are you already know what you love. Do you like criticizing or enjoy watching movies? Chances are you have some directorship qualities and even an eye for cinematography.
 Joining a class, engaging a project, helping someone else learn your hobby... are all excellent ways to play to your strengths and nurture your talents.
 Your own opinion of yourself has a strong influence on your ability to move forward. History is riddled with inventors and entrepreneurs who have leveraged their strengths in a positive manner. Just because you don't think you might be good at something does not mean you aren't actually qualified. Just because someone else is better at a skill does not mean you lack talent. Don't undercut your own opportunities with negative self talk.
 Skills and strengths may change, and you may not have an ability you once did. Give yourself the grace to carry on with a new strength or engage yourself in a new pursuit. Any skill or strength can be developed beyond it's current level.

