 A great way to become a human rights activist is to use your time to actively campaign for the issues that are important to you. Many organizations and groups rely on the physical presence and assistance of other people and would not be able to be in operation otherwise.


Talk to the individuals who are in charge and find out how you can help, based on your experience and what you are comfortable with. Depending on the organization, this could be anything from sweeping floors to building a house. Be prepared to work hard no matter what you do.
 If you are short on time and/or have enough money, you can donate money to the groups/organizations/causes that mean the most to you. Many organizations rely entirely on donations from individuals like you who care about their causes.


Look on the website or talk to the individuals who work for the organization to find out how to donate money. This can be done via cash, check, or online transactions such as PayPal. Most organizations list how you can donate on their website or social media pages.
Obtain a receipt from your charitable donation to save for tax purposes. You can often write off charitable donations on your taxes.
If you don’t have the extra funds to donate, don’t worry. Donating your time is an effective way to help the causes you are concerned about.
 The Peace Corps is a volunteer organization for adults run by the United States government that focuses on making a difference in the community abroad.Members of the Peace Corps will travel to other countries for a certain amount of time, usually about two years, to work on assignments and are paid positions. It is a significant commitment if you choose this route.


Assignments are generally categorized into sectors, such as education, agriculture, health, community economic development, environment, or youth development. Depending on your qualifications and interest, you could be teaching in a school, working with farmers to teach them about soil erosion, working in a classroom setting with entrepreneurs and business owners to develop and market their products, teaching environmental awareness to organizations and schools, and working in communities to promote health and programs to provide support for those in need.
In your internet browser, go to www.peacecorps.gov.
In the top right corner, click on “Apply Now”.
Click on “Start Your Application”.
Fill out and submit the application.
Make sure that you apply by the stated deadline. It is advised that you apply nine to twelve months before you want to leave., If you do not want to leave the country and want to help people in the United States, AmeriCorps is the ideal organization for you. AmeriCorps is a federally-run program for adults who want to volunteer within the borders of the United States. A term is usually ten months to one year and is a paid position.In your browser, type in www.nationalservice.gov/programs/americorps.
In the left hand menu, click on “Join AmeriCorps”.
Under “Join AmeriCorps”, click on “I’m Ready to Serve”.
Select your area of interest and the state you would like to work in.
A list of programs will come up. Browse these opportunities for one (or more) that interest you.
Click on the programs that appeal to you.
Click on “Apply Now!” and submit your application.
 If you are interested in travelling around the country or abroad to help other people for a relatively short amount of time, such as a few days or months, then a mission trip would be a good option for you.


Inquire within the organizations you are already involved in to see if there are any mission trips that are planned.
Inquire at a national or international organization to see how you can travel and help others, such as Habitat for Humanity or the Red Cross. Visit their website to see how you can join and what is required.
If you do not know of any mission trips coming up in your area, search online or ask friends and family. You can use your search engine to search for “mission trips in Detroit, MI.”

