 One way to help manage your senior dog’s diabetes is to keep their weight within a healthy range. You should make sure that your dog does not end up overeating. Obesity is common in older dogs, and this can make their diabetes worse.Older dogs need less calories than younger dogs. Their energy needs and activity levels decrease, so you should feed your aging dog less food than you used to.
Many older dogs may eat out of boredom or because they forget that they have eaten. Keep your dog on a food schedule and watch their weight to make sure they don’t start gaining weight.
 When your dog is older, you should make sure to feed them the best food you can. This is especially important when your dog has diabetes. When your dog has diabetes, the food should contain high-quality protein, fiber, and complex carbohydrates. The food may need to be low-fat, too.Talk to your vet about the best diet for your senior dog. Some senior dogs with diabetes may do well with a senior blend of dog food, while others may do well with a diet full of food prepared at home.
 Your senior dog should have a diet of hard, dry foods instead of soft foods. Soft foods can cause complications for diabetes because it causes more glucose to build in the body. It is also important to make sure that your dog eats before insulin injections, to help lower risk of hypoglycemia. If your dog is unable to chew hard foods, talk to your vet about other food options. You may be able to feed your dog a diet of people food instead.
Time the food and insulin by offering your dog a small snack. Once they eat it, give them their insulin injection. Then, give them their meal immediately afterwards.
If your dog won't eat the snack or their regular food, only give them half their insulin dose for that day, and if they refuse to eat for two or more meals in a row, contact your vet immediately for advice and treatment.
 Another way diabetes can be managed in older dogs is to make sure your dog gets exercise. Older dogs can still exercise, though they may be slower, have to exercise for a shorter duration, or be unable to exercise at such a strenuous level.For example, you can still take your dog for a walk or play fetch with them. They just may not be able to do the activity for as long as they used to.

