 If you find yourself taking it personally or doubting yourself, try to build your confidence instead. Make a list of your favorite things about yourself and spend time nurturing these traits. That way, if someone else doesn’t appreciate you, it won’t seem so important because you know and appreciate yourself.


For example, maybe you like that you are a loyal friend or maybe you like that you are kind to people. Write down the great qualities that you have and focus on these.
Don’t take it personally. Your crush's rejection likely has nothing to do with you. Your crush not having feelings for you is not a statement about you; it’s a statement about them. You are a perfectly lovely person who simply wasn’t meant to be with your crush.
There are so many reasons that your crush might not be interested, and almost none of them have to do with you. Maybe your crush wasn’t ready for a relationship. Maybe they don’t have time right now. Maybe they don’t want to make a commitment to someone. Maybe they have feelings for someone else. Don’t question yourself. It’s their loss!;
, Make a list of everything else in your life, such as the people, activities, and interests that you have. This will help you to see yourself more clearly and not let one person’s rejection be blown out of proportion.


Don’t let your crush's rejection define you. There are so many other important aspects of your life. All of these things that make you happy help define who you are. You are the same wonderful person whether someone notices it or not. Your worth is never dependent on any other person. Seeing all of these other great parts of your life will help you to put one person's rejection in perspective., There are over seven billion people on our planet. So one of them didn’t like you. That’s ok! That one person might have felt like the whole world to you, but they are simply one of many. There are probably millions of people who have similar characteristics as your crush. Now that you know what kind of person you are looking for, you can open your eyes to all the other wonderful people out there.Over your lifetime, there will likely be many people who you like and many who like you. Sometimes you will like someone and they won’t like you back. Sometimes someone will like you and you won’t like them back. Sometimes you both won’t like each other. And every once in a while you will find someone who likes you as much as you like them. This is to be expected. This is what happens when there are so many different people in the world. Think of it as an adventure and journey to finding the right person rather than a form of rejection.

