 This is one of her best-known looks and it’s cute and sexy at the same time. If you want to try this look, you should wear Converse, baggy jeans, cropped tops showing off that tanned belly button, sequins, sparkles, and not too much pink. The most important thing is that you look young and sexy at the same time.


Pair baggy bottoms with tight tops to maintain a sexy look. If you don’t want to show off your belly, you don’t have to do it.
Go for the medium makeup look here, wearing light eyeliner, bronze shadow, and mauve lipstick.;
, For a more edgy Rihanna look, try killer heels, leopard print, purple highlights, bright colors, cropped tops showing off that cute tattoo on your hip, and liquid eyeliner at the ready. You can also wear some fishnet stockings, black leather pants, and strappy sandals if you prefer that.


This look works best paired with smoky makeup.
 Every summer, there are hundreds of photographs of Rihanna enjoying the beach in Barbados in a gorgeous bikini. She wears string bikinis, bikinis with small cups, bikinis that are more subtle, and really anything that flatters her body. She wears pale blues, pinks, and purples, though she’s been seen rocking a black bikini, too. She doesn’t tend to wear very full bikini underwear and is proud of her body.


Pair that bikini with a simple exotic skirt, a tight tank top, and a big, beam-like smile.
You can opt for the minimal makeup look to match your beach persona.
You can also wear a lacy white bikini top paired with a white lacy skirt.
 Sometimes Rihanna likes a more casual, more sporty look, and she rocks it to the fullest. Just get a jersey with your favorite athlete’s name on the back, some sexy sweats or track shorts, and pair them with a pair of white or black Nikes or high tops. You can even tie it all together with a black zip-up jacket and a black backwards cap.This look goes great with a black, sporty bob.
You can also wear a loose white t-shirt or black leggings for this sporty look.
Rihanna wears simple dangling gold necklaces with her sporty look.
 During her “Music of the Sun” days, Rihanna always took loose denim to the next level, whether she was dressed up with a cropped blazer or paired it with a pair of funky Chuck Taylor All Star Converse. She absolutely adored this style of denim, and it’s a perfect look for a nice warm day or if you’re going for a younger, fresher, less sexy look.


She also likes throwing a denim jacket over black cotton dresses or jumpsuits.
She also wears faded denim jeans that she sometimes rolls up to her calves.
 During her “Girl Like Me” days, Rihanna loved wearing adorable short shorts. Rihanna was seen wearing a variety of short shorts in different styles and colors when she was out on the town or just hanging out during the day. One of the most famous was when performing “SOS” live at MTV. This is a cute look that works best for people who love showing off their legs.


You can pair the shorts with casual sneakers or strappy sandals for a more fancy look.
She likes wearing ripped, studded jean shorts as well.
 Rihanna is known for her gold and silver jewelry, but she never overdoes it. The most important thing is to wear just enough jewelry and accessories to complete your look without letting it steal the scene. Here are some accessories that Rihanna often wears:


Thick gold hoops
Bigger, thinner gold hoops
Big diamond studs
A turquoise bead necklace
Gold bangles
Purple or blue sunglasses
A black-and-white striped clutch
Pearl earrings with a touch of gold

, Rihanna has been seen rocking almost every pair of shoes you can imagine, from the most casual slippers to the dressiest heels. If you want to wear heels like Rihanna, just make sure you’re comfortable walking around in them. For a more casual day, some slippers will do just fine. Here are some Rihanna-inspired shoe styles you can wear:


Black velvet slippers
Tan gladiator sandals
Black strappy heels
Silver strappy stilettos
Simple tan heels with an ankle strap
Black kitten heels
White sneakers for a more casual look

, Rihanna certainly agrees with it. One of the most famous thing about Rihanna's style is black. Try black shoes, shirts, pants, skirts, dresses...anything!

, This is also another one of Rihanna's biggies. Leather delivers the perfect bad-girl look, just like Rihanna's!


If you can, try black leather for a super, like Rihanna style.
 These are two of her most signature looks, and if you want to look like Rihanna, then you can see if one of them suits you. Either hairstyle will work if you already have long, thick hair. You may not even need to get a weave done and may just need a good bottle of color and regular trips to the salon instead. Here are some things to consider:


The blonde weave is worn sometimes wavy, sometimes long, straight, and lustrous.
The bob is sexy and choppy. Remember, though, that bobs are very high maintenance and usually cannot be worn as a “wash and go” hairstyle, unless your hair is dead straight, especially if you get a fringe (bangs) as well. Plus, both these styles need commitment and looking after or they start looking cheap and tatty after a while, so you may need to consider costs and effort first.
 Rihanna loves changing up her hair color and you can do the same if you want to emulate her look. She has been seen with hair in almost every color of the rainbow and always looks gorgeous and stylish while rocking a variety of different looks. Here are some looks you can try:


A cute pink choppy bob
Shaving the sides of your head with short red hair on top, just above your ears
Long dark red hair with very coiled, tight curls
Straight black hair
A short blonde bob with longer bangs with streaks of black in them
Shaving the left side of your head and flipping long black hair over to the right

, Using products such as ProActive Formula works by clearing out your pores and making your skin tone more even. Using this with a good foundation and a hint of bronzer will quickly give you that youthful, delicate glow that Rihanna has spent years achieving under the Caribbean sun. If your skin is the same shade as Rihanna's, a gorgeous honey color that darkens in summer, then count yourself blessed, as half the work is done.


If you have light or porcelain-colored skin, it is good to use a moisturizer that has a hint of self-tan. Using this every day will build up a nice tan for you to work with. You can also get less greasier versions for your face.
If you have darker skin than Rihanna’s, then don’t try to lighten it. You don’t need to do that to achieve Rihanna’s look.
 Rihanna has gorgeous, full, luscious lips. She tends to wear bright red Marilyn Monroe-style lipstick, though she occasionally opts for a more subtle or shimmery and glossy pink or mauve color. If you want to make your lips fuller, then you should find a lip liner the same color as your lips and work to apply it on your lip line for a fuller effect. You can apply your lip gloss lightly and know that there’s no need to put layers upon layers of lipstick on over your lips.


Rihanna also has a defined cleft in her top lip, so you can try to get some extra definition with a lip-liner.
Just make sure not to overdo it with the lip-liner. If your lips are naturally thin, you can make them a bit fuller, but if you go too far, it won’t look natural.
 Unlike some celebrities, Rihanna doesn’t change up her eyebrows very much. They have a nice, subtle curved arch to them before tapering off, and they aren’t too long and of medium thickness. Just use an eyebrow comb to shape them into place and then a brown eyebrow pencil to even them out.


Sometimes her eyebrows are a bit thinner after the arch, so you can pluck them a bit thinner on the sides to achieve that look.
As far as eyebrows go, hers are just a bit farther apart than the average brows.
 Rihanna likes to emphasize her gorgeous green eyes wherever she goes. She usually lines the top of her eyelids with thick black eyeliner while leaving her bottom lids more bare, with just a bit of brown eyeliner or shadow below her bottom lids. She can go for a more smoky-eyed, dramatic look, or a softer, more subtle look, depending on the occasion. Here are the different looks you can try:For the smoky-eyed look, go for a thicker black eyeliner on your top lids, an extra coat of thickening mascara, and a dark gray shadow on your top lids and a little bit below those bottom lids. Add a bit of brown or purple shadow to your brow bone, above the darker shadow, to blend the look more naturally. This look works great with a mauve lipstick.
For a more natural look, skip out on the eyeliner. Simply apply some nude or shimmery pink shadow to your lids with some light mascara and you’ll be good to go. This looks great with her signature red lipstick.
For an in-between look, use bronze eye shadow and then line your upper eyelids to give yourself cat eyes, making your lines extend outside your eyes and curve upward a bit. Use mascara of medium thickness and complete the look with pink lipstick.
 Rihanna has gorgeous long lashes that make her eyes look absolutely stunning. If you want to get her look, just use a bit of black thickening mascara on your lashes, making sure to carefully move it from side to side and up along your lashes, instead of just up and down, to fully coat them in the mascara.


You can also use an eyelash curler to make those lashes even more curled and dramatic.
Sometimes, Rihanna has fun with fake lashes. Try putting on a pair of these for a dramatic effect if you want a more fun, dramatic look.
 Whether it is during a photo shoot or just getting photographed in the street, Rihanna is nearly always spotted in this position. This position is frequently used by many models and celebrities, and gives an illusion of a toned arm and well balanced body figure. lf you’re posing for photos or just hanging out, aim for this position when it feels right. This will give you that awesome Rihanna swagger you’re going for.


You can mix it up and put your left hand on your hip for a change.
 Rihanna always keeps things interesting by constantly reinventing herself, much like her idol, Madonna. Never stop looking for new ways to style your hair, change up your makeup, or rock a new outfit. Just when you think you’re comfortable in a certain Rihanna look, change yourself completely.


Learn to be happy and comfortable with how you look, no matter which trend you’re rocking.
 Rihanna is proud of her Bajan roots and is always talking about how much she embraces her heritage and how much she has learned from it. She also frequently travels home to Barbados and hasn’t forgotten the people she left behind. Whether your roots are in Nigeria or New Jersey, make sure you’re proud of where you came from and that you never feel “too good” to take a trip back home.Part of Rihanna’s identity is definitely based in her roots, and you should be proud of where you came from, too. If you feel like where you came from isn’t as exciting as Barbados, then you should do a bit more digging to realize that every person has an interesting background.
 Rihanna is the first to admit she’s not perfect. She’s comfortable talking about her past and how it’s made her a stronger person and how she won’t let other people’s mistakes influence her, either. Don’t think you have to be perfect if you want to emulate Rihanna. In fact, you should be proud of your imperfections and should be excited to move on from them.


Don’t get defensive or angry if people ask you about one of your missteps. Instead, be open to talking about it.
 Rihanna is charming, cute, funny, and intriguing all at the same time. If you want to have her attitude, then you have to work on keeping your cool, and if you don’t like something, try to laugh it off instead of being aggressive. Always be armed with a cute, warm smile and a happy glint in your eye and don’t be ashamed of where you came from or who you are.


Your sweetness shouldn’t feel fake or like a put-on, but completely genuine. Watch how Rihanna talks in interviews; she’s classy and charming while maintaining her sense of humor all the while.

