 A low hanging ponytail is a slightly more styled version of a classic look that you can easily pull off in less than 20 minutes. You'll need some velcro rollers, bobby pins, a brush, and an elastic band.Separate your hair into 2 to 3 inch (5.1 to 7.6 cm) sections. Secure these sections in a velcro roller, rolling the hair from the bottom of the lock to the root. If your hair is wet, allow your hair to air dry for a few minutes with the rollers in place.
After a few minutes, remove your hair from the rollers and brush out your hair. From here, lift your hair up at the roots. Use a brush or comb to lightly tease the end strands of your hair, volumizing it slightly and calling attention to your natural waves.
Pull your hair into a low, loose ponytail. The hair should hang slightly taut with this look. Leave a small 2-inch section out of the ponytail. Secure your ponytail with an elastic band.
Take the 2 inch (5.1 cm) section of hair. Wrap it around the ponytail, concealing the elastic band. Secure with a bobby pin.
 A half up-do can work great for curly hair. As curly hair is often thick, it can be hard to pull all of it into an up-do without straightening, which can take a long time. Instead, try to do a partial up-do. All you need is a curling iron and some bobby pins.Tease your hair with a fine-toothed comb if you want to add volume. Then, pull the front sections of your hair back. Twist the hair slightly and secure with a bobby pins. If your hair is too unruly for bobby pins, try using a small elastic band.
Allow excess curls to hang down. Try using a curling iron to make your natural curls more apparent, teasing them slightly. This will allow your natural curls to shine, while giving you a fun and casual look.
 A bandana or a scarf is a great accessory for curly hair that can be put in place quickly. After washing and brushing your hair as you normally would, take a scarf or bandana. Wrap the scarf or bandana around your head, so it circles around your forehead and the back of your head. Twist a small strand of hair. Then, loop this strand around the bandana and scarf. This keeps the bandana in place, while giving you a fun and casual hairstyle.