 This step is optional, since it may make your hair tangle, but if it doesn't, washing your hair will add a lot of volume to it.;
, Make sure to have detangled in the shower, and then rinsed your hair. Do not comb your hair after this point.
 This will give your hair the moisture it needs, and it will frizz less once dry. When the hair frizzes, it is moving outwards in search of moisture, but it will lie flat when well moisturized. Continue applying leave-in conditioner until your hair feels like seaweed.
 The curlier your hair, the more volume it will have. Hair products with magnesium sulfate in them, mimic the properties of sea salt. If you've ever noticed that your hair is much curlier after swimming in the ocean, then this is the sort of effect a curl activator will have on your hair. If you don't have a curl activating product, you can mix some Epsom salt, oil, and water in a spray bottle for a similar effect.
 In general, you want to keep your hair products lighter, to avoid weighing down your hair and decreasing volume. But you do want some definition, so make sure to apply a gel or mousse. Use a scrunching motion when applying your products, and try flipping your head upside down to add more volume.
 Scrunch more than you usually would to create more curls.
 The more you scrunch your hair, the curlier it will be.
 Plopping works well for medium to long length hair. It adds volume and curl because the hair is squished against the head; picture an accordion being stretched back and forth. It also remove more moisture from the hair.
 If you tend to get flat roots, but big hair everywhere else, use duckbill clips to give your roots a lift. You may want to do this before you plop.
 This will add more curl and volume, but be careful to always use a diffuser. Also, blow dry the curls with diffuser pressed up against your head, not with the diffuser held far away. Blow dry your hair until it is 70-80 percent dry, but not all the way, because that will cause frizz. If you have a few frizzies after blow drying, calm them down with a light product.
 Don't touch your hair while it's wet or it will frizz.
 Bend over at the waist and insert your hands into your hair close to your roots. Then, fluff! Also stand back up and pull apart curls, and fluff up the sides. Voila! Enjoy your voluminous, bouncy curls.








