 If your car is caked in mud, a waterless car wash will not help and might even scratch the paint of your car. Only use a waterless product if you have minimal dirt or dust. Otherwise, rinse your car with water to remove dry dirt, then use the waterless product.;
, Many waterless products have wax in them, which will give your car an extra layer of protection while you wash it. If you normally wax your car after you wash it, this could be a time-saver.
 UV rays can damage your paint by causing fading and oxidation. While wax will help protect your car’s paint from UV rays, some formulas have an extra degree of protection., There are also very successful organic, natural waterless products that you can use in your home or inside the car as well as on windows. These may be less damaging to your paint; you can find them at car shops or many home improvement stores.
 These products can be found at most auto stores, Walmart, or online. If you’re having trouble finding a waterless car wash in stores, some examples of products are Dri Wash'n Guard, Meguiar’s Ultimate Wash & Wax Anywhere, and Triplewax Waterless Wash & Shine.
 Micro-fibers are tiny fibers that collect dirt. Use a minimum weight of 300gsm (grams per square meter). Make sure it is clean. Lower quality or dirty towels can scratch your car or leave undesirable swirl patterns. You can also find a chamois cloth instead of a micro-fiber. Any product that absorbs liquid without scratching is ideal.
 Some formulas require diluting with water, while others are ready-to-use. Read the instructions on the bottle to see which one you have.
 If you bought a large bottle of waterless car wash, you will need to transfer some into a spray bottle. Otherwise, most products already come in a spray bottle.
 Divide the car into distinct sections to make it more manageable and to make sure you don’t miss any spots. Here’s one way to divide the car, but you can do it any way you’d like:


The side glass
The roof
The hood and trunk
The upper half of the side doors
The lower half of the side doors
The front bumper
The rear bumper
The wheels

, Use as much waterless car wash fluid as you need to cover the section. If there is some dirt on the paint, you can put a little bit of water to help loosen it up so that you don’t overuse the fluid.


For the tires, you may need to use additional fluid. Be sure to save the tires for last, as they will be the dirtiest.
 You want to maximize the number of clean surfaces on the cloth. Every time you start wiping, you’ll want to use a new, clean side, so as not to reintroduce dirt. Otherwise you will be working against yourself and will actually rub dirt into your paint.Assuming your cloth is large enough, you can fold it twice in half to have 8 useable sides. When the front and back are dirty, unfold and refold it to reveal the clean sides.
If one cloth gets dirty on every side begin using a new cloth.
 Don’t wipe back and forth or in a circle. This will push the dirt around, leaving a streak or swirl pattern on the paint.


Remember not to scrub, as you would with soap and water. The fluid should dislodge any dirt on the car on its own. All you have to do is pick up the fluid and dirt with a cloth.
 Continue this process until the whole car is clean, working top to bottom, clean to dirty.
 If you have a wax-based product it may require a second or third “buff” step. Read the directions on the bottle to see if this is necessary.

