 Starting around your junior to senior year of your pre-med program, you need start studying for and take the Medical College Admission Test (MCAT).This is an examination which medical schools consider for admission that is a standardized, multiple choice test. It evaluates your problems solving, critical thinking skills ,and medical knowledge base.The average MCAT score for those accepted into medical school in 2013 was 30.Almost all medical schools in the United States and most in Canada require the MCAT for admission. The test results cannot be more than 3 years old, so make sure you plan on going to medical school soon after you take it.
 Just like when you applied to your undergraduate degree, you need to prepare early for medical school. You also need to apply to numerous institutions, because medical school is competitive and hard to get in to. Out of the 48,000 applicants to medical school in 2013, only a little over 20,000 got in. That's just 41% of applicants., Once you get into your choice medial school, the program is pretty structured. There is little chance for any individualization in your courses. All freshman have to take the same courses, have the same clinical options, and go through the same kinds of testing. This is true for all four years in medical school.


If electives are offered, they are often offered without credit., Medical school has a four year curriculum. In the first two years, you will take classes in physiology, embryology, biochemistry, anatomy, human behavior, cellular biology, and immunology. You will also have classes over the principles of each of the major body systems, including the respiratory, digestive, cardiovascular, hematology, endocrine systems, and nervous system.


In the last two years, your in class work will focus more on you specialties. You will also shadow doctors in hospitals.
Class work includes information in pediatrics, family medicine, gerontology, obstetrics, internal medicine, psychiatry, neurology, acute care, surgery, and ambulatory care. As you progresses through the successive years, you will spend more and more time in clinical practice and less time in the classroom. , During your fourth year in medical school, you will go through a rigorous research, application, and interview process in order to be matched with a residency program in a hospital somewhere in the US. You will then wait for Match Day, which is the third Friday in March each year. This is the date when you will be informed about whether you were matched with the residency program of you choice or if you were rejected.


Once you graduate from medical school, you will go into the residency program you were accepted into in the field of Internal Medicine with a focus in pulmonology, which is a subspecialty of Internal Medicine., Residencies for Internal Medicine are three years long. During this time, you will work long hours at the hospital and do rotations with physicians in their office.You will learn how to prevent, diagnose, and treat diseases that affect adults. Once you go through this residency, you will be qualified to work with adults.


If you want to be a family doctor, you will go through a different residency designed to meet the needs of a family from birth to death.
 Once you finish your residency program, you should take a certification examination in pulmonology. This board certification is used to test your knowledge and certify your ability to practice as an Internal Medicine specialist in pulmonology., To practice medicine in any state in the US, you must be licensed. While board certification is encouraged, getting your license is required.Each state has different requirements, but all of them require proof of your graduation from medical school, documentation of your residency program completion, and letters of recommendation.


Individuals must contact their own state licensing board for the particular information required for that state and the application process., After you complete your residency program, you must apply for fellowship program Pulmonary Medicine.This can also be a grueling process and requires applications, interviews, and letters of recommendation. The pulmonary fellowship is typically two years in length, although they can be longer.During this time, you will learn about the symptoms of major and minor respiratory conditions, ranging from asthma to tuberculosis. You will treat people as part of a team with experienced pulmonologists. After this, you will have to pass a second set of board certification examinations in pulmonology. Then you are ready to be a pulmonologist.

