 Plaque builds up on the teeth day in and day out, whether we like it or not. The best way to deal with plaque is to brush it away using a soft-bristled toothbrush and toothpaste approved by the American Dental Association (ADA). You can find a list of approved products at the ADA website.


Brush after eating or drinking sweets.Do not brush for 30 minutes after consuming acidic drinks like coffee, orange juice, or soda, which weaken the enamel in your teeth.Never go to bed without brushing your teeth. Doing so gives the bacteria that produce plaque all night to work unimpeded.;
, If you're not brushing correctly, you may be leaving plaque on your teeth even after you've taken the time to clean them. For a thorough brushing:Brush your teeth for 2 to 3 minutes.
Brush your teeth with small circular motions or with gentle, short (tooth-wide) back and forth strokes. Do not scrub hard back and forth.
Be sure to brush the outer, inner, and chewing surfaces of your teeth.
To clean the inside surface of your front teeth, tilt the brush vertically and use up-and-down strokes.
Brush your tongue to remove bacteria and keep your breath fresh.
Pay special attention to the teeth in the back that are more difficult to reach, as these are commonly neglected.
 A poorly cleaned toothbrush can carry bacteria that contribute to plaque, while a brush that is too old will have damaged or weakened bristles that do a poor job cleaning your teeth.


Thoroughly rinse your toothbrush with tap water after use, and do not store it in a closed container, as this may lead to bacteria growth.Replace your tooth brush every 3 to 4 months, as a worn-out brush will not clean your teeth as well.Don't use a brush with hard bristles, since this can be too abrasive on your booth enamel.
Consider using an electric toothbrush, as they have been shown to be more effective than manual ones., Plaque that builds up between the teeth and against the gums cannot be reached with a toothbrush. It's important to floss every day so the plaque trapped between your teeth isn't left to harden into tartar and cause cavities. Choose from waxed, unwaxed, flavored, or tape floss, so long as it has the American Dental Association (ADA) seal of approval.


The National Institute of Health recommends flossing before brushing,but the most important thing is that you floss, regardless of when.
When you floss, use the correct technique. Start with about 18 inches of floss. Gently pull the floss between your teeth, taking care not to let it snap against your gums. Curve the floss into a “C” shape against the side of one tooth and gently rub it up and down, keeping it pressed against the tooth. Repeat on the opposite tooth. Use a clean segment of floss before inserting floss between your next two teeth. Don’t forget to floss behind your back teeth.Do not floss too hard, as this can damage your gums. While flossing may produce some discomfort when just starting, that discomfort should fade after a couple of weeks. If it continues, you are flossing too hard.If you hate the feeling of flossing, try using a mouth pick instead. It's a slender piece of plastic that fits between your teeth as an alternative to floss.
 Rinses are designed to kill the plaque that builds up in all the little parts of your mouth that are difficult to reach by brushing or flossing. They have been shown to be more effective than floss in preventing plaque build up.The active ingredient – chlorhexidine, essential oils, Delmopinol, or cetyl pyridinium chloride – does not matter; just be sure to choose a rinse that is labeled "antimicrobial" or "antibacterial."However, do not use chlorhexidine for more than two weeks. Long term use can cause your teeth to acquire brown stains which can only be removed with dental cleaning.
It does not matter if you use your mouth rinse before or after you brush and floss.
Swish a capful (about a teaspoon) of rinse around your mouth for about 30 seconds, making sure it coats your teeth, then spit it out.
In the United States, look for mouth rinses that display the American Dental Association (ADA) seal. You can find a complete list of approved plaque-control mouth rinses at the ADA website.
 Most commercially-produced toothpaste contains fluoride, which has been shown to prevent tooth decay.The low amount of fluoride in tooth paste and water poses no proven health risk to adults, but too much fluoride can affect the mental development of children. Accordingly:Do not use fluoride toothpaste in infants under 2 years of age.
Use only a pea-sized amount for children older than 2.
Avoid fluoride mouth rinses for children under 6 years of age.
 Bacteria can collect on these mouth appliances and contribute to plaque, even if you are otherwise practicing good oral hygiene. Brush your dentures, retainer, or other appliances regularly and occasionally soak them in a cleansing solution to prevent buildup of bacteria., You can perform a plaque test to make sure your combination of brushing, flossing, and mouthwash is removing all the plaque from your teeth. Your dentist can provide you with a special tablet for the test:Do the test at night, so that any residual red staining on your lips or teeth will be gone by morning.
Brush and floss your teeth as usual.
Chew the tablet thoroughly for about 30 seconds, then rinse with water.
Examine your teeth in a mirror. Plaque that you failed to remove via brushing and flossing will be stained pink or red.
If the test shows remaining plaque, you should modify your brushing and flossing technique and repeat the test until you are sure you are removing as much plaque as possible.

