 The SEC maintains a database, known as EDGAR, which contains financial filings by publicly traded companies. You can visit the SEC website at: https://www.sec.gov/index.htm.


Once on the website, locate the drop down menu entitled “Filings.” It is located on the blue banner across the top of the page.
Click on the drop down menu “Filings,” and from the options listed click on “Company Filings Search.”;
, After clicking on “Company Filings Search,” you will be directed to an EDGAR search page that allows you to search by company name. In the search box, enter the company name for which you want to locate a proxy statement.


EDGAR also allows you to search by the company’s stock ticker symbol. A ticker symbol is the abbreviation that the company uses on the stock exchange. For example, the ticker symbol for General Electric Co. is "GE." You can search for stock ticker symbols at: http://www.marketwatch.com/tools/quotes/lookup.asp.
Your search may return one or more companies matching the name that you entered into EDGAR. Look through the list and locate the company for which you are searching.
Once you locate the correct company, click on the CIK number located to the left of the company’s name. This will redirect you to a list of the company’s filings.
 After clicking on the CIK number hyperlink, a list of the company’s filings will appear. You will be provided with the filing type number, a hyperlink to the documents, a description of the document, the date it was filed, and the File/Film number. The documents are listed with the most recent filing at the top.


Scan down the list of “filings” (filing type) and look for “DEF 14A. This is the code for the proxy statement.
Click on the “Documents” button to the right of the filing type. You will be redirected to all of the documents and graphics that are part of the proxy statement.
Generally the first document will be the proxy statement, DEF 14A. Click on the hyperlink and the proxy statement will open.
 If you are a shareholder in a company, the SEC requires that the company provide you a notice of all proxy material. This notice will contain a link whereby you can download or review a proxy statement online. The company is required to provide you this information at least 40 days before a meeting at which shareholders are able to vote.


The notice will also provide you the date, time and location of the meeting.
You will also be provided with instructions on how you can receive a paper copy of the proxy statement., Generally, you will receive a notice in the mail detailing how you can access your proxy materials. Some companies allow you to receive your notices electronically. If you did not receive your notice, you should:


Check your email to see whether your notice was sent electronically. You should also check your junk mail folder.
If you did not sign up for electronic notification, you can contact the company to see why you have not receive your materials. If you moved and failed to provide your new address to your brokerage firm or to the company, your notice may have been sent to your old address.
Most companies will have an investor relations department that assists shareholders with issues. You can search on the company’s website or conduct an internet search for the name of the company and the words: investor relations. This should direct you to the appropriate office.
 If you are not already a shareholder, you can become a shareholder by purchasing shares in a company directly, rather than through a mutual fund or retirement account. In order to be considered a shareholder, your name must be recorded as the shares’ owner in the company’s records. Generally, within three days from your purchase of the stock, your name will appear on the company’s record books, and you will be deemed the holder of record in addition to the legal owner of the shares.Most commonly, investors purchase stock in the following ways:


Investors purchase stock through a broker or brokerage firms. Common brokerage firms include Charles Schwab or Smith Barney.
Investors can also purchase stock through online stock trading platforms such as Ameritrade or E-Trade., Since shareholders in a company have the right to vote on important corporate issues including approving a merger or selling the company, public companies are required to provide shareholders with important information about the company. The proxy statement helps shareholders make informed voting decisions and provides important information on how to vote and what issues are up for a vote.


Proxy statements may reveal relationships between board members and management, important issues about executive compensation, and the stake that each executive and board member has in the company., There are at least two ways that a shareholder or a potential investor can analyze a company’s proxy statement. The first way is to read the proxy statement in its entirety. This way may be best if you are new to reading proxy statements. While these documents can sometimes be 100 pages long, reading or even scanning through the document will help you get a better sense of the format of the document and the type of information required by the SEC.


The benefits of reading the entire document is that you get all of the details shared in the proxy statement and you learn more about the company.
Individuals who are new to reviewing proxy statements may feel overwhelmed by the amount of information contained in the document and unwilling to make a significant time commitment to reading through the material.
However, by reading some parts in depth (discussed below) and scanning through others, a reader will get a much clearer sense of the companies activities., A second method for reviewing a proxy statement is to search the document for specific categories of information. This method works better for those who are already familiar with the layout of proxy statements since it will be easier for them to navigate through the sections to find specific information.


In order for this method to work, you need to choose an objective and make that objective central to your research.
For example, if you choose compensation as your objective, you can quickly scan down the pages of the document until you see something that refers to compensation, such as the compensation table. You would then closely read the information listed in the table and the footnotes related to the table.
Any information unrelated to your objective goes unread, which makes this a much faster method to evaluate the information in a proxy statement., The executive team provides the “backbone” of a company. It not only runs the business but also sets the tone for office culture and provides inspiration to the company’s employees. A bad management team can derail a successful company.When evaluating a proxy statement, consider the following:


Who is the executive team and what is their background? The executive team may include: the Chief Executive Officer (CEO) or President; Chief Operating Officer (COO), Vice President of Operations or General Manager; Vice President of Marketing or Marketing Manager; Chief Financial Officer (CFO) or Controller; Vice President of Production or Production Manager.What is their previous experience and how did they perform in previous positions?
You can read about the management team in the management section of the proxy statement.
It will provide you information on the executives and board of directors as well as who established the company, and the culture of the company., It is important to note whether a board of directors is comprised primarily of the company’s executives or whether there are also independent board members. An independent board member is a person who does not have a major financial stake in the company and does not own any shares.Boards that are primarily filled with independent members tend to provide more value to the company, making it a better financial investment.
Independent boards are more likely to replace a failing CEO, if he or she is not benefitting the company.You can locate information about the board of directors in the management section of the proxy statement.
 All shareholders and investors should closely analyze executive compensation. This information is contained in a distinct section of the proxy statement and includes a chart to more clearly delineate the salary and perks, such as, country club fees, company apartments and cars and drivers, that each executive receives. When evaluating compensation in the proxy statement, you should consider the following:


How does the company explain its compensation program?
What is the compensation program meant to reward?
What does the compensation program include, such as base salary, bonuses, perks?
What triggers the payment of each type of compensation? For example, what does an executive have to do to receive his or her bonus? Is a bonus tied to performance or not?
How is compensation calculated? Is there a specific formula that the company follows?
How does the company’s compensation decisions fit within the broader goals and aims of its compensation program?
When reviewing executive compensation, you should be asking yourself whether an executive deserves the big bonus that he or she is receiving.For information on executive compensation, you should read the section on executive compensation but also the table summarizing compensation. The footnotes to the table often contain “hidden” compensation that executives read.