 Under the login section, click the link that says "Register now.";
, You can do this in one of two ways:


Enter your phone number in the box provided.
Entering your account by clicking the link that says "enter your account number."

, If your address information is correct, check the box for "Yes" and click "Continue." If the information is incorrect, click the box for "No" to search again.
 You can also confirm your account by entering the exact amount from any of your last three bills.
 Your user ID must contain at least 6 characters and your password must include at least 6 to 12 characters. You will also need to provide your email address. Once you've entered your information, click "Complete Registration." You will receive a confirmation email that includes your user ID and information about how to manage your Appalachian Power account online.
 Enter your user ID and password in the Login section on the right side of the screen. Once you're logged in, an account summary screen will appear that will include your current balance due, the due date, the date of your last payment, and the date of your next meter reading.
 A billing summary screen will appear. Click the link on the left side of the page that says "Pay Your Bill."

, You can set up an automatic bank withdrawal or make a single payment. To make a single payment, click the link on the left side of the page for "Immediate One-time Payment." You will be redirected to the billing summary page. Click the link in the center of the page to use Bill Matrix to pay your Appalachian Power bill.
 Enter your account number, the name on your account, your phone number, street address, and ZIP code. Click "Continue" to enter your payment information.
 Select your payment type from the dropdown box. You may pay using an ATM, debit or credit card, or pay with an electronic check. Once you've entered your payment information, you will have to check "Yes" to agree to pay the $2.95 fee BillMatrix charges to process payments. Click "Authorize" to complete your payment. You should receive a confirmation email notifying you that your Appalachian Power payment was successfully received.

