 When looking for a guardian for your child, think about a person who shares your values and philosophies on family. Consider the person’s moral values, educational values, and social values. Ask yourself, does this person align with my own values in these areas? You may want to ensure your child is taken care of by someone who matches what you believe in and what you want to instill in your child.You may also consider the person’s religious beliefs and values around parenting. Perhaps you’d prefer a guardian who shares your religious beliefs or the beliefs your child has been raised in. Or maybe you’d like the guardian to share your ideas around parenting and child-rearing.
For example, if you promote freedom of expression and freedom of belief to your child, you may look for a guardian who will do the same. If you are strict about curfew and doing chores with your child, you may want a guardian who will also be strict about these things.;
, Another element of character you should consider is whether or not the guardian has a clean record. You may want a guardian who does not have a criminal record or a history of breaking the law. The guardian may also have good standing in their community and be considered an asset to society.Make sure you consider the issue of a clean record from your own personal perspective and preference. Maybe you have a person in mind who has had a run in with the law in the past. You may not disqualify them right away based on this issue if they have other good qualities.
 You should also consider the guardian’s personality and whether they would be loving and caring towards your child. Ask yourself, is this person loving? Would they be a good role model for my child? Do they have the temperament to take care of my child?


You should also choose someone who appears comfortable around children. Make sure the person is able to be physically affectionate towards your child and show them love in words and actions.
 As you search for a guardian for your child, you should consider close friends, close family, and far flung friends or family. Keep your search broad and do not limit yourself to just close family or friends. Consider if a relative that lives further away might be a good candidate. Though moving your child to a different area might be disruptive at first, the relative may be a good fit in other ways and worth considering.Keep in mind children are resilient and will likely adapt to a new environment if necessary. Do not limit your search for a guardian to just people who live close to you or those who live in your area. Broadening the scope of your search could help you find the ideal guardian, even if they live in another state or area.

