 The first step to overcoming your fear of reading (or anything else) is to acknowledge that the fear exists. Denial is not a cure, and you can’t will a fear out of existence.


Verbalize your particular fear by speaking it out loud and writing it down: “I am afraid that my classmates will laugh at me if I make a mistake while reading,” or “I think trying to read this difficult book will prove how dumb I am.”

, Fears don’t have to be rational to be real, but examining them rationally may help you to find vulnerabilities that you can exploit. For instance, you might watch your classmates when someone else is reading aloud and notice that most of them pay no attention whatsoever, and the rest pay no mind to small reading mistakes.Question your fears directly: “Would I really not get the promotion if I get tongue-tied once or twice while reading this report?” You can also use the “So what?” technique to trace the potential worst case scenario to a situation. For example, if you think to yourself, "I'm going to fail the reading course," then ask "So what?" “Then I won't pass my class,” and ask again "So what?" “Then I won't get the degree,” and again "So what?" Keep going until you come to the logical conclusion that your fear will not kill you and that it is not as important as it seems.
Try gradual exposure. If you fear reading because you have trouble maintaining focus, start with short passages and quiz yourself afterward. Slowly work your way up to longer readings.
 If you can’t eliminate the fear, reduce its impact by maintaining your calm and composure. Use deep breathing, progressive muscle relaxation, meditation, prayer, yoga, light exercise, or other activities that reduce stress. Sometimes simply talking to a trusted friend is enough to calm you down., There are no “bonus points” awarded for overcoming a fear alone; if you would benefit from help, seek it out. Seek comfort and understanding from friends and loved ones, look for support groups, or utilize the services of a therapist or counselor.


You might feel ashamed to admit to a fear of reading, but the only shame would be to let a manageable fear prevent you from experiencing the joys and benefits of reading.

