 Now that you know some basic moves, you can start formulating a basic breakdancing routine. To start, learn how baby freeze can be used as a transition move. Transition moves are important in that they allow you to move from one breakdancing move to another.


The baby freeze, which you already know, is often used as a transition move. If you're moving between, say, a three-step and into a coffee grinder, you can do the baby freeze in between. This alerts viewers you've ended one move and will be trying a new one.When moving out of something like coffee grinder, you would return to the crouching position. You would then bend your right arm into a 90 degree angle and press it into your hip. Then, you could stretch out your other arm and elevate your legs. You are now in baby freeze. Hold for a few seconds.If you're engaging in top rocks, which we will go over next, you can simply drop to the floor and quickly get into the baby freeze position. Moving into baby freeze after top rocks can be a great transition between footwork and top rocks., Top rocks are hand moves that usually begin a breakdancing routine. Top rocks are simpler than footwork and serve as a signal to viewers you are about to start breakdancing. Learn some simple top rocks to begin your routine.


A basic beginning top rock involves standing with your feet hip-length apart. Move your arms and legs in sync. Step your left toe to your right side, waving your arms at the same pace. Then, return to the original position. Repeat with your right toe. After you feel comfortable with this move, speed it up and bounce slightly with your legs. Try to bounce to the rhythm of any music that's playing when breakdancing in public.You can also try a heel-to-toe step. To start, get in the same opening stance as the beginning. Kick your right foot out onto your heel and then flatten your foot and bend your knees slightly. Move your left foot out, resting your weight on your toe. Then, kick your left foot forward onto your left heel. Bend your knees slightly. Then, step out with your right foot and repeat the process. As with the first move, do this quicker and move to the beat., When you're beginning to breakdance, keep your routines simple. As you become more proficient in breakdancing, you can try longer routines with more complex moves.


To start, try the two different form of top rocks we went over earlier. Try to do them at a fast pace, moving in time with the music. Then, fall to the ground and move into baby freeze. Hold for a few seconds before engaging in footwork.For beginners, a recommended routine is two footwork patterns, baby freeze, and then some light freestyle moves. This means you simply go from one breakdancing move to the next, without transitioning in between.To put it all together, you could start off with the two top rocks moves. Then, fall into baby freeze for a few seconds. Transition into the three step, baby freeze in between, and then do a coffee grinder. Baby freeze again, and then freestyle some more footwork. You could, for example, do a handful of six steps.
 Breakdancing is like any other art form. The more you expose yourself to breakdancing, the more you'll learn. Just as you'll have to read a lot to become a writer, watch a variety of breakdancing routines if you want to learn to breakdance.


You can watch breakdancing routines online. Many break-dancers have active YouTube and Instagram accounts.
Breakdancing is common in the hip-hop community. If there are hip-hop clubs in your hometown, try going a few times a week. You may witness people breakdancing.

