 You can get an abuse prevention order if someone has harmed or attempted to physically harm you, or caused you to engage in sex using force, threats, or duress. You can get the order if your abuser is one of the following:your spouse or ex-spouse
someone who lived together with you in the same household (including a roommate)
someone you dated or were engaged to
someone related by blood or marriage to you (for example, siblings, parents, and in-laws)
someone you have a child with;
, This is another type of order that is available if you don’t qualify for an “abuse prevention” order. To get a harassment prevention order, you must meet at least one of the following requirements:the abuser has committed three or more willful and malicious acts against you which were intended to cause you fear, abuse, intimidation, or property damage
the abuser at least one time caused you to involuntarily have sex through the use of force, threats, or duress

, You can get either type of protective order by stopping into the nearest court and asking for the forms. The clerk should give you everything that you need. You can also download instructions which walk you step-by-step through completing your forms.If you are in immediate danger and court is closed, then go to your local police station. They can help you get an “emergency protective order” by contacting a judge over the telephone. This emergency order is good only until the close of the next business day.For example, if you are in immediate danger on Saturday, then your emergency order is good until the close of business on Monday.
 Once you get all of the forms, you should go through each one and provide all requested information. Print neatly using black ink so that the information is legible.


You should provide specific details about the abuse on the Affidavit.Don’t use general language like “He scares me.” Instead, explain exactly what the abuser has done.
You also need to describe the defendant so that the sheriff can identify him or her and serve notice of the restraining order.
 At the same time that you apply for the restraining order, you can also request child support. There is a form for you to fill out, which the clerk should give to you along with the other forms.
 When you apply for a restraining order, you are really applying for two: a temporary order, which lasts only 10 days, and then a final restraining order. The judge can grant the first without hearing from the abuser, but you need to schedule a hearing on your request for a final restraining order. Ask the court clerk how to schedule the hearing.


Your abuser will have a chance to come into court and argue that a final restraining order is not necessary. You have to give him or her notice of the hearing so that they can come and fight the restraining order, if they wish., After you complete all of the forms, make several copies. Once copy will be for your records. Then file the original with the court clerk.


There shouldn’t be a filing fee for applying for a restraining order.
 After you complete your forms, you should be taken into court to appear before the judge. You will have to swear to tell the truth and then answer any questions the judge has.Try not to be nervous and answer the judge’s questions honestly. Always call the judge “Your Honor” and don’t interrupt him or her when they are speaking.
If the judge agrees to give you a temporary restraining order, then you can probably pick up the signed order right there in court. Review it to make sure all of the information is correct.Even if the judge does not grant you a temporary restraining order, you can still schedule a hearing for a final restraining order.
 You need to give the abuser notice that he or she has been restrained. At the same time, you need to notify them of the “10 day hearing” which will be held to determine if you can get a final restraining order. Generally, you can have the local sheriff hand deliver notice on the abuser.


Depending on the court, the judge will send the information to the sheriff or you will have to take it to the sheriff. Ask the clerk.Service on the abuser should be free.
 Before the judge can make your temporary restraining order final, there needs to be a hearing. At the hearing, you need to convince the judge that the restraining order is necessary. You should try to bring as much evidence of the abuse as possible:Color photographs of injuries or property damage. If you have recently been attacked, then take color photographs as soon as possible. Also find photographs of any attacks in the past or of property damage.
Medical records. If you went to the hospital for medical treatment, then get copies of your medical records which show your injuries.
Police reports. If you called the police about an abusive incident, then you can get copies of your police report.
Witnesses. Ask anyone who witnessed the abuse if they would go to the hearing with you. If they can’t, then ask them to swear to an affidavit in which they describe the abuse.
Examples of threats. Bring copies of emails or voice mail messages which contain threats from the abuser.
 You have the right to a lawyer’s assistance during your hearing. If you think that the abuser will challenge child custody, then you should certainly consult with a lawyer.


You can get a referral to a lawyer by contacting your local or state bar association.If money is tight, then you might qualify for legal aid. There are many legal aid organizations in the state which provide free legal services to low-income people. A list is available at the Womenslaw.org website., You don’t want to be late for your hearing, so make sure to give yourself plenty of time to find parking and to go through courthouse security. Make sure to turn off your cell phones and any other electronic devices before entering court.
 You can go first at the hearing. Tell the judge in your own words why you need the restraining order. Also tell the judge what evidence you have brought with you to support your allegations.


For example, you might say, “Darren most recently attacked me two weeks ago, on June 14. My neighbor, Mrs. Caswell, saw him strike me and called the police. I have Mrs. Caswell here as a witness and also a copy of the police report.”

, The person you want restrained will be able to present his or her side of the story.As they talk, you need to stand quietly and listen. This can be difficult. They may lie or say mean things about you.


You will have a chance to respond. Don’t interrupt or raise your hand and ask to speak.
Instead, wait until the abuser finishes and then ask, “May I respond, Your Honor?”

, If the judge grants the restraining order, then he or she should sign it there in court. You can get a copy from the court clerk. Make sure to try and get two or more copies.


Check whether or not you are responsible for arranging service of the restraining order on the abuser. The court might handle that or you may have to arrange service with the sheriff.
 If the abuser tries to get in touch with you, then you can show the police your copy of the restraining order. This will help them understand the situation much faster. Tuck a copy of the order in your purse or in your wallet.You should immediately contact the court clerk if you lose your copy of the order. Request another.
 You should also distribute copies of the restraining order to the following people, all of whom need to know that the abuser is prohibited from contacting you and your children:security guards at the front desk of your apartment or job
your children’s school or daycare
a neighbor or close friend who looks out for you
anyone else who is named in the order (such as a parent)

, Restraining orders are mandatory. They tell the abuser exactly what he or she can’t do. If the abuser violates the restraining order, then you should call the police or visit the police station.If you have an abuse prevention order, then the police will arrest the defendant.
 Violation of a court order is “contempt,” and a judge can punish the abuser for failing to follow the restraining order. You will need to get a form from the court clerk and file it in order to bring a contempt proceeding. The punishments for contempt can be severe:The judge can fine the abuser up to $5,000.
The judge could put the abuser in prison for up to two and a half years.
The court may also order that the abuser attend substance abuse treatment programs or other programs.
 Generally, a long-term restraining order lasts only up to one year, unless the judge stated otherwise. You can get an extension by contacting the court. You will probably have to appear before the judge for another hearing.By contrast, if you want to get back into contact with the abuser, then you need to ask the court to dissolve the restraining order, otherwise the person could be punished for having contact with you.

