 Ear infections are painful and cause lots of irritation, so you'll notice your dog rubbing and scratching his ears a lot. You may also notice the ear is red, swollen, hot to the touch, smells bad, or discharge coming from the ear (like a thick wax or pus). Ear infections can be caused by a variety of things (ear mites, bacteria, or yeast), so it's important that the vet diagnose your dog.


If you are unsure if your dog has an ear infection, compare one ear with the other. They should both look the same. If one ear looks different or irritated, it's likely infected., Since many things could cause an ear infection, your dog should be diagnosed by a vet who can prescribe medicated prescription ear drops that contain antibiotics. If your dog has had ear infections before, the vet may swab his ears to get samples of pus to send for a culture. This will precisely identify the bacteria causing the infection and which antibiotic will kill them. Severe infections may require a combination of topical drops into the ear and oral systemic antibiotics.There are many medications available. Your vet will select the best one for your dog and give you instructions on how often to apply it and for how long. Treatment will be largely determined by your dog's size and condition.
 Choose a mild, pH balanced, emollient (moisturizing), and quickly evaporating ear cleaning product. Choose a liquid instead of a wipe, since the liquid can penetrate into the ear canal to clean away deep seated pus and infection. Place the nozzle of the bottle over your dog's ear canal and squeeze generously. Plug the ear canal with a ball of cotton and massage the side of his head. Remove the cotton and wipe up the ear cleaner that comes out. Repeat this until the ear cleaner comes out clean.


If you later notice your dog tilting his head to the side, it could be a sign that he's ruptured an eardrum and the cleaner has touched the delicate middle or inner ear. Stop using the cleaner and get veterinary attention.
Cleaning the pus from the ears can decrease the amount of bacteria and give your dog some relief from the itch. However, if cleaning the ear upsets your dog or if his ears are too sore, stop cleaning and take him to the vet.
 In some dogs, recurrent and unexplained ear infections may be linked to an allergic reaction. The dog may be allergic to something in the environment (pollen or dust mites) or an ingredient in their food. Talk to your vet about this possibility if your dog continues to get ear infections — they may recommend putting the dog on a hypoallergenic diet as a trial to see if things improve.

