 There is a wide variety of carving styles using a range of materials available. It is well worth shopping around for quality and value., The best carvers are found on Lamu, where they produce excellent chairs, doors, brass inlaid boxes, picture frames and small replica dhows. Commonly used woods on the coast are the wood of older Mango trees and the wood of the introduced Neem tree.
 They are well known for producing wood carvings, particularly of animals.
 the popularity of Makonde work means that there are many Makonde artists in Kenya and their work is widely available. Some Makonde work is now made with blackened rosewood. Traditional Makonde designs are thin elongated human figures, towers of intricate intertwined human bodies known as the Tree of Life, figures from the Slave trade and surreal figures based on local mythology.
 There are plenty of these and other large carvings available. If you have a problem with baggage allowances, freight can be arranged to have these items sent to your home country. Contact the post office or a specialist freight forwarding agent.
 While the main causes for this are clearing for farmland and charcoal burning, the demand for wood carving also increases the need of wood. At the same time, the carving industry provides vital labour to many people, particularly the Kamba community, and is an important form of expression of both traditional and modern art.
 The harvest of native Ebony, Mahagony, Rosewood and Olive wood is the greatest threat to indigenous forests and the species they support, through habitat loss for wildlife and destruction of water catchment areas.
 This has led to the rapid and wholesale destruction of Ebony forests.
 Certainly rare native woods (Ebony, Rosewood, Olive and Mahogany) should be avoided, or only purchased when used in high quality and highly priced carvings. Cheap objects such as salad spoons and small mass produced carved animals made from these woods present the greatest environmental threat.
 These include introduced and renewable trees such as the Jacaranda, Neem, Mango, Blue Gum, and Grevillea. Encouraging use of these woods allows you to protect the local environment and support a sustainable carving industry for the future.
 They use a locally quarried soapstone to produce a range of carvings. The most popular items are small animals, chess pieces based on traditional African designs and more functional items such as egg cups, soap dishes, coasters and ash trays.
