 You don't have to create an account to make a payment, but if you plan on using MyFloridaCounty.com in the future, then it will save you time. You will need a credit card, the full name of the person making the payments or the full name of the person receiving payments, and the Social Security number, date of birth, and address of each of these persons.


Each transaction on MyFloridaCounty.com is subject to a 3.5% processing fee, however, there is no delay between the time you make the initial payment and the payment is posted.
 MyFloridaCounty.com is used for all kinds of county level payments in Florida. The child support section is on the left side of the page. Click on the button and you will be taken to the account page. Enter your information and create a username. You will need to provide your username every time you log into the child support system.
 One of the convenient features of MyFloridaCounty.com is automatic updating. Provide your email address if you want updates regarding your child support account sent directly to your email account.
 You will receive a temporary password either online or in the mail. Log back in with your temporary password, then you can use the website to change your password to something you will remember.


Keep track of your password and all user identification information. The website and the Florida Clerks of Court have no way of retrieving your password information. If you forget your password, you will need to complete the user identification account information again.
 The "pay your child support" button is immediately to the left of the "create an account" button. To pay your child support, simply click the button. You'll need to know either your case number or depository number, in addition to the name of your county. Input the amount to pay and your payment information on the following screen., Once you have your log in information, use your username and password to gain access to your child support history. You can view your five most recent payments by clicking on the "View Recent Payments" Link. You will need your Social Security Number, and your case's depository or uniform number. Keep track of the payments on a monthly basis.