 The best thing about "me time" is that you're not going to have any interruptions. Catch up on school work, study for an upcoming test, clean your room, get your finances squared away, etc. Use this time to your advantage.Reorganizing a room can be a lot of fun. Once everything is clean, rearrange the furniture to give the room a new look. Put up new decorations to freshen things up.
Create a new color-coded filing system to organize your papers, or make a calendar and fill it in with all your plans for the next few months.
 If you make time to practice a skill every time you’re alone, you may end up getting quite good at it.Is there a guitar lying around the house or a piano that rarely gets played? Put it to use!
Try your hand at logic games and puzzles. There are plenty to choose from online and a number of logic puzzle apps available for smartphones.
Or you could get a little retro with a Rubik’s Cube and work your way towards genius.
 Learn a skill you’ve always wanted to develop or find a topic you’re curious about and take a class on it.


Many free and low-cost classes are available online as well as at many community centers.
Free courses often don’t require any homework or tests, so if the grading part of taking a class puts you off, take one where you don’t have to worry about it.
 Catch up on phone calls to your relatives and friends who live in other places.Email or text them if you don’t want to make a phone call. Having time alone is a great opportunity to reconnect with people you’ve fallen out of touch with.
 Having time to yourself away from other distractions allows you to slow down and turn inward--giving you a perfect chance to let yourself do some quiet reflecting.Think through decisions that have been weighing on you lately. What are the pros and cons of the options before you? Write them down if that helps you sort through your thoughts.
Use your imagination. Go to a different place in your head and imagine a different world. Allow yourself to daydream. You may even come up with a great new idea for a story or a blog post.

Meditate. Sit quietly, close your eyes, and pay attention to the sounds, smells, and sensations around you. Let your mind go blank and concentrate on your breathing.

