 People who have experienced abuse often blame themselves or experience self-loathing.Remember, it's never your fault, and nobody deserves to be abused.


Replace destructive self-talk with compassionate self-talk.If you say mean things to yourself such as, “It’s all my fault. I shouldn’t have made him mad,” this is an incorrect thought because you are not to blame. Replace these types of thoughts with more realistic appraisals of the situation such as, “The abuse is not my fault. I did not wish it or want it to happen. I am deserving of love and respect and should not be abused.”
Take care of yourself. Self-care is an important component of coping after abuse has occurred.This means treating yourself with compassion and respect. Eat healthy, get enough sleep, attend your therapy sessions, and engage in healthy activities (exercise, education, relaxation, leisure).
 Healing from abuse can be achieved with the help of support from others. It is important to have mutually satisfying and collaborative relationships.Chances are, you already have people in your life who can support you, such as other family members (mother, grandparents, siblings, cousins), friends, and teachers.


If you have been avoiding socializing out of fear or sadness, try reconnecting with others who are safe. Invite your friends over, or hang out with safe family members such as siblings or cousins. You don't necessarily need to talk to them about the abuse if you don't want to or aren't ready to do so. Just get support by spending quality time together and doing fun activities (such as playing games).
One way to get social support is to join a support group. Ask your school counselor or therapist for referrals. If you don’t have either of those, try conducting a search online for local organizations that have support groups for individuals who have survived trauma and abuse.
Do not tolerate friends or others who mistreat you or call you names. You deserve to be treated with respect. But don't use physical violence of any kind to get your point across either, just distance yourself and spend less time with people who mistreat you.
 Mourning the trauma and loss is an important piece of healing from abuse.You can write your father a letter, which you don’t need to send. Tell him how you feel about the abuse and how it has affected you. Let your anger out.
Talking to others about your feelings is also a good way to process. You can do this with a friend, family member, counselor, or support group.
 Creative expression is one way to positively cope with a history of abuse. Creativity can help you release you emotions in healthy ways instead of harming yourself or lashing out at others.


Try improvisational music as self-help therapy.This has been shown to help heal sexual abuse, and may be beneficial for other types of abuse as well. Try playing the harmonica (an easy instrument to learn), or download a game or app that allows you to create music.
Write about it. Reconstructing the story of your abuse can be a helpful way to heal.This can help you to resolve the trauma. Gain support or put it aside if it upsets you too much right now.
Try art – you can color, paint, draw, or sculpt. Try to express in your art how you feel about the abuse and how it has affected you.
 Individuals who have survived abuse may be at an increased risk for using alcohol and other drugs.Additionally, people who have suffered from an abusive situation may blame themselves, minimize the seriousness of the abuse (thinking it was not as bad as it was), and rationalize (think that the abuse was necessary or normal).


Focus on having a realistic view of the abuse such as thinking or saying to yourself, “I was abused and it was not okay. I am not to blame for the abuse. I will not tolerate being abused and will get help if I need it."

, Many individuals who experience abuse may feel dis-empowered and not in control. Take your power back!Take a survivor rather than a victim stance on your history of abuse. You can do this by integrating a survivor mentality into your identity. Think, “It was abuse, and I survived it. I am a survivor, not a victim. I am strong enough to overcome this great obstacle. I will keep fighting to end abuse.”
Find a survivor mission or purpose. Perhaps this means giving talks about your experience, or helping other survivors.

