 Lots of businesses outsource their labor and manufacturing to nations where human rights and labor laws like those in the developed world are not recognized. Some businesses, for instance, obtain goods produced with slave labor or child labor. And even businesses within the developed world often violate labor laws, jeopardizing the safety and wellbeing of workers. If you want to run your business with compassion, it is important not to source raw materials or contract with businesses who did not treat their workers properly.Connect with organizations like Made In A Free World to ensure your supply chain is free of slave labor.
Read the Bureau of International Labor Affairs’ 2016 List of Goods Produced by Child Labor or Forced Labor for a better idea of what types of practices and products to look out for when dealing with suppliers in your business. The report is available online at https://www.dol.gov/sites/default/files/documents/ilab/reports/child-labor/findings/TVPRA_Report2016.pdf.
Even if your business is run in a compassionate, ethical way, you will still tarnish your reputation as a compassionate business owner if you decide to deal with businesses that are not compassionate. If you want to join another business in a joint venture of some sort, you should ensure that business satisfies your benchmarks for what a compassionate business should be., Being compassionate means thinking about the big picture. True compassion requires taking into account future generations as well as animals and non-human life. Look for ways to minimize or eliminate your carbon footprint and reduce pollution. Depending on what sort of business you’re running, you might be able to:Include recycling bins as well as trash bins in your workspace
Distribute cups and plastic ware made from biodegradable materials
Send food waste to a composting site
Install energy-saving lightbulbs and appliances
Donate excess edible food to a homeless shelter

, Every business has a mission statement that describes what the business does and how it goes about fulfilling that mission. If you include a passage in your mission statement that reinforces the importance of compassion to your business, you can begin to foster a culture of compassion within your business. Compassion will then be written into the DNA of your business, ensuring everyone – from you down to the rank-and-file employees – feel responsible to make compassionate decisions as part of the business (and, hopefully, as part of their own communities).The mission statement should appear in employee materials like training guides, as well as in executive summaries and stockholder reports.
Your commitment to compassion in your mission statement could read something like, “We strive to fulfill our mission with compassion and humility towards our customers, employees, and stakeholders.”

, Connect with others in your industry to find out how they practice compassion and maintain an ethical business. Look for conferences and forums in your industry focused on ethics and compassionate business management. Attend these conferences and meet others in your industry to get even more ideas about how you can run your business in a compassionate way.You could also attend a college or university course about business ethics or people-centered management. Contact your local institutions of higher education for more information.

