 Female dogs sometimes exhibit territorial tendencies. This is particularly true for females that are pregnant, have had puppies, or are actively ovulating.Territorial behavior in female dogs may extend beyond protecting puppies. Dogs that are ovulating may become possessive over toys, shoes, socks, or clothing. These household objects are often stored under a piece of furniture, and the furniture is aggressively guarded.Spaying the dog and encouraging social interaction with other animals will generally curb this undesirable behavior., If you’re on the fence regarding whether a particular breed can grow just a tiny bit bigger than you’d prefer, it helps to know that female dogs of a certain breed tend to stand one or two inches shorter than their male counterparts. They also weigh slightly less in accordance with their smaller size., Like unneutered male dogs, un-spayed female dogs can potentially have different health complications than spayed females. Some of these complications include:


Mammary cancer - A breeding female that has two seasons or more stands a high risk of developing mammary cancer in later life. This varies from benign local lumps that don't spread to highly aggressive mammary tumors that can prematurely end life.Ovarian and uterine cancer – Not all dogs are at risk of ovarian or uterine cancer. However, some dog breeds are predisposed to these types of cancer. Having your dog spayed will eliminate all risk of ovarian and uterine cancers.Pyometra - The more seasons a breeding female has, the more likely she is to develop a serious infection of the lining of the womb called pyometra. Left untreated, this can cause blood poisoning, kidney failure, and death. The treatment is surgical removal of the womb, so when taking on a female dog you should consider whether you’d be able to cover the cost of emergency surgery should it be necessary.False pregnancies - A female dog can develop a false or phantom pregnancy after her season. This means her body prepares for giving birth to puppies despite her not being pregnant. Typical signs include milk production, mothering soft toys, lacking energy, and some dogs will even go through mock labour. There are drugs that can dry up the milk, but in the long term, spaying in the best option since false pregnancies tend to get worse with each successive heat.Pregnancy complications - There is always the risk of complications during pregnancy, such as difficulty giving birth, mastitis, or pregnancy toxaemia. Each of these conditions requires veterinary attention, which can be costly if an emergency caesarian is necessary.