 The more people you meet, the more likely you will find someone who has similar interests. Be bold. If you are in a new situation, put your hand out and state your name. Brief introductions are best. If the other person is interested in a conversation, they’ll respond.Some ways you can do this include:


If you’re at a party, instead of only talking to your friends, talk to strangers. Tell them your name. You can say something like “How do you know Lisa?” or “This music is great, huh?”
If you’re at a new school or workplace, introduce yourself as you run into people. You may want to introduce yourself to those sitting next to you. Be bold. You can say: “Hi there. My name is ____. I’m new here.” Wait for them to introduce themselves back.;
, Sometimes people show their interests and hobbies in visual ways. They may wear a t-shirt of their favorite band, or they may have stickers of their favorite superhero on their bag. Perhaps you see them knitting on the bus, or they’re reading a book you enjoy. In these situations, don’t be afraid to compliment them on their tastes. You can try saying something like:


“I love your shirt. That’s my favorite band. Have you been to one of their concerts?”
“That scarf you’re knitting is beautiful. I knit quite a bit myself, and I always find that stitch difficult. Any tips?”
“Have you read the latest book by that author?”
You can advertise your own interests in the same way. Perhaps someone will comment on your shirt or sticker.
 After you’ve made introductions, you can start small talk. Asking the other person questions shows your interest in them.While small talk is often about the weather or your workload, you can also guide the conversation towards your interests. Asking for recommendations is a natural way to feel out their interests while helping you find fun places to go and things to do. You can ask:


“So what do you like to do on the weekends?”
“Are there any good movies out? What would you recommend?”
“Do you know if there are any good hiking trails around here?”
“Are you watching the game tonight?”

, Don’t be afraid to talk about your own hobbies as well. Do not worry about being judged for your interests. Instead, confidently state what you like to do, and the other person might respond positively. If they’ve never heard of your favorite band or if they haven't played your favorite sport, you might be able to teach them about it in a way that makes them interested.


If they ask you what you did over the weekend, you can discuss how you spent it doing your favorite activity. For example, “I just saw this great play over the weekend. Have you heard of it? I love theater, especially musical theater.”
If they ask you how you are doing, add a short response that tells them not only how you feel but what you’ve been up to. For example, “I’m good, but I am so tired today. I was up late last night playing this new video game.”

