 Different states have different definitions of the intrusion of solitude claim and what you must prove.


While almost every state recognizes some right of privacy, each state's law enables different types of claims that require proof of different elements.The Digital Media Law Project has summaries of intrusion laws in several key states available at http://www.dmlp.org/legal-guide/elements-intrusion-claim.
You also can review intrusion of solitude court cases in your state to understand what judges require to award damages for these types of claims. You can look up these cases by searching online or by visiting the public law library at the courthouse nearest you. Keep in mind that even if two states have similarly worded laws, the judges in those states may interpret them differently.
Generally, intrusion of solitude claims have four elements. You must prove that the defendant, or person you're suing, intentionally intruded into your private affairs without your consent, and that you suffered some degree of mental anguish as a result.;
, The first element of an intrusion of solitude claim requires you to demonstrate the defendant invaded some area in which you have a reasonable expectation of privacy.


In most states, courts require a physical intrusion – such as by physically entering your property or using technology such as zoom lenses or microphones to snoop on your private conversations or activities.You may not have documents or other evidence to support an intrusion claim, since someone can be liable for intrusion regardless of whether the facts or information they gathered about you are published.However, documents or photos may play a key role in proving that the act of intrusion was committed.
For example, if someone barges in on you in the restroom and takes pictures of you on the toilet, it's not necessary for him to publish those photos or even show them to anyone else for you to succeed in a claim of intrusion of solitude. However, the photos can be used to prove that he did in fact take photos of you in a private situation.
 The second element requires the intrusive activities of the defendant to be something a reasonable person would find offensive.


Keep in mind that this goes beyond something that would merely be embarrassing or uncomfortable.For example, if someone barged in on you while you were using the restroom, that might be embarrassing but it typically wouldn't be considered offensive. However, if the person not only barged in on you but also took a photo of you on the toilet, that typically would be considered offensive.
Posting or threatening to post those photos on social media would clearly be something a reasonable person would find offensive.
 Because consent tends to be the strongest defense to an intrusion of solitude claim, you must make sure you have evidence that you did not agree to the defendant's presence or the acts he or she committed.In some cases – such as if the defendant ambushed you in a bathroom stall or changing room – the lack of consent will be obvious. In others, it may not be as clear cut.
Beyond actual consent, the law may infer consent if the defendant's actions were obvious and you didn't object to them.For example, if you agreed to be on a reality TV show, you probably would have a difficult time suing the TV producers for intrusion of solitude if they filmed a conversation with your spouse that you preferred to keep private.
 State laws typically require proof that you suffered some degree of mental anguish before you'll be awarded monetary damages for intrusion of solitude.


It's not enough that you were embarrassed but quickly got over it and moved on with your life – the intrusion must have relatively long-lasting psychological effects.Testimony from a psychiatrist or other mental health professional can help establish mental damages. Additionally, you might seek out testimony from family or friends who can describe how your demeanor and activities changed following the incident.
For example, suppose you went to the gym every day before and after work. However, after someone barged in on you in the showers and took pictures which he posted on the internet, you stopped going entirely because you would have symptoms of a panic attack just thinking about it.
 You must initiate your lawsuit in a court that has jurisdiction over both your claim and the person or business you want to sue.


Civil courts have general jurisdiction over all invasion of privacy claims, including claims of intrusion of solitude. Because many states require a physical trespass for intrusion of solitude to have occurred, you typically will need to use a state court.However, occasionally you'll want or need to sue in a federal district court.
Federal court jurisdiction generally will apply if the person you want to sue lives or conducts business in a different state than the one where you live.Jurisdiction over the type of case you've filed is called subject matter jurisdiction. Courts also must have personal jurisdiction, which refers to the court having the power to order the person you're suing to do something. Personal jurisdiction only exists if the person or business lives or operates in that court's district, or if the incident that gave rise to your claim occurred there., An attorney can help you understand what evidence you need to bring to prove your claim of intrusion of solitude, and can suggest other claims that may apply to your situation.


Generally, look for an attorney who has experience representing plaintiffs in invasion of privacy lawsuits, or who specializes in privacy law. You can begin with an internet search, or check your local bar association's website to find an attorney near you.You should interview multiple attorneys before you decide who to hire. If you're concerned about your ability to pay attorney's fees, be up front about this concern.
Find out how each attorney will work with you to reduce costs, such as by only representing you for distinct portions of the proceeding, or by working under a contingency fee agreement in which they're only paid if you accept a settlement or win your case at trial., You can get copies of complaints that have been filed in the same court in other cases to use as templates.


Your local law library, typically located in the courthouse, will have copies of complaints filed in that court on various topics, so you can find good ones to use.When using another complaint as a template, be careful not to copy all of it verbatim. Some of the information contained in the complaint for another case may be irrelevant or unnecessary for yours. Look up any words or phrases you don't understand before you include them in your complaint.Some courts, including many federal courts, require court documents to be filed on "pleading paper," which has pre-set margins and numbers every line down both sides. Pleading paper templates are available online for a variety of different word processing applications.Typically, you should print your complaint on standard 8.5 x 11 white paper. Set one-inch margins all the way around and use a basic font such as Arial or Times New Roman in 12- or 14-point size.Some courts also may require sub-headings for each section of your complaint. Review complaints filed in other cases in the same court to see if you need to follow this format., The caption identifies the court and the name of your case and will be identical for all documents either you or the defendant file with the court for the duration of the lawsuit.


Expect the caption as a whole to take up roughly the top third of the first page of your complaint, with the caption itself divided into two halves.
On the first line or two of the left-hand portion, type the name and location of the court in which you've filed your lawsuit. Some courts want the name of the court in one line across the entire page, so check your examples to be sure you're formatting it correctly.Typically, the left-hand portion of the caption is the title of the case – your name "vs." the defendant's name, with each party name taking a separate line above and below the "vs."On the right-hand side of the caption next to the case name, leave a blank for the case or reference number of the lawsuit, which will be assigned by the clerk when you file your complaint.For some courts, you'll type the title of your document (here, "Complaint") under the space for the case number. Again, check your samples to make sure you're formatting it correctly., The first numbered paragraphs of your complaint identify you, the person or business you're suing, and explain how the court has jurisdiction.


If your title ("Complaint") wasn't included in your caption, you'll need to type it over the body of your complaint. Local rules determine how your title must be styled. Often the word will be typed in all-caps, and may be bolded, underlined, or both.
Your complaint typically begins with a single sentence such as "Comes now the Plaintiff, , and respectfully alleges as follows:" and then proceeds with numbered paragraphs.Each numbered paragraph should include only a single fact. For example, the first paragraph states who you are: your name, the state where you are a resident, and your address. The second paragraph relates the same information about the person or business you are suing.From here through the rest of the complaint, you will refer to yourself as Plaintiff and the person you're suing as Defendant.
Paragraphs themselves should be single-spaced, with a double space between each numbered paragraph.Following the paragraphs that identify you and the person you're suing, include a paragraph explaining how the court has jurisdiction over your case, as you determined when you chose the court to use., Using the elements of the claim set forth in your state law as an outline, explain how the acts of the defendant constitute intrusion of solitude.


Continue with the same format as the introduction, providing each allegation in a separate numbered paragraph. Don't start your numbers over – if you already have three numbered paragraphs, start your facts with paragraph 4.List the relevant facts, typically in chronological order, that make up the incident that gave rise to your claim. Then set forth your claim – in other words, why those facts give you a reason to sue the person under the law.Make sure you've included all elements your state law requires for an intrusion of solitude claim. If you don't include facts for each element, the defendant will have a reason to file a motion asking the court to dismiss your case.
For example, you might write: "On December 23, 2015, Plaintiff was seated on the toilet in the restroom at Macy's." That would be one paragraph. The next paragraph might read: "John Smith burst down the door of Plaintiff's stall." Continue describing the incident, making sure you include no more than one fact per paragraph.
 In the last paragraph of your complaint, ask the court to award monetary damages or other relief that would compensate you for the harms caused by the defendant.


Keep in mind that court documents use the word "relief" to mean the solutions or remedies the court can provide.For a claim of intrusion of solitude, this relief may include monetary damages, but also may include an order for the defendant to stop doing the things that intrude into your private affairs.For example, if your landlord has a camera in your bathroom, the judge may order the landlord to remove the camera.
The prayer for relief typically ends with a statement requesting "any further relief which the court deems appropriate.", Leave space and a blank line to sign your complaint, then type your name below it along with contact information.


Make sure you leave enough room for your signature – four lines should be enough. Directly beneath the line, type your name. Then type your address on the next line and your phone number below that.If you'd prefer communication using email, you may also want to include your email address.
 The court typically requires you to include a summons or certificate of service, but may also require other forms such as a cover sheet to accompany your complaint.


A summons tells the defendant he or she must appear in court and respond to your lawsuit, while a certificate of service tells the court how and when you served the defendant with a copy of the lawsuit.
If you're not sure what other documents should be included, you can contact the clerk of the court where you intend to file your lawsuit. Courts typically have forms available that you can use for these other documents.
If you've referenced any documents in your complaint, you should attach them as exhibits. You do this by labeling them, assigning each document a letter of the alphabet beginning with "A" and continuing in sequence.When you've gathered all the documents you need to file with the court, make at least two copies of everything. You'll be filing the originals with the clerk, but you'll need one copy of everything for the defendant and you'll want at least one additional copy for your records., You may want to ask the court clerk if you are required to sign your complaint in the presence of a notary public.


If your signature must be notarized, you'll need to bring a valid government-issued photo ID along with your documents. The notary will check your ID and verify your signature.
You can find a notary public at the courthouse. Banks also often offer notary services free of charge to their customers.
 Filing your complaint with the clerk will initiate your lawsuit.


The clerk will stamp the originals as well as your copies. You'll have a file-stamped copy for your records as well as one set of copies that must be delivered to the defendant.
When you file your complaint, you'll have to pay a filing fee – typically several hundred dollars. If you're concerned about your ability to pay the filing fee, ask the clerk for an application for a waiver.
You'll have to provide information about your income and assets so the court can determine if you're eligible to have your fees waived., Before the court will hear your claim the defendant must have sufficient legal notice that you are suing him or her.


While courts often allow you to mail documents using certified mail, a complaint typically must be hand-delivered to the defendant. Technically any person over the age of 18 who is uninvolved in your case can do this, but usually you'll want to pay a sheriff's deputy or private process serving company to serve the defendant.After the defendant has been served, make sure whoever delivered the documents filled out and filed a proof of service document with the court. The clerk has forms available for this purpose., Once you serve the defendant, he or she has a specific period of time to file an answer to your complaint.


When the defendant responds to your lawsuit, he or she has the opportunity to raise any and all defenses to your claim. However, keep in mind that just because a defense is listed in an answer doesn't necessarily mean the defendant will use that defense at trial.
 Through the discovery process, you and the defendant will exchange information related to your claim and the defendant's defenses.


The process may include written discovery, such as written questions or documents related to the claim, or depositions. Depositions are interviews conducted under oath for which a written transcript is created by a court reporter.Typically you and the defendant must make available to each other any documents you intend to use as evidence, as well as the names and contact information for witnesses you plan to call at trial., The mediation process may enable you to reach a settlement with the defendant without going through the time, stress, and expense of a full trial.


A mediator is a neutral third party who facilitates a discussion between you and the defendant, helping you to come to a mutually agreeable settlement. The proceedings are confidential, non-adversarial, and less formal than trials.Court clerks typically have a list of approved mediators in your area. In some jurisdictions these mediators offer services free of charge, while in others you'll have to pay a fee. However, the cost of mediation can be substantially less than what you'd pay to take a case to trial.Aside from mediation, some courts require you to attend a settlement conference, which has similar goals but is presided over by the judge who will try your case., You will need documents and witnesses that prove the allegations you set forth in your complaint.


Since intrusion of solitude is a court remedy focused on protecting your feelings and psychological well-being, the testimony of a therapist or psychological professional can be crucial to proving the damage done by the defendant.Keep in mind that intrusion of solitude is a personal claim, so your evidence must relate to the impact the defendant's actions had on you – not necessarily your family or friends., If you don't appear at the date and time your trial is scheduled your case will be dismissed.


In preparation for your hearing, you may want to attend a different trial before the same judge. This can help you can gain some familiarity with how the judge runs his or her courtroom and the basic procedures that are followed.Re-read the law that applies to your case, and all the court documents that have been filed by you and the defendant. You'll also want to review any discovery, including any photos or documents produced and deposition transcripts. This information will help you organize your case.Prepare questions and take time to rehearse with your witnesses so you know what their responses will be. Never ask a witness a question on the stand if you don't know how he or she will answer.If you're bringing documents to present as evidence, make sure you have enough copies to give one to the judge and one to the defendant.Make an outline of your case with supplementary notes and bring it to court. You can refer to it to be sure you don't miss anything important.If you're nervous, practice your opening and closing statements in front of a mirror or for friends or family members until you're comfortable with what you plan to say.
 Since you initiated the lawsuit, you have the first opportunity to explain to the judge how you were harmed by the defendant's actions.


The judge will call your name and ask for your opening statement. This is when you provide the judge with a summary of your case and what you will prove through the evidence you present and the witnesses you call.Speak clearly and loudly so the judge can hear you, and don't rush – you want the judge to be able to follow your words. If the judge asks you a question, stop speaking immediately and answer the judge's question before moving on.Make sure you address only the judge (or a witness, if you're questioning someone) – avoid speaking to the defendant directly., Once you've told your story, the person you sued will have the chance to tell the judge about any defenses he or she has.


Pay attention and refrain from interrupting. Keep in mind that if the defendant calls any witnesses, you will have the opportunity to cross-examine them. Make a note of anything you want to bring up on cross-examination or about which you have further questions.After the defendant presents his or her arguments, you both will have the opportunity to speak again by giving a closing statement. Just as in your opening statement you told the judge what you were going to prove, in your closing statement you tell the judge what you've proven.
 After hearing both sides of the story, the judge will enter a ruling on your claim.


Although the judge may issue a ruling from the bench, it may take a few days or even a few weeks to receive a written order.
If you disagree with the judge's order or believe the judge has made a legal mistake, you have a limited period of time to file a notice with the court indicating you plan to appeal – typically about 30 days after the judge's order is entered.