 There are many temperament tests that are available,so you will need to decide what you want your dog to be tested for. You may want to test if your dog will be good around young children, or you may want to see if he’s a good candidate to be a service dog. When you know what type of temperament test your dog will need, you will be able to narrow your search of companies that provide temperament testing.


Some boarding or dog daycare facilities require temperament testing. The facility may do the testing itself. Contact the facility where you would like to board your dog to learn more about the temperament testing requirements.
The American Temperament Test Society has a temperament test that includes an evaluation of your dog’s protective tendencies.The American Kennel Club has a Canine Good Citizen Test that evaluates trained behavior along with temperament.;
, Have your veterinarian perform a thorough physical examination of your dog before temperament testing. Certain medical conditions, such as arthritis, could affect how your dog responds during the testing process. If the medical conditions are not known or diagnosed beforehand, the tester may misinterpret your dog’s responses to the different testing exercises., The more information on your dog that the tester has before conducting the test, the better he/she will be able to evaluate him. For example, write down your dog’s breed, age, sex, and reproductive status (intact, spayed, neutered). You should write down information on how your dog generally reacts to other people and other animals, as well as if your dog has had any prior obedience training.If you do not know your dog's breed, you can have your dog DNA tested. Dog DNA tests, which use cheek swabs, can be purchased online or at your local pet store; tests usually begin at about $60. The tests have variable accuracy, so talk with your veterinarian first about which DNA test he/she recommends.It is also important for the tester to know if your dog has, or has previously shown, aggressive behavior. If your dog has been aggressive, you will need to specify his aggression (food aggressive, aggressive towards people, etc)., In addition to having a full history of your dog, the tester will also need to know about you, especially in terms of your experience with dog ownership and dog training. It would also be helpful for the tester to know about your home environment (young children, other pets) and your ability to provide additional training that your dog may need as a result of the testing.Make sure to be honest and complete when providing information about yourself and your dog., Before the test, make sure that your dog’s collar and leash are sturdy. The tester will take your dog through a number of exercises, so it will be very important that your dog's collar and leash are in good shape.If either are in need of replacement, purchase them well enough in advance of the test so that your dog is used to them.


In addition to a collar and leash, you may also need a food bowl, some of your dog’s toys, and a chair.The equipment needed depends on the type of temperament test your dog will undergo.
It’s also helpful to have a notebook or computer where you can write down your dog’s responses while he’s being tested.You could also use your smartphone or a video recorder to record your dog during testing.
 The testing should be done in a controlled environment where there are no other distractions. This environment should be unfamiliar to your dog.If you are unsure where to have your dog temperament tested, your veterinarian may be able to recommend a location.
 It is very important to have your dog tested and handled by someone that he doesn’t already know. This increases the likelihood that the testing will be as objective as possible. It is also important to select an expert who is highly trained in conducting temperament tests.


If you are testing your dog’s suitability for a specific purpose (hunting, service dog, etc), then select a tester who is an expert in that particular area.During the testing, your handler will not be able to give your dog any correction or guidance, unless directed by the tester.
If you are unsure where to start with selecting a tester, conduct an internet search of local temperament testing companies to find out more about their testers and testing services.

