 What kind of look do you want your journal to have? Lots of this will be determined by what you have laying around. Here are some ideas:


You could take extra felt bits and make a pretty design that's sewed or glued on
You could use buttons or other small decorative items for flair
You could use glitter, ribbon, or other shiny, eye-catching additions

, Spread your journal out so that you're looking at the front and back covers at the same time. Put it face down on the table in front of you over your piece of felt. Start measuring, leaving 1/4" (.6cm) on all sides. Once you have a piece that's measured and just slightly bigger, cut 'er out.
 Now you need felt for the inside covers – you need something pretty on the inside, too, in addition to the front needing something to attach to. To figure out how big these should be, look at the flexibility of your journal:If your journal is super flexible (as in the two covers can practically touch when bent back), measure out a piece of felt that's the same height as the first piece, but that's about 1 or 2" (2.5-5cm) shorter than half of the original piece.
If your journal is not very flexible (the two covers aren't close to being about to touch when bent), measure out a piece of felt that's the same height as the first piece, but that's 2 -4" (5-9cm) shorter than half of the original piece.
These measurements are also determined by the size of your journal. A smaller or larger journal will require smaller or larger panels. In looking at your journal, you should be able to tell how large an inside panel your book could feasibly fit into.
 You didn't do all that planning for nothing. Now's the time to decorate your front (before you attach it to anything else). So get to sewing, gluing, taping, whatever you see fit. And if you're decorating the back, do that side, too.


If you're using anything that needs to dry, make sure you give it adequate time to do so before you continue on. If it's not, you could wind up with a mess on your hands while finishing up.
 With the pretty side of your cover piece facing down, lay on your inside cover pieces (the two smaller pieces that'll be the flaps). They should be touching the outside edges, leaving a gap in the middle.


Make sure to line their edges up perfectly, one directly on top of the other. The good side of the flaps should be facing up, while the good side of the cover should be facing down.
 Starting in one corner, sew with the blanket stitch around the edges of your entire journal. It's easiest to do with a machine, but you could get away with doing it by hand, too. It's just the same basic stitch over and over and over.


The beauty of the felt journal is that it has a cozy unrefined-ness to it. If you don't have amazing sewing skills, don't fret. Do your best and if it's loose in places, there's always super glue to the rescue!

, Your journal cover is officially done. Now all you have to do is slide your journal in and enjoy. If you made it for a gift and now you want to keep it for yourself, just call it your "practice round."

