 As time-consuming as it sounds, the earlier you begin studying for the AP Biology exam, the more prepared you will be. Give yourself two months prior to the exam to study the labs and chapters, so that you do not have to cram in the few weeks before the exam. The earlier you begin to study, the less you must review each night. Start early, and give yourself about 20 additional minutes per evening to review old concepts that you may have forgotten.;
, Believe it or not, the notebooks full of notes  taken in AP Biology can be very helpful when studying for the exam. Quickly skim each section of notes. If you do not understand something you've written down, write down the concept on another sheet of paper titled "Review." Try making flashcards with any unknown words, phrases, or famous scientists. Review these flashcards every day leading up to the exam.
 There are a variety of study books available for the new AP Biology exam, and they can be very useful. Because only certain sections of certain chapters in the textbook must be understood, these books only review the sections that must be understood. They describe exactly what you need to know, and review the information associated with the concepts. A suggested study book is "Preparing for the Biology AP Exam (School Edition) Update", which can be purchased through the link called "Study Book" in the Sources and Citations section.
  The College Board makes is very clear what AP Biology students need to know and understand in order to succeed in the exam. As of 2013, there is a brand new AP Biology test that is centered around "application of concepts" rather than "remembering facts." This means that you will not have to cram facts into your mind before the exam; you must be able to apply formulas, ideas, and concepts instead. The College Board has a list of four "Big Ideas" that students must be able to understand and explain thoroughly on the exam. The link to these Big Ideas can be found under "Big Ideas" in the Sources and Citations Section. In addition to these Big Ideas, students must understand and be able to explain the thirteen labs completed throughout the course. One of these thirteen labs will be asked about explicitly on the exam, so make sure you've reviewed them all.
 There are tons of explanatory videos about AP Biology on YouTube and other video websites. These videos are often more helpful than books because they put concepts into spoken explanations. Videos are especially helpful for understanding when and how to use the scientific formulas that may be necessary for the exam. Take brief notes while watching videos that ensure that you understand what you're watching. #*"BozemanBiology" on YouTube has extremely concise videos on every Big Idea, every lab, and every concept taught in the class and is highly recommended for review. This account also covers how to take the exam, what to expect, and how to prepare. A link to the Bozeman Biology YouTube channel can be found under "BozemanBiology" in the Sources and Citations section.
 Never, ever cram for the AP Biology exam. AP Biology covers way too much information over the course of a school year for you to attempt to remember it all in one night. If you do cram, your mind will be exhausted and you're likely to forget what you already know. Start studying early, or study as much as you can, but never cram. The afternoon before the test the next morning, close your books and put down your pencil. You're as ready as you'll ever be.
 As scared as your AP Biology teacher may try to make you about the exam, do not stress. After all, they're not the one taking the exam; you are. If you have been doing your work and paying attention in class all year long, you will do just fine. The night before the exam, get at least eight hours of sleep and don't even think about AP Biology. The morning of the exam, eat a good breakfast and breathe a sigh of relief. The exam day is here; you're nearly finished!

, The AP Biology exam consists of a multiple choice section and a written section. Make sure you give yourself time to complete each question. However, do not linger on questions because you want to make sure you try to answer every question. If you have studied, you should finish with plenty of time left over.
 If you are finished with the exam and you have extra time left over, go back and make sure you've completed every question as thoroughly as you can. Maybe there are a few more ideas you'd like to add to some of your answers. Write as much as you can and as much as you know about every question. This could be the difference between a final score of 4 and a final score of 5.
 You will receive your AP exam score in late June or early July, depending on the year in which you take it. The score is on a scale of 1-5, with 5 being the highest score you can receive. A 5 is considered "extremely well-qualified." A 4 is "well-qualified." A 3 is "qualified." A 2 is "poorly qualified." A 1 is "unqualified." You should aim to receive a 4 or a 5, but many colleges also accept a score of 3 for college credit. Be proud of your score. You worked hard for it.

