 By delaying gratification, your child will develop self-control, one of the most important qualities of the mentally tough individual. A simple way is to tell your child to wait until after they’ve eaten everything to eat dessert. As they grow, you could tell them that they must wait to receive big, expensive gifts and toys until their birthday or Christmas., A mentally tough child will be able to rebound quickly after a disappointment or setback. Encourage your child to be honest with themselves and others about what they’re feeling after a big loss. Remind them that it’s okay to be sad or angry, but that they must find ways to channel their frustration and sadness into art, music, and other positive activities.If your child plays a sport and is having a hard time coping with a painful loss, the best way for them to deal with their disappointment might be to get back on the field with renewed determination.
Discourage your child from yelling, throwing things, or engaging in destructive behaviors after suffering a setback. Tantrums are not a habit of mentally strong kids., Mental toughness requires responding to social situations – including criticism, bullying, and peer pressure – in positive ways. If your child does not encounter these situations, they will have no frame of reference to draw on as they grow, and will become mentally weak.Social opportunities provide your child with the opportunity to test their limits and exercise independence.
Through social opportunities and play, your child will be able to determine what they can do alone, and what they need help with. These social opportunities will also help them navigate the processes of negotiation and social bonding.
 Mentally strong kids know that they need to tap into their own best self before they can focus on achieving victory against anyone else. Explain to your child that they must want to constantly improve their technique or extend their knowledge if they are to build mental strength. You cannot make them do it, you can only guide the way. Tell your child:“Do your best.”
”Own yourself.”
”Take control of the moment.”
”Take risks that nobody else does.”

