 Any proof you have of the problem will help demonstrate to your boss that it is real. Furthermore, you should have evidence that you tried solving the problem before going to your boss. Emails, memos, and other notes to coworkers, colleagues, and managers are all good forms of written evidence.For example, you might send an email like, “Dear Louise, I was wondering if you could send me those reports by Wednesday. We need to get back to the client by Friday regarding this issue.” If Louise does not respond by Tuesday, send another email. If the reports are late, you have evidence that you requested them ahead of time.
If you had a meeting, you should send a follow-up email. This is a good way to document spoken communications. This might say, “Hi everyone, Thanks for meeting today. We had a really productive session, and I hope we can all move forward now. We all agreed that we would communicate more about our project status, which I think will improve our efficiency. Thanks again.”
These emails should always be professional. Do not blame people or use hurtful language.
 You should approach your boss with a solution-oriented mindset. Have a few potential ideas in mind. This will make it seem like less like a complaint, and your boss may be more likely to follow-up on your request.


Instead of saying, “Nobody ever tells me what I’m supposed to do,” you might say, “I find the lack of oversight in our project guidelines to be inefficient. It causes us to spend too much time trying to figure out what we’re supposed to do. What if we tried creating a universal template for these guidelines, where it is clearly stated what is expected for each project?”

, Blaming, insulting, or accusing other coworkers may backfire against you. Your boss may think you are being hostile, and they may not be willing to solve the problem. Instead, they may tell you to deal with the coworker yourself.


Instead of blaming coworkers, phrase their problems as a larger issue. For example, instead of saying, “Walter’s calculations are full of mistakes,” you might say, “There seems to be many errors in the accounts, and it takes us twice as long to fix these errors as it would to do them properly in the first place.”
“I” statements are a good way to avoid blame. Avoid using “you” phrases such as “you should be doing better” or “you need to fix this now.” These might offend your boss. Instead, try saying, "I feel as though our morning meetings are too long, and I feel as though they take away from our productivity."