 Locate the app on your iOS or Android device, and tap on it to launch it.;
, Both Carousel and Dropbox use the same account, so if you already have a Dropbox account, you don’t have to sign up for a Carousel account. Tap the “Sign In to My Dropbox” button. Enter your email and password in the Sign In screen then tap the “Sign In” button.


You will be taken to the main wall after signing in. The main wall of Carousel is very user friendly. All the photos and videos from your Dropbox account is displayed in large thumbnails here.
 Navigate through your photos and videos by swiping up and down. Tap on any photo or video to view it in full screen.
 All your photos and videos are sorted and categorized by time. There’s a timeline bar on the bottom of the screen. Swiping left and right on it will scroll the photos by timeline, in year and month., The selected files will have a circled checkmark on their thumbnails.


Carousel filters your photos and videos by date only. If you want to select everything under a specific date, tap on the circled checkmark beside the selected date, and all the photos and videos under that date will be selected.
 Tap on the icon on the upper right corner with three small circles. A submenu will be shown.


Tap on “Hide” from here, and all the selected photos and videos will be removed from the main wall.
 Tap on the icon on the upper left corner to bring down the Settings menu. From here, select “Hidden Photos & Videos.” You will be brought to a screen displaying all the photos and videos you’ve hidden on Carousel., Tap on the icon on the upper left corner to bring down the Settings menu. From here, select “Hidden Photos & Videos.” You will be brought to a screen displaying all the photos and videos you’ve hidden on Carousel.
 The selected files will have a circled checkmark on their thumbnails.


If you want to unhide everything, there’s a circled checkmark on the upper right corner; tap on it to select all photos.
 All the selected photos and videos will be removed from the Hidden Photos & Videos screen. They will be brought back to their original locations and will again be visible on the main wall.