 Flies are attracted to moist organic material, which acts as both a source of food and a place to lay eggs. Make sure they don’t have access to food, garbage, or compost in your house.Store human and pet food in the fridge or in tightly sealed containers.
Wash dishes immediately after use.
Clean up any spilled food as soon as you notice it.
Dispose of food waste in a covered garbage can or a sink disposal.
 Keep garbage and compost in well-sealed containers, and take out the garbage frequently. Check for signs of pupae or maggots underneath garbage container lids and liners. Occasionally wash your garbage and compost containers with hot, soapy water., If you have cats, change the kitty litter frequently. Diaper bins can also be a major attraction for flies. Take out any garbage containing human or animal waste as quickly as possible., Clean under and around your fridge and other kitchen appliances, especially in areas where condensation gathers, with warm, soapy water.After cleaning up these areas, thoroughly rinse and wring out any mops, sponges, or cleaning rags that you used, and hang up mops and rags to dry. Flies can also breed in wet and dirty mops and rags.
 Built up organic material in drains can attract certain species of flies. Use a plunger or drain cleaning tool to clear organic material out of clogged or slow drains, then clean the drain with a stiff brush.Chlorine bleach and commercial drain cleaners like Drano are not typically effective for eliminating fly infestations in drains.
If scrubbing is not enough, try an antibacterial drain cleaner like Bio-Clean. Make sure you select a product that is compatible with your septic system. These products typically need to be re-applied several times over a period of a few weeks in order to be effective.
Treat your drains with S-hydroprene (Gentrol), a gentle insecticide that prevents fly larvae from maturing.
 One of the easiest ways for flies to enter your home is through open windows and doors. If you’d like to have windows and doors open to let in a breeze, make sure you have screens in place to keep unwanted insects out. Check your screens for holes, and replace or patch any damaged screens., Flies can come in through roof and attic vents and other small openings that connect the inside of your home to the outside. You may wish to cover these vents with screen so that air can still flow freely through them, but flies cannot enter., If you suspect flies are coming in through open cracks and crevices in your home, fill in these openings with spackle, caulk, or expanding foam.