 Meat and dairy production is highly resource-intensive and inefficient. Attempting vegetarianism or veganism is definitely one of the best things you can do for the environment and also for your health.Meatless Monday is a national non-profit public health campaign that encourages people to give up meat one day a week. Visit the site for some meatless recipes.
 K-cups, or the mini pods of ground coffee for Keurig coffee makers, are single use and typically thrown out (although they can be recycled if users disassemble them into paper, plastic, and metal). Billions of mini cups of ground coffee were sold in 2014, and the number of cups that ended up in landfills could circle the earth 12 times.Brew coffee in a regular coffee pot or French press instead.


Use a mug or other reusable cup for your coffee instead of a disposable cup.
If you love the convenience of single-serve coffee and have already invested in a Keurig machine, look for a washable, refillable cup. You'll still save money and resources, compared to purchasing the individual cups.
 Transporting food from far-off locations takes a toll on the environment, as it must be shipped in trucks, by rail or by ship, all of which produce pollutants. Buying food that is sourced locally will help eliminate or reduce transportation impacts.Visit farmers markets to find local vegetables and fruits or use a CSA (community-supported agriculture) service to get fresh produce on a regular basis.
 Oftentimes, food companies expend just as much energy creating the packaging for food products as is expended in producing the actual food. Try not to buy food that is individually wrapped or buy in bulk., Plan your meals so that you don’t cook more than you will eat. Store your leftovers and use them up at your next meal. If you do have an overrun of food, such as after a party, share it with friends.
 Most tap water in developed countries is safe to drink, which means that buying bottled water is unnecessary. Buy a glass or metal bottle and fill it with water.


Request a water quality report from your city if you are concerned about the quality of the water.
A water filter is generally unnecessary, but even a simple one can improve the taste. Remember, however, that water softeners and reverse osmosis systems waste a lot more water than they deliver.
Fill a pitcher with tap water and chill it in your refrigerator.
If your tap water has a whitish, cloudy appearance when first poured, it may just be air bubbles. Try pouring some into a glass or bottle, and look again in a minute or two, to see if they rise out.

