 Your state will have a children's services or human services agency that handles foster care and adoptions. Using a state agency typically is cheaper than other methods, but may have drawbacks.For example, in many states you can only use a public agency if you are able and willing to adopt a child with special needs.
Additionally, the vast majority of children available through the state's public agency tend to be older. Typically these children become available for adoption after spending time in the foster care system.
You typically can find the name of your state's agency online. The agency's website will have information on how to become an adoptive parent, as well as agency office locations.;
, Most state agencies offer meetings that provide free information for people interested in becoming an adoptive or licensed foster parent. The date, time, and location of these meetings may be publicly available, or you may have to speak to a caseworker first.In some states, you must complete a brief form with your name and contact information. A caseworker will then contact you within a few days to assess your needs and interests.
Informational meetings typically are general purpose meetings designed to introduce both prospective adoptive and foster parents to the system.
Bring paper and a pen or pencil with you to the meeting so you can take notes. The meeting typically closes with a question-and-answer session, so if there's something you don't understand you can ask then.
 Your state child services department typically will have a written application you can fill out to start the process of applying to adopt a child. This initial application is used to determine whether you meet the basic eligibility requirements.The application typically requires information about you, your partner, and any other adults or children living in your house. If you are a single person living alone, don't worry – you're still eligible to adopt a child on your own.
You also must provide information about your household income, including your employment and job history.
The agency may require you to submit various documents, such as tax returns or paycheck stubs, that support the information you provided in your application.
You also will need to present identification and proof of your age. Every state requires adoptive parents to be at least a certain minimum age. Some states also have a maximum age for people who want to adopt infants.
 Most states require prospective adoptive parents to complete several hours of parenting classes. These classes help prepare you for raising a child as well as giving you more information about the state adoption process.Keep in mind that since most children available for adoption from a public agency come through the state foster care system, many states require you to be licensed as foster parents before you can adopt a child.
Even if you aren't required to complete the licensing program for foster care, you still should expect to complete around 20 hours of parenting training.
The courses are provided by the state, and usually are free or have a small fee associated with them.
 Your state's child services agency typically requires you to complete a home study before you are approved to adopt. During the home study, a caseworker will evaluate your home to determine whether you're ready to care for a child.Your caseworker will visit your home and interview all adults who live in your household. If you have children, your caseworker may also talk to them.
Before your home study, your caseworker typically will provide you with a list of documents you need to gather, such as marriage and birth certificates or divorce decrees.
The caseworker will conduct an in-depth evaluation of your home life and personal history, and may visit your home more than once over the course of the investigation.
It's common to get anxious about a home study – after all, it's not every day someone digs through your life and personal history. But keep in mind that caseworkers aren't trying to find reasons to eliminate you. They'll do everything they can to get you ready and help you work through any snags in the approval process.
 Infants are rarely available for adoption through state agencies, and the wait list of individuals and couples who want an infant can be lengthy. If you attempt to locate a baby to adopt solely through a state agency, you should be prepared to wait months, if not years.Expect your caseworker to be up front with you about the length of time it will take to have an infant placed in your home.
You also may want to explore whether you're open to taking older children. For example, it might be easier for you to find a child if you expanded your search to children under four rather than just infants.
Generally, the more preferences you have, the longer you can expect it to take to find your child. For example, a couple looking to adopt a Caucasian male infant may have to wait a lot longer than another couple who also wants an infant but doesn't care about the baby's race or gender.

