 Romantic feelings can actually affect appetite. The nerves and dizziness that come with romance may make you lose interest in food. Think about your appetite lately and consider whether or not it's changed.You may find yourself simply not interested in food. You may not notice when mealtimes roll around, and may not finish your full plate.
 When you're falling for someone, you will experience a noticeable spike in energy. You may feel an increase in productivity throughout the day. You may not want to sleep at night, and find yourself getting up each morning with much more enthusiasm., If you feel a fluttering in your stomach when you think about the person, you may have feelings for them. Butterflies are a sign of nerves. If you have feelings for someone, your interactions can be more stressful as you want your feelings to be returned. This can result in butterflies.You may find yourself experiencing intense butterflies when meeting the person for a social event.
You may also feel butterflies during casual interactions. You may experience strange sensations in your stomach when you're just texting the person.
 People often feel as if they're losing control when they're in love. Your thoughts and feelings will be uncontrollable. Even when you try to focus on other things, you will find yourself struggling.You also may feel like you're on an emotional roller coaster. You may run through feelings like euphoria and an increased heart rate when you hear from the person. However, when they, say, fail to return a text, you may be filled with anxiety and despair.
 When you're starting to develop feelings for someone new, your thoughts of your exes will lessen. You will no longer find yourself reliving old arguments or feel bitter about former feuds. Try to make yourself think about an ex and evaluate how you feel. Sometimes, there are still lingering feelings of resentment. You may also have an ex you still miss.
If you used to experience such feelings, and don't anymore, you may be developing feelings for someone new.
 If you have feelings for someone, you will notice them physically. You may find yourself having thoughts about kissing or touching this person. You may also have dreams of a sexual nature regarding them.


During interactions, you may act on your feelings of attraction without trying to deliberately. You may, for example, lean in close to the person, touch their arm, or take other steps to get close to them physically.