 Since a quotation is a legally enforceable document, you want to be more formal with an exact quotation than you were with any previous estimates. However, you can still strike a warm, cordial tone – it shouldn't be overly formal or filled with too much legalese.In some cases, a customer may ask for a quote rather than an estimate. Or, a customer to whom you've provided an estimate may request a more exact quote.
Thank the customer for the opportunity to work with them, and include a statement about how excited or interested you are in their project. If there is something specific about the project that sparks your interest, mention it briefly. You will give the customer the impression that you are personally invested in their project.
For example, you might write "Thank you so much for the opportunity to build your deck. I am especially excited to work on the fire pit at the center, which I think will be a lovely addition to the ambience of your backyard retreat."

, Just as with an estimate, a quotation should be clearly labeled as such so your customer knows it is an exact price that they can rely on when making a decision whether to hire you.The same as with the estimate, you can put the word "QUOTATION" or "QUOTE" at the top of the page in all caps. If you used red for estimates, you might consider using a different color, such as green, to distinguish the quote from the estimate – particularly if you've given the customer both.
 A timeline for completion is important for the customer to know so they can decide which contractor to hire for their job. Include any deadlines provided by your customer, and make an effort to show completion of the work well before that deadline if possible., For a quote, your prices for materials and labor need to be exact. This means you'll need to contact suppliers to find out about material costs. Be sure to ask how long those prices are good, because you'll need to factor this into how long the quote is valid.Transportation, hired labor, and equipment rentals also should be included here.
Don't forget to include any administrative costs, licensing or inspection fees, and other expenses you will incur as a result of completing the project.
 Your profit margin is one part of your quote that typically will vary depending on the customer, their location, and the demands of the project they've offered to you.For example, you may be willing to work for a limited profit if the customer is a church or nonprofit organization.
To calculate profit, decide on a percentage and then multiply the subtotal by that number. Then add that amount to get the total cost for the customer.
 On the quote itself, outline the specific steps of the job in more specific detail than you did for the estimate. Then you'll want to itemize the cost for each of those steps.The more detailed you are, the more you'll inspire confidence in the customer that you're not hiding anything or trying to charge them for services they're not getting.
 Create a subtotal, then calculate any taxes that you'll have to charge the customer for your services. Add the taxes to the subtotal and provide the total on a separate line, bolded so the customer can see it clearly.Specify that the price is legally binding if accepted by the customer. If there are specific conditions, such as a weather event, that could result in the quote being altered or rescinded, these should be stated specifically.
 Because of the exact nature of a quote, it typically isn't going to be accurate indefinitely. Costs of materials may fluctuate over time. In most cases 30 days is a sufficient length of time, but you should never leave a quote valid for more than 60 days., If you require a deposit, or want partial payment before the work begins, this should be stated clearly on your quote. You also may want to include language that any payment constitutes acceptance of the quote.For example, if you require cash on delivery, you should include the term "COD" at the end of your quote.
If you require a deposit, state exactly how much is required and the deadline by which you must receive it in order to start the project on the timeline specified.
 The quotation should be signed by the person who ultimately has legal responsibility for it. If you are a small business owner, this typically is you. However, if you work as a manager for someone else, you may need to get the company owner to sign off on the quotation.Make a copy of the signed quotes for your business records before delivering it to the customer.

