 This type of liposuction is also called Slim Lipo, Smart Lipo, and Cool Lipo. It uses the heat from a laser to liquefy fat, such as neck fat. Because laser fiber is small, 2.5 mm tubes are inserted under your skin to remove fat. The heat from the laser can also cause double chin skin to contract and tighten.Laser liposuction is less invasive than neck fat removal and can have a quicker recovery time. Always have a consultation with a certified plastic surgeon before getting liposuction of any kind. Laser liposuction for a double chin costs around $7,500 USD.
 If you have loose or sagging neck skin as well as visible bands of fat, you may consider a neck lift. During a neck lift, a certified plastic surgeon will remove fat around your chin and tighten any sagging neck muscles. She will also remove loose skin from behind your ears; however, neck lifts are expensive procedures, and can cost between $5,000 to $10,000 USD.You may experience bruising around your neck after getting laser liposuction or a neck lift. You will need to cover your chin, neck, and head with a compression garment for about a week. It will take about 10 days to two weeks to recover and for bruising to go away.
 In April 2015, the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approved a fat-reducing injection called Kybella to help with the removal of neck fat. The injection contains an active ingredient called deoxycholic acid, which dissolves fat without having to use invasive procedures like surgery or liposuction.During the treatment, your neck area will be injected with several small needles that contain Kybella. You will need to commit to two to six month sessions that take about 20 minutes. Side effects of Kybella include swelling, bruising, and mild pain in the neck area. Most symptoms will clear up within 48 to 72 hours.
The injections must be done properly by a certified plastic surgeon or a doctor trained in the procedure. The price for Kybella is not yet set, but it will likely be much more affordable than liposuction or a neck lift.

