 Without one, you will not be able to get a designer skirt and other pretty items like a spike or Rare item Mondays.;
, These are the popular animals that everyone uses that will help you fit in, or get animals you think is cute. New animals like the newest Arctic Foxes that are cute and such, will help you.
, If you wanted to use purple, try using a dark shade of purple for the color 2 and a lighter shade for the pattern. Or do the opposite! Whites, very light shades of gray and light brown are all good choices for the color 1. Avoid using strange colors that wouldn't match for color 1 such as blue, green, orange, etc.
 You're going to get popular at some point, so choose your hair color. It wouldn't make sense if you said you said that you had black hair one day and blonde another. For blonde, say, "Golden rays of sunshine cascades down back!" For brown, say, "Chocolatey waves of cocoa melts down back!" For light brown, say, "Golden caramel waves melts down back!" For black, say, "Black streaks of midnight streams down back!" For red hair, say, "Rose red waves blossoms down back!"

, Where? Crystal Sands, of course! Your swimming outfit should be: elf armor, visor, flip flops, and a necklace. If you see a cute guy as the lifeguard, pretend to drown. The boy will come save you, it's his duty!

, You need a membership to get stuff like: a fox, designer skirt, fancy den etc.
 For your colors, pick your fave colour (for colour 1), and then pick pink or blue (for color 2) and then another shade of your favourite colour for your pattern. Your pattern should be leaves, hearts, stars etc. No lightning bolts, flames, or anything like that! That is not girly at all!

,, For example: Tiara, flower bracelet, designer skirt, locket. Make sure you have several different girly clothing items so you can switch outfits sometimes!

, Make sure you specify that it is very long and wavy. Say things like: "twirls piece of long blonde hair!" frequently.
 Add an exclamation mark almost every time you talk. Use caps lock a lot. So Basically You Would Be Talking Like This! Say things like: like, Oh My God, tots etc.
 Never be unkind! Say things like: Takes Ultimate selfie with new sprint! Sashays away! Flips long wavy (hair color) hair! Smiles showing perfectly white teeth! Puts on new rare mink coat lined with diamonds from Italy!

, Pretend to call each other on your "new sprints" and "listen to the latest One Direction tunes on expensive mp3 players."

, Go up to someone and say hi to them!

, When you find one, simply start with a greeting, start a little conversation, for about 2/3 minutes. If he's still there, ask him if he'd like to dance, that is, if he hasn't beaten you to it. If he says yes, dance for a bit and hang out. Ask if he'd like to be your guy. If he says yes buddy him. If no, simply say " Okay. " and just chill out. If he says no: Reply with "Okay." and either Just Hang out (with friends) or Leave. Don't ever ask another guy at that prom. Don't want to give the impression that you're a cheater.
 When you find one, simply start with a greeting, start a little conversation, for about 2/3 minutes. If he's still there, ask him if he'd like to be friends. Possibly a week later of hanging out, ask him if he'd like to be your guy.
 Make sure you like them, and they like you. You shouldn't friend someone just for their popularity. It may be helpful to get a few friends with rare items such as the spike.
 Hang out and get used to each other!

,, If you are going to be popular, famous and awesome, then buddy, gift, and fawn over famous jammers like, Cherryfizz44, Me100, Julian2, Mirrorimages, or Jammer330. (or is it 300?) If you can think of more, then great! Aim to be in their videos, and send them good items. They will eventually learn to like you, and you'll be a lot closer towards your goal!

