 Sleeping is an essential element in the learning process. Make sure to get your recommended seven to eight hours of sleep per night. Getting adequate sleep will help your brain process the information you learned the day before. Therefore, you will be able to remember the information better., Before class, always review your notes and flashcards. Since pop quizzes are unexpected, this will ensure that you will be prepared for any pop quiz. Review your flashcards with a friend, and focus your attention on the flashcards that you have difficulty with.
 If a classmate or older sibling has had your teacher before, then they are more familiar with your teacher’s tendencies and habits. Ask them about when your teacher is most likely to give out a pop quiz, and how often your teacher gives pop quizzes. Having more insight on your teacher’s teaching style and habits will help you prepare better for their pop quizzes.For example, your teacher might not assign homework the night before if there is a pop quiz the next day. Or, if your teacher keeps reminding everyone during the week that they should be focusing on a certain subject or topic, this could be clue to an upcoming pop quiz.
 Some students get anxiety when they think of pop quizzes. However, if you have prepared yourself by doing your assignments, studying and reviewing your notes, and by making flashcards, there is no need to be anxious. Remember that pop quizzes are meant to help you and your teacher understand which information you need to spend extra time on in order to be prepared for the big test.


Try to think of pop quizzes as fun exercises, and reward yourself afterwards if you do a good job.
Remember that pop quizzes do not make or break your semester grade.
 If you suffer from test anxiety the day of the pop quiz, practice breathing techniques in class. By learning to control your breathing, you can lower your heart rate, and thus calm your nerves and restore your sense of confidence.


Practice breathing techniques by closing your eyes, breathing through your nose, and exhaling through your mouth. Try to do this at least three times. As you are breathing in, visualize that you are breathing in positivity and confidence. Then, as you exhale, visualize that your are releasing negativity, i.e., anxiety, from your system. Your mind should clear, and you should be able to remember how well prepared you are for the pop quiz.
You can also calm your nerves by using your previous quiz experiences to help you predict what will be asked on the pop quiz, and how the questions will be asked.

