 Measure the dimensions of your countertop. Be sure to include the dimensions of all surface areas to be tiled, including the edges as well as the countertop’s backsplash if you want to keep it. Bring the dimensions as well as photos of your countertop’s layout to the retailer where you plan to purchase your tile. Ask for their recommendations in choosing which type of tile will work best for your situation.Once you have purchased your tile, arrange it on your existing countertop to see what it will look like in the end. Confirm that this is the design you wish to go with before you begin. If you are having any of your tiles precut at the store to line the edges, make sure their sizes are correct.
If you are looking to create a tiled backsplash on the wall behind the countertop, consider removing the countertop’s backsplash with a reciprocating saw. This will create a continuous effect and simplify the project by creating only one right angle to deal with between the wall and countertop.
 Depending on where your countertop is located, remove any sinks, disposal units, stoves, or other appliances. Give yourself as much access as possible to all sides of the countertop.


When removing appliances like sinks and stoves, be sure to turn off the water and gas before doing anything else. With water lines, allow any water that may still be in the pipes to empty before starting.
Also unscrew the covers of any nearby power outlets if you are doing the walls as well.
 If the edges to your existing countertop are rounded, trim them so they become squared. First, use a ruler and level to trace a cutting line along each rounded edge. Although designs may vary, tracing your line 3.25 inches (8.26 cm) in from the edge should accommodate most countertops. Then cut rounded edge off with a circular saw.To keep yourself from going off the mark, create a makeshift cutting guide by using clamps to lock your level into place along the cutting line.
 Be aware that the adhesive you will be using for your tiles works best with porous surfaces. At the same time, expect your laminate countertop to be made of nonporous materials. So, instead of sanding for smoothness, use 50-grit paper to roughen the texture and create an irregular surface with gaps for the adhesive to settle into for a more secure bond., Arrange whole tiles on the countertop. Start from the edge farthest from the wall and then lay them out toward the wall, column by column. Trace the edges of each tile onto the countertop as you go. Then, at the end of each column, trace a line on the countertop along the edge of the last whole tile that will fit before you reach the wall or backsplash.Since areas around the sink can be the trickiest, start here to get the tough part over and done with. Along each side of the sink, trace a line on the countertop along the edge of the last whole tile that will fit here.
If the layout of your countertop includes any angles other than right angles, do the same thing as you reach each angle.
 For each area where a whole tile won’t fit in the space left at the end of a row or column, place a whole tile over that area. Keep its edge flush along the edge of the counter, sink, or angle, so that it overlaps the last whole tile in that row or column. Place a straightedge over where they meet and trace a cutting line along the tile on top. Then use a wet saw or a tile cutter to cut that tile to size.Once each one is cut, set each tile in its place to make sure it fits.
To avoid wasting materials, it’s better to err on the side of not cutting enough on your first try and then trimming off the excess.
 For tiling, be sure to purchase a latex modified thin-set adhesive. Once your outlines have all been made, remove all loose tiles from the countertop. Then use a trowel to spread a thin layer over the surface area.Keep the layer thin enough for the outlines on your countertop to show through the adhesive, since you will be following these as you lay out your tiles.
One edge of your trowel should be combed. Once you have spread adhesive over the surface area, run the comb over it in one direction to form grooves in the adhesive.
If your countertop was rounded, place ⅛” by 2” shims underneath the tiles that will line the sawed-off edges. Then apply mortar the edge of the countertop to ensure that any uneven gaps are filled. This will keep those tiles firmly in place.
 Follow your outlines to set your tiles back into place. Move slowly and purposefully to better ensure that you set them exactly into place. As you place each one down, gently push it into the adhesive perpendicular to the combed grooves. For instance, if you combed the adhesive from left to right, push the tile in toward the back of the countertop.After you set each tile down, a tile spacer along each side and corner to create an even line for grout between each pair of tiles.
When you reach an area requiring a cut piece of tile, double-check to see if it needs any additional trimming before setting it into place, since the whole tiles may not exactly match your original outline by this time.
In areas where appliances have been removed, be careful that no edge pieces project over the original countertop, which may interfere with reinstallation.
Once you are done, refer to the adhesive’s directions to find out how long it needs to dry before proceeding.
 First, pry the spacers out from between each. Then follow the directions to your grout in order to mix it. Once it’s mixed and ready to go, plug all gaps between tiles by packing the grout in with a hard rubber float. Skim any extra off the top and then use your trowel to smooth the surface. Finally, clean the tiles with a wet sponge by:Wiping each tile in a circular manner, starting from the center of each tile and working your way, to loosen the grout if it has begun to stick.
Soaking the sponge again and then wiping the tiles diagonally, being careful to not disturb the grout drying along their sides.
Repeating as needed until the surface of each tile is perfectly clean.

