 The glue bottle should have a pointed, nozzle tip. This will make it easier to squeeze the glue out and draw designs with. Try to get the clear type of school glue. White school glue dries matte, and the glitter won't sparkle as well.


Make this type of glue if you'd like to draw pictures, write letters, or outline something. If you are going to cover a large area, click here to learn how to make a glitter glue you can brush on.;
, You don't need to squeeze out a lot of glue. A spoonful or so will be enough. Close the jar tightly, and set it aside to use for other projects. You are pouring out some of the glue to make room for the glitter.#* If you want super sparkly glitter glue, take out more glue.
 Avoid the regular craft glitter. It is too chunky, and will be more likely to clog up the bottle.
 You can always add more glitter later, if it is not enough for you. Keep in mind that glitter glue is usually more sparkly once it dries.
 After regular glitter glue dries, only the glitter will show up. If this is not colorful enough for you, add a few drops of food coloring. This way, when the glue dries, you will see glitter and some color.


The more drops of food coloring you add, the darker the color will be.
If you are using white or iridescent glitter, you can use any color of food coloring. Lighter colors will work better than darker.
Try to match the food coloring to the glitter color. For example, if you are using blue glitter, use blue food coloring. The more food coloring you add, the darker your color will be.
 Make sure that the nozzle is screwed shut as well before you do this. If the glitter and glue are not mixing well enough, turn the bottle upside down first, and then shake it.
 Depending on how big the bottle of glue was to begin with, you may need to add more glitter to get the degree of sparkle you want.
 Try to stick with simple designs, such as spirals, snowflakes, spider webs, hearts, and starts. It is also great for outlining borders on handmade cards.


Draw some spider webs or snowflakes on a sheet of wax paper. Let the glue dry, then peel the design off. Hang it as a decoration, or use it as a window cling.