 Although completely separate conditions, both IBS and GERD come with a set of trigger foods. These may vary from person to person, but it's essential that you're aware of your trigger foods and you avoid them.


If you're not fully sure what foods set off your symptoms, start a food/symptom journal. Write down everything you eat, the symptoms that follow and the severity of the symptoms.
Review your journal and see if you can make any connections. For example, after your morning coffee you have heartburn, cramping and diarrhea. Or after eating spicy foods, you have abdominal cramps and heartburn.
Make a list of your trigger foods and keep this with you. That way, when you're grocery shopping or going out to eat, you have a list of what you should be avoiding.
Common trigger foods include: alcohol, caffeine, carbonated beverages, spicy foods, fatty foods, chocolate, garlic, onions, tomato-based foods (like pizza sauce) and acidic foods (like citrus fruits).;
, With both GERD and IBS it's important to be as consistent with your meals and eating times as possible. The more consistent you are, the more predictable your symptoms will be.Do not skip meals or leave long periods of time in between meals. Try to eat every three to five hours during the day.
You may need to pack meals or snacks so that you have something with you at all times.
Keep meal sizes the same, too. Eating larger meals may overwhelm your GI system and cause reflux, bloating, abdominal cramping, diarrhea or constipation.
Also consider eating smaller meals in general. This helps prevent reflux from occurring.
 A well-balanced diet is essential to the management of both IBS and GERD. Work to include a variety of foods into your diet to help keep your body health and reduce symptoms.


Even though some healthy and nutritious foods may cause symptoms (like citrus fruits or tomatoes), it's still essential that you focus on eating a variety of foods.
This type of diet helps ensure that you're getting a wide variety of nutrients and will help prevent any nutrient deficiencies.
A well-balanced diet is one that features foods from every food group each day, in addition to a wide variety of foods within each group throughout the week.Choose foods from each food group: protein, fruits, vegetables and whole grains.
If some foods cause symptoms, make note on your list of triggers and avoid these items. Focus on other foods from that food group. For example, if citrus fruits cause acid reflux, avoid oranges, lemons or grapefruits. Try other fruits like bananas, berries or grapes instead.
 Some foods are known to cause more gas and bloating compared to others. Although GERD symptoms aren't always triggered by these foods, IBS symptoms are.Some foods have certain types of nutrients that are difficult for your body, especially your colon, to break down. They cause an increased production of gas in your intestines which can cause bloating, cramping or flatulence.
Foods to limit or eat in very small portions include: beans, broccoli, Brussels sprouts, cabbage, cauliflower, sugar alcohols, onions, carbonated beverages and dairy products.If these foods do not cause any problems or symptoms, you can include them in your diet; however, it's best to limit them or only have very small portions of them if they do produce any adverse side effects.
 In addition to eating the right types of foods or avoiding trigger foods, you need to drink an adequate amount of fluids. This can help issues related to both IBS and GERD.Water is the best type of fluid you can drink. It can help dilute stomach acid and replace fluids lost through diarrhea. Drink at least 6 – 8 oz (177 – 237 mL) before meals.
Avoid drinking water with meals to reduce stomach volume.
In addition to water, you can try: decaf coffee and tea or flavored water. You may try sparkling water if carbonation doesn't irritate your system.
Aim for 64 oz (1.9 L) at a minimum; however, many people need 80 oz (2.4 L) or more. This is especially true if you're experiencing diarrhea.Stop drink water two to three hours before bed to reduce symptoms of nighttime GERD.
 Supplements can be helpful if you suffer from IBS and GERD. Many of the side effects, especially if not well managed or if they occur frequently, can increase your risk for nutrient deficiencies.Diarrhea, which occurs frequently with IBS, can cause your GI system to malabsorb many vitamins and minerals.
In addition, some of the medications used to treat GERD prevent some vitamin and minerals from being absorbed as well.
Many people who suffer from both IBS and GERD may have a limited diet due to a large variety of trigger foods or fear from eating a larger variety of foods. This behavior limits how many nutrients you can get from your diet.
To prevent any deficiencies, consider taking a multivitamin. This can help prevent nutrient deficiencies by providing a "back-up" set of vitamins and minerals.
Always talk to you doctor before starting any type of supplementation. And remember, the best place to get your nutrients is from foods.

