 Honey has been shown to be more effective than cough medicines for some people, so making your own honey cough suppressant may help relieve your dry cough.Making a honey-lemon cough suppressant is easy and you may already have everything that you need in your kitchen. To make a honey-lemon cough syrup, you will need:


1 cup of honey
3 – 4 tablespoons of fresh lemon juice
Two to three cloves of garlic (optional)
One 1½ inch piece of ginger (optional)
1/4 cup of water
Small sauce pan
Wooden spoon
Mason jar with a lid;
, Warm up one cup of honey. Then, add three to four tablespoons of freshly squeezed lemon juice to the warm honey. If you only have bottled lemon juice, use four to five tablespoons.


If you only want honey and lemon in your natural cough syrup, then you may add ¼ cup of water to the honey-lemon mixture and stir while heating the mixture over a low flame for about 10 minutes.
If you want to increase the medicinal properties of your honey-lemon cough syrup, then hold off on adding the water and heating the mixture. There are some other ingredients that you can add, such as garlic and ginger.
 Garlic has antibacterial, antiviral, antiparasitic, and antifungal properties, so it may help to fight off whatever is causing your dry cough.Peel two to three cloves of garlic and chop them as finely as possible. Add the garlic to the honey and lemon mixture.
 Ginger is often used to improve digestion and to treat nausea and vomiting, but it can also thin out mucus and reduce your cough reflex.Cut and peel about 1½ inches of fresh ginger root. Grate the ginger and add it to the honey-lemon mixture.
 Measure out ¼ cup of water and add it to the honey-lemon mixture. Then, heat the mixture on low for about 10 minutes. Stir the mixture as it heats to ensure that the ingredients are well-combined and heated all the way through.
 After you have finished heating the mixture, you will need to transfer it to a mason jar. Pour it in slowly and scrape the pan with your spoon to ensure that all of the ingredients go into the jar. Place a lid on the jar.
 You will need to keep this mixture in the refrigerator to keep it from spoiling. Discard any remaining syrup after one month.Take one to two tablespoons of the honey-lemon cough suppressant as needed.


Never give honey to a child younger than one year old.