 The type of tip you choose will change the style of the frosting. For example, a Wilton 2D closed star tip creates a ruffled appearance in the frosting. Whereas a Wilton 1M open star tip will give you a smoother look. However, the choice is up to you!You can also use a coupler, which allows you to change out the frosting tip without having to use a new piping bag.
Or, if you don’t have a piping tip, don’t worry! You can simply cut off the end of the bag and go from there. However, be mindful that how much you cut off will change the width of your frosting.;
, Use a pen or sharpie to mark a line in the piping bag right before the base of the frosting tip. You want to leave a little space between the end of the tip and where you’ll be cutting the bag. This will help prevent the tip from falling out or frosting from leaking when you start to use it. After you measure the area, use scissors to cut the tip of the bag away so the frosting tip pokes out freely.If using a coupler, just cut the bag past the end of the coupler, then put on your preferred icing tip and attach the smaller part of the coupler over it to secure it.
 The material of the cup doesn’t matter, however, try to make sure it’s not too narrow. Once you have a glass, put the piping bag inside with the tip facing down. Then fold the rest of the bag over and around the edges of the glass. Secure the excess of the bag with a rubber band. You may have to wrap it more than once as you want the piping bag to be secure., Use a spatula or large spoon to place your frostings into the piping bag. Focus on one frosting at a time. You want to try to keep each frosting to its own side. When working with two frostings it’s easier as you are simply halving the bag. However, working with three to four frostings makes this a bit more difficult.Leave some space between the frosting and the top of the cup.
Don’t worry if it isn’t perfect, you’ll still be able to swirl the frosting without issue.
 Remove the rubber band and take the bag from the cup. Then grip the piping bag by the edges and push all the frosting down towards the tip. You can twist the end of the bag to make this easier. Squeeze evenly until a bit of frosting escapes from the tip.

If you want, you can secure the end of the bag with a rubber band or twist tie.
 Depending on how many different types of frosting you have in the bag, it may take longer to get a proper swirl. Try piping a bit onto a paper plate or spare cupcake if possible. It’s likely you will only see one or two of the flavors at first before the rest of them come out.

Remember it’s okay to have an uneven swirl. This can even add a bit of character to your cupcakes.

