 Sit on the edge of your chair and bend your knees while keeping them together. Hold your arms at your side so that your hands are on the chair seat. You can also hold the arm rests. Then press through your hands so that you lift up slightly. You may even get taller. Release and repeat the press up for 30 reps.Squeeze your knees and butt muscles together while pressing down on your hands for a challenge., Make a goalpost shape with your arms by keeping your upper arms parallel to the floor and your lower arms perpendicular to it. Engage your chest and arm muscles and press your forearms together. Then lift your arms up about one inch. Return to the starting point and do as many reps as you can while holding proper form., Sit up straight and engage your calf muscles so that your heels rise up and you are on your toes. Then release your heels back to the floor before repeating this exercise for 30 reps. You can also reverse the motion by lifting your toes off the floor instead of your heels for 30 reps. These exercises target and build the muscles of your lower leg and knee.Add resistance by placing a large book on your knees while raising your toes and heels.
 Sit with your glutes on the edge of your chair and your knees bent. With your knees still bent, lift up one leg. Straighten out your leg, hold it for a second or two, and return to starting position. Repeat on the same leg for 15 reps before switching to the opposite leg.Make the extensions more challenging by extending both legs simultaneously. This has the added benefit of strengthening your core, too.
 Sit up straight and clench the muscles of your lower back and bum. Keep squeezing for 30 seconds and release for 30 seconds. Do as many reps as you can or aim to do a certain number each hour. This can build and sculpt your glutes., Sit up straight, bend your knees, and keep them together. Hold your hands behind your head and engage your core muscles. Hinge back slightly and just graze the back of your chair. Hinge your body forward at the hips and touch your right elbow on the outside of your left knee. Return to starting position and repeat for 20 alternating reps. 