 Household tweezers are too large and increase the chances of tearing the tick apart during removal, increasing the likelihood for the spread of Lyme disease or infection.If you do not have a pair of pointy tweezers, use a pair of household tweezers. They will work better than your fingers.
Do not use pliers. This will squish the tick and increase the likelihood of infection.;
, Before you remove it, be sure to disinfect the tick and the area surrounding it. Soak a cotton swab with a disinfectant, such as hydrogen peroxide, and apply it to the area of the bite. Applying disinfectant before removing the tick creates a sterile area and helps prevent the spread of infectious disease.
 With your pointy tweezers, grasp the tick as close to the skin as possible. The tick’s head is under your skin, and if it is agitated it will empty its stomach contents into your system. Therefore, the goal is to grab it by its head, and avoid squeezing the tick’s body, which will cause bacteria in its gut to squirt into the wound and possibly spread infectious disease.Getting the tick by its head will close off its throat and prevent it from regurgitating the toxins in its system into yours.
 Keep pulling straight back until the entire tick is out of the skin. Pulling too fast can cause the tick to tear, leaving the head of the tick still attached to the skin.Avoid twisting or jerking the tick.
Although it is best to removal the entire tick at once, do not be too concerned if the head breaks off. As long as the tick’s throat is closed, disease transmission will be limited.
 Rinse the wound with clean water and use an over the counter disinfectant on the area to reduce the chances of an infection. Be sure to clean off any blood or other bodily fluids, especially around the wound. Use iodine or rubbing alcohol, as well as soap and water, to clean the wound.
Do not rub too vigorously. This might irritate the bite area.
 Make sure that the tick is dead by squeezing it with the tweezers. Submerge the tick in alcohol, place it in a tissue or a plastic bag, and put it in the garbage. You can also flush it down the toilet.Avoid squeezing the tick with your fingers. This will cause the infectious contents of its stomach to spill onto your fingers.
 You may consider sending your tick to your state or local health departments for testing. This will tell you if the tick was carrying an infectious disease. However, these tests are generally not useful because they do not indicate if you are infected, just the tick. Also, if you are infected, you will probably develop symptoms before you get the tests results., If you see increased redness, pus oozing out, or feel pain, apply an antibiotic ointment or contact your doctor. It is important that you monitor your symptoms and keep an open for any complications. Write down the date you were bitten. This may help your doctor determine if you are experiencing symptoms of a tick borne illness.

