 For some people, blinking quickly and repeatedly can spread tears out and help them reabsorb into the tear duct, preventing initial tears from pooling. Conversely, for some people, not blinking and opening the eyes as wide as is comfortable actually discourages tears from forming by tensing the muscles in and around the eye area. Only practice will tell you which group you fall into., Because your tear ducts stem from the side of your nose to an opening in the eyelid, pinching the bridge of your nose and the sides while clamping your eyes closed can block the tear ducts. (This works best if used before tears begin to flow.), Studies have shown that smiling has a positive impact on emotional health. It also positively impact the way others view you. What's more, the act of smiling counteracts the symptoms of crying, making it easier for you to prevent tears., One way to dial back intense, unpleasant emotions is to take a moment to splash cold water on your face. Not only does it relax you, but it can boost your energy and make you more attentive.. You can also drip cold water on your wrists and dab it behind you ears. Major arteries run through these areas just below the skin surface and cooling them can have a calming effect on the whole body., Research has shown that green tea contains L-Theanine, which can promote relaxation and decrease tension while also increasing awareness and focus. So the next time you find yourself overwhelmed, with tears welling up, treat yourself to a cup of green tea., Laughter is an easy, inexpensive form of therapy that can improve your overall health and decrease feelings that lead to crying or depression. Find something that makes you laugh and give yourself some much needed relief. , Crying occurs often as a product of prolonged tension.This process allows your body to relax tense muscles and calm your thinking. It is also a cognitive activity because it teaches you to recognize how your body feels when you are upset and tense versus when you are relaxed and calm. Starting at your toes, begin tensing the muscle groups of your body one at a time for 30 second intervals, working your way slowly upward to the head. This activity also has the added benefit of relieving insomnia and restless sleep., Research suggests that feelings of helplessness and passivity are often at the root of episodes of crying. To prevent crying, shift your body from passive to active. This can be something as simple as getting up and walking around the room, or opening and closing your hands with a slight squeeze to engage your muscles and remind your body that your actions are voluntary and you are in control.
 Physical pain distracts your senses from the root of your emotional pain, making you less likely to cry. You can pinch yourself (such as between your thumb and pointer finger, or on the back of your upper arm), bite your tongue, or pull your leg hairs from inside your pants pocket.If you find yourself causing bruising or other physical harm, it is recommended that you discontinue this method and attempt to use one or more of the other tactics.
 Remove yourself from the situation, physically. If you are having an argument that is causing you to cry, politely excuse yourself for a few moments. This is not running away from your problem; removing yourself allows you to refocus your emotions and removes the imminent threat of conflict. During this time, practice some of the other techniques to help ensure you do not cry upon re-entering the room and continuing the discussion. The goal here is to bring yourself back to a place of being in control of your emotions.