 Before stamping your leather, cut it into the shape you want. For example, if you're making leather name tags, cut your leather into the shape of a name tag before stamping it. You can use a straight-edge rotary cutter or an x-acto knife to cut leather while it's lying on a flat surface.You should always cut leather on the "flesh side." This is the wrong side of the leather, meaning the side that you will not be stamping as it will not be the exterior of your leather project.;
, Leather is a tough material, so it needs to be moist for stamps to stick. Get a sponge moist with water. Then, press the sponge onto both sides of the leather. Wet the flesh side first and then the front of the leather.The leather should be damp, but not soaking wet.
 If your project requires you make any other alterations to the leather, do so before stamping it. For example, if you need to punch a hole in leather for a name tag, do so before stamping your leather., You should always stamp leather on a firm surface, as you'll need to use a considerable amount of force to get the stamps to stick. It's a good idea to place a piece of hardwood down on a flat surface. Stamp the leather on the hardboard.You can purchase blocks of hardwood at most department stores.
 Take your leather stamp. Place the stamp down where you want the image or letter to appear on your leather. Hold it in place with one hand.You will need to buy leather stamps. You can buy them online or at some craft shops.
 Use your other hand to hammer down on the stamp. This will secure the image or letter into the leather. Give the stamp a few firm strikes with the hammer until the image or letter transfers., Once your image or letter has transferred, repeat the process again with the second image or letter. Press the stamp down where you want it on the leather and then give the stamp a few firm strikes with a hammer to transfer the image., It's always a good idea to test your stamps ahead of time. Cut out a small test scrap of leather, moisten it, and apply some stamps to it. See roughly how many times you need to strike the stamp with the hammer to get the image or letter to transfer., If you notice your leather is drying out, re-wet it as needed. If you're only stamping on one or two images or letters, you probably will not need to re-wet the leather. However, larger projects will require you to occasionally stop and rewet your leather., Once you've transferred your images onto the leather, set it aside. Allow the leather to dry completely before doing anything else with the leather, such as sewing it. Drying times vary depending on the types of leather and how wet your leather got during the stamping process.