 Products from food and daily care items to books and entertainment items require resources to make, taking away from biodiversity. Anytime one resource is consumed or produced, it can affect the ecosystem of the area in various ways, such as by destroying the natural habitat (for plowed fields), polluting the area (oil spills), and reducing natural resources (trees for paper), all of which can decrease the biodiversity of an area. By consuming less, you affect the environment less., While organic produce and foods still require the use of natural resources, they are less destructive since they are not polluting the environment with pesticides. Also, pesticides kill off insects, which can destroy whole species over time., While the main focus of fair trade is to ensure producers in other countries are being paid fairly, it also helps to protect local ecosystems, partially by encouraging sustainable farming. Look for the "Fair Trade" label on products., Like products and food, the retrieval of energy affects ecosystems, such as off-shore drilling than can disturb wildlife and create oil spills. You can use less energy by turning off lights and electronics when they're not in use, running the dishwasher and washing machine only when they are full, using the car less, and not running the air conditioner and heater as much.


You can replace older appliances for more energy efficient ones--look for the "Energy Star" label.You can also keep appliances more efficient by maintaining them properly and replacing things like filters as needed.
Solar panels are another way to reduce your overall dependence on non-renewable energy sources. You can have them installed on your roof or in your backyard to provide your home with electricity.
In addition to using less resources, using less energy helps to reduce emissions. Emissions contribute to climate change, which can harm biodiversity as ecosystems change.
Carpool or ride public transportation to work to cut down on energy use., Labels like "Green Seal Certified," "FSC" (Forest Stewardship Council), "LEED Certified," "Rain Forrest Alliance Certified," and "Marine Stewardship Council" indicate the producer's dedication to sustainability., If you don't know the origin of these products, buying them while on vacation, especially in other countries, can encourage continued poaching., Non-native species can be invasive and crowd out native species, decreasing their population. In addition, the non-native species can be spread to other areas through wind and animals.As an added bonus, planting native species means the plants will grow better in your area. If you're in an arid or hot climate, you will not need to water native species as much.
Another option for your backyard is to create a landscape that can be a "Certified Wildlife Habitat," as laid out by the National Wildlife Foundation. Essentially, you would be creating an environment conducive to animals raising their young in your backyard., Both of these can harm wildlife, decreasing biodiversity., Reusing resources helps protect natural resources, which as noted above, helps protect biodiversity. It also keeps trash out of landfills, which can harm environments through leaching and overspill. Anything that harms the environment and ecosystems harms biodiversity. Most communities have recycling programs, including curb-side recycling. You separate out the recyclables from other trash and put them in a separate bin. In most places, you can recycle paper and cardboard, plastics, cans and other metals, and glass. While most recycling programs don't take styrofoam, other places do. For instance, Goodwill takes styrofoam in most communities.


To recycle, lightly clean out items before putting them in the recycle bin. Some places will require you to separate out different types of recycling into separate bins.
You can also create a compost pile to help with waste. A compost pile or bin turns organic material into fertilizer you can use in your garden. You can add shredded sticks, leaves, and grass clippings from the yard, as well as fruit and vegetable scraps from the kitchen. Create a pile for the waste. Always bury the scraps underneath the other compost, and add moisture if you're adding dry materials.You can also recycle computer components. Computers use precious metals, and if they are thrown away, they can release chemicals into the environment from landfills, harming habitats. Most towns have places that will recycle computer parts, though you will usually need to take them in yourself., Products like cleaning chemicals, pesticides, paint, and batteries can leach from landfills into water supplies. Use less harmful supplies, and make use of your community's hazardous waste collection.