 Before your kid gets behind the wheel, your teen will be watching you drive; even if you don't realize it. Once the child has an image in their head of how the parents drive they'll start to model the same behavior. So if you've got any bad habits like running red lights, rolling through stop signs, or speeding, this would be the time to stop. Most parents don't find their own bad habits stressful but find it drives them crazy their teen does the same thing. Once they start repeating your bad habits, and you ask them to stop, they're probably going to say "but mom/dad, you do it." So the easiest way to avoid this and stay sane is: just don't do them.;
, Many people are "unconsciously competent" when they drive; they do it without thinking about it. But if you have no conscious idea of what you're doing behind the wheel, how are you going to explain it to your teen when they ask what they should do? When you're driving around, make little "mental notes" about when you start braking, how fast you're driving in different situations, and where you're looking. When you have an idea of when, where, and what you're doing on the road, it's easier to recognize mistakes that your teen makes as early as possible. Which gives you both more time to deal with the road ahead.
 Driving with your kids is not going to be perfect all the time. Especially in the beginning things are going to be rocky. But there is hope. Research has shown that if we have as little as 10 seconds notice before something bad happens, we'll start to come up with coping strategies that make us feel less stressed out.{{fact} For example: if you're approaching a turn onto a side street, ask yourself "how could this go wrong?" Biggest problem in this type of situation is driving too fast, so you decide on an "if-then" scenario. "If" my kid is going over 20kph/12mph within a few moments of starting the turn, "then" I'll hold the wheel and tell them to keep driving straight. Practice mentally going through different "if-then" scenarios to feel ready for anything (and preserve your sanity) on the road.
 Some people hate the idea of having these, but learn to LOVE that people know your kid is learning. It can put your mind at ease and help you stay calm when you know that other drivers will attribute mistakes to someone learning rather than being a bad driver. You can get your own signs made at many sign shops, order them online, tape a handwritten note in the back window or use a government issued "L" (learner) sign.

