 While many people think of rum and Coke as a classic go-to drink, plenty of people prefer adding whiskey to Coke instead. If you’re making them yourself, just add two parts whiskey and one part Coke.If you’re ordering in a bar, simply ask for a whiskey and Coke. Don’t forget to tell the bartender what kind of whiskey you’d like if you have a preference.
Of course, this will detract from the pure taste of the whiskey, so it’s probably best not to use super expensive whiskey if you’re going to add Coke to it.
 This is a classic, yet simple drink to make and a great way to enjoy whiskey. Simply combine two parts whiskey with one part sweet and sour mix. For example, you could add two fluid ounces of whiskey with one fluid ounce of sweet and sour mix. Add more of both ingredients if you want a stronger drink.If you’re ordering in a bar, just ask for a whiskey sour. You can even specify what kind of whiskey you’d like.
 To make this drink, you’ll need to combine 2 ounces of rye whiskey, ¾ ounce of sweet red vermouth, and 2 dashes of Angostura aromatic bitters.In bartender lingo, a dash equals a few drops. So two dashes would equal approximately 4-6 drops of Angostura aromatic bitters.
 Place one teaspoon of sugar (or one sugar cube) in a glass. Add 2-3 dashes of Angostura bitters and a few drops of water. Pour 2 ounces of bourbon or rye whiskey into the glass and stir the mixture until the sugar dissolves. Add several big ice cubes and stir the drink quickly to help cool it to the right temperature.This is one of the most classic and highly regarded mixed cocktail drinks in the alcohol world. You can’t go wrong ordering a drink like this.
 Try this recipe: Combine 1 ½ ounces of rye or bourbon whiskey with 1 ½ ounces of Aperol in a tall glass filled with ice. Pour a bit of club soda over the top and add an orange slice as a garnish.There are thousands of cocktail recipes that include whiskey as the main ingredient. Try making a few different kinds to find one that you love. Or order some varieties at your local bar.

