 You want a clean surface to work on. Make sure your moisturizer has an SPF of at least 10. Try not to wash your face in the morning, if you are doing your makeup then. Most dermatologists agree that not washing your face immediately before applying cosmetics is a pretty good idea. If you really feel that you need it though, why not take an efficient shower before bed at night, and dab your face with a damp towel in the morning? That can really wake you up, if done correctly. Be gentle with your skin, please.;
, If you don't need it, then please do not put it on; young skin often is not ideal for the application of foundation. If you do need it, try to buy mineral cosmetics, as they are better for your skin. Feel free to go for a tinted moisturizer if you need just the slightest bit of coverage. The easiest way to apply this is just with your clean fingers, or use some sort of foundation brush if you prefer it.
 Do this step if you have dark, noticeable circles under your eyes. Warm the concealing cream up with your fingers, then pat it on. If you have any other blemishes, then apply it there, too. Please, blend well. If you go to school with dots under your eyes and around your nose, you may as well look more ridiculous than beautiful.
 If you have a long face, only apply to the apples of your cheeks, if you have a short or rounded face, make long upward streaks, blend well. Cream blushes look very natural, but a powder blush will work, too - whatever floats your boat! If you think your face is a little too round, define your cheekbones by applying bronzer. You can find tips on the Internet about how to do this. Done well and adequately, it will appear that your cheekbones are more noticeable, often making your face appear thinner, or just more elegant. Try this out at home before going out with it as not everyone looks good with it. Ask your mother, sister or friend for advice if you need it.
 Try to use gold, beige, bronze, and cream. Only apply a colour if it looks natural and pretty on you. It doesn't matter what other people wear, or whether or not they do apply makeup. Cosmetics is a personal thing, and only looks beautiful if you go with what suits you. Want to copy the most popular girl in your school? FORGET IT. You will only look attractive if you apply the makeup that looks good on you, and you alone. Don't be afraid to ask advice from those who seem to know what they are doing with their cosmetics. You may gain some valuable knowledge.
 Use black or brown! If you want, a very dark blue or green will do as well. As said before, whatever floats your boat! Try out different styles, but remember to make it subtle and elegant. Don't do styles that are meant for parties and other celebrations, as this can be seen as unsophisticated. If you are dramatic with your makeup, you may be considered disrespectful of authority, too.
 This will open up your eyes even more, making them look bigger and showing off your beautiful eyes! However, if your eyelashes are already or naturally curled, you may not wish to do this. If you are not gentle, you may hurt yourself, so use caution, even if you are in a hurry. For most occasions, don't curl your lashes unless you think that you require it in order to look pretty. Everyone is pretty in some way. You may have heard positive people say it a thousand times, but yes, everyone is pretty and no one can defy that!

, For a bolder look, use two coats (re-dip your wand after applying one layer and apply another one). Bold is different from dramatic, but please try to let it remain subtle as well. Use black, dark brown or clear mascara, or whatever color complements your skin tone. If you aren't sure, you may want to talk to a female family member or friend, just for a quick consultation.
 Use a light, neutral lipstick and finish off with a clear or lightly colored lip gloss. If you don't like lipstick, a well-applied gloss can look even better! For special occasions you may want to apply a deeper color or even plum; it takes confidence, though. Plum is not always a good color for school, but for dark Chinese and Australian skin, it can look quite attractive.

