 As with most things, if you go into a situation with only your assumptions or outright bad information, you're likely to cause harm or at least not do any good. This applies to methods for solving hunger too. Certain types of donations in some regions are fuel for conflict with warlords. While you might want to help people in one country, you might actually be able to help three or four times as many people by helping in another country. World hunger is not a simple problem and the solution isn't just as simple as sending cans to Africa: just as with most complex problems, you'll need information if you want to leave a real impact.


Check out sites like the United Nations World Food Programme to learn more about the hunger situation in the world.
The Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation also do good work on educating about world hunger. See their site for more information.
 When some products are bought in large amounts, it can actually harm the areas where those foods are grown.There are many reasons for this. Sometimes growing too much of the same thing is bad for the soil but farmers do it anyway because it's the only way to survive. Other times, it can deplete the amount of food available for the people in that region, if the crop had previously been used for locals. Either way, your best bet is to buy mainly local food and supplement your diet with these popular superfoods.
 There are more than a few "charities" out there that say they help solve world hunger but actually spend most of the money you give them on CEO paychecks. You also want your money to go towards long-term solutions, rather than just a band aid. This is why it's important to give to charities which are reliable and use the money in a way that helps communities long term. Teach a man to fish and all that.


One great charity that you can donate to is Heifer International. This allows you to donate farm animals to people in need, allowing them to start producing their own food so that they are not reliant on continued donations.
Another good option is Charity: Water. This charity provides clean water to communities, meaning that not only can they drink safely, but that all of their food can be made more safely.
Kivais a microfinance organization through which you can make loans to entrepreneurs in the developing world, so they can grow their businesses. You can donate very small amounts, and when you are repaid you can lend the same money out to someone different. These businesses often revolve around providing food for families and communities, so this is another effective charity.
 Items marked Fair Trade with the international Fair Trade symbol are a great way for you to help feed other people while you eat. How? Fair trade items are bought from producers, like Guatemalan farmers, at a price that is fair for that region. It means that the company buying the goods also invests money in those communities to improve their lives, education, and access to supplies. This means that these people will have more money with which to buy things like food for their families.


Buying a lot of items like this also sends a message to companies. As consumers, we can use our money as our voice. If enough people are buying these kinds of products, then more of them will be offered.
 You don't have to support letting everyone who calls at the border into the country but supporting some laws which change how immigration works can significantly improve the lot of people who live outside your country as well. Immigration reform, which regulates the work that non-citizens can do and how much money they can make, helps ensure that they get enough money to feed themselves and their family. The reasons why immigration effects hunger are two-fold:


People from poorer countries used to frequently provide labor in wealthier countries before returning to their own. Now, with heavily guarded borders and stricter immigration laws, fewer people that get into a country can get back out.This means that they have less opportunity to bring the money they earn to their families.
The other problem is that strict immigration laws create a situation in which unscrupulous employers can pay illegals next to nothing and under the table, meaning that those people go hungry even though they work hard.
 If you have valuable skills, like knowledge of farm equipment, horticulture, construction, project management, or fundraising: donate your time. Organizations often want to do good work but lack the people with the necessary skills to help the communities they travel to. If you know how to do anything like this, taking a month to travel to a remote location and help set up a farm can be a huge help.


Even if you don't have these skills, you can help with your money. Throw a fundraiser and donate that money to some of the charities that we've mentioned. What you don't want to do is travel overseas to do volunteer work that you have no experience with. This can often weigh a project down.

