 Since eye fatigue means your eyes are tired, a quick and easy way to help alleviate the symptoms of eye fatigue is to relax your eyes. Start by closing your eyes. This causes the natural tear film of your eye to spread evenly across your eye, helping to lubricate them quickly. This will also help rest your vision as well, which will help with any strain your eyes feel.


Leave your eyes closed for at least five to 10 minutes. Try not to move your eyes around too much under your eyelids so the muscles in your eyes are also resting.
If you have a hard time keeping your eyes closed, try gently placing your hands over them while you relax them. This can help force your to keep your eyes closed and relax them., Palming is a simple technique to help relax your eyes. Start by sitting comfortably and straight up in a chair. Put your elbows on a table to help keep them level. Rub your palms together to warm them, close your eyes, and cup each hand over your eyes. Leave your hands there for five to 10 minutes.Make sure you aren’t pressing on your eyes too hard. You want it to be relaxing for your eyes.
If your eyes are still tired, redo this exercise for an additional five minutes until they feel relaxed., To help relax your eyes, you can use a cold compress. Run cold water over a washcloth and wring it out. Fold it in half twice, so the cloth will fit nicely over your eyes. Leave the cloth over your eyes for five to 10 minutes.


You can also use ice that is wrapped in a cloth as well. Never put cold ice directly over your eyes. This could cause issues with your vision and blood circulation.
You may want to lie down while you leave on the compress.
Some people prefer a warm compress to a cold one. Each one has beneficial qualities that can help relax your eyes, so choose which one you like best., There are a few home remedies that may help relax tired eyes. Try covering your eyes with used tea bag. These contain tannins, which can help constrict blood vessels and diminish any puffiness cause by eye strain. Chamomile tea can help relieve the stress in your eyes quickly.Rosewater or lavender oil can also be used to enhance relaxing effect. Use a dropper to apply the oil or rosewater to the eye compress. You can also massage them directly on the eye lids before applying the compress. mask.Be careful not to get the oil directly into your eyes.

