 Light red wines generally have an alcohol content below 12.5 percent. They feel light in your mouth as opposed to heavy and thick.Light red wines include pinot noir, schiava, and gamay. These pair well with white meat, carbohydrates, roasted vegetables, and rich fish dishes, including:


Chicken
Salmon
Breads;
, Medium bodied-reds feel a little more substantial in your mouth, and they typically have an alcohol content between 12.5 and 13.5 percent. Medium reds are merlot, cabernet, cabernet Franc, and sangiovese. These types of wines go well with a variety of meats, cheeses, and carbohydrates, including:Bread
Crackers
Red meats
Pork
Hard cheeses
Cured and smoked meats

, Full-bodied reds feel full and thick in your mouth, and usually have an alcohol content above 13.5 percent. Reds that fall into this category include cabernet sauvignon, rioja, zinfandel, and shiraz. These wines complement a number of foods, including:Lamb and steak
Hard cheeses
Stews
Wild game

, A dry wine is one that has no sugar left in it, meaning it has no sweetness. Dry red wines, such as merlot, pinot noir, and cabernets, pair well with foods that have a pinkish color, such as:Salmon
Prawns or shrimp
Tuna

, Like light reds, light white wines generally have an alcohol content below 12.5 percent. These wines include sauvignon, pinot grigio, and pinot blanc. They are best paired with lighter foods, such as:Salads
Raw and cooked green vegetables
Light fish
Seafood
Chicken

, Sweet wines have more residual sugar leftover from the fermentation process. Sweet wine is the opposite of dry wine. Sweet white wines include Riesling, moscato, and Gewurztraminer. These are ideal with:Soft cheeses like brie
Smoked meats
Cured meats
Desserts
Carbohydrates
Chicken and pork

, Full-bodied whites generally have an alcohol content above 13.5 percent. Wines in this category include chardonnay, white rioja, and marsanne. The bold flavor of the wine and high alcohol content goes well with rich foods, including:Salmon
Lobster
Chicken and pork
Potatoes
Breads
Roasted vegetables

, Sparkling wine has a high carbon dioxide content, and this gas makes the wine fizzy. Examples of sparkling wine include Prosecco, brut, and Champagne. These types of wines are great complements for foods like:Hard and soft cheeses
Salads
Raw and cooked greens
Light fish and seafood

, The challenge when pairing wine with spicy foods is that the wine can accentuate the heat, rather than complementing the flavors. The best pairing for spicy food is a white wine that’s sweeter than it is dry, light and lower in alcohol content, and with fruity hints. Good wines for spicy food include:Riesling
Gewurztraminer
Viognier
Gruner

, Cabernet sauvignon grapes are relatively easy to work with, so even cheaper red wines of this varietal are likely to be good. Good times to opt for a cabernet sauvignon include when:A restaurant’s wine list is limited
You're on an airplane
You're looking for an inexpensive gift for a lover of red wine.
 Chardonnay is a full and flavorful wine, so even budget chardonnays are going to be acceptable compared to wines that should have subtler aromas.Cheaper chardonnays are great for travelling, and are great housewarming or host gifts. Their versatility also makes them good for dinner parties.
 Fine wines get better with age, but cheaper, lighter-bodied, and fruitier wines tend to lose some of their flavor when they get older. When you're buying budget or mid-range wines, opt for bottles that are between two and three years old., The high acidity of sauvignon blanc wines make them ideal for cooking, including in salad dressings, in white sauces, and as a replacement for lemon or lime juice.


Sauvignon blanc also has a bit of a peppery kick, which is another reason it’s great for cooking., There are a number of environmental factors that can affect the flavor of a wine, including temperature, frost, and diseases. Because vintage wines weren't produced in recent years, there's no way to know which of these factors may have affected the flavor of a vintage bottle unless you look it up.There are lots of resources online for looking up vintages, including vintage reports, buying tips for vintage bottles, reviews, and ratings.
Before buying a vintage bottle, search the year and the varietal to look up information about the wine.
 A digestif is a beverage that you drink after a meal to help aid digestion, and fortified wines are commonly consumed as digestifs.Fortified wine is wine that has stronger spirits, like brandy, added to it. Common fortified wines include:


Port
Vermouth
Sherry
Madeira
Marsala

, When all else fails, you can always ask for help to choose the right bottle. At restaurants, you can ask the wait staff or a bartender. At the liquor store, ask a store associate to point you in the direction of a wine you might like based on a few criteria:


Decide if you want a red wine or a white wine
Choose between sweet wine and dry wine
Mention if you're pairing the wine with any food
Mention particular wines that you know you like

, Varietal is a way of describing a wine based on the grape variety used to make it. There are a great number of varietals, and each has its own particular characteristics and aromas. Popular varietals include:Cabernet sauvignon, a full-bodied red wine with hints of cherry and currants
Pinot noir, a medium-bodied red that’s smooth and rich
Merlot, a medium- or full-bodied red with hints of black cherry
Rosé, a pink wine made with a blend of grapes
Chardonnay, a complex white with hints of vanilla
Riesling, a sweet white with floral aromas
Sauvignon blanc, a white wine with hints of herbs

, Region is another way of classifying wines, and this method focuses on where the grapes were grown rather than the type of grape used. Labelling wines based on region is more popular in Europe than in North America. Regional wines you can check out include:Bordeaux, an area of France known for their centuries-old red wines
Port is a fortified wine that comes from Porto and the Douro Valley in Portugal
La Rioja, an area of Spain known for it’s full-bodied reds
Champagne, an area of France that’s best known for sparkling wine

