 It has an image of a person on it. You should find this app in the App Drawer, or on the Home Screen.
 It's in the top-right corner of the screen. Doing so will invoke a pop-out menu., This option should be at the top of the pop-out menu.

On some Androids, you may first have to tap Settings and then tap Contacts.
 If it isn't, tap it, then look for your missing contacts. If "All Contacts" is checked, however, you'll need to proceed with restoring your deleted contacts., It's located at https://contacts.google.com/. This method will only work if you synchronized your Android's contacts with Google.If you aren't signed into Google Contacts, you'll be prompted to enter your email address and/or password before continuing.
 This tab is on the left side of the page., It's an option below the More heading. Doing so will invoke a pop-up window with different backup dates:

10 minutes ago
1 hour ago
Yesterday
1 week ago

Custom - Enter a number of days, hours, and/or minutes to revert back to.
 This will set it as your recovery option.

For example, selecting 1 hour ago will restore any contacts you deleted between now and sixty minutes ago.
Keep in mind that any contacts you've added between now and the selected recovery point will be removed from your phone.
 It's in the bottom-right corner of the "Undo changes" window. After a moment, your contacts will be restored., It's at http://www.easeus.com/android-data-recovery-software/free-android-data-recovery.html. If you can't restore your deleted contacts from a Google backup, you'll need to use third-party software to attempt to salvage them., This is the blue button in the middle of the page. Doing so will prompt the file to download to your computer., This process will differ depending on your computer type:


Windows - Double-click the downloaded setup file, follow the on-screen instructions, and click Finish when MobiSaver finishes installing.

Mac - Open the setup file, then drag MobiSaver into your Applications folder.
 To do so, simply double-click the MobiSaver icon, which resembles a blue box., You'll use the USB charger cable that came with your phone or tablet to do so., This will prompt MobiSaver to begin scanning your Android., You can monitor the scan's progress by watching the bar at the top of the MobiSaver window., It's in the upper-left area of the MobiSaver window., If you want to recover every contact listed here, simply click the checkbox next to "Name" at the top of the page., This button is in the bottom-right corner of the window. Doing so will bring up a window in which you select a save location for these contacts., You should see your Android phone listed as a save location in this window, though you may need to scroll down to see it., Your contacts will begin restoring to your Android.

Don't unplug your computer or your Android until the restoration is complete.

