;
, This will bring you to the flowchart options. You will see three different layouts and several examples. Choose one of the top three layouts. That will bring you to this screen.
 Those are the Start/End symbol, the Process symbol, and the Decision symbol. You will also need the connecting arrow that will connect the various steps together. As you become more familiar with the program, you can add to it.


The oval signifies the beginning or the end of the process. You could put Start and End or fill in whatever you are going to call the beginning and the end. For example, if you want tickets to a show and you were going to flowchart it, your start or beginning would be simply stating the task.

Determining if the family can afford to go to the show.


The rectangle will indicate a process. A process is basically a step. In the example above, it would be as follows:

Find out how much the tickets will cost.
Check the bank to see if we have the money.


The diamond shape indicates a decision needs to be made or has been made.

Do we have enough money?


To put in decision choices, like Yes or No, you can easily type them onto the arrows.
 The direction depends upon the layout you chose. When you press down the CTRL key, you are telling SmartDraw to add the symbol that you have selected at the left of your screen.


If you are just demonstrating a method, where there is no decision to be made, you could continue to place the boxes in whichever way you want. However, most flowcharts require decisions to be made and dealt with.
 Type in what you want the process to be about.
 Hold down the CTRL key and press the right directional arrow (or whichever direction you need it to go). This will give you a single symbol of whatever you have selected at the moment.
 When flow-charting your process, you will realize things really aren't being done correctly, and you can easily come up with an alternative. It is the visualizing that you are doing while creating it that will help you find the answers.

