 Never dress poorly - casual, daily clothes should be elegant and stylish, and women should always wear at least a little makeup and a piece of jewellery. If invited to a special event, always wear your best clothes. Italians also often follow the latest trends in fashion.;
, If you are invited to somebody else's home, dress well. If the invitation says informal, or it is un-informal occasion, you will still be expected to wear stylish clothes (see step 1) - casual, but stylish. However, over-dressing for an occasion is seen as vulgar. You should arrive on time, though being ten or fifteen minutes late won't cause any upset. When you arrive give your attention to the host - to immediately go off and talk to other guests or sitting down is very impolite. Also, bring a gift with you (see step 4). Note that when you are invited to an acquaintance's home for dinner, you are expected to return the invitation (though a week or two later.)

, First impressions are particularly important to Italians. Greetings should be warm and enthusiastic, yet not informal. In Southern Italy a greeting will usually be a kiss on each cheek, whilst in the North this is reserved for close friends and family; otherwise, a handshake while suffice, but remember to make eye-contact. Also remember that it is rude to call somebody by their first name unless they give you express permission.
 It is possible you will want to give a gift. Flowers are not as common a gift in Italy as in other countries, though are still given - if you do want to give flowers avoid Chrysanthemums, which are seen as funeral flowers, red flowers,which are only to be given to a lover, and yellow flowers, which symbolise anger. In Italy gifts are thought of as quite important, and an Italian will spend time looking at your gift - to put a gift away in a corner shortly after receiving it is thought of as very disrespectful. Therefore, it is best to buy a good quality gift, such as nice chocolates or an expensive wine. Do not wrap it in black or purple paper, as this is seen as unlucky.
 Only sit down once you have been invited to do so, and only get up to leave the table when the host does so. Take small portions - if you want more, you can go back for a second helping. As in most European countries, the knife is held in the right hand and the fork in the left. When eating you should remember not to make a mess of the plate, and not leave more than a very small amount once you are finished. Offer the host to help take the dishes away (though they will usually decline, it is a polite formality).
 It is thought of as bad taste to tell rude or offensive jokes, or tell any jokes on sad occasions.
 Child or adult, you should show respect to elders.

