 You will have to negotiate prices with the wholesalers and manufacturers that you meet with. Contract negotiation will also be a big part of your job. Your company’s profits and success will depend on the products you purchase and the deals you make.If you work for a smaller company, you may be responsible for purchasing all of the inventory. If you work for a larger company, you may specialize in one type of clothing such as children’s clothing or menswear.
Your goal is to decrease the costs and maximize the sales.
 You will wear many hats as a buyer. You will need to keep track of prices, purchases, customer preferences, product performance, and market trends. You may also collaborate with other staff members such as designers, the marketing team, visual merchandising. Good organizational skills are necessary to be successful.


You will need tomanage your time wisely and meet deadlines.
 People tend to shop a lot over the holidays. As a result, this will be a busy time for you as a buyer. You may have to work longer hours or be unable to take vacations during this time. Buyers usually have standard office hours, but may have to work late or attend evening events.You will travel to meet with wholesalers, manufacturers, and attend trade and fashion shows. If you work for a large retailer, you may have to do some international travel.
 You will be buying clothes about 6 months before people actually wear them. For example, in the Spring, you will be buying clothes for the fall and winter seasons. During the buying season, you will be traveling to fashion shows, trade shows, and making appointments with the clothing manufacturers and designers.You will probably work longer hours during the buying season.
 Once you have scoped out the latest trends, you will put together a look book for your employer. The book should display the fashions and upcoming trends, the cost of the clothing, the projected sales, and the budget. Not only do you need to prepare a creative and beautiful presentation of the clothing, you need to explain how the clothing choices create a profit for your company.The exact format and presentation will vary depending on your company.
 You must find the right mix of trendy, fashion forward clothing and classic items (e.g. jeans, white button down shirts). Know the target audience of your store and look at the previous sales numbers and trends. You want to find the best mix of clothing that you know will sell.You may have to go back and forth and do some convincing if you feel very strongly about a particular item.
 Once you decide on the clothes you buy, you must monitor the sales and profits of the items. Look for the items that sell well and the items that do not. You will probably have to make adjustments based on the sales data.For example, if you notice that a particular coat is selling quickly, order more so that you can always keep it in stock. If an item is not selling well, you may not order any more once they are sold out.

