 If you choose to not chase a potential manager, focus that energy on your music. The mindset with this method is to work on your career until the right person notices. Make sure you have quality music and great performances under your belt when they do. Write songs, find gigs and record your music.


Realize who you are as a band/solo artist. A manager does not have the time to try to figure out who you are as a musician. The less work they have to do, the better. Figure out what music you like to play and what music suits you the best. Figure out what makes you different from all the other artists in the world who play the same music as you.
Create a set list of around 7-14 good songs. You want to have at least 1 hour of material just incase a gig comes up that requires you to play for an hour. Make sure you throw in some of your original songs. Decide what songs go where in order to enhance the viewers experience.
Play at least 7-9 gigs at places with big audiences. Busking on the street doesn't count. You can play at local bars if you are of age or try to play at places where your genre of music is respected. Playing 7-9 shows will look good for your resume and will gain you exposure.
 If you want to be noticed by a manager, you need to stand out. Don’t go out of your way to develop a gimmick or a wacky personality. Find something in your music or your personality that’s unique to you and develop this quality. Some musicians have strong vocals, others are multi-talented and some rely on good looks., Social media plays a crucial role in the business world today. A variety of platforms allow for tailored messages that can reach wider audiences than simple word of mouth. Learn the difference between each platform and use them to their fullest. Don’t forget to engage with the fans you already have and let them know you care about their support.


Instagram is primarily visual. You have both pictures and video at your disposal. The main strength of Instagram is hashtags, which allow your posts to reach people who might be interested in your band even if they don’t follow you. For instance, using the hashtag “#metal” for a metal band can capture the attention of metal fans.
Snapchat is the place to deliver quick, personal content. Content on Snapchat is less polished, so feel free to capture behind the scenes moments, whether you’re recording or just hanging out with your band.
Facebook and Twitter are incredibly versatile platforms, and should be the base of your social media presence. You can create event pages to publicize your gigs, use live video to reach more fans and create photo albums detailing your day to day.Engaging with fans is essentially about caring. Reply to comments they post on your social media platforms and show your appreciation for them through your posts.
 While not all streaming services are equally advantageous in terms of revenue, they can give your music the necessary exposure to advance your career. These services usually take a cut on an income you receive to account for the costs of distribution.Most importantly, these services give your music a place to live if your fans want to hear you outside a gig.
 The gig is a musician’s lifeblood. It provides income, exposure and networking opportunities. You have to carefully choose your gigs; some provide less revenue but important exposure. You also don’t want to always work for exposure, especially if you spend the majority of your time on your music career. The more gigs you play, the more experience you get and the more visible you are.


Prioritize gigs that foster networking. That might mean other bands or members of the media are present. The focus of the event should be the music; for example, if you play at a fundraiser, everyone’s attention is on the cause rather than your music.If you already have a record deal, focus on fulfilling the obligations that go along with this. This will be your best bet to getting enough exposure to bring a manager to you.

