 Also, it seems that most of the negativity comes from the Internet, not face-to-face meetings. People are a lot more aggressive to others online than in person.


Remember that it is your belief and you should stick to it. No amount of trash talking should make you question your belief;
, Otherkins feel that they are nonhuman. They believe that deep down their mind is similar to a species whose existence hasn't been proved yet. Therians believe they are connected to a species whose presence is already known of.


There are no secret rituals or magical spells. It is just a way of thinking and perception. Though many Otherkin do believe in magic and explain their current condition as a result of a spell cast on them a long time ago(when they were living their previous life).
You must deeply feel that you are not human but some other creature, this feeling should be strong enough to make you feel uncomfortable when someone calls you human.
 Even if you identify yourself as an animal or a mythological creature, it does not mean that you are entirely different from the rest of mankind. A wolf therian does not bite people on sight, he merely feels more conscious about damage to the jungle and feels more deeply hurt when a wolf is harmed.


Being Otherkin does not change anything. You keep living your normal life. Being Otherkin just colors your perception a little.
Avoid making claims that you can turn into your kin's form. This is called "Physical shifts" and it's frowned upon in the Kin community because it is impossible. Making such claims can get you noted as a troll.
 Most (but not all) Otherkin believe in the form of reincarnation. They believe that their previous life as an animal influences their current human form, which those animalistic tendencies are carried over to this life.


This can also be explained by Timothy Leary’s eight-circuit model of consciousness, in which the first two circuits are animalistic in nature, while the third is human(it tends to categorize and label things), in Otherkin the third circuit is labeled the first two circuit as an animal within them., Energy is a force which creates magic, which we can further shape and direct to do our bidding. We are made up of energy and that every person poses a unique “energy signature”. This signature can be changed to resonate with “elven” or “draconic” energies leading to some Otherkin identifying themselves as elves or dragons., Most Otherkin resources can be found online. Otherkins are fairly outgoing and participate in Wiccan gatherings. You should locate and participate in such communities,

