 If a condom gets stuck in the vagina or rectum, it can cause problems, like infection. If small parts of a condom get stuck inside you, like from a broken condom, then you may not know it is left inside. Watch for these symptoms:Colored discharge from the vagina or rectum that may have a bad odor
Unusual odor from the area
High temperature
Itching, rash, swelling, or redness around the vagina or rectum
Pain or discomfort when urinating or having a bowel movement
Pain in the pelvic area or the abdomen

, The condom should be put on properly every time you use one. This not only helps protect from STIs and prevent the condom breaking, it also helps keep it from falling off during intercourse.The condom should be unrolled onto an erect penis, making certain to leave room at the tip for the semen. Place the condom on the head of the penis, leaving about a half-inch of space at the top. Pinch the condom at the top, pushing all the air out of it.
Continue unrolling the condom along the shaft of the penis. As you are unrolling, wrap your thumb and index finger around the penis right below the pinched condom to ensure that space remains.
Smooth out any air bubbles that are in the condom.
 Make sure to be careful right after sex to prevent the condom from falling off. You or your partner should hold onto the condom at the base of the penis while pulling out.Your partner should pull out immediately after ejaculation while the penis is still erect. Otherwise, semen can leak out.
 A female condom may get stuck in the rectum if it is used improperly. The rectal muscles can potentially pull a female condom inside the body.If you want to use a female condom for anal sex, make sure to insert the female condom right before engaging in anal sex. Don’t put the female condom in hours before anal sex because that increases the risk of it getting stuck inside.
 Condoms made of latex tend to slip less often than condoms made with polyurethane. Condoms made with polyisoprene slip less than polyurethane and are safe for people with latex allergies.


Polyisoprene condoms have lower breakage and slippage rates, and appear to be as strong and effective as latex.Polyurethane condoms tend to break and slip off more often than others. They appear to be about as effective as latex condoms in preventing pregnancy and STIs.