 Goodreads only allows logged in users to create alternate cover editions of books.;
,, If there is no listing for your ISBN/ASIN, you'll need to search by title to see if what Goodreads already has is just a different edition entirely. If it does exist, great; you're through with your search and ready.



Click the "More details" link found just below the book's publication date, format and page numbering section.
Click the "All editions" link that exists underneath the covers of the book in the "Other editions" area of the page.
Narrow the list of editions down a bit to your exact format type. If it is a Kindle edition, select "Kindle Edition" from the drop-down. If it is paperback or hardcover, select either of these from the drop-down instead.
Look for your exact book's cover in the list with the correct format type opened.
You might need to open it (by clicking on the book's cover icon or title link) to make sure it's the alternate cover edition.
If you don't find your version of the book cover there, it's time to create it.
, It should be above the "...less detail" and "edit details links" but below the "Other Editions" cover icon links or other details link after expanding your selecting after next to the "expand details" link and "sort by" drop-down.


If you are a Goodreads Librarian, you'll find this link under the links for "combine editions" and "separate editions" links near the right hand corner of the screen where the other editions of the books lie without opening any of these cover editions.
 If you have made sure to double-check for duplicates there you are good to go - just don't re-enter the ISBN or ASIN in the box. At this stage, get just the title, author and description fields filled in.


The sort-by title is mandatory and is easy to fill in. Just type the title in again, as if you were looking through an old-style card catalog. You can omit the words A, an, the, etc and type the remainder of the textA title known as "A New Light" would be listed as just "New Light".
Book entries that are part of a series get some special treatment. As opposed to adding the volume number last, you add it after the last few words at the end of the title. (i.e."Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets would be sorted out as "chamber of secrets (Harry Potter, #2), harry potter) as opposed to "chamber of secrets, harry potter (Harry Potter, #2)". However, be aware that new editions of already present books should have the corrected sort-by field entered already when you enter in to add another edition entry.
 Make sure the format you have to list matches what is selected in this list. You'll have many choices, and you can even list other formats if needed.
 Begin it by saying "This book is the alternate cover edition of by with the as its duplicate ASIN number." An example statement that you must add to the top of the description box might be:

<i>This is the alternate cover edition of XYZ title by ABC author with the unique ASIN/ISBN number (specify number here).</i>


This would look, to the reader, a little like:


This is the alternate cover edition of XYZ title by ABC author with the unique ASIN/ISBN number (specify number here).
 You can borrow the image from Amazon by saving the image as a file on your computer and uploading the JPEG image to the Goodreads listing you are creating.
 This is where you'll find the button you'll need to create the listing from here.
