 You might want to go shopping for clothes, be that your own choice of clothing items or new school uniform clothing. Try new things that look awesome on your body. A clean pair of new jeans may help too if jeans suit you and you are allowed to wear them at school.;
, If you didn't take a shower the night before school, do it now...or, when it's appropriate! The most important thing you want to remember is that hot water deprives you of the moisture your face needs; so if you insist on taking a hot shower, apply lotion after you get out. Shave your legs, if you will be wearing Capri pants, a skirt without pantyhose or tights, or shorts. Brush your teeth while still in a towel and then groom your hair. Before you decide to blow dry your hair, apply spray or a leave in hair product that helps protect it from heat. (Remember it's always good to change up your hair once in a while.) Brush those pearly whites and apply chap stick, especially if you have sensitive skin. Now it's time to dress up. Once you do, make sure your nails are clean and free from cracks. For an easy fix, apply clear nail polish.
 Make sure you have your handbag and you touch up anything you still need to do. Keep extra make up in your bag. Look in the mirror and tell yourself how great you look! Leave the house with a smile and feel confident doing so. Remember when you get to school no one likes to see a frown on your face, even if you have had a bad day; so smile - by doing so you will attract positive attention!

, Just because school is right around the corner and you can't get rid of that pool water smell does not mean you have to hide under the covers. Do not rush through these steps like there is no tomorrow! Take your time and relax for best results.
 Instead of going on one gigantic shopping trip at the end of the summer, try going on little small ones throughout it. That way, you can take your time and won't regret that you rushed through the store in a matter of hours. Also, try not to get 'outfits' but just items of clothing you can mix and match. Chances are, if you get outfits, then your wardrobe will be the same thing every week. Get at least 5 new shirts, and 2 new bottoms. Then once you are done with determining your wardrobe, pick out your outfits for the first week of school. Try to wear your favorite outfit on the first day. Also, one good thing to do is to wear only some new clothes. Maybe a new shirt, with your favorite skirt. And a new bracelet, but with the cute necklace you have loved forever! That way, you will feel comfortable wearing what you love but also looking great in some new threads!

, However much you clean your teeth, groom your hair and choose your effort with great care, there may still be people who don't think you look beautiful. As long as you feel beautiful, it doesn't matter. Don't set yourself unrealistic goals. It will make you more stressed and will end up making you disappointed and sad. Do the things you know you can change and love yourself now; not later.
 On the night before school, don't clean your room; it can create stress for you easily. Lay out your outfit on your dresser, take a bath, and wash your hair with a nice relaxing soap and shampoo. Go to bed between 8 and 9 o'clock. Put a glass of water beside your bed and read a book in bed; whatever calms your nerves before the big day. You can also get your nails done and get a facial. The morning of the first day, wake up 1-2 hours before you leave. Do everything you need to do to remain clean and refreshed throughout the day. Try to choose a hairstyle that won't require constant maintenance or will make you feel unattractive or uncomfortable.
 It's just school; not a fashion show. Don't be afraid to wear your favorite pair of ripped jeans (just not too ripped). Remember you will do fine! There will always be at least a few people who will look like they just crawled out of bed. Don't think about it too much, because everyone is nervous and worried about the first day.

