 Don't introduce the rats if they are showing aggressive behavior. When you think they're ready, the first thing to do is find neutral territory to use. A place where neither of the rats have really been or played. They claim territory as their own and will not easily be willing to share with a new rat outside of their "pack." Places such as on your lap, in the bathtub (dry, of course,) or on a table may work. But neither rat should be familiar with the place you choose.
 Lay out lots of their favorite foods and treats. They will love fresh fruits and veggies, and unsalted nuts and seeds. Don't even think about feeding them chocolate. This can kill almost any animal. Make sure there are plenty of treats for both of them so they won't feel threatened. This should be fun for them and they should be starting to see each other as friends. They may not want to eat it at first. This is normal, they usually don't eat if they are in an uncomfortable situation. If they start to eat together, this is a sign that they are starting to trust each other! Before putting the rats together, make sure sure you have towels on hand to separate them with if they start to fight. You never want to stick your bare hand between two fighting animals.
 The first time they meet, use a q-tip to dab a little bit of vanilla on the tops of each rat's nose. Just a little. This will make the smell of the other rat less powerful. Or if you know for a fact that your rats like baths, and you have done it before, just bathe each one before putting them together (especially if they are males). If they haven't grown up taking baths, though, it will probably traumatize them and make them not look forward to their meetings.
 Bring both rats to the neutral area you've prepared. Let them first meet and touch noses on your lap or in your arms, but make sure you can easily separate them if you need to. If one of the rats is significantly smaller, then try rubbing it on the larger one's back before putting them down. Then put them down and let them explore/eat/groom/play for about five minutes. That should be all for the first time. Tumbling and wrestling a bit is okay. They may be playing or trying to figure out who's in charge. But if either one squeaks, or if you see blood, separate them and wait until tomorrow.
 You don't need to use vanilla unless you think they need it. But you should have treats around and a towel handy, each time. And stick to neutral territory. Keep the visits short and supervised. You can make them gradually longer, but watch out for how they're doing. If one is scared and trembling, take it in your lap or maybe shorten the time. Do this for a while and continue swapping things in their cages, too. You can move the cages closer to each other, but not close enough so that they could reach each other through the bars.
 You can let them play together longer and stop worrying about them fighting when they run out of reach. They should ideally be getting about an hour together a day. Of course, don't rush them if they're not ready. It should take one or two weeks to get to this point. But once they're like BFF's outside the cage, you're ready to put them together.

