 Natural treatments for H. pylori center on a nutritious diet, the use of common hygiene principles, and the use of specific botanical medicines, probiotics, and other supplements. These approaches have not been proven to cure H. pylori, but they can help prevent and treat the infection. These approaches can also help reduce the symptoms, if you are experiencing any.
 Probiotics are sources of the types of “good” bacteria and yeast normally found in the body’s microbiome. This includes species of lactobacillus, acidophilus, bifidobacteria, and the yeast saccharomyces boulardii. You can take these as a supplement (following the manufacturer’s instructions) or in foods. Preliminary evidence suggests this may help fight H. pylori.Good food sources of probiotics are fermented foods such as kefir, sauerkraut, pickles, kombucha (a fermented tea), tempeh, kimchi and other foods such as yogurt, miso soup, poi, asparagus, leeks, and onions.Include these foods at least 2-3 times a week in your diet.
2-3 times per week, you can also include pre-biotics which help support the healthy gut bacteria by providing food for the bacteria. Pre-biotic foods include whole grains, onions, bananas, garlic, honey, artichokes, and leeks., Many botanical medicines have antibiotic (bacteria-killing) properties. The following herbs have slowed the growth of H. pylori in lab cultures. This is a far cry from a complete cure of an existing infection, but they are worth a try:


Ginger, which may also have ulcer-reducing properties.Thyme, which also has general antibacterial propertiesTurmeric/CurryOreganoCinnamon, Korean red ginseng has shown anti- H. pylori activity in lab animals.Red ginseng is different than American ginseng and has a wide variety of uses. While many regard ginseng as effective in increasing mental performance and sexual function, it also lower blood sugar, increase heart rate and can either raise or lower blood pressure. If you are interested in trying red ginseng, talk to a knowledgeable healthcare professional first.
 Green tea, red wine, and manuka honey have also shown antibiotic activity against H. pylori. Many of these studies, however, were done in bacterial cultures or lab animals, so there is no human dosage information available. It is probably safe to include green tea and manuka honey in your diet but to drink red wine in moderation. These may help with an infection.
 There is no solid link between nutrition and H. pylori.That said, natural health philosophies recommend whole, unprocessed foods for general health, which may improve immune system response and support a healthier microbiome. A healthy diet includes:


High quality protein:

low to moderate amounts of red meat (preferably grass fed)
moderate amounts of skinless poultry
low to moderate amounts of pork
moderate to high amounts of fish


Fresh vegetables and fruit (in a variety of rich colors)

Broccoli sprouts may treat H. pylori, but this is only supported by one study involving nine patients.Beans and legumes such as lentils
Complex carbohydrates found in:

vegetables
whole grain foods
grains such as brown rice and quinoa
beans and legumes



, Although nutrition is not as simple as "natural versus artificial," most processed foods are less nutritious and may include substances with negative side effects (sometimes including suppressed immune response).Avoiding them will probably lead to better overall health, but it's unlikely to have a direct effect on the H. pylori.


To check if a product is processed/packaged, check the ingredient list. The longer the list is, the more processed the food is. Processed foods are most often found in the center aisles in grocery stores. Less processed foods are found around the outer aisles and would include dry beans, fresh fruits and vegetables, brown rice, bulk foods and single-ingredient foods.
Stay away from “quick and easy” ready-to-eat meals. Again, these tend to be highly processed and contain preservatives and other chemicals that are not really food.
 You may experience increased success by combining a number of the approaches above. You will feel better overall and may help your H. pylori if you combine eating better, using the herbs and spices suggested to add variety and flavor to your foods, adding some fermented foods, and supplementing with probiotics.


Get tested after 2-3 months of trying these approaches to see if the infection still exists. At that point, you may want to consider the antibiotics and acid-lowering drugs recommended by your physician. Always discuss your options with a healthcare professional and get tested to make certain you are dealing with an H pylori infection.
 If these approaches don’t help you feel better or if you experience any severe abdominal pain, blood in the stools (black and tarry-looking stools) or bloody, black vomit or vomit that resembles coffee grounds, call your physician immediately! These can be signs of a serious problem.

