 One main aspect about a hipster's style is her ability to look like she stylishly rolled out of bed and threw on the first ensemble she found. Though you shouldn't actually try to do this, you should try to go for a look that makes it look like you didn't spend hours trying to pick the perfect outfit but that you just threw it together at the last minute -- even if that's far from true. Here are some ways to make it look like you just rolled out of bed:


Don't spend hours styling your hair or it will be too obvious that you put care into your looks.
Don't spend hours doing your makeup, either, or it'll look like you put too much effort into your looks again.
Don't spend too much time making sure your outfit is "matchy matchy" -- the colors can go together, but it shouldn't look too neat or perfect.
Don't wear too many articles of clothing that are obviously new.;
, If you want to shop like a hipster, the more pricy stores that you can check out are American Apparel, Urban Outfitters, and Anthropologie. But if you really want to look like a female hipster, try raiding your mother's (or your grandmother's!) old wardrobe, finding gems at garage sales, or shopping at thrift stores to get that perfect hipster look.


Many female hipsters have a more quirky sense of style, looking more tomboyish than super girly.
You can also go to stores like Walmart or Target and find plain items that don't look cool, but which are so uncool as to be cool all over again.
You can also rip, tear, or add patches to previously un-hip items to dress them up.
Do you have a pile of clothes you haven't worn in years collecting dust in the back of your closet? If so, see if you can rescue any of them and make them cool all over again in a retro way.
 Though there isn't a set hipster uniform, there are some items that you should have in your closet if you want to make the most of your teenage hipster transformation. Try these items:


Graphic tees.
Skinny jeans. They can be dark denim, light denim, or regular denim.
Button up "mountain-man" plaid shirts.
For shoes, try TOMS, lace-up Vans or Keds, Converse, or ballet flats.
Accessories like assorted friendship bracelets, long, chunky necklaces or shorter, "dainty" ones. Chunky rings are a good addition too. The most common teenage hipster accessory is a pair of black thick-framed glasses.
 If you are the kind of hipster that buys clothes to support charities, check out these clothing lines: TOMS, Sevenly, or Common Threads.
 Makeup isn't required, but if you like to wear it, stick with neutral and natural. For skin, the clearer the better! Don't cake on the foundation, and you try a little blush to make your cheeks rosy. Stick with earth tones, on the eyes and don't go overboard. Definitely stay away from glitters and flashy makeup. A nude lip is great! And if you're going to paint your nails, go with a pale pink, a navy blue, a basic black, or just a layer of clear polish.
 Cut it all off in a pixie cut or keep it really long. Try a messy updo, a loose side-braid, a ballerina bun, boho waves, completely straight. If you're confident enough, have half shaved off like Alice Dellal. Try asymmetrical cuts (one side longer). It's very important for people to question your look but secretly like it.


Bangs or a block fringe with straight hair are popular haircuts for hipster girls.

