 Start out with leaves that are moist, vibrant, and newly fallen. Pressing the leaves with wax will preserve them at the height of their brilliant color.
 Place the leaves in a single layer in between two paper towels to dry them if they're wet. Make sure they aren't overlapping, since this will cause the leaves to stick together. Use a medium-hot iron to iron each side. Iron each side for three to five minutes to absorb extra moisture.Drying the leaves out beforehand will allow them to retain their color and quality after being sealed into the wax paper.
Do not use a steam setting on your iron, since steam will keep the leaves moist. Only use a dry setting.
Feel the leaves after ironing them for 3 to 5 minutes. If a leaf does not feel dry, iron both sides for a few more minutes.
 It does not matter which side of the wax paper faces the leaves, since both sides are waxed. Arrange the dried leaves in a single layer in between the wax paper sheets. Leave a little space around each leaf. The wax paper will need to be able to adhere to itself.
 You can also use brown paper bag material or another thick paper. Make sure all of the wax paper is covered by regular paper, so the iron won't stick to the wax. Make sure that the leaves remain spaced apart and in a single layer.
 With the iron on a medium-hot setting, iron both sides of the paper to seal the wax together. Keep the iron constantly moving so it won't burn the wax. Heat the first side for three minutes, then flip the paper, wax and leaves over carefully and repeat on the other side.


Do not use a steam setting on your iron; only use a dry setting.
Handle the hot paper carefully. If your skin is sensitive, you may want to wear gloves to protect your hands.
 The wax will have slightly melted around the leaves, and as it cools it will adhere to them. Wait until the wax is cool before handling it.
 After the whole thing has cooled to the touch, remove the paper sheets from the wax paper. Carefully cut around each leaf using scissors or a sharp craft blade.


Leave a small border of wax paper around the edge of each leaf so that the leaf remains securely sealed in between the layers of wax paper.
You could also try to peel the wax paper off the leaves instead of cutting them out. A coating of wax should remain on the leaves, and it may be enough to keep the leaves preserved.

