 Measure halfway across each wall in opposite directions, using the length and width measurements you made for the ceiling. Have someone hold the chalk line or reel while you walk to the opposite end of the room. Snap the chalk against the ceiling. Rotate 90 degrees and do the same for the two opposite walls.For example, if your room was 12' long and 15' wide, you should measure 6' across the length of the room and 7.5' across the width of the room.
When completed, you should have 2 straight lines that cross each other in the center of the room. This will be your starting point for laying tiles.
 Use a foam brush or putty knife to spread adhesive on the back of your tiles. Spread adhesive to the four corners of the ceiling tile, about 1 inch (2.54 cm) from the edges and to the center of the tile.


Check package instructions to determine the correct adhesive or cement for your tile material.
 Place your first tile in the center of the room, where the two chalk lines meet. Press it firmly against the ceiling, making sure it is level and aligned properly. Continue to place the tiles by working out from the center until you reach the other side of the room. Use the chalk lines as a guide., When you reach a fixture hole, measure the size and shape of the hole and locate where it will be on the ceiling tile you're preparing to place. Use those measurements to draw and cut the hole using a straightedge or scissors. Apply glue and place the tile on the ceiling where the fixture will be.


Do a dry run and test your cut before adhering it to the ceiling. Simply hold your cut tile up over the hole, making sure the hole is completely visible. This way you'll be able to easily reinstall the fixture.
 By the time you've almost completed tiling your ceiling, you may notice that you're near the edges and that the tiles will not entirely fit. You'll need to measure the exact size of tile for the edges. Then use a straight edge to cut the tile, apply glue, and press the edge tile against the ceiling. Repeat this around all the edges.


Again, do a dry run and test your cut before adhering it to the ceiling. Simply hold your cut tile up on the ceiling against the edge. It should fit snugly, but not be too tight or difficult to apply.
 If you choose to add borders to the edges of the ceiling, use a staple or nail gun and secure the molding to the wall. Fill the holes with wood filler and paint the molding.


Molding can make your room look more polished or finished.It can also hide edges of tiles that have been cut.

