 The pumpkin should be a deep orange color on the outside, and its flesh should have a fine texture.


Avoid using pumpkins with stringy or dry flesh.
A pumpkin of higher quality will last longer and better than one of low quality.
This method preserves the pumpkin by freezing it. Freezing is the easiest way to preserve pumpkins and is also thought to produce the best quality product., Rinse the pumpkin under lukewarm running water.


If necessary, gently scrub the pumpkin with a vegetable brush to remove dirt and debris from the surface.
Soap is not necessary, nor is it advised.
 Use a large serrated knife to cut the pumpkin in half. Then, cut each half into 2- to 3-inch (5- to 7.6-cm) chunks.


A serrated knife is recommended. A smooth blade is more likely to slip against the tough skin of the pumpkin, which could cause you to accidentally cut yourself.
You could peel the pumpkin chunks before boiling them, but waiting until after the pumpkin has been cooked will be easier.
 Place the pumpkin chunks in a medium saucepan and cover them with water. Boil the pumpkin for about 25 to 30 minutes, or until the flesh feels tender.


You could also bake the pumpkin. Cut the pumpkin in half and place each half, face-down, in a baking dish. Cover with foil and cook in an oven preheated to 375 degrees Fahrenheit (190 degrees Celsius) for 1.5 hours., Let the cooked pumpkin cool enough for you to handle it. Scrape the pulp from rind and transfer it to a medium bowl.


Use a metal spoon or similarly rigid utensil to dig out the flesh.
Once cooked, the flesh should separate from the skin with relative ease.
 Use a potato masher to mash the already soft pulp into a puree.


You could also accomplish this task with a hand-held immersion blender or a food processor.
 Place the bowl or pan containing the pumpkin in cold water until the pumpkin puree cools to room temperature.


Do not allow excess water to get into the mashed pumpkin.
Stir the mashed pumpkin occasionally as it cools.
 Use containers made from non-reactive materials like plastic or glass. Make sure that the containers are approved for freezer use.


Leave at least 1 inch (2.5 cm) of empty headspace in between the top of the pumpkin and the top of container. This will allow the pumpkin to expand as it freezes.
Tightly seal the containers before freezing them.
 The pumpkin should last about 3 to 6 months without developing any change in flavor or texture. At best, you may even be able to keep the pumpkin for over a year.

