


Choppy hair is totally funky! If you're hair is short, layers and side bangs that hang in your eyes are perfect! Long hair, choppy layers around the top and middle will be awesome and accurate for your face. But if this stuff isn't your style, that's totally cool, maybe even chic!
Maybe you strive for some splashy colors in your hair! You could always dye you're whole head hot pink, but, lately, a streak of bright color near your bangs are stylish. Or, you might want natural colors. A couple thin streaks all over your head will look most natural. And if your parents won't let you put color in your hair, you could always just get clip-in colored extensions. They have some really natural looking ones out there, really!
For short haired girls, it's really cute to pull all of your hair back onto a small ponytail in the back, or some short pigtails or braids on the side. Long haired girls, messy buns and ponytails are in, as well as the occasional braid or two.
Medium haired girls, you can pretty much go with all of these styles, lucky you!
Also, good hair accessories are skinny headbands, head wraps, bow shaped hair clips, really colorful and patterned hair clips too. The ponytail holders with little balls on the end in cut colors and patterns are awesome!;
,


The main thing you want is wild colors, prints, styles, and the ability to add a little bit of your own personal style in there with it! Skinny jeans in vibrant washes like green, pink, blue, purple, or maybe black or gray are really popular right now. Also, no zip-up sweatshirts, unless it's really special to you, or looks really really really x10 good on you. Mostly just sweatshirts that are vibrant with extra long sleeves that cover 3/4 of your hand, that are either tight of only slightly loose. But don't forget--sweatshirts are supposed to be comfortable, and some can be a staple to your wardrobe. If you're normally a stylish and girly girl and one day the rest of your wardrobe is totally cool, then it's fine to add maybe a bright or a patterned zip-up sweatshirt.
Short-shorts are perfectly fine, and different colors and prints are okay, but they should be simple prints, like no polka dots or animals unless it's pajama pants.
Mini-skirts are totally hot, as long as they don't show anything they shouldn't.
semi-tight t-shirts with cutesy cartoon characters are in, popular ones being hello kitty, power-puff girls, etc. No avatar, sponge-bob, fairly odd parents, or anything stupid like that.
Anything else that you like or think is cool. Because, chances are, it is!

,


Buy a bunch of bracelets, anything that's supposed to be on your wrist, WEAR IT!!! Neal Armstrong bracelets in really cool colors, sweatbands, gummy bracelets, watches, string friendship bracelets, anything!
Funky rings are, well, funky! plastic jewels, real jewels, crazy prints, almost anything works. There isn't really a limit to how many rings you can wear, well, at least if you don't care about moving your fingers.
Hats, that's up to you. if its really cool, you can wear it, but, hats are kind of trying too hard.
 shoes, jeans, binders, notebooks, backpacks, hands, anything!
Boho scarves that you let stay long, with tights, boots, and a mini skirt are really cool!
paint your nails really bright colors, but stay away from white unless it's polka dots. Oh, and you can use a toothpick to make zebra stripes or whatever.
Don't care what people think of you. Live life to the fullest, and have tons of fun. do something unexpected, like jump into the pool with your clothes on. Be daring, and never be afraid of a challenge. Just have fun!

