 When approaching a bend on a trail, be wary of potential horses around the bend. Slow down while going round corners, as you should try to avoid coming up on a horse unaware.


If you’re on a trail commonly used by horses, do not use your bell, as this can spook a horse!;
, If you’re riding a bike and you come up behind a horse on the trail, stay about 50 feet behind, and slow your bike. This will prevent you from coming up on the horse too quickly.


The rider will appreciate the distance and the opportunity to keep their horse calm.
 Before you pass a horse on a trail—whether you’re approaching from ahead or from behind—you should make sure that the rider knows you are present.Politely ask the rider if you can pass them on your bike. Try calling out. Say something like,


“Hi! I’m approaching on a bike. Is it OK if I come past you?”
“Will it spook your horse if I come past on my bike?”
In some cases, the rider may not trust their horse to stand still for you to pass. If this is the case, the rider may move ahead quickly, or move far off of the trail so you can pass.
If a horse is coming up behind you, the rider will most likely call out to you as they are approaching. Even if the rider does not greet you, still plan to move off to the side of the trail and allow the horse to pass.
 Some horses are very afraid of bicycles, and both horse and rider will feel more comfortable if you walk your bike instead of quickly riding by.


If you see a horse approaching from ahead of you on the trail, make eye contact with the rider, slow down, pull over to the side of the trail (or completely off the trail if its narrow), and ask the rider if you should stop while they pass., Do not ride immediately next to a horse. Even a horse not typically frightened by bicycles will get spooked if you ride right next to it.


If the trail is on an incline, the cyclist should always step off on the downhill side., Even if you are personally familiar with horses, or if you have already passed many horses on a certain trail, a new horse could react completely differently.


Different horses have different comfort levels with riders and hikers, but assume they are easily spooked and always be careful around them.
Some horses are scared by things they have not seen before. If you are wearing a helmet or large backpack, you may need to remove it, so as not to spook the horse.