 Shy or quiet kids may have difficulty summoning up the courage it takes to make a new friend. Perhaps they feel intimidated by joining a group or walking up to a potential friend and introducing themselves. Talk to your child about how to do this, as they may simply not know how.


For instance, you can tell your child to watch a group that is playing for a little bit to find out what they are doing. Once they’ve figured it out, tell them to think of something that the game may benefit from. Then have the child approach the group and suggest this new, fun thing that could enhance the game. There’s a good chance the other kids will want them to join if they take this route.You can also help them think of fun activities to invite others to join in and teach them to be pro-active rather than reactive.
 Your child won’t feel good about trying to make new friends if they feel uncomfortable with the situation. Take your child’s personality and friendship style into consideration instead of trying to force them to do something they don’t want to. They are more likely to feel encouraged about the situation if it is one they feel confident about going in.


For example, pay attention to what your child likes better: playing with individuals or playing with groups. Encourage them to then approach the situation that feels more comfortable. They are less likely to feel discouraged if they believe they have a good shot from the start., There’s almost nothing worse for a child when they finally approach a prospect and are told “no.” The truth is, however, it may happen. Preparing them for this possibility and teaching them what to do should it happen, can prevent them from becoming discouraged.


Let them know not to take it personally when they are rejected. Perhaps the child in question isn’t feeling good that day or may not want to share their friends or toys with them. Also explain that there are many more prospects. Tell them not to give up and to ask other kids if the first says no.Since not everyone may want to be friends, rejection is a great opportunity to help your child see different perspectives for why someone may say "No." Depending on your child’s age, it is helpful for your child to learn not to take things personally because of their natural egocentric tendencies.
 A teenager playdate is often nothing more than the kids vegging out in front of the TV together or laying on the bed chatting about what’s going on in school. A play date with younger kids, however, needs a little more direction and purpose. Help your child think of activities or games they want to play when they are hosting a new friend.


Have a variety of games and activities on tap just in case they find it difficult to play something they agree on. Also tell your child they will need to be flexible and to not get their heart set on one activity, as the friend may not want to play with the same things they want to.