 When you are grieving, you are bound to have a lot of memories of what you have lost. You can protect yourself by knowing what might cause you to become emotional. Once you recognize triggers, you can make a plan about how to most effectively cope with them.Maybe you lost your best friend. You can likely anticipate that her birthday will be a rough day for you.
Anticipate your moods and plan accordingly. Maybe you can plan to work from home that day so that no one will notice if you cry.
It's fine to have triggers. It's normal that when you are going through a divorce and hear your wedding song to feel a lot of emotions. Learn to acknowledge these emotions and move on.
 Moving on doesn't mean that you have to stop feeling. You simply have to find new ways to channel your emotions. Don't repress your emotions, just re-purpose them.Are you angry at your ex? Find a good way to channel that anger. This might be a great time to try that popular kickboxing class at your gym.
Try art therapy. The act of creating something can be a very therapeutic way to deal with what you've lost. Look into taking a painting class at your local community college.
Getting in touch with your emotions can help you relate to others. Use your own experience with grieving to help you be a better listener to your friends and family.
 As you go through the grieving process, you will likely learn a lot. For example, maybe you'll have a good understanding of what it feels like to lose a parent. Consider using your experience to help others.Ask local support groups if they need volunteer speakers. Your words could help someone else heal.
Make some donations. It can be difficult to part with a loved one's belongings. But when you feel up to it, try donating some clothing to a worthy charity. Just remember to keep some items that you will treasure.
 Grieving takes time. The process of moving is quite long too. Remember that every individual experience is different.There is no magic number for the amount of weeks, months, or years it will take to feel "normal". Be patient with yourself.
Take time to process your emotions. Each part of the healing process is significant in its own way.

