 Be sure to set rules and boundaries about what is safe and what isn’t. This standard should be applied to anywhere that your child plays.


For younger children, rules may include always being able to see an adult or staying in one section of the yard. Older children may have rules about how high they can climb and which parts of the yard are off limits.;
, If there are open areas of your yard, be sure your child knows the boundaries and knows not to go outside those areas.


If your child doesn’t understand the rules, have them play in an entirely different part of the yard and keep an adult or older child with them at all times.
 Check for hazards such as fallen tree limbs, animal remains, or other dangerous objects like nails or broken board. This is especially important to do at the beginning of each season. Make sure all areas of your backyard are maintained and safe for your children.


If needed, get on your knees to see things from a toddler’s view to make any safety changes.
 Don’t let your children play around the lawn mower, even when it isn’t on. You should also store gardening tools and chemicals out of children’s’ reach to avoid a dangerous injury—gardening tools may look like toys to kids, but make sure they know the tools are unsafe and only for adults to use.


Items to keep out of your child’s reach include the saws, pruning shears, mowers, and power tools. Chemicals that must be kept in a safe childproof place include fertilizers, weed killers, swimming pool cleansers, disinfectants, insecticides, pesticides, fuels, and cleaning materials.
Consider building a shed that you can store these objects in and then lock so that your children cannot accidentally put themselves in danger.
 Public playgrounds are subject to laws and inspections, and your home playground should be inspected in a similar way. Check the play structure periodically for anything out of place, such as rough boards or loose guardrails.


Covering the area under the playground with a shock-absorbing material, such as sand, mulch, or rubber will help children avoid injuries when they fall or jump from the structure.Protect against potential hazards by making sure all protruding bolts are covered, tripping hazards such as rocks or tree branches are removed or trimmed, and all platforms and walkways have guardrails that your child can’t easily fall through. Openings between guardrails posts should either be smaller than 3.5 inches (8.9 cm) or larger than 9 inches (22.9 cm).
 Swings are one of the most dangerous areas on a playground—don’t put more than two swings in the same section of the playground and make sure the seats are made of soft rubber, not wood.


Many injuries come from children getting hit in the face or other body part with a swing, and those injuries can be mitigated with a softer material.
Consider avoiding connecting ropes or similar items to a play structure as they pose a risk for strangulation.
 The play structure’s platforms and slides should be less than six feet tall for older children, and shorter than four feet for preschoolers and toddlers.Tree houses are safer the closer they are to the ground and should be less than than 10 feet (3.0 m) in the air.


Before letting your children play on extra hot days, check the temperature of the slides and swings because they can get hot enough to burn skin. Simply touch the areas and see if they are hot to the touch.Monitor children as they play to make sure they are staying within their abilities. The general rule of thumb is that children should only play or climb as many feet tall as they are years old. For example, a five year old should only climb five feet safely.
 Pools are one of the most dangerous areas for children, as drowning is a leading cause of death for children under five. Protect your children by installing fences that are at least four feet tall around the entire perimeter of the pool area.You should also have a self-closing and self-latching gate with latches that are out of the reach of children.
A pool alarm can also be installed that will alert you whenever anyone enters the pool gate or gets in the water. To find the safest combination for your home, contact a local pool safety specialist to install fences and gates that adhere to local regulations.
 Always supervise children who are in and around the pool or hot tub by paying attention to their movements. Have your phone with you and keep rescue equipment easily accessible in case something happens.


When they aren’t in use, always cover the pool and hot tub with a hard cover that won’t buckle if someone gets on it. Soft covers can trap water and lead to drowning if a child wanders onto the covered pool.
The hot tub temperature should never exceed 104 degrees to avoid the risk of an elevated body temperature, which is especially dangerous in children. Always check the water temperature before children get in and have an adult with them in the pool.
 If your backyard contains treated wood in the fence, deck, or picnic table, have it checked for arsenic, a chemical that increases the risk of cancer.


Arsenic is much more prevalent in older items, as its use has been phased out since 2003. Arsenic test kits can be purchased for around $20 at home improvement and landscaping stores. Most tests can provide results in less than 15 minutes.If your items are at risk for arsenic, either replace the old wood with new wood or another material, or seal the wood at least once a year. Don’t allow your children to play on rough wood surfaces, as arsenic splinters can be dangerous.
You should also keep kids away from the soil around wood structures and avoid storing toys under a wood deck, as arsenic can leak onto things beneath it.
 Small children often put things in their mouth, so make sure there aren’t any poisonous plants in your backyard, such as poison ivy, Oleander, or Lily of the Valley.


For a list of common poisonous plants in your area, contact your pediatrician, local poison control hotline, or call the nationwide poison control at 1-800-222-1222 if you are in the United States.Teach your children never to eat berries, leaves, or anything else from plants, even if they don’t think it’s poisonous. If you see your child put something in his mouth, immediately take it out and watch your child for signs of unusual behavior before calling their doctor or poison control.
If you have pesticides or other fertilizers sprayed on your yard, make sure your children don’t play outside for 48 hours after the treatment.
 Keep children away from the barbecue or grill, especially right after it has been in use as it can be very hot. Explain to your children that the grill area is off limits or install a barricade, such as a screen or concrete wall to block your child’s access to the grill.


Always stand by the grill when cooking and store propane tanks in the garage away from children. Do not store propane in the house.
 Trampolines can be fun to use but can also cause serious injuries. To avoid these injuries from occurring, create trampoline rules and make sure that your child, and every child who comes over to your house, knows the rules. You could even consider writing up the rules and posting them near the trampoline. Your rules could include:


Only one child jumper is allowed on the trampoline at a time.
Your children must be supervised at all times, regardless of their age. It is recommended that children under six should not be allowed to use trampolines because they are more prone to serious injuries.
 The mat and net should not have holes. The springs should be intact and securely attached at both ends.


Always use safety padding on the frame to avoid injuries.
Make sure that the area around the trampoline is free from hazards like walls, fences, play equipment, or garden furniture. Also, there should be an overhead clearance to avoid objects like clothes lines, trees, and wires., Keep important numbers in an area where you can access them easily. These numbers should include:


Emergency numbers.
Fire numbers.
Poison hotlines.
 Accidents happen so it is important to be prepared for them to occur. Part of being prepared is always having a first aid kit where you can readily access it.


Make sure that you regularly check the contents of your first aid kit as some of the items may expire. Show your whole family where the first aid kit is kept and explain how the contents are used.
 Here are some of the necessary things that should be included in your first aid kit:


Self-adhesive bandages in different shapes and sizes
Sterile gauze pads and rolls
Adhesive tape
Scissors and tweezers
Elastic bandages to support strained muscles
Antiseptics like hydrogen peroxide or individually wrapped antiseptic pads
Hot water bottle and ice bag
Thermometer—a digital one makes reading the temperature easy
First aid manual
Analgesic, such as acetaminophen
Antacid or stomach acid reducer
Anti-diarrheal product like loperamide
Anti-itch product like calamine lotion
Antihistamine for allergies (Antihistamine-containing creams are not recommended as they can cause skin irritation which will make the original skin problem worse.)
Sunscreen for sunburn remedy

