 Bow pose is a key yoga pose to improve spinal flexibility. This pose energizes and stimulates your body, while also strengthening your abdomen and back to better support your spine.Start this pose by lying on the floor flat on your belly. Bend your knees, and reach back to grab your ankles or the tops of your feet.
As you inhale, lift your feet towards the ceiling and raise your chest, arching your back and drawing your shoulders back towards your feet.
Hold the pose for at least five breath cycles, breathing deeply. Then release to the floor.
 Strong hamstrings are important if you want a long and flexible spine. The live nerve stretch will strengthen and stretch your leg muscles as well as stretching and opening up your lower back.From a seated position, extend your legs out in front of you. Bend your right knee, placing your right foot firmly on the inside of your left thigh.
On an exhale, raise your arms over your head and slowly fold from the hips over your left leg, grabbing your foot or ankle.
Hold the position for five breath cycles, then slowly raise up on an exhale. Straighten your right leg and repeat on the other side.
 The bridge pose helps strengthen your core and lower body to support your spine, as well as helping to lengthen your spine to improve spinal flexibility. You can do a supported modification in which your lower back is supported by a yoga block if you are not yet flexible enough to breathe through this position.Start by lying on your back on the floor with your arms extended down your sides. Walk your feet towards your fingertips. Tuck your shoulders down so that your shoulder blades are lined up along your spine.
On an exhale, lift your hips toward the ceiling, keeping your shoulders and arms flat on the ground. Think of lifting your chest up to meet your chin.
On an inhale, slowly lower your hips back to the floor. Repeat this for five breath cycles.
 You may feel a little silly rolling around on the floor like a child, but this pose provides a good massage for your spine that will help open it up and improve your spinal flexibility over time.Start by lying on your back, and bend your knees, bringing them up toward your chest.
Hug your legs with your arms and breathe deeply. Rock forward and back as well as rolling from side to side to massage your spine. Focus on rocking all the way up and down to cover the entire length of the spine.
 Extended puppy pose is a gentle beginner's yoga pose that will lengthen your spine as well as relaxing your back. Take care with this pose if you have had a recent knee injury.Come onto all fours with your wrists in line with your shoulders and your knees in line with your hips. Curl your toes under so the tops of your feet are resting on the floor, and walk your hands forward a little.
On an exhale, press your hips back toward your heels until your buttocks are at about the halfway point toward resting on your heels. Keep your arms straight out in front of you and reach forward, keeping all but your hands off the floor.
Lower your forehead to the floor and arch your back slightly, feeling a stretch in your spine as you breathe. Hold this pose for five to ten breath cycles, then release your buttocks to your heels to rest in child's pose.

