 To become a Royal Guard, keep in mind that you must be using a Crusader or Paladin class with base level 99 and job level 60; otherwise, the NPC who will give you the quest will tell you that you're still young for the task.;
, Once you reach the qualified level, go to Prontera City. You'll reach the said city by using the Kafra Employee's teleport service.


To get to a Kafra service, check the mini map to the upper-right corner of your screen for an icon that resembles a box or treasure chest. Head there until you find the Kafra NPC (NPC wearing a maid-like uniform). Click the Kafra NPC to open a menu then scroll down the list to find the “Use Teleport Service.” Select “Prontera” for your destination and then press “OK.”
Using a Kafra service is not free. Depending on the traveling distance, the fees range from 800z to 2500z.
 Once you have reached Prontera City, head north and cross the bridge. At the end of the bridge is a portal that links to the Castle of Prontera. Enter the Castle and then walk north again and enter another portal there.
 After going through two rooms north, walk to your left, and there you will see another portal that will lead to one of the rooms in the Castle. There will be a middle-aged man wearing black glasses standing in this room.
 The man will not talk to you if you’re on your Peco Peco. To dismount, open your equipment window (Alt + Q), and there you will see your avatar, including the equipment you wore. Right below your avatar, click the white button with the word “ON” (to switch if OFF) to have your character dismount.
 Click on the middle-aged man to start a conversation, and ask him to introduce himself. He will reveal that he’s Hainrich. In the conversation, Hainrich will ask you a few questions about being a Royal Guard. Choose whatever you see fit; there's no wrong answers at this point.
 Keep on clicking “Next” until Hainrich asks you to do something for him, and in return, he will tell you more about his on-going research.


You will be asked to collect 100 Burning Hearts.
 You can use the the airship in Izlude, southeast of the Prontera, to get to Yuno.
 Exit Yuno through the south portal and travel east to find two portals. Enter the one above the first. Head south to reach the entrance of Magma Dungeon.


Be careful of the monsters as you head to Magma Dungeon.
 Monsters that drop Burning Hearts are Blazer, Lava Golem, Magmaring, Kasa, Explosions, Salamander, Headless Mule, and Kaho.


It would be great if you have a healer assisting you since Magma Dungeon tend to have tougher mobs, not to mention mobs in higher numbers.
 Once you’ve collected 100 Burning Hearts, go back to Prontera and talk to Hainrich again.


As promised, he will tell you the information regarding his research. Choose the option that shows you're interested about his discovery, and then ask him if you can go investigate the traces he found. He will then give you the information and location of these traces.
 By opening your Quest Window (Alt + U), you will find information on the traces, which you can find in Glast Heim.
 In order for you to reach Glast Heim, you can either warp to Geffen using a Kafra service or ask a Priest to warp you there.


If you choose to travel on foot, head to Geffen using a Kafra then exit the city through the west portal. From the second map, continue traveling to west and enter the portal. From the third map, head north and then west to enter the Glast Heim’s gate.
 The Churchyard can be found at the center of Glast Heim. If you look at your mini map at the upper-right of your screen, you will notice a building surrounded with water. Approach the building, climb up the stairs, and there you will find an entrance. Enter the portal to get in the churchyard.


Be careful with the monsters here for they inflict moderate damage.
 In the churchyard, walk north, climb the stairs, continue to the right, and then north until you find an entry to your left, leading you to a room. Enter the room and stand in the center. This will trigger a quest, and a dialogue will appear, activating the trace that was mentioned to you by Hainrich.
 This is the easy part. All you have to do is approach the marks on your mini map, and then right-click the traces to obtain the evidence you need.


Keep in mind that you may get stones on your failed attempts.
 Continue clicking on other traces until you obtain a piece of Cloth of a Saint.
 Once you have the piece of cloth, return to Hainrich in Protera and talk to him.


Remember, always dismount from your Peco Peco whenever you talk to Hainrich; otherwise, he won't honor your conversation.
After talking to Hainrich, he will take the cloth from you and give you the Shield of King.
 You can read the hidden texts on the shield by pressing Alt + U. This will open your quest window where it will state a certain location in Glast Heim.
 Back to Glast Heim, approach the building surrounded with water. This time, however, do not climb the stairs. Walk to the side of the water to your right and continue on until you reach the end. There you will find a beaming light by the bushes.
 These words will appear: “Memory of King Schmidtz.”

, Click on the words and a dialog box will appear with a set of questions; simply choose the best one that shows you're ready to be a Royal Guard.
 After the dialogue, your job will automatically change into Royal Guard.


As reward for your vigilance, you are also given two items: a Green Apple Ring and a Dip Schmidt Helm.

