 This is particularly important for static stretching, which is where you stretch out while stationary. Dynamic stretching, which uses an active motion (like a lunge) to fully engage a body part’s range of motion, is preferred for warming up pre-run.

Although there is some evidence that static stretching can have a negative impact on performance, dynamic stretching has no proven negative effects., Squats will engage much of your core while stretching out your glutes, which are often neglected when it comes to warming up for a run. Watch your form carefully; poor form when squatting, especially when doing weighted squats, can be harmful.Don't get psyched out by exercise terms - "bodyweight" only means that you don't use any extra weights, all you need is your body's weight (like a standard push up).
Generally, when squatting your feet should be about shoulder width apart and facing forward. Focus your eyes in front of you, keep your shoulders back, and maintain a straight spine.
It might take some getting used to, but this motion should be initiated by a folding of your hips into as deep of a squat as is comfortable., A variety of lunges will warm up your lower body best. Do 10 to 20 forward lunges to start with. Follow this up with 10 to 20 more lunges, but twist your torso to the left as you lunge with your left leg, and to the right on your right leg.Once you’re comfortable with the forward lunge and the lunge-twist, try adding 10 to 20 backwards and side lunges to your warmup routine., Mountain climbers will work your legs and torso. A set or two of these work great for breaking up more strenuous warmup exercises. A couple minutes doing this uninterrupted should be enough to warm up.


Add some variety to this exercise by doing the “doubles out” style: instead of kicking legs out one at a time, kick both out on each repetition., Well-stretched hips are important if you want to have the best run. One of the best hip stretches can be performed while on all fours. Keep your back should be straight, your shoulders above your hands, and your eyes be facing down. Fully extend your legs one at a time behind you.

As you reach a full extension with your leg, squeeze with the muscles in your glutes and hold the fully extended position for a few seconds before returning to the neutral position.