 When you are selecting a color for your beard dye, choose a color that is slightly lighter than your natural color. A darker color can appear very bold and may look unnatural. Instead, try a color that is a few shades lighter. You can always darken the beard later if you desire.If you dye your bead too dark the change will look drastic and your new beard color may stand out like a sore thumb.;
, Prior to coloring your beard, test the product on your skin to see if you have an allergic reaction. Mix up a bit of dye and put a dot behind your ear or on your forearm. Let the dye sit on your skin for approximately 24 hours and then wash it off.If you notice any redness, itching, or irritation in the area, then you probably have a sensitivity to the dye.
 If you had an allergic reaction to the dye, then you should use a natural beard dye, such as henna. Henna is a plant-based dye that comes in a variety of colors., A box of beard dye will come with a list of written instructions. Carefully read and follow all of the instructions. They will instruct you on how to mix the dye, apply the dye, and rinse the dye off of your beard.
 In order to prevent you from getting the dye on the skin surrounding your beard, apply a thin layer of Vaseline to this area.For example, you may want to apply Vaseline to your cheeks about your beard and on your neck below your beard. You can also put Vaseline around your ears and sideburns., Depending on the type of dye that you purchased, you may need to mix the dye with water before applying. Follow the instructions carefully. Only use enough dye to cover your beard. Typically, one package of beard dye can be used multiple times., Most beard dye kits will come with an application brush. Use the brush to apply the dye to your beard. Cover all of the hair you want to darken with the dye. Brush along your beard in the same direction that your hair grows. Do not brush against your hair growth.Make sure that you only apply the dye to your beard and avoid touching the skin surrounding your beard.
If the kit did not come with a brush, you can use a toothbrush to apply the dye to your beard.
 Once you have applied the dye to your beard, you will need to wait for the dye to set before rinsing. Wait the minimum suggested time (approximately 5 minutes) and then test a section of the beard to see if you like the color. Use a paper towel to wipe off a small section of dye.If you like the color then you are ready to rinse off the dye. If you would like your beard to be a bit darker, re-apply the dye to the area you tested and let the dye sit for another couple of minutes.
Continue to test until the beard reaches the desired colour.
 Once you are happy with the color, rinse your beard with water until the water is clear. Most dyes are temporary, so the color will begin to fade after a few washes., Depending on the thickness of the your beard and the rate at which your beard grows, you will likely have to touch up your roots. Apply the same color of dye to the roots of your beard as it grows. Typically, this will need to be done about once a week.