;
, For most people, all the stress can be pin pointed to the fear of doing it in front of others. Don't let the confidence of others fool you - every actor, old or young, new or experienced, is uncomfortable with the presence of an audience. And for a good reason. People inevitably will judge you based on your appearance, character, and acting. You are putting yourself out there for the world. But you need to get past that and stop caring about what they think of you.


Imagine this: Stop wanting to change everything about yourself and present yourself to the world. Walk in there, do your best, and if you are not what they're looking for, then that's fine. That's life and you gave them what you had. If they want want you, they'll call you back.
 Think about that. What every you do in the one to two minutes will monopolize everyone else in the room. They are forced to listen to you and respond to what you offer.
 As simple as this sounds, know it in your dreams. Your sleep. You will need a full two weeks or more to memorize it and a week to truly understand it. Don't try to memorize it at first glance, try to understand it. Print out two copies and mark one up with notes about acting and beats or places to pause. The other, color code it with markers into sections. Draw pictures about the sections. Draw the characters, their expressions and body language, the set, imagine it happening on a stage. Make sure you have read the play, and make sure you know all the information about it before it is asked.
 As discussed above, memorizing takes two weeks. Cramming a monologue into short term memory will stress you out more and cause you to forget it easily. There are many memorizing techniques, but perhaps the best for your brain is to start on the first line. Memorize it. And the second, and the third. Then recite them all three times. Move on to the next three or four, memorizing them individually. Recite it from the beginning three times. If you have memorized it, recite it constantly perfectly.
 Exercise, drink lots of water, and do not drink any energy drinks. Get a good night sleep for the energy you will need.
 Every one auditioning will be nervous, but look at it as an opportunity. The window will open for a minute, and it will close.
 Treat the day like any ordinary day, just conserve your energy.
 Study how it will become the environment of the monologue. You will become 1/2 actor and 1/2 your character. Be more of your character than anything.

