 Friendship means spending time together. Even if you are doing a specific activity, conversation is in the mix. Actively listen to what your friends have to say about the topics you discuss.


Focus on what your friend is saying and how it makes her feel. Reiterate what was said and add your interpretation if you feel comfortable doing so. For example, you might say, “Your mom yelled at you. It seems like that made you feel really sad.” Use your body to show you are listening. Look your friend in the eye, turn toward her, and mirror her facial expressions. These are all physical signs that you are truly listening. , If you get into an argument, try to stay calm. Take some time apart so that you don’t retaliate out of anger or frustration. Give yourself some time to think about what went wrong. Take the necessary steps to resolve the conflict. Avoid social media. It is tempting to turn to the internet when you are upset with someone. Remember that your anger will eventually go away, but what you post online is much harder to remove.If you need to get out your frustration over what happened, try writing it in a notebook or journal instead, where no one will see it and you can say whatever you want.
Have a conversation. Take time to reflect on what happened. Find a good time to talk to your friend once you have both had some time to think. Make sure that you are free of distractions and feeling calm when you do meet up.Try saying, “Hey, I’m sorry things are tense between us. I really want work past this. When is a good time for you?”
Acknowledge feelings. Acknowledge both your own feelings and your friend’s feelings. Maybe one or both of you felt hurt or offended. This will help you understand why the conflict happened in the first place. For example, you might say, “I felt angry when you brought up my dad because we’ve been having a lot of fights. Now I see how I made you upset when I made fun of your sister.” , It’s usually easy to understand your friends when you agree on the same topic. You probably became friends because of the things you have in common. In any relationship, however, there are disagreements. Get past disagreements by showing that you understand your friend’s perspective.


Put yourself in your friend’s shoes. Both you and your friend should attempt to see the situation from the other person’s perspective. To do this, you both have to communicate your honest feelings about the situation.Maybe you were feeling down because of a fight you had with your parents. Maybe your friend is sensitive about his sister’s disability. Try to see the situation from his perspective.
 Maybe your friend invited you to an event, but it’s not really your cup of tea. It is okay to put your needs first, and graciously decline the offer. After all, it won’t be fun for either of you if you really don’t want to be there.


Try saying something positive before and after you decline. For example, “It’s so nice of you to invite me on the hiking trip. Unfortunately, I won’t make it. My allergies are bad and I’m not a huge fan of camping. But let’s plan another trip for next month!” , Confront the little things right away. Friendships can get complicated, especially if you have a large group of friends, or if you are simply a part of a big community at school or work. Even the small things, like feeling left out, can put friendships to the test.


Express yourself without adding drama. If a friend posts pictures that make you feel left out, try letting her know without resentment. For example, “Oh man, I wish I had gone to that party. It looked like you guys had so much fun.” , Everyone gets busy, and sometimes schedules, distance, or other obstacles mean you can't see your friends as often as you'd like. Let your friends know you are thinking of them by checking in occasionally — send a text to say hello, that you were thinking of the person, or even just a funny gif you think your friend would like.

Don't always rely on your friend to invite you places or make plans. Be sure you are also initiating hanging out.

