 Begin by picking out a firm potato that is large in size. You will also need to get a knife, some paint or ink, and an item such as paper to stamp on.


While it can be fun to simply stamp on paper, consider purchasing screen printing ink and a piece of clothing, a canvas tote bag, or a dish towel to print on. With these you can make a creative present or a fun new item for yourself.
Instead of a potato you can also use a cork from a wine bottle or a large eraser to make your stamp. Using one of these items will create a stamp that you can use on more than one occasion, while the potato stamp will not last long. These items, however, will not give you as large of a stamp surface as the potato will.;
, Make sure that you cut straight through the center of the potato. It's important that the cut is smooth and flat, so that the stamp will sit flat when stamping.
 Start with a simple design, like a star or a heart, that does not have a lot of interior cuts. It's easier to trim the outside edge of the potato.








You do not need to cut very far into the potato, just deep enough so that the surface is no longer flush.
The design that will actually appear when you use the stamp is the part that you do not cut away, so keep this in mind when cutting.
A good way to successfully cut out your design is to draw it out on the surface and then cut away all areas that are not drawn on.
 If you have a brayer already, use it to spread the paint or ink out evenly. If you do not have a brayer, simply use a knife to spread the paint or ink out as evenly as possible. It does not need to be perfect but should be pretty thin across the whole surface.
 Set the design down directly into the paint. Put a little pressure on the potato but don't exert yourself. The goal it to cover the entire surface of the potato stamp but not to get so much paint or ink into the cuts you made that it builds up to the surface and will transfer when you stamp.









If you think you applied too much paint or ink and the cuts you made are full of it, take the time to dig most of it out with your knife. If all else fails, you can rinse the potato off under a faucet, wipe the excess water off with a towel, and start over with applying your ink or paint.
 Be sure to set your potato stamp directly down on the surface you are stamping on. Try to keep the stamp level while setting it down. Put a small amount of pressure onto the potato stamp but you don't want to press too hard.









If you are stamping onto a relatively non-porous surface, such as a piece of paper, you will have to put very little pressure. If you put too much it could smear the design. If you are stamping on a porous surface, such as a piece of fabric, you can push a little harder.
Remove the stamp in the same manner that you applied it, lifting straight up in order to avoid smearing your design.
 While it's perfectly fine to apply just one stamp, try making a repeating pattern or design.
 It's important to let the paint dry before disturbing the image you have stamped. If you are impatient, try using a hairdryer to get the paint or ink to dry faster.

