 You want your friend’s older brother to think of you romantically and you also want him to like you for you.So, don’t try to act any different or be someone you aren’t to make your friend’s older brother think of you romantically. Just know that if he is going to think of you romantically, then you being yourself will be enough.


If you are normally bubbly and silly, then don’t start trying to act mysterious and quiet because you think your friend’s brother might like it.
Do the things you would normally do when you are around your friend and your friend’s brother.
Remind yourself that your friend’s brother will be more likely to think of you romantically if he doesn’t think you’re fake.
You could say to yourself, “It’ll be easier for him to like me if I just act like me.”;
, You can make your friend’s older brother think of you romantically if you look nice when you are around him.You don’t have to do a total makeover or buy a new wardrobe – you still want to look like you and show him your personality. You can, however, make sure that you make a good impression when you are around your friend’s older brother.


Make sure your hair is combed, your face is washed, your clothes are clean, and you smell good.
Make sure you dress appropriately, though. You don’t need to look out of place or feel uncomfortable just to get your friend’s brother to look at your romantically.
For example, if you are meeting at your friend’s house so you two can go jogging, don’t wear an outfit you would wear out for a special occasion.
Just wear an outfit that is clean, fits, matches, and good for sweating in when you meet up with your friend.
 Your friend’s older brother will be more likely to notice you and possibly think of you romantically if you show him your personality by being confident around him.Remind yourself that you are an interesting, exciting person and that you can be confident around your friend’s older brother.


Hold your head up, stand up straight, and relax your shoulders to show that you are confident.
Smile and look your friend’s older brother in the eyes when you are talking to him– it’s a great way to show that you’re confident.
For example, when you go to your friend’s house, stand up straight, smile, and look your friend’s brother in the eyes when you say hi.
Use a clear, confident voice when you are talking. Don’t whisper – but, don’t yell either. Just speak in a normal, calm tone of voice.
For instance, if your friend’s older brother is picking you guys up from dance class, you could smile and say, “Hey, Josh. Thanks for picking us up” in a clear voice.
 It will be hard for your friend’s older brother to think of you romantically if you start giggling and saying, “OMG!” every time he’s around you. Being calm and mature when you see him will help him see you as more than just his younger sibling’s friend. Remember that being mature is not the same as trying to act older than you are. Acting mature means acting your age.


When you see your friend’s brother, calmly smile and say “Hi, How are you?”
Remind yourself that staying calm and showing how mature you are will help your friend’s brother see you as a person and not just as his sibling’s friend.
You might say to yourself, “If I relax and act my age, he’ll be able to see my great qualities and might think of me romantically.
For example, if you happen to see your friend’s brother at the mall, don’t run up to him and start jumping up and down in excitement.
Instead, take a deep breath, calmly walk up to him, and say, “Hi, Bruce! What are you doing out here?”

