 Even if you’re not really into some of the things your boyfriend is into, try to at least show some interest in the type of music, movies, books, sports, or other things that he cares about. It'll give you something to talk about and bond over when together.Get up to speed by reading the same books or listening to the same bands.
Ask him to pick your next movie or concert outing rather than preferring your own.
If your boyfriend is big on sports, try to stay current with his favorite team and known when they are playing. You can score some big impression point by offering to turn on the game without him even having to bring it up himself.
Knowing which sports or hobbies he’s into is also a big help for gift ideas. Impress him with a little gift themed around his favorite pastime or biggest passion.
Pay attention to what songs he likes and make him a mixed CD or playlist around all of his favorites.Throw a couple of new songs in there too, that are similar to his favorites. You’ll impress him doubly for your attention to his tastes, and for your audiophile knowledge.
 Many relationship experts agree that it's important for significant others to get along with each others friends. Show your boyfriend that you can appreciate, respect, and even like his friends, even if they are not your friends.If you’re all out together, offer to pick up the first round of drinks for your BF's friends, or offer to have them over for a party at your place.Laugh at their jokes, talk about their hobbies, anything that shows his friends you dig them. They'll dig you back and your boyfriend will be much more impressed and into you if you get the thumbs-up from his bros.
Remember, your boyfriend wants his friends to like you, but to fall in love with you. If any of his friends start to get a bit flirty, keep your distance.
Be open and accepting of any opposite-sex friends that your boyfriend might have. Being overly jealous of his platonic friends will make him untrusted. You’ll impress him more by being supportive of his friendships rather than suspicious of them., You’ll really make a lasting impression on your boyfriend by taking an active interest in people who are important in his life, especially his family.


Impressing the parents and family of your partner can be a huge hurdle, but you can score some early and easy points with your boyfriend by just taking a simple interest in knowing about his family, his siblings, and his childhood experiences.
Ask to see old family photos, or to hear some stories of what your boyfriend was like as a kid. All of this goes towards showing your BF that you care about him and those he cares about.
 If your boyfriend brings you along as his “Plus One” to a party or function be a good sidekick by not stealing the spotlight from him. Rather, bring up good stories that show his virtues and set him up to shine in front of others. This will make him look good, and you extra good in his eyes., Recent relationship studies have found that acknowledging the little things your boyfriend does can go a long way in strengthening your bond.


Let your beau know he’s done good, especially when he’s making an effort to help you out; for example, by fixing something around the house for you, or offering to pick something up from the store.
Tell him thank you especially when he’s done something without you having to ask him first. It’ll impress him that you noticed and recognize that he was self-motivated.Brag about something nice he recently did for you in front of his friends or yours, with him present., It’s really meaningful to have someone there for you, and it’ll impress your BF if you can be his rock when things get rocky for him.


Be there in the ways that he needs, whether that’s just listening, offering advice, or offering to help make things better.Remember to talk with and about him, not just at him. Give him a chance to speak and vent about things that are important to him, instead of talking about yourself. If he the quiet type, know and respect that. Give him space and support from a quiet distance. He'll really appreciate it and you.,


Let your guy know that you understand his need to have person time, either just relaxing by himself or catching up with his other friends.
This will go a long way towards impressing your BF by showing him that you’re not controlling or clingy., Let him know that you think he’s funny by laughing at his jokes and sharing a chuckle at things he finds funny. Laughter isn’t just the best medicine, but an important thing for couples to share and bond over., When you're spending time together, put away the phone, don't rush to check your messages, and don't seem too involved with social media.


You want his to feel like he's the most important person, especially when you're out on a date or enjoying alone time together.
Play it cool with social media; you'll impress him a lot more is you're not always having to write on his page, or check-in on what he doing every minute.
Wait a bit before calling or texting, unless he needs you. You don’t want to look overly eager, clingy, or controlling.