 Younger people look older when they have brown skin - older people look younger with a little color. You don't want to become sunburned, though.;
, It would be weird if you went from totally tomboy to extremely girly-girl. Everyone will think that you're trying too hard, or they will think that this is just a weird un-mature thing you have going on. Make little changes. It will look like you didn't even try to be different.
 People who have a nice way of speaking sound both smarter and more mature. People will also think that you've been together with other friends because of your changed way of speaking. You can change your articulation by putting a bottle stopper in your mouth and trying to talk and sing. After a short amount of time, you will have a very nice voice

, For example, if you never wear nail polish, then try with a bright color. If you often wear colors like pink, then consider buying a black or darker nail-polish.
 This is quite hard to do. Maybe you have an aunt who gave you earrings from Africa? Or perhaps your father went to Hollywood and bought you a pair of shoes with the American flag? Consider buying clothing items that actually are from far away over the internet. Keep in mind that it's a little more expensive to have sent to your country.
 Swipe it to one side, curl it or have it straight. Anything that's different. If you do that, don't change so many other things, since the hair makes a huge difference. You could also get a haircut. Shorter hair makes you look more mature.
 If you want to look skinnier, you could wear a tight clothing item that's been made to put under your clothes that makes you look skinnier. Darker colors make you look both skinnier and older. Or perhaps you want to look like you've put on a little weight. Then go for the color white (since other bright colors can make you look childish). Don't wear baggy clothes, but wear something without any cleavage - something that does not show the collarbones.
 Notice the details. Do you shake your shoulders? Does your back curve? Do you look down all the time, or do you shake your arms too much? Make it look better, and then practise all summer.
 If you usually buy pink notebooks and cute everything, consider buying office-like stationary and pens. It will make you look like an adult. Or if you usually go with boring grey items, try lots of colors.

