 Euphorbia benefits from being pruned often, especially after flowering. When the plant begins flowering, cut back euphorbia stems at the base. Trim back any damaged stems to keep the plant tidy and healthy, especially if your plant displays signs of root rot.

In autumn, cut the plant back to the ground to avoid frost killing it. Your euphorbia will grow back in the spring., Euphorbia can survive in drought, but watering often will keep your plant healthy. During warm seasons, especially the summer, water weekly or whenever the soil is dry several inches below the surface. Water the plant deeply, but don't let it sit in wet soil in case of root rot.The best time to water euphorbia in warm weather is the evening. Less water will evaporate, and plants take up more water when the temperature is cool. In the winter months, early morning watering can provide similar benefits., If your plant's root system gets too wet, the plant may develop root rot. Signs of root rot include drooping flowers or a brown, soft plant neck. Cut off the affected parts to save the plant from root rot, and ease up on watering as the plant heals.Most Euphorbia varieties do not need to be watered daily.
Plants in late stages of root rot must be destroyed. If the browning has spread to most of your euphorbia, dispose of it and propagate a new plant.
 Mildewing is the most common fungal disease for succulents, and it appears as a powdery white film. If your plant doesn't get enough sunlight or ventilation, the damp conditions can grow mildew. Use a fungicide marketed for roses ornamental plants, as general purpose fungicides are unsafe for euphorbia plants.Isolate infected Euphorbia as soon as possible to avoid mildew spreading to other plants.
 Bug problems need to be caught early before they damage your plant. Mealybugs and spider mites are the most common pests for Euphorbia. To kill mealybugs or spider mites, fill a spray bottle with 70% isopropyl alcohol. Spray the alcohol directly on the pests, checking back every one to two days to kill surviving pests.Mark your spray bottle carefully and keep it next to your plant, as isopropyl alcohol can be toxic.
Mealybugs are small, oval-shaped insects covered with a white, powdery coating.Spider mites are miniscule, reddish-brown arachnids that are generally no larger than the period at the end of this sentence.