 Is this your first kite? Have you any sort of experience with kites before? Are you seeking to upgrade an old kite? If you're buying a kite as a present for someone else, keep their abilities in mind. You should also decide how often the kite is going to be used. If a kite flier flies the kite once a month, is it really necessary to buy an expensive kite? Make sure you know how long a kite will hold the fliers attention, as this is a good way to figure out your price range.;
, However, deciding between a two line kite and a one line kite is just as important as deciding between a diamond kite and a dragon kite. Here is an informal list of kite types:



Single-line kites: This is by far the most popular style of kite. These kites have a single string connecting the kite to the winder. Single-line kites are the kites of choice for young fliers, as they are easy to fly and maintain. Older buyers shouldn't dismiss this category. Single line kites can be just as fun as any other variety. Single line kites are the cheapest variety of kites.

Dual-line kites: The jump from one line to two lines is quite a big one. Dual line kites can be steered in air, and are now considered "stunt kites". Younger buyers might not appreciate the tangle of strings, but older buyers will enjoy this "step up". For a first time stunt kite buyer, dual-line kites are a must.

Quad-line kites: This type of kite is only for buyers who have flown a dual-line kite before. Four lines kites are out of the question for younger buyers: They are expensive, and keeping track of the strings will diminish the fun. However, experienced kite fliers will relish in the added control. This might very well be the kite for you if you can handle the steep learning curve.
 Now you can really customize the kite to your preference. The list of kite types is truly enormous, so you must decide the finer details. However, here is a list of some overall kite types:



Beginner kites: This category includes everything from box kites, to dragon kites. These kites are generally single-line kites that come in a huge variety of shapes and sizes. Generally, beginner line kites use single sheets of material, and are fairly simplistic in shape. This group is appropriate for all ages, as there is a plethora of styles to choose from.

Stunt Kites: If you want that extra degree of control, consider getting a stunt kite. Stunt kites always have two lines or more. Stunt kites fly very well, and usually are made with a single layer of material. Keep in mind that first time fliers of stunt kites will crash their kites, so you may want to look into something more durable.

Power-foil kites: Power-foils (or para-foil) are technically stunt kites. However, it's easier to think of them as their own group, due to the uniqueness of their design. Power-foils are made of two layers of material (like a sandwich), and have no hard frame. If you crash a power-foil, the kite will just crumple with minimal damage. This might seem great for a younger child, but buyer beware. These kites exert a huge amount of force on the flier, even possibly lifting them off their feet. Keep this in mind when buying a power-foil.

Line laundry and art kites: If you are a true aficionado, then you might want to look into buying a line laundry or art kite. Line laundry "kites" really aren't kites but pieces of material that fly themselves. The usually are attached to some fixture on the ground (like a car, or even another kite), and fly without direct flier control. Generally it's best to have another kite to fly, and keep the line laundry as a pretty distraction. Art kites are basically line laundry that you can control. Art kites come in a wide variety of shapes and sizes, and like line laundry, are usually quite expensive. For the first time buyer, they really aren't necessary or even practical. However, if you can afford them, they are quite good at grabbing attention.
 There are literally hundreds of stores to buy kites from. If you've found your kite, and figured out your price range, the buy it. It's now time to find a windy day, and let the kite soar up into the sky.

