 Make sure any new cat you want to bring home is up to date on her shots and veterinary exams. If you’re adopting a cat from a rescue, then you’ll likely receive this documentation with the cat. If you’re taking in a stray, then you should absolutely take her to the vet before bringing her into your house. Sick cats can potentially transmit diseases to you or your loved ones, and they’re more likely to be aggressive, which can result in injury.
 New owners, a new environment, and a disruption to the cat’s previous routine are all triggers for a fearful response from a cat. In an effort not to overwhelm the cat, isolate her to one room as she adjusts to her new home. Place her food, water, toys, and litter box all in the same area, as well as her carrier where she can hide.Leave the door open, so she can explore at her own pace, but don’t try to force her away from this space.
 Bonding over food is always a safe bet with cats. You want her to begin associating you with delicious food and treats.Don’t try to feed her by hand though. Make noise with the food bag or bag of treats so she knows you have something good for her, and then place the dish down and sit close by. Over the course of many repetitions, move closer to the dish without looking at the cat or trying to pet her. Simply help her acclimate to you being in the same space.
 Playing with a cat is another great way to bond.Don’t attempt to touch the cat. Instead, buy wand toys with dangling feathers or catnip toys attached. These will allow you to play with your cat at a distance that is more comfortable for her.


If she won’t come out of her carrier at first, try dangling the toy near the entrance and making it jiggle for several minutes to see if you can entice her out. If not, try again later.
 As you start trying to make actual contact with your cat, ensure that you allow her to approach you above all.As she gets curious and begins getting closer to you and sniffing in your general direction, you can slowly put your hand out and see if she’ll get close enough to sniff you directly. Always wait for her to rub up against you first initially, and don’t get frustrated if she backs away when you pet her.


To help increase her curiosity, sit near your cat, avoid eye contact, and talk to her in a soothing voice.Never chase your cat or try to drag her out of her hiding places.This will only stress her out and lead to another fearful response.
 Even cats that have bonded with their owners for years often do not like being picked up.You can find out if your cat minds you picking her up in due time, but never test it while you’re still in the process of acclimating her to you and your home.
 Rather than pushing your luck with your cat and risking her running away, let her set the pace and end each training session on a positive note with a treat. Just as you let her approach you and brush up against you, let her decide when to walk away as well. Don’t try to force the bonding session to last longer than your cat wants.
 Remember that your cat will adjust on her schedule, not yours. Having the patience to continuously show her that you are calm and safe goes a long way. Some cats may warm to you in days whereas others may take months. Cats enjoy routine, so stay consistent with providing her food, treats, and playtime, and she will eventually bond with you enough to approach you and sit on your lap.
 If your new cat continues to hiss, growl, or even bite and scratch at you despite your best efforts to bond with her, then call a local cat behavior specialist.A specialist may be capable of helping to determine anything wrong with your approach, as well as offering additional advice on how to proceed.


If your cat shows aggressive behavior that you fear might be a danger to you or others in your household, then isolate her to one room until you can contact the specialist.If she actually manages to bite or scratch you, then wash the area well and apply an antibiotic ointment. Also, ensure that you see a doctor at the first sign of a possible infection.