 In order to run a good business, you will need to keep a ledger of your sales and expenses. Always make a mark of the item you sell, price you sold it for, and your total profit on this item. Then, at the end of every month you can tally these totals and watch how your shop grows over time.


If you are a visual person, you can create graphs using the information you gather from your sales.
If you have receipts from your sales/purchases, keep them all on file together so that you don’t lose track of anything you may have bought or sold.
 You can advertise your product and shop without ever even leaving Etsy. Promote your items by paying a fee of $7.00 to have them be the first to show up in search results, comment on Etsy blog posts with your shop URL, and contact other shop owners for advice and opinions.


Join an Etsy team - a group of other sellers on Etsy with common interests. You will be able to ask questions, exchange advice, and give opinions about the buying/selling/marketing process.
 Just adding items to your shop and leaving it will likely leave you without viewers, and therefore buyers. In order to make your products known to the world, it is necessary to use other social media platforms to advertise your product. Advertise your shop via platforms like Facebook, Pinterest, Twitter, Tumblr, Instagram, and blogs.


Create a Facebook page for your shop and update it to look professional and organized. Include information about new items that you listed, the process you use to make your products, and changes in policies or your shop format.
Write your own blog with a tab related to your Etsy business, or advertise your Etsy business on other popular blogs. Make sure that you have a button leading to your Etsy shop that looks professional and is easy to use.
Use a pinterest account to upload photos of your Etsy products for anyone to see. Using tags via this website will also allow anyone to search the site for products similar to yours.
Don’t overwhelm yourself using too many social media platforms. Using three at most will likely be all that you need to adequately promote your shop and bring in new customers.
 Although your shop isn't brick and mortar, you can still advertise it in-person. Create business cards, tell your friends and family, and advertise at local bulletin boards and boutiques. If you are passionate and excited about your products in person, other people will be too.
 If you want to advertise to a new audience, contact a popular blog that focuses on items and shopkeepers similar to your business. Offer to donate an item for a giveaway or give a specific discount to all the readers of the blog in exchange for being given a featured post. Although this will cost you money in the short-run, you may build a larger customer base and grow your business and income over time by doing so., In order to keep your stock fresh and varied, add new and different items every few weeks for buyers to look at. This will give new options to old buyers (which increases buyer interest) while simultaneously building up your inventory.


Don’t forget that all Etsy items expire automatically every three months. You can renew your items by visiting the settings tab on your shop’s page.

