 Mild to moderate exercises such as walking or stretching can improve your immune system, which reduces the recovery period and alleviates cold symptoms. Regular exercises also reduce the risk of infection over the long term. A daily 30 to 45 minute workout with moderate intensity exercises such as brisk walking, jogging and swimming is recommended. Try to avoid intensive training when you have a cold, fever or headache.Consider consulting with a physician or fitness instructor to help create a personalized fitness plan if you have certain heart, respiratory or bone-related conditions.
 Place one hand on your chest and the other on your belly. Take a slow, deep breath, sucking in as much air as you can. As you're doing this, your belly should push against your hand. Hold your breath and then slowly exhale.Some studies suggest that practicing relaxation techniques on a regular basis may help reduce the duration of a cold or the flu., Tai chi is a gentle exercise program that is a part of Traditional Chinese Medicine (TCM). It is composed of slow, deliberate movements, meditation, and deep breathing, which enhance physical health and emotional well being. Many practitioners recommend practicing tai chi for about 15 to 20 minutes twice daily at home, since regular practice is essential for mastering the forms and achieving lasting results.Before beginning a tai chi program, you should check with your doctor and discuss your health needs with the tai chi instructor.
 Yoga is a mind-body therapy that improves fitness, lowers blood pressure, promotes relaxation and self-confidence, and reduces stress and anxiety. It uses physical postures, breathing exercises, and meditation to improve overall well-being. As with any physical activity, yoga can cause injury if not done correctly. It’s important to practice yoga with a trained teacher.Be sure to check with your doctor before trying yoga if you have high blood pressure, heart disease, arthritis, or a recent back injury.
 Set the humidity in your home between 30% and 55% using a gauge called a humidistat, which you can buy from most hardware stores. If the humidity in your home is too high, mold and dust mites may thrive, both of which are common causes of allergies. Mold also causes an unpleasant smell and can discolor surfaces. If the humidity falls too low, it may cause dry eyes, throat and sinus irritations.Dry air can make it harder for mucus to drain from the nasal passages, prolonging congestion. Using a humidifier in your bedroom or living room adds moisture to the air to prevent dehydration, help clear your sinuses and soothe your throat.
Both portable and central humidifiers must be cleaned thoroughly. Otherwise, they can become contaminated with mold and bacterial growth that may be blown through the house. Stop the humidifier and call your healthcare provider if you develop any respiratory symptoms that you feel are related to the use of a humidifier.
 Using an air purifier or ionizer may help to keep allergens such as mold, dust, and pollen out of your air.Filtering these particles out of the air may improve your household air quality and make it easier for you to recover from a cold.


Air purifiers help clear the air of allergens that can irritate your nose and throat. They also keep your house smelling nice and clean.
 For a natural humidifier, consider getting a houseplant. Due to a process called transpiration, in which water vapor is released from the flowers, leaves and stems, plants can help regulate indoor humidity. Indoor plants also help clear the air of carbon dioxide and other pollutants such as benzene, formaldehyde and trichloroethylene, which may otherwise irritate your nose and throat.Good indoor plants include aloe vera, bamboo palm, weeping fig, chinese evergreen, and various species of philodendron and dracaena.
 Cigarette smoke can irritate nasal tissue, often leading to frequent headaches and chronic coughing, also known as “smoker’s cough”. This can increase the duration and severity of your cold. Try to avoid secondhand smoke and other hazardous fumes which can also cause irritation and discomfort. Ask your doctor about ways to reduce and quit smoking.Smoking deprives your body of the oxygen needed to repair and build cells. Smoking narrows the blood vessels that carry blood to the leg and arm muscles and to the brain, which can cause many respiratory and heart illnesses, difficulty breathing, and even stroke.