 If your dog has gunk or discharge draining from her eyes, you first need to make sure it’s not a sign of a serious health problem. Make an appointment with your veterinarian to determine the cause of the discharge before addressing the problem on your own. While you should evaluate your dog for symptoms, you should never rely on your own assessment of the problem.


Take notes on your dog’s symptoms and bring them with you to the vet visit.
If it appears something is lodged in your dog’s eye, visit the emergency vet immediately.;
, Brachycephalic breed breeds including pugs, bulldogs, boxers, and Pekingese are more likely to have eye discharge because of their flat faces, protruding eyes, and shallow eye sockets, and can suffer from issues with tear drainage and/or eyelids that don’t function properly. Saint Bernards, terriers, beagles, cocker spaniels, and bloodhounds have loose skin on their faces and, as a result, have eyelids that are more likely to roll outward. These breeds are also more susceptible to cherry eye, a condition where the gland in your dog’s eyelid slips out of its original position., Excessive tearing, or epiphora, can result in stained, stinky, and/or infected fur and skin. If your pooch’s eyes are watery and teary, she could have epiphora. There are many conditions that cause epiphora, including allergies, ulcers on your dog’s cornea, inflammation, abnormal eyelashes, tumors, glaucoma, and poor drainage of the eye by the tear ducts.If you think your dog is suffering from epiphora, take her to see the vet as soon as possible.
 If your dog has yellow or green pus, mucus, or watery discharge draining from her eyes, it could be a sign that she is suffering from conjunctivitis. Conjunctivitis is when the lining of your dog’s eye becomes inflamed. It can be caused by a number of factors including allergies, distemper, tumors, injury, birth defects, dry eye, tear duct problems or foreign matter.If your dog is showing symptoms of conjunctivitis, take her to the vet immediately.
 If your dog’s eye discharge is sticky and persistent, dry eye could be the culprit. Mucus and inflammation are characteristics of dry eye in dogs. Dry eye can be caused by injury to the tear-producing gland, autoimmune response, or distemper. If your dog has dry eye, she is at serious risk for infection and/or ulcers on her cornea. If it looks like your dog is suffering from dry eye, make an appointment with her vet to get to the root of the issue and prevent future problems like infection.