 Type *#06# into your keypad. A screen will appear showing the IMEI number. Make note of this number for later use.;
, If you've met your carrier's requirements, you will be provided an unlock code. In some cases, the network provider won't supply the unlocking code till you have kept contract with them for a certain number of months (6 to 12 months). Your phone will need to have been completely paid off in order to receive the code from your carrier.
 Look for a website that offers unlock code service. There are several websites available on the Internet where you can get your phone’s unlock code for free or with a small amount of fee. Make sure to read reviews on the site to ensure that it is legitimate.


Avoid free unlock code sites, as they are usually scams. Any site that requires you to complete surveys or participate in affiliate programs will likely not be able to provide you with a working code.
Provide your phone’s information. These websites need to know your Galaxy S2’s IMEI code, the phone model of your unit, and the network carrier your phone is locked in to. Supply these details in order for the website to process your request.
Provide your email address. Make sure that the email address you provide is active; this is where the website will send your phone’s unlock key.
Check your email. After providing the necessary information and paying, the website will send you your phone’s unlock key to the email address you provided within 1-48 hours from time of request. Sometimes you can get the code in less than 30 minutes.
 Once you have received your unlock code, power down your phone, remove the back from your S2, and take out the battery. Remove the old SIM card from the slot and insert the SIM card from your new carrier.
 When you turn your phone back on, you will be prompted for your unlock code when the phone tries to connect to the new network. Ensure that you are in the coverage area for your new network, and then enter in the code you received from your carrier or the online reseller. After entering the code, you should be able to use your phone on the new network.


After unlocking your phone, you can change SIM cards whenever you'd like without having to enter the code again.

