 Give the Chihuahua (adult or puppy) plenty of chances to visit the toilet spot. Even if you have a dog flap, you need to be proactive and take the dog out and put him or her on the spot. The dog won't automatically know that's where you want it to go to the bathroom without being shown.For a puppy, take him or her out every 20 minutes when its awake. If the dog toilets, then be enthusiastic and give it a treat. If it doesn't toilet, bring him or her back inside and try again 20 minutes later, but keep an extra vigilant eye on it in the meantime. You want to spot if he or she attempts to squat indoors so you can scoop it up and take it outside.Crates are a great boon when house training because it acts as the dog's den and instinct makes it less likely to soil its den. However, do not crate for hours at a time. Remember the crate should be a dog's safe place not a prison, so alternate crating with play and time on the leash.
For an adult Chi, take him or her out hourly. Set an alarm to remind you each hour.
 Food in the stomach triggers a reflex that causes the dog to move its bowel around 15 - 30 minutes after eating. Make use of this reflex by popping the Chihuahua outside after meals and waiting with him or her until it performs.Do not leave the dog unattended at the toilet spot or you will miss the magic moment and lose the chance to reward it.
 Make sure all family members know and use the same word, otherwise your Chihuahua will get confused. Once your Chihuahua has finished going to the bathroom, be sure to praise it and give a treat. This helps him or her to associate going to the toilet with that specific area and makes it eager to return there.


Activate a dog-training clicker while the dog is going to the bathroom. This makes a click-clack noise that gets associated with getting a reward. By making a click-clack whilst the dog is toileting, it marks the exact moment of the behavior you are committing to reward. Now say your cue word "Toilet."
Each time the dog goes to the toilet, click-clack and "Toilet." Over time the dog will associate the cue word "Toilet" with the action of peeing or pooping and know it has done a good thing.
The final step is to take the dog to the toilet spot and just say the cue word "toilet." The dog now knows you want him or her to defecate and will attempt to do so in order to earn a reward. If the dog doesn't try, then you have gone a step too far and will need to go back to waiting for him or her to go to the bathroom, click-clack, and say the cue word. Try the advanced stage again a few days later.
This is especially handy when it's pouring with rain or freezing out.
 However, downplay removing the puppy from its crate and keep things low key so that he or she isn't rewarded with attention that would encourage wakefulness and play.


Merely scoop the Chihuahua up and without speaking to it take it out to the toilet spot. The dog's bladder will be full so it should urinate. As soon as its finished bring it back in, pop it into its crate or bed, and settle back down to sleep yourself. All of this should be done without interacting so that he or she understands it's strictly toilet time and not play.

