 Humidifiers are available at many department stores and are easy to use. Cool-mist humidifiers decrease the pain of a sore throat and alleviate nighttime coughing because they keep the inside of your child’s nose and throat moist.If you don’t own a humidifier, replicate the moistening action in your bathroom. Close the door, turn the hot water on in the shower, and let the room steam up. Relax with your child in the steamy room for about 20 minutes. The soothing and moistening actions will make breathing easier and more comfortable., Young children usually do not know how to blow their nose, so you need to clean their nose for them. The saline moistens the inside of the nose and breaks up mucus a little, so that you can suction the mucus out with the bulb syringe. Tilt your child’s head back a little and use an eyedropper to squirt 1-2 drops of saline into each nostril. Squeeze the bulb, pushing the air out, and gently put the tip of the syringe into one nostril. Release the squeeze on the bulb, and mucus from the nose should get sucked into the syringe.Do this before bed and up to four times daily.
Make sure the syringe is clean before putting it in your child’s nose.
 Coughing often gets worse at night because mucus accumulates in the throat as your child is lying flat. Elevate your child’s head with a few pillows placed under their back, shoulders and neck. This can make it easier for them to sleep.For babies, prop the mattress up with pillows to avoid pillows in the crib, which can pose a suffocation risk.
 Petroleum jelly won’t help a cough, but you can make your child more comfortable by rubbing a little under their nose or on other chapped or irritated skin.
 While your child is sick, anything irritating to the nose, throat or lungs can make their cough worse. Avoid strong scents in the home like incense or air fresheners, keep pollen outside where it belongs, and do not smoke around your child. Exposure to smoke can cause asthma in children and can keep them sick for longer.Even exposure to second-hand smoke from your clothes or hair can worsen your child’s cough or breathing problems. If you do smoke, do so outside away from your child, change clothes when you come inside (or have a big overcoat you wear specifically for smoking to protect your clothes) and tie back or cover long hair to prevent it bringing smoke into the home.
 Sometimes the best way to treat a child's cough without medication is with extra love in addition to other home remedies. Your toddler will appreciate the added affection, and you will be better able to monitor changes in temperature and demeanor and act accordingly.

