 One trick you can use is to put regular nail polish on before the glow-in-the-dark variety. You will want to paint your nails with a regular nail polish or nail polish base first.


This will make it easier to remove the glow-in-the-dark nail polish later if you want to do so.
It will also help people see it. It’s a good idea to choose a lighter color base, or you will need to apply more coats of the glow-in-the-dark nail polish.
Choose neutral colors. White is a good choice, or just a clear gloss or light beige color.
 Now you’re ready to put the glow-in-the-dark nail polish on your fingernails. This can be a great idea for Halloween!


You might need three to four coats of the polish for the effect to take its full effect. Apply a coat, let it dry, and then apply another coat.
You may need fewer coats, perhaps as few as two, if you’ve used a lighter nail polish color like white as the base.
It will take your nail polish a little longer to dry than normal, so make sure that you don’t touch anything for awhile or you could ruin your nails.
 Now that you’ve put the glow-in-the-dark nail polish on, you’re ready to check out the effects!You could test out the glowing effect in a dark room if you’re too excited to wait until it’s actually dark outside.
The effect isn’t going to last forever. The glowing effect on your nails will probably only last for a couple of hours.
You could always reapply more polish if you notice the glowing effect starting to wear off.
 You’re going to need a black light in order to make the highlighter glow, and some highlighters won’t work. However, it's possible to use some highlighters to make your nails glow!


Yellow highlighter is a good choice because it usually does glow. You can check the highlighter under a black light before you paint your nails.
Apply a base of nail polish before applying the highlighter to your nails. This is because highlighter will stain your nails.
Use the highlighter pens to draw on your nails. Then put your nails under black light for a few seconds. Apply a top coat of clear nail polish to seal the look.
