 For this battery you’ll need some copper wire, 15 sheet metal screws, an ice cube tray, and water.In addition, you’ll need a pair of scissors, a voltage meter, and two electrical lead wires with alligator clips at both ends. You’ll wrap each screw in copper except for one, which you will use as a negative terminal (to which you will attach one of the lead wires once the battery is complete).


How many screws you use will depend on how many ice cubes your tray is meant to hold. The tray in this example can hold 14 ice cubes.
As long as they aren’t copper, you can use any type of metal screw. Zinc-coated (galvanized) or aluminum work well.As for size, aim for screws that are around one inch in length.
 Wrap a piece of copper wire two times around the top of each screw, just beneath its head. After wrapping the wire around a screw, use your finger to bend the wire into a hook. You’ll use this hook to clip the screw to the edge of its ice cube tray compartment.


You can either pre-cut the copper wire into pieces long enough to wrap around each screw (with a bit extra for the hooks), or you can work with it long, cutting it as you finish each screw.
 Each ice cube hole will act as a single cell in your battery. Affix one screw to the edge of each cell. Ensure that there is only one screw in each cell.
 On one end of the tray, hook a piece of copper wire to the outer edge of one of the cells. On the same end of the tray, place a screw in the cell next to the one in which you just placed the copper wire. Ensure that the screw sits above the rim of the tray, as you will need to attach a lead wire to it.
 Ensure that the cells are full enough that the copper wire hooks and screws are touching the water.
 Attach one lead wire to the copper wire terminal using its alligator clip. Then, attach a different lead wire to the screw terminal, again using its alligator clip.


Be careful not to let the alligator clips touch the water.
It doesn’t matter which color attaches to which terminal.
 Attach the other ends of the lead wires to your voltage meter. The 14-cell battery that you've just made should measure roughly 9 volts.
 You can boost the voltage of your battery by switching your conductive solution to saltwater, vinegar, bleach, lemon juice, or lime juice, or by using more copper.