 Making the decision to live without spending money is life-changing, particularly if you are living with and/or supporting others. You may find it helpful to start small and go for a week or month without spending money to see if the cash-free life is for you. There are many ways to cut spending in your daily life, and even if you don’t decide to go totally cashless, these techniques will help you save money.


If you live in an area where walking or biking to work is feasible, you could avoid your commute and its expenses (gas, tolls, parking, car maintenance) by choosing self-powered transportation. Plus, it’s great for boosting fitness!
Try going for a week without buying any groceries. Use only the foods you currently have in your pantry and fridge to make meals. Many websites are available to help you create meals from ingredients you already have on hand.If you enjoy going out for entertainment, find free entertainment in your area. Your local newspaper’s website will usually have listings of free activities and events. In addition to books and free internet, public libraries often have movies you can check out for free. Going for a walk or spending the evening playing games with friends or family is always free.
www.moneyless.org is an online database of useful tips and tricks for pursuing a cash-free existence.;
, If you’re a single person, living without money will be much easier to manage than if you have a family. Because living cash-free is a huge commitment, you will want to make sure that your essential needs can still be met without money.


For example, if you or a family member tend to require frequent medical care or prescription medications, living without money may not be a good option for you.
If you live in an extreme climate, such as a place that is very hot or very cold, it may not be safe to live without some temperature control. This is especially true if your family includes small children or elderly persons, who are more prone to heat- and cold-related illnesses and fatalities., Whether you want to take up a nomadic lifestyle such as the German cash-free liver Heidemarie Schwermer or live completely off the grid in a cave like Daniel Suelo, reading what the experience of living without money has been like for others will help you decide whether you’re up for the challenge.



The Moneyless Man: A Year of Freeconomic Living by Mark Boyle is a first-person account of living without money. He has also written blogs, a book called The Moneyless Manifesto, and established a low-cost living website called Streetbank.

The Man Who Quit Money by Mark Sundeen is a biography of Daniel Suelo, a man who has lived without money for over 14 years.
The 2012 documentary film, Living Without Money, documents the life of Heidemarie Schwermer, a German woman who has been living without cash since the 1990s.
 Some things that make living without spending money easier, such as vegetable gardens, solar power grids, composting toilets, and water wells, require upfront investment. The financial rewards of reducing or even eliminating most of your household bills are significant, but may not happen overnight.


If you live in an urban area and/or don’t own your home, your options for some of these things may be reduced. You should do some research to understand what is feasible for you.
 For example, if you require prescription medication, you should not simply stop spending money on it; consult a physician before stopping any medication. If you cannot or do not want to sell your house, you will need to continue making mortgage payments to avoid foreclosure and eviction.


If you decide to keep a job, you will need to continue to pay taxes.
In the United States, all adults are now required to carry health insurance under the Affordable Care Act mandates.Depending on how much income you make in a year (the threshold is currently $10,000 a year, but may change), you may be required to either pay for health insurance or pay a penalty.

