 If you are pulling a stuck vehicle out of sand, mud or snow from the back you may choose to attach the rope to the vehicle at the tow hitch. Run the rope around the tow hitch, but not the ball itself. Instead, wrap the rope around the entire hitch and hook it to itself.If the tow rope does not have a hook, use a bowline knot to secure it.
Rope may slip off the tow hitch if you secure it only to that.
Most tow ropes are three to five feet in length. You do not want a very long rope when towing a vehicle with another, as it can make managing the towed vehicle difficult.;
, Many trucks have tow hooks or loops on the frame itself. If that is the case, run the rope through the loop and hook it to itself. If the vehicle does not have tow loops, find a part of the frame to secure the rope to that will not interfere with the wheels turning. The frame is the most structurally rigid component of the vehicle. Attaching the rope to other parts could risk tearing them off or warping them.The cross member beneath the engine may be an appropriate area to attach a tow rope in your vehicle.
Refer to the service manual for your specific vehicle if you are unsure of where to locate portions of your frame that are exposed.
Do not attach the rope to the axle of the vehicle. The frame is the only portion of the vehicle you should use when towing it with a rope.
 Once the rope is attached to both vehicles, pull the tow vehicle away slowly to pick up all the extra slack in the rope. It’s important to start towing with the rope taught. If the tow vehicle pulls away with slack in the rope it will subject the towed vehicle to a large amount of force very abruptly.Have a friend keep an eye on the rope and provide direction to the driver of the tow vehicle.
 While pulling a vehicle with a rope, it is imperative that you have a driver in each vehicle. Have a friend drive the tow vehicle while you steer the vehicle that is being pulled, or vice versa.Keeping a driver in both vehicles will allow for the most control in the situation.
If the towed vehicle can start, start it and keep it running while being pulled.
 Regardless of the distance you need to pull the vehicle, proceed at a low speed. If the vehicle being towed cannot start, it may not brake consistently, so maintaining a low speed will reduce the likelihood of it failing to stop if need be.Driving slowly is the only safe way to pull a vehicle with a tow rope.
Be extremely careful driving slowly while towing another vehicle on public streets.

