 Only your doctor is capable of identifying potential treatments for your ragweed allergy. Using knowledge of your specific medical history, your doctor will be able to prescribe medications or recommend lifestyle changes that might help you deal with your ragweed allergy. You may even want to ask your doctor for a referral to an allergist, who can provide special attention to your ragweed allergy.


Your doctor or allergist will confirm your allergy using a skin test. The skin test involves pricking the skin to apply the ragweed allergen under your skin, then waiting about 15 minutes to see if you exhibit an allergic reaction.
If the skin turns red, swollen, and itchy, your doctor will realize that you have a ragweed allergy. If the doctor is unsure, they might draw a blood sample to examine the blood for antibodies.
 Immunotherapy treatments are medical interventions designed to prevent or treat a disease by encouraging an immune system reaction. In the case of ragweed allergy, there are two treatments that could help you.You could get an allergy shot. Allergy shots for ragweed can help you build resistance against the allergy.
Alternately, you might be able to get prescription medication that could help you manage your allergy. Ragweed allergy medications are typically in the form of tablets and need to be taken 12 weeks prior to the beginning of the ragweed season.
If provided medication, your doctor will inform you of how to use it. Always follow your doctor’s directions when taking medication.
 Histamine is the biological compound produced by your body prior to an allergic reaction. It causes sneezing, a stuffy or runny nose, and watery eyes. Antihistamines are a class of drugs that repress your body’s histamine production, stopping your ragweed allergy dead in its tracks. If your doctor believe that you would be a good candidate for antihistamines based on your medical history, they will write a prescription for you.You might also have success combating your ragweed allergy by using over-the-counter antihistamines like Claritin (loratadine) or Zyrtec (cetirizine).The most popular antihistamines based on their cost, safety, and efficacy are loratadine, fexofenadine, and cetirizine.Antihistamines are typically offered as pills or tablets. Take only as prescribed.
 Prescription nasal steroid sprays can suppress the immune system’s overreaction to the ragweed pollen and help you live a life free of ragweed allergy symptoms. To use a nasal steroid spray, blow your nose to clear it of mucus.Typically, your nasal spray will come in a pump bottle. In this case, remove the cap and shake the bottle.
Prime the bottle by spraying once or twice into the air to ensure the bottle is spraying. Then, tilt your head forward and slowly breathe out.
Put the bottle’s tube up one nostril. Press the thumb of the hand you’re not holding the bottle with against the nostril opposite the one receiving the spray.
Support the spray bottle with your thumb and use your middle and index fingers to squeeze down on the spray pump while breathing in deeply., Like their pump bottle counterparts, pressurized nasal sprays suppress the immune system to limit your allergic reaction. Shake the canister before use and ensure the canister fits in the holder. Keep your head upright and exhale slowly.Place the delivery end in one nostril. Hold the spray between your thumb and index finger of the hand that corresponds to the nostril that will receive the spray.
For instance, if you’ll spray the medicine in your right nostril, you should spray the medicine into your nostril with your right hand. Close your opposite nostril with the index finger of your opposite hand. Squeeze the bottle and breathe in simultaneously.
The number of times you’ll need to pump the nasal spray depends on the strength of your medicine. Consult your doctor’s prescription for more specific directions.

