 Microsoft will sometimes temporarily lock accounts it believes to have been used fraudulently. This method will work if you’ve been locked out by this system or if your password has been changed by the person accessing your account.
 This button is below the username and password text fields and will take you to the password recovery page.
 This will take you to the account recovery page.


Selecting a reason why you think your account has been compromised is optional and does not impact the recovery process.



For example: examplemail@hotmail.com.
 Captcha is a random set of characters used to make sure you are not robot or script trying to access the site. The characters appear in an image above the text field.


If you are having trouble identifying the captcha characters, press “New” for a new set of characters or “Audio” to have the characters read to you.
 If you have a backup email or phone number associated with your account, select it from the list and a code will be sent to that address/number. Enter the code onto the page and you will be redirected to reset your password.


Some characters of your backup email/number will be censored for security reasons, so you will need to be able to identify the email or number from the first and last few letters/numbers
If you don’t have backups associated with your account, choose “I don’t have any of these” and you will redirected to the “Recover your Microsoft Account page”.
 The email should be one to which you still have access. A window will appear prompting for a security code sent to that email.


If you do not have another email, you can create a new Outlook.com account by selecting the text field and clicking “Create new account”.
Enter the security code sent to your alternate email and click “Verify”. You will be redirected to a questionnaire form prompting you for information such as name, birthday, passwords used, recent email subjects or contacts, email folders created, or billing information, in order to help verify that the account in question is yours.
 Once the form is submitted, wait up to 24 hours for a response. If the information provided was sufficient you will be provided with a link to reset your account password. If not, you will receive an email informing you the information was not sufficient to recover your account.You will receive an error if you have not filled the form with enough information before submitting. The minimum amount will vary based on the amount of information associated with the account.
 If you received a password reset link, you will be taken to a page to create a new password for your account. You will have to enter your new password twice to ensure there are no typos.


Passwords have an 8 character minimum and care case sensitive.
Set a strong password with a mix of capital and lower-case letters, numbers and symbols.

