 Either horizontal or vertical orientation will work well.;
, Have them face opposite directions. Oval bodies, round heads with peaks at the crown, tail and wings. Omit the feet for the present time to keep the shapes compact. Cut them out and set them aside.
 Get a variety of widths and spaces between them. At the top, have them branch out. Tear strips of beige masking tape, and mask the tree trunks. Tear, or cut a strip of tape lengthwise for narrow trees. Press down well. Cut and tear shorter, tapered pieces and make branches at the tops of the trees.


Alternatively, if the idea of masking isn't to your liking, paint around the trees as in the tree on the far right.
 Split into forks at the end.
 You'll be overlapping the masked trees.,, Mix with water to the consistency of milk. Paint the blue in long strokes from top to bottom. The blues ought be dense enough to cover in one stroke, but not opaque. Add in some greens. Air dry or use a hairdryer.
 If you have not used #140 cold press paper, do this step very carefully, as the tape might tear the paper. If the paint has bled under the tape, lift it off with a round bristle brush you have cut to 1/4". Or use a purchased "scrub" brush.
 Details such as the wings, beak, feet, mask on the face. Draw a tiny circle for the eyes at the edge of the mask, to remember to paint around them. If you forget, just use white paint to add them later., Dilute the paint with water to the consistency of milk and fully load your brush, not scrimping on paint. Let it dry before doing the orange beaks and feet and the black mask.
 Run a line of brown paint down one side and let it bleed into the wet area. Use the end of a flat brush to stamp the horizontal lines on the trunks.
 Whatever appeals to you. Run ivy around one of the trunks.
 Add only enough water to make the paint resemble heavy cream. Fully load a large, flat brush, and tap it against the handle of another large brush. Practice first on a scrap paper until you get the hang of it.
 The green is a good contrast to the red birds.










