 Your parents wouldn't let you cook without knowing how to, would they? No, they wouldn't, so why should they let you babysit if you don't know what you're doing? Look up different articles about babysitting and what to do and what not to do, this way, if your parent asks you a question such as what would do if the child wouldn't stop crying, you have an answer.;
, If they say "We told you, we don't want you to babysit," say it will be good to know what to do for the future.
 Make a pros and cons chart of babysitting (make sure you have more pros than cons!) and show it to your parents. If after or during the talk they say no, don't get mad and start yelling. This just increases their opinion that you aren't mature enough to babysit.
 Clean your room, do the laundry, feed your pets, etc. This will show you how responsible you are, and that you are old enough to start having a job of your own. Maturity is the key.
 The more you pester them, the less likely they are to ever give you what you want. Bring it up a few weeks later. Give them a talk on why you think you are ready for the job, what safety precautions you will take (for instance, getting them to meet your clients first) etc. If you are nervous about talking about it to their faces, make a power point presentation to do the speaking for you.
 A 'thank you' goes a long way, but you could always buy them a small gift to show how pleased you are that they've let you take on this new responsibility.If you are only babysitting for your siblings you can tell your mom that you don't need to get paid. This will show how considerate you are for not getting paid. It can only be one time if your mom and dad agrees but I think it's the nice thing to do.
 If they're still saying no, you can "mothersit," or babysit while the mother is still there. This is for moms who are busy and don't have enough time for their baby. Find a mom interested in your service, and have your parent come with you to supervise. This way they'll see what it will be like for you: use all your skills and try not to ask for help - just pretend your parents aren't there.
 Be sure to do a good job, so you can prove to your parents that you deserve this responsibility, and don't forget to have fun!

