 This method only works for hair that has not been color treated. Lemon juice seems to be one of the most popular methods of lightening hair without bleach. It will produce a subtle all-over lightening effect if you apply it to all of your hair or subtle highlights if you only apply it to some select sections. You’ll want to use pure lemon juice to do this. The bottled kind is perfectly okay, but fresh-squeezed lemon juice is more potent.Mix equal parts lemon juice and water. Put the mixture inside a spray bottle and spray the mixture onto your hair. Spray enough so your hair turns damp.
Alternatively, apply the mixture to your wet hair at the end of your shower and don’t rinse it out.
Regardless of which option you choose, the key to this step is to sit out in the sun while the lemon juice is in your hair. The UV rays from the sun is what helps trigger the lightening effect. Note — it is not the heat from the sun that reacts with the lemon juice, so using a blow dryer instead of sitting outside will not work.Only stay out in the sun for about 30-60 minutes. And make sure you’re also wearing sunscreen on your exposed skin.
Because lemon juice is highly acidic, you should use a lot of conditioner to re-hydrate your hair after you’ve used this mixture.
Keep in mind that this method will produce a very subtle lightening effect. Try repeating it once per week to lighten your hair gradually over time.;
, Chamomile, like lemon juice, is a very popular method of lightening hair. This works best if your hair is already somewhat light. It will not produce an effect on darker hair and is not recommended for hair that has been dyed. After the treatment, you will notice a very subtle golden tint and brightening effect on your naturally blonde hair. Start by brewing some strong chamomile tea. You’ll need about 5 tea bags and you’ll want to steep them in three cups of hot water for about 30 minutes, or until the tea is cool enough to apply it to your head.Once the tea has steeped and cooled, then put the tea (minus 5 tablespoons) inside a spray bottle.Take the remaining 5 tablespoons and add them to a bottle of your regular conditioner.
The next time you shower and wash your hair, use the pure chamomile tea as your shampoo.
Once the ‘shampoo’ is rinsed off, apply your conditioner/tea mixture as your conditioner. Let the conditioner sit on your hair for at least a few minutes before rinsing it off.If you have the time, allow your hair to air dry in the sun after you’ve shampooed and conditioned your hair with the chamomile tea.
An alternative is to simply spray the chamomile tea onto your dry hair and then go out into the sun., Honey is a great substance. Besides being able to lighten your hair, honey can also be used for a variety of medical purposes as it has anti-bacterial properties. Honey also contains very small amounts of hydrogen peroxide, which is what is able to lighten your hair. If you would prefer not to use hydrogen peroxide, you may want to skip this option.Mix 1-2 tablespoons of raw honey (commercial, pasteurized honey will not work) into a cup of water. Apply the honey/water mixture to your hair so it’s spread evenly. Once the mixture is applied to your hair, you want to let it sit for about an hour.

Regular Conditioner — An alternative to the honey/water mixture is to add the 1-2 tablespoons of honey to your conditioner. Then use your conditioner as you would normally.Honey/Conditioner Mixture — Mix ⅓ cup of raw honey with ¼ cup of conditioner. Wet your hair and then apply the honey/conditioner mixture to your hair. Make sure the mixture is applied evenly — you may want to use a comb to brush it through your hair completely. Put on a shower cap (or plastic wrap) and go to bed. Wash the mixture off in the morning using your normal routine.Honey + Cinnamon + Olive Oil — Adding cinnamon to the honey will produce a warm blonde with reddish undertones and olive oil is moisturizing. Mix 1 cup of raw honey to 2 cups of distilled water. Add 1 tablespoon of cinnamon and 1 tablespoon of olive oil. Mix the ingredients together. Wet your hair and then apply the mixture to your hair evenly. Cover your hair with a shower cap and go to bed. Wash the mixture off in the morning using your normal routine.
Instead of using distilled water for the Honey + Cinnamon + Olive Oil mixture, use 2 cups of white vinegar. The rest of the process is exactly the same., You can obtain rhubarb at a grocery store or a farmer’s market, or you can try growing some of your own in your garden. (Rhubarb can spread quite easily in a garden and can often be found growing in wild places on its own as well.)Chop up enough rhubarb to make ¼ cup. Add the chopped rhubarb to a sauce pan with 2 cups of water. Put the sauce pan on the stove and bring the mixture to a boil.
After the mixture has boiled, allow it cool down, then strain the liquid out of the sauce pan into a bottle.
Apply the liquid to your hair leave it on for 10 minutes. Then rinse the liquid out with water.
 In addition to using olive oil in various other mixtures, you can also use olive oil on its own. In addition to being able to lighten your hair, olive oil is also a great moisturizer.Apply at least a couple tablespoons of olive oil to your hair.
Allow the olive oil to soak into your hair for at least 30 minutes.
Shampoo your hair to remove the olive oil and then style your hair as you normally would.
 Baking soda can be used as both a shampoo and as a method to lighten your hair. It will produce a subtle effect, so you’ll want to use this method daily or weekly until your hair is lightened to the point you want it. Although, you can continue to use baking soda as your regular shampoo, just be aware that your hair may continue to lighten a little more.Mix baking soda, about ¼ to ⅓ cup, with small amounts of water until it turns into a paste.
Apply the paste all over your hair in place of your regular shampoo.
Rinse out the baking soda paste and apply your normal conditioner.
 Like baking soda, apple cider vinegar can also be used to both clean and lighten your hair. You can use apple cider vinegar regularly as a rinse after you’ve shampooed your hair. Apple cider vinegar is great for washing out all the chemical build-up in your hair from styling products.Mix ¼ cup of apple cider vinegar to 1 cup of water.
Shampoo and condition your hair as your normally would, then apply the apple cider vinegar mixture to your hair.
Leave the mixture on your hair for about 20 minutes, then rinse with water.
 Cinnamon can be used in other hair lightening mixtures, or it can be used on its own. The nice thing about cinnamon is that it also smells great!Mix 3-4 tablespoons of ground cinnamon into approximately the same amount of your regular conditioner.Apply the mixture to your hair evenly. Use a comb to make sure it’s spread throughout all your hair.Put a shower cap or plastic wrap on your hair and leave the whole mixture in while you sleep.Shampoo and condition your hair in the morning as you would normally.
 If you have ever spent an entire summer swimming in the ocean, you’ll know that salt water is a great way to lighten your hair. Even if you don’t live near the ocean, you can still use salt water to lighten your hair at home.Mix 1 part salt to 5 parts water. Rinse the mixture through your hair and leave it to sit for at least 15 minutes. Rinse your hair out with fresh water.
As an alternative, mix ½ cup of sea salt to a small amount of water so it forms a paste. Apply the paste to your damp hair and sit in the sun for a while. Rinse your hair out with water after you’ve been out in the sun.