 Along with other symptoms, a dog who has periodontal disease may have bad breath because of the bacteria in his mouth. In some cases, bad breath may be the only noticeable symptom of periodontal disease.Smell your dog's breath to see if it smells foul or fresh. If your dog has noticeable bad breath, then take him to your veterinarian for an oral exam.;
, Gums that are red and inflamed are often a sign of mild periodontal disease in dogs. Red, inflamed gums are also known as gingivitis, which is a gum disease.In gingivitis, gums may also look raw or bleed when your dog eats. Sometimes gums will also have pulled away from the teeth.
 Tartar often present in dogs with periodontal disease. Tartar is a hard build-up on teeth that looks brownish, yellowish, or cream-colored. Dogs with periodontal disease may have tartar along the gum line or in between the teeth as well.


In severe cases, you may notice a solid block of tartar that goes across several of your dog’s teeth., Your dog’s teeth should be solid and there should not be any loose or wobbly teeth. Wobbly teeth indicate that there may be damage to the supporting bone and/or to the root of the teeth, which is common in late stage periodontal disease.Your dog may also lose teeth if the periodontal disease progresses. Make sure that you check for missing teeth and report this to your dog’s veterinarian as well., In advanced periodontal disease, you may also notice pus coming out of the spaces between your dog's teeth and gums.Pus may look yellowish or whitish and have a bad smell.


If you see any kind of discharge coming from one of your dog’s teeth, then seek veterinary attention for your dog right away.
 If your dog stops eating or seems to be having trouble chewing his food, then he may be in pain from the periodontal disease. Watch your dog when he eats to see if his face seems twisted in pain or if he is favoring one side of his mouth over another.These signs may indicate that chewing is painful for your dog.


In severe cases, your dog may stop eating altogether and this can lead to weight loss and malnutrition.

