 When you have worms in your body, you get less nutrients than you are used to because the worm is consuming these nutrients. You may therefore begin to lose weight because while you are eating like normal, your body is not absorbing the calories and nutrients that it should because the worm is taking them from you.If you start to lose weight without trying to, keep track of the weight you lose. If you continue to shed pounds, talk to your doctor.;
, If you have constipation that doesn’t seem to be caused by anything, you may have worms. Worms can cause irritation in your gut that interferes with your digestion. This can cause less water to be absorbed into your body, making you constipated.


For example, if you have eaten foods high in fiber, drank a lot of water, or done other things that normally help you to go to the bathroom, and you still can’t go, you may have a worm.
 If you have recently traveled to a new place that is known to have worm problems, and you suddenly develop serious gaseous discomfort, you may have picked up a worm. This gaseous discomfort can be accompanied by abdominal pain.If you were traveling through a foreign country and were dealing with diarrhea, but took an anti-diarrhea pill, you should monitor your gaseous discomfort. Continuing to have discomfort after taking an anti-diarrhea pill can sometimes mean that you have picked up a worm.
 Having worms can make you feel extreme hunger just after eating, or extreme fullness when you haven’t eaten anything.


This is because the worms feed on the food that you have eaten, leaving you hungry, but can also cause you to feel nauseous or gaseous, which can make you feel full.
 When you have a worm, the worm takes all of the nutrients out of the food you have eaten, leaving you feeling hungry. At the same time, this lack of nutrients can make your energy levels decrease, leaving you easily exhausted.This may cause you to:


Feel tired all the time.
Feel exhausted after exerting a slight amount of energy.
Wanting to sleep rather than do anything else.
 Having a worm in your system can affect you differently than others experiencing the same problem. Keep in mind that it is a good idea to visit the doctor after you travel to a foreign country that is known to have a worm problem. It is generally better to be safe than sorry, especially when it comes to having a worm in your body.

