 Make each child responsible for some part of the ceremony. These could be larger responsibilities or smaller ones, depending on the age and ability of the child. If you are looking for roles for younger children, they may do well being assigned simple tasks to give people something. For example, you could make children responsible for:Having guests sign a guestbook or photo mat. (Consider having your guests sign a family portrait to have your children feel even more included!)
Handing out ceremony programs.
Handing out bubbles or birdseed as guests leave the ceremony.
 If your children agree, have them play a visible role in the wedding ceremony. You could have your children in some or all of the following roles, depending on their interest, age, and ability.


Have the children walk their parent down the aisle at the beginning of the ceremony.Make them your attendants. Your children could serve as bridesmaids, groomsmen, or page boys, or simply stand up on their parent’s side during the ceremony.
Kids could serve as ushers at the beginning and end of the ceremony.
Younger children could serve as a flower girl or ring bearer.
Older child could do a reading or poem during the ceremony.
 There are many different ways a new family could express their commitment to unity in a wedding ceremony. A ceremony, or ritual, can help children understand and see your family’s values expressed outwardly, which can deepen family ties.You could perform a unity candle ceremony. This could be done in several different ways. The couple could light the candle first and then light the children’s candles, or separate candles could be lit ahead of time, given to each person in the family to use to light one, bigger candle together as a family.Have your children bless your wedding rings in a “ring warming ceremony.” Children bestow their blessings on the rings (perhaps a prayer or wish could be read aloud by the officiant), then pass them to the couple to exchange them.A sand ceremony has each member of the family pour sand or soil into a container, then mix it all together to signify coming together and blending.After you exchange rings with your spouse, you could present the children with a token to acknowledge your commitment to the new family. Some families choose a family medallion that can be worn as a necklace. You can find some examples of family medallions online.
You could also design your own ritual that expresses your family’s values.
 Just as you will make vows of marriage to your spouse, make a vow of commitment and love to the children who will be entering into your family. This will help children know that you are as committed to loving and valuing them as you are their parent.After exchanging rings, a special verse can be included to let children know that you both are committed to their future as part of a combined family. It could be something simple stated in unison, such as “I am marrying my soulmate, and I am also extending my love and commitment to each of you as part of my family from this day forward.”
You can ask your children to join you, or you can address them from their seats. Make the call based on your children’s comfort level.

