 When you’re not in a relationship, you probably have room in your life to say “yes” to more. Whether it’s a spontaneous trip to a concert on a Friday night, taking a spring break trip, or studying abroad for a semester, being single means that you have the freedom to do anything without worrying about affecting your significant other. Embrace your freedom and take risks on new experiences.If you feel like you haven’t had the opportunity to say “yes” in a while, here are some suggestions:


Go away for the weekend.
Find a concert near you and go, no matter what the band is.
Grab a friend and find somewhere to sleep outside.
 College is a great time to try new things, both in an academic and social sense. In college, you have so many opportunities to try new things and have new experiences. Whether it’s taking a class outside your academic field or trying to learn a new sport, you should take the opportunity to try a lot of new things. When you’re single, you have more time to explore. Here are just a few things you could try:


Learn a new instrument
Take a class you never thought you would take (astronomy, basket weaving, ceramics -- the options are endless!)
Try out for a dance or a capella group

, Being in a relationship takes up a lot of time. When you’re single, though, you might find yourself with some time to spare. What do you look forward to when your problem sets are done, your friends are busy, and you have some alone time? Think about skills you want to develop or things you’ve always wanted to learn. Now is the time! Here are some suggestions to get you started; you could learn to:


Play the piano
Identify constellations
Rock climb
Tutor underserved students

, Exercise is beneficial for your mental, emotional, and physical health. Hit the gym five days a week: twice for cardio, three times for strength training. Don’t forget to incorporate two rest days into your routine.Here are some different ways that you can exercise:


Take a spinning class.
Rock climb.
Lift weights with a friend. Many schools offer weight lifting classes, too.
Swim laps.
Go for a hike with a friend.
Take a “boot camp” style class.
 College is a great time to explore potential ways you want to spend your professional career. Many people find one of their passions in college and pursue it after they graduate. Whether you're interested in hedge funds or public service, there are many opportunities you can pursue in college. Here are some ways that you can get involved with potential career paths or causes:


Volunteer at an animal shelter
Intern at a company near your school
Tutor underserved students
Volunteer in a community garden
Protest a political issue
Intern with a government official
Write for the school newspaper or magazine

