 You will once again need glass gems from a dollar or craft store. Make sure you get the kind with a flat bottom. You will also need black nail polish, a different colored nail polish, top coat, and saran wrap.If you have any old nail polish lying around that you no longer use, this could be used for this project.
 Make sure you're working on the flat back. The project will not turn out if you paint the dome-shaped portion with clear nail polish. Paint a smooth layer of top coat on the flat back of the gem.Set the gem aside afterwards. Allow it to dry for 8 to 10 minutes.
 Take a small piece of saran wrap. Crinkle it up into a small bunch, leaving uneven edges exposed. Take your black nail polish and dab some color onto the crinkly edges. You will use the saran wrap to create a neat pattern on the back of your gem., Gently tap the painted edge of the saran wrap onto the flat back of the gem. Tap it several times, moving the saran wrap around slightly as you go. This should create a pattern of black lines and splotches on your gem. It should look somewhat tie-dyed with black polish., After creating your pattern, you will want to set the gem aside. Keep it in a safe place where it won't be knocked over by pets or children. Allow it to dry completely before moving forward.It should take the gem around 8 to 10 minutes to dry completely. However, some nail polish may take longer or shorter to dry. Make sure the gem is dry to the touch before proceeding.
 Take the second color nail polish. Paint a layer of that polish over the black splotches. If your nail polish is very thin, add a second coat. You want to make sure the back of the gem is completely coated in nail polish. No bits of glass should be exposed., Due to the multiple layers of polish, these gems will take about 24 hours to dry. Set them somewhere safe to dry, where they will not be knocked over or otherwise disturbed. Make sure to set them with the domed ends facing downward to dry.After 24 have passed, you can turn the gems onto their flat backs. A pretty mosaic-like pattern should shine through to the other side.

