 Classic easy lunches that will keep overnight include sandwiches, salads, and leftovers. Put a note on your refrigerator so that you remember to grab it when you open your refrigerator at breakfast., Pick a spot where you’ll always put your keys, wallet, pocket change and anything else you always want to have with you. Make a habit of putting your things there as soon as you come home, and picking them up from there as you leave.
 Maybe you charge your phone at night on your bedside table. Leave a note by all the other things at your door that you will take with you. Use sticky notes or even something more attractive, such as a chalk board., Even the most basic coffee makers have timers. Just pour the grounds into the filter before you go to bed, and you can wake up, get your coffee fix without the time wasted waiting or preparing it. It's like your own little robotic barista., Shave a couple more minutes off your morning prep time by deciding what you’ll eat in the morning and getting however much of it ready as you can the night before., Give yourself a clean start to the day. Do the dishes, sweep, clear off tables and desks. Not only will clearing clutter from your house clear your mind, it will also make everything easier to find in those precious morning moments., Be sure to note how the weather will change throughout the day. Perhaps it will start cold in the morning and heat way up by the end of the day. Decide what layers you’ll need to be comfortable all day long., If you walk or take public transportation you might be warm by the end of your commute and want to be able to take off a couple of layers of clothes to cool down. You should also be sure to wear comfortable shoes so your feet aren’t already hurting you by the time you get to work.
 If you’ll be out in the sun, bring a hat. Is it going to rain? Put an umbrella by the front door so you don’t forget it in the morning. Are you going out after work? Bring a briefcase use can store your tie in or pack with some blingy jewelry to spruce up your work clothes for evening wear., Be sure everything fits and makes you feel good. This way you’ll avoid having to make any last minute changes that keep you from heading out the door on time., Write down everything you need to do in the morning. Don’t make the list too long or complicated, just write down the essentials. You’ll be able to move through each task efficiently without forgetting anything., Note which things need to be done that day or addressed soon. Note which things can be done later and which can be delegated to someone else. Concentrate on getting those most important tasks done first., Note estimates of how long each item will take you to complete. Be sure not to underestimate and add some extra time to allow for unforeseen delays., Using a program like google calendar, wunderlist, or todoist helps you keep a digital copy of your obligations and appointments at the ready. You can set reminders to keep yourself on track.
 Many meals can be prepared the night before, to save you time cooking the next day.


For breakfast, cut up fruit and mix it with a squeeze of lemon to keep it fresh during the night. Mix in yogurt. In the morning, add granola and enjoy!
Lunch can be leftovers. When you cook dinner, double the recipe. Eat the extra for lunch the next day or freeze it to eat for another dinner on a super busy day.
Dinner can be prepared in the crockpot. For example, put boneless chicken breasts with a little chicken stock in a crockpot to cook on low while you are at work. When you get home, add rice and salad for an easy dinner.
Keep easy ready-to-go snacks, like apples, on hand. You can also portion out snacks like nuts and dried fruits so that you can grab them on your way out the door in the morning.
 Once you’ve completed a task, clean up before starting the next one. For example, you’ve finished a presentation. Put away all the presentation materials and files you’ve used before opening up files for your upcoming conference all. You will save yourself time later by not having to sort through many things to put away and file. This will also help you focus more fully on each task at hand., Try your new routine for three weeks. If it’s working for you, great! If not, readjust the tasks you do and the time you get up until your days run more smoothly.