 Catch up on your reading. Getting engrossed in a good story can help you forget how you are feeling. Whether you are interested in adventure, drama or suspense, you will be able to find array of novels that will peak your interest at your local library.
 Reach out to your friends with a phone call. A good chat or laugh with friends can help boost your spirits and get you on the road to recovery.
 Bringing out your creative side will work wonders to make you feel better. Concentrating on a drawing or coloring in a coloring book will take your mind off being sick. Use a variety of drawing tools such as colored pencils, paints, crayons or markers to give yourself some variety.
 Making yourself look better is one way that you can speed up your recovery. A new coat of nail polish on your nails will improve your outlook and get you ready for when you feel better. Experiment with different color choices such as blue, yellow or hot pink., Crafts can be a fun way to create something new while you aren’t feeling good. You can do many craft projects with little effort. Many of the supplies you need will be found in your home. Try some of these easy to do craft ideas:Sew a tote page
Crochet a blanket
Knit a scarf
Build a birdhouse
Make photo coasters
Frame a picture

, Learning a new language can be a valuable tool, especially if you travel. There are plenty of resources online to walk you through the basic language learning skills. Language CDs and books are also helpful. Some languages to try are:


Spanish
Italian
French
German
Chinese

, Creating lists of things that you want to do when you feel better will give you something to look forward to. It will also help you to accomplish those tasks that you have been putting off. Think about all the things you want to get done and write them down on paper.
 Looking through cookbooks can be inspirational. It will help you plan your next meal and give you some good ideas on how to cook a variety of foods. Think about the different dishes you would like to try and come up with a shopping list for when you feel better.
 Getting your creative juices flowing is a good way to take your mind off of how you are feeling. Writing lyrics to a song or a story about a fun time in your life will help occupy your time.
 Reminiscing by looking at photos is a good way to make you feel better. It will bring a smile to your face as you remember those happy occasions that you photographed. It will also help you remember all the people you know and the places you have been.
 Rubbing your feet can help relax your body when you are suffering from a cold. Rubbing the pressure points in your foot such as the ball, heel, and toes can help relieve headaches, body pain, and allow you to sleep better.Start in a comfortable position with your shoes and socks off.
Rub and squeeze the pads of your toes for 30 seconds each.Move to the heel, arch, and ball of your feet. Continue to apply pressure to these areas.
Don’t forget the ankle in your massage technique.

