 Before leaving for a trip, invest in a makeup or toiletry bag. You want to stay as true to your regular skin care regimen as possible when traveling, so it's important to pack the basic products you use every day. You don't want to risk being stuck somewhere without the skin care items you need.Mentally go through your day and think about when and where you use skin products. Make sure you pack things you use every day, like lotion, face washes, shaving creams, and so on.
If you're traveling by plane and not checking a bag, you may need travel sized containers of your normal skin products. Airlines require that you carry on 3.4 ounces of any given liquid, and it must be stored in a plastic bag.;
, If you're going on a vacation, you will need a little extra moisturizer and should not neglect sunscreen. You'll likely be out and about more on your trip, and your skin needs protection from the sun even on overcast days. Your skin also may dry out easier in a new environment. Even if you don't habitually use them, pack sunscreen and moisturizer.When selecting moisturizers, aim for anti-inflammatory products. They should be rich in vitamins like C and E.
For optimal protection from the sun's rays, aim for a sunscreen with an SPF of at least 30., Certain products should not be part of your skin care routine when you're traveling. You do not want to use anything that will be too harsh on your skin, as your skin will be adversely affected by travel. Make sure to read product labels carefully before selecting a product.Soap-based cleansers can be hard on your skin. Look for cleansers that are soap free.
If you use anti-aging products, opt for products that do not contain retinol or Retin-A.
 When packing skin care products for travel, prepare for accidents. If a bag is knocked around, or if it falls, liquids could leak. Pack to protect this. You do not want to get to your destination to find you cannot use certain skin care products as they've spilled.Place every item in a Ziploc bag and separate them by category. For example, moisturizers should go in one bag, acne treatments in another, and so on.
In addition to a Ziploc, go for nylon travel bags. In the event of a leak, a nylon bag will keep things contained.

