 Many online communities, such as Freegle, Freecycle, and Streetbank, offer listings of items and skills available for free. Sometimes the item may be something someone just wants to give away, or you may find people willing to trade items for skills you have.


Look for items you want to get rid of. One's man trash is another man's treasure, so instead of selling your old shoes or watch on Ebay, or throwing them away, try using them in exchange for items or services that you need.
Remember that you can also barter for services. If your home needs repairs, see if you can exchange some time or skills of your own in exchange for the repair.
 You can plant soapwort in your garden to provide soap and shampoo. Pastes made of baking soda or even plain salt can work as natural, homemade toothpaste.
 Discarded newspapers can serve as toilet paper.Stores may discard personal care products like deodorant and hygiene goods that are still safe for use after their “sell-by” date.


Many stores and restaurants throw away food. Anything that contains meat, dairy, shellfish, or eggs should not be scavenged. Avoid anything that smells rotten or odd. Foods such as bread, canned goods, and packaged products like chips can usually be eaten safely, but make sure they are wrapped and not dented, torn, or bulging.Be aware that dumpsters may pose hazards such as broken glass, rats, and even biological waste. If you choose to rummage through a dumpster, come prepared: items such as rubber boots, gloves, and flashlights can help you dive safely.Do not dumpster dive in any area that is marked as “No Trespassing” or similar. It may be illegal and is certainly not worth the hassle of being stopped or even arrested.
 If you have things in good condition that you no longer use, arrange a swap night. Invite your friends and neighbors to bring things they no longer want, need, or use. You can advertise with flyers or with postings on Craigslist, Facebook, and other social media.This is a great way to get rid of things like baby clothes that children have outgrown or toys they no longer play with. You can also swap books you’ve already read for new-to-you books, or get rid of extra linens and towels in exchange for things you need more of.
 Barter for a sewing kit and some fabric, and exchange goods for a few lessons on how to sew. You can scavenge for unused or still useable cloth, towels, and sheets to use as fabric. Fabric and craft stores may also have small scraps they’re willing to give away.


Repair holes, tears, rips, and worn spots. Keep any spare pieces of fabric from unwearable items to use as a patch when needed.
 Barter isn’t just for goods and services! Host a community skill-sharing group so that people can teach other what they know and learn things they don’t know. This is also a great way to socialize and make friends without spending money.