 In the body modification community, it's an accepted fact that there is a right way and a wrong way to get a piercing done. Rather than getting a piercing at a kiosk or chain store in the mall, invest a few extra dollars to have it done right by a professional. Your piercing will come out cleaner and heal up faster. You'll also have access to as much expert advice as you need from the person who did your piercing.


Ask for a hollow needle piercing. The proper way to pierce most parts of the body is by hand with a long, specially designed hollow-point needle. Professional body piercers use these needles because they're hygienic and easy to control, for straight and properly-placed piercings that heal quickly.
Avoid piercing guns. A common tool for piercing ears (and sometimes other parts of the body) is the piercing gun, a mechanical tool that quickly strikes a needle through the skin. Piercing guns often have hygiene problems (since the gun itself isn't always properly disinfected, even if a new needle is used each time), and are notorious for creating angles or off-center piercings. Ask to be pierced by hand instead.;
, Until the piercing has healed, taking the earring post out of the hole will only expose your raw tissue to infection. For ear piercings, the healing process typically takes 6-8 weeks. During that time, you must wear the earring you put into your new piercing at all times or risk a painful infection.


Other parts of the body, such as belly buttons, may take longer to heal. Always ask your piercer about specific healing times before you get pierced.
 Strict adherence to a daily cleaning regimen is essential to avoid infection and allow smooth, even healing. Your piercer will have specific instructions for you, which should always be followed. Generally speaking, these instructions will be similar to the method outlined here:


Purchase supplies. You won't need much; some cotton swabs and mild antibacterial liquid soap (such as Dial) should be enough. You should also have a small cup, warm running water, and sea salt.
Wash and wipe. Start by washing your hands with warm water and your mild soap. Once your hands are clean and dry, moisten a cotton swab (or a cotton ball, if necessary) with water and gently wipe around the piercing to remove any crusted buildup. Throw away the swab afterward.
Clean thoroughly. Get a good amount of your mild soap on a finger or two and gently but thoroughly begin to wash all around your piercing on both sides. Be sure to get underneath the stud (face of the earring) as well. Once you're satisfied that everything is clean, pour a cup of warm water and use it to rinse the soap away.
Soak the piercing in saline solution. Mix a few tablespoons of sea salt into several ounces of warm water and soak your piercing in it for a moment or two. This can help draw infected fluids out of an improperly healing piercing, but it serves another important purpose as well: it soothes soreness and irritation. Use a saline soak every time you clean until your piercing is no longer painful or sore.
Rinse and repeat. Rinse your piercing with cool or warm water again, and pat the area dry. Repeat this regimen twice per day to encourage proper healing.

If your piercing has become infected, you can clean it this way up to four times per day.



