 Especially if you've never done any form of Pilates before, your first exposure to the practice should be in a formal class supervised by a certified and experienced Pilates instructor.Generally, mat classes are more common than classes with reformers, owing to the fact that reformers are expensive investments. Mat classes typically also cost less than reformer classes, which can be as much as $90 for an hour-long private session.
You may even be able to find a mat class at a gym that doesn't have reformer classes – and if you're already a member of the gym, you may not have to pay extra for Pilates mat classes.
Mat classes can end up being fairly large. Look for smaller sessions so you can have individualized attention from the instructor.
Make sure the instructor is certified and experienced. Talk to current or former students to find out more about the class before you sign up. You also might want to ask if you can watch a class to get a better understanding of the instructor's style and decide if the class is right for you.;
, A Pilates mat is essential if you want to do Pilates without a reformer. Gyms may provide mats for people who are taking a class, or you may be expected to bring your own. You'll also need a mat if you plan to practice at home, so it's a good idea to go ahead and get one.A Pilates mat is about the same size as a yoga mat, but approximately twice as thick. You may see different thicknesses offered, but you should make sure you buy one that's at least one quarter-inch thick to adequately cushion pressure points as you go through your moves.
Expect to pay at least $20 (USD) for a quality Pilates mat.Some mats can cost as much as $200 (USD).
 Many beginning pilates classes start the same way, using the same warm-up exercises to get your mind and body ready for a challenging workout. One of the first of these warm-up exercises is "imprinting," which helps you relax into your body and lengthen your spine.Begin by lying on your mat on your back. Your arms should be by your sides, your knees bent so that your feet are flat on the floor. Keep your spine neutral and slowly relax your body, starting with your shoulders, your jaw and throat, and your ribcage. Continue down your body, relaxing your abdominal muscles, your spine, and finally your hips and legs. Ultimately you'll only be using as much energy as is required to keep your legs up.
Having your back pressed to your mat using your abdominals will help you create a good foundation for the rest of your practice.
Visualize your spine lengthening and pressing its imprint against the mat. This is where the exercise gets its name. Breathe deeply, and focus on creating a balanced imprint. You can imagine seeing an even imprint where your body was if you stood up, with no parts darker than the other.
Hold this posture for at least three to five breaths after you've fully relaxed to get the full benefit of this warm-up in your routine.
 While most Pilates exercises concentrate on your core and lower body, it also is important to make sure that your shoulders and upper body are stabilized and prepared for the correct positions.Stand with good posture with your arms out in front of you, parallel to the floor and palms facing the ground. Inhale and reach forward a few inches, moving your shoulder blades away from each other.
Exhale and move your shoulders to a neutral position with your arms still extended.
Inhale and pull your arms back, squeezing your shoulder blades together.
Exhale and return your arms and shoulders to the starting position. Repeat this exercise between three and five times.
This exercise can also be used over the course of daily life to ease neck and shoulder tension and improve your posture.
 Once you've finished your warm-up, you're ready to move into your Pilates routine. The Hundred is the exercise that starts most any beginning Pilates class. It also helps warm-up your lungs and abdominal muscles.To begin, lie on your back on your mat. Your legs should be bent in tabletop position – thighs perpendicular to the floor and shins parallel to the floor, so that they look like a tabletop. Then, take a deep breath in, hold it for a few seconds, and exhale.
As you exhale, bring your head up to gaze down your body, keeping your chin down. Use your abdominal muscles to curl your upper spine off the floor. Make sure your shoulders are down and engaged. Inhale in this position.
Exhale, deepening the pull of your abs as you extend your arms and legs in front of you. Your arms should be straight, reaching toward the wall in front of you with your palms down, facing the mat. Keep them low, just a few inches off the mat. Your legs should extend and straighten up to where the ceiling and the wall in front of you meet. The lower your legs are, the more challenging this exercise is.
Take five short breaths and five short breaths out while you hold this position, pumping your arms up and down as you do. Repeat this sequence of five inhales and five exhales for a total of 10 times. This is where the exercise gets its name because five plus five times 10 equals 100.
Keeping your spine curved, pull your knees toward your chest. Grasp your knees as you roll your upper spine and head back down to the floor.
 Pilates includes a number of classic leg and spine stretches that you can do without a reformer.These give you a good stretch while also helping to build strength. Some great leg and spine stretches to try include:


Single-leg stretches
Double-leg stretches
Swan pose
Spinal twist

, Rolling exercises are a unique part of the Pilates regimen that stimulate your spine as well as helping you practice coordinating your breath and movement. While these exercises may look strange to you if you're new to Pilates, they are powerful abdominal exercises that teach you how to use your abdominal muscles to stabilize and support your spine.To do a rolling exercise, start by sitting with your legs and arms extended straight out in front of you. Then, slowly begin to lean back, and bend your knees as you do so. Lie on your back, knees bent, feet flat on the floor, arms raised overhead, and fingertips reaching away from the head. Then, slowly raise your arms, head, chest, and abdominals until you are sitting up again. Lower your knees back down to the floor as you do this. Then, repeat the exercise six to eight more times.Try to raise yourself up and lower yourself down one vertebra at a time, as if you are picking up or putting down a pearl necklace one pearl at a time.
Be sure to check with your doctor before you start rolling exercises. Ideally, you'll roll on your Pilates mat. You shouldn't roll on the hard floor or on a mattress or other surface that's too soft.
Make sure you have enough room to complete your rolls without running into anything or injuring yourself.
You may want to do rolling exercises with an experienced friend or certified Pilates instructor to make sure you're doing them correctly and not putting yourself at risk for injury.
While doing rolling exercises, make sure your abdominal muscles are doing the work of starting and supporting the movement – not your back.

