 Before you find the right moving company to help you relocate quickly, it’s a good idea to find out what services different companies offer. From this information, you can figure out if you want to let them pack and unpack your entire home, or if you want to take on all or some of the packing yourself.


Moving companies like Mayflower and Bekins offer a broad range of moving services. These include: completely packing and unpacking your home, packing and unpacking some of your home, or simply moving your already packed home.Allowing a moving company to pack and unpack your entire home is the fastest method to move, but will also cost the most.
 After you’ve decided on what moving services you would like, you’re ready to research and hire the right company for your needs.


Compare different companies, their services, and prices online. Mayflower, Bekins, and Atlas Van Services all have websites that allow you to compare their prices and services, and make a reservation for your move.
Read the fine print of any offer. This will not only inform you of their rules, but also spare you from any extra or hidden charges.When you make your reservation, print a copy of your reservation confirmation. The day before your scheduled move, reconfirm the reservation with the company.
 On your moving day, talk to the movers about their plans for your move and any wishes or expectations you may have, and confirm any delivery information. Also ask them any questions you have.


If you opted to have the movers pack and unpack your entire home, confirm this information with them and let them know if there’s a specific way you’d like them to pack your items.
If you opted to have the movers pack and unpack some of your home, discuss the division of labor with them. From this step, you will apply the same tips to your select items that you would for packing your entire home by yourself.
If you opted to pack your entire apartment before the moving company picks it up for delivery to your new home, you will apply the same tips for packing your entire apartment quickly and efficiently by yourself.
 On the day you’ve decided to move into your new home, meet the movers at the time you selected. You will need to let them in to your new home so they can place your boxes in the proper rooms.

