 This will help you to learn the basics and get prepared to go out on the road. It will also train you on how to avoid problems and what to do in special or dangerous situations. You can find one at the Motorcycle Safety Foundation or your local DMV.You could even get a discount on insurance by taking a safety course.
 License requirements vary in each state. In general, if your scooter is over 50cc (which most scooters are), you will need a license. It generally entails getting a “motorcycle endorsement” on your regular driver’s license. Go to your local DMV to get this taken care of.To get your license, you will need to take a written test. Your DMV can provide a motorcycle manual for you to study and prepare.
If you don’t have a driver’s license, it can be more difficult to get a motorcycle license. But some states will allow you to get a license strictly for motorcycles. Check with your local DMV.
 Many states require you to register your motor scooter, especially if it is above 50cc. This can also be done at your DVM. You will pay a small fee (around $30) and they will give you your paper registration and license plate., You will likely need basic liability insurance to legally operate your scooter. You can check with your DMV for your state’s laws and requirements regarding insurance. You can get scooter insurance at most major insurance agencies, such as Esurance.Get a free scooter insurance quote at esurance.com/insurance/scooter.
 Besides licensing, registration, and insurance, depending on the size of your scooter, there are some places where it will be allowed, and other places where it might not be allowed (such as taking a small scooter on a highway). It is important to know the laws in your area. Since laws vary across each state, make sure to find out your local laws at the DMV., Always wear a full-coverage helmet anytime you go on a motor scooter. This is the most important safety precaution you can take. Be sure that it has a visor to protect your eyes. If it doesn’t, use goggles. Your eyes need to be protected when traveling at high speeds.Protect yourself by fully covering your body. Wear a thick jacket, such as one made of leather, and thick riding pants, which can be leather or a tough synthetic material.
Always wear gloves, even if it is hot out. They will protect your hands and allow you to grip the controls easily.
Wear sturdy boots that cover your ankles, preferable ones made of strong leather. The ankle is a very vulnerable area in case of a fall.

