 There are numerous websites that offer free employment contract templates. You also can look at employment contracts used by other businesses. Compare these templates to create one that meets the needs of your business.Keep in mind that a single template seldom will match the needs of your business perfectly. You may have to cobble several together to achieve the right effect.
If there's a clause or phrase that you don't understand, look it up to see what it means before copying it verbatim – especially with so-called boilerplate clauses. You don't want to ask someone to sign a contract that you don't fully understand yourself.
Look for templates and samples written in plain language rather than those that are full of a lot of confusing and unnecessary legalese. The trend in legal documents is toward more concise language that is easy for everyone to understand.
The biggest – and easiest – thing to borrow from a template is its structure and organization. Use divisions and headings that make sense to you and apply to the needs of your business.;
, The introductory clause of your employment contract will name the company hiring the employee and provide the full legal name of the person who is being hired.Typically you'll provide full names of the parties, and then introduce a label that will be used throughout the rest of the document, such as "Employee" for the person you're hiring and "Company" for yourself and your business.
This enables you to keep the contract and adapt it for other employees with minimal changes, rather than having to draft a contract from scratch every time you need one.
 Commonly known as "whereas" clauses, most employment contracts include a set of provisions that together establish why the two parties to the agreement are creating a written contract, and what they intend to accomplish as a result.You can make these clauses as detailed and verbose or as short and to-the-point as you want. While they technically are part of the contract, they don't contain legally operable language.
These clauses often are a good place to throw in a compliment to the employee's skills or expertise and explain why you want them for the job. Just be careful not to puff them up too much, or they may demand more money or better benefits.
 Your employment contract should state up front how long it is valid, as well as specific dates when it begins and ends. Before you set a final term, check your state's law to make sure the term you've agreed upon is legally enforceable.Some states have laws that limit the number of years an employment contract can last. Check your state's law before you establish a term to make sure your contract is within those bounds.
If the contract begins on the date it is signed, you can simply state that. If it begins on a different date, provide that date as the start of the term. Keep in mind your "date certain" can't be before the contract is signed – it must be later.
Some contracts also end on a date certain, while others last a specified number of years or months from the date the contract was signed.
The benefit of having the contract begin and end on a date certain is that you don't have to check calendars to find out the exact date the contract will end, and whether that date happens to land on a weekend or holiday.
 State the specific job title for which you're hiring the employee, and then provide a brief summary of what that job entails and what the employee will be doing for you, including all duties and responsibilities to the extent possible.If you're just starting your business, it may be difficult for you to list exactly what this new employee's job responsibilities include. Don't worry about getting too specific or trying to include absolutely everything the employee might have to do at work.
Rather, focus on general areas and the main responsibility in each area, and note that the employee is expected to do whatever is necessary to ensure that responsibility is fulfilled.
For example, you may have hired an employee to direct your marketing and promotional efforts, but you're not quite sure of the details at this stage. The contract can state that the employee is the director of marketing and promotions, then use the phrase "including but not limited to" and rattle off a few things you know you intend to exploit, such as social media, local print advertising, and internet advertising.
The key with a new employment contract is to keep the job description flexible enough to adapt to the needs of your small business. You don't want to run into the problem of having to ask them to do something that technically is not in their job description.
 The compensation clause of your contract must state exactly how much the employee will be paid for his or her services and at what rate, if applicable. You also should include the frequency and method of payment.In this section, you also should indicate whether the person is considered an employee – meaning you're taking taxes out of their paycheck – or an independent contractor.
If you're hiring the person as an independent contractor, check the rules and regulations at the U.S. Department of Labor to make sure that they won't be counted as an employee despite the fact that you designated them otherwise.
The U.S. Small Business Administration, located on the internet at sba.gov, also has guidelines and information on whether to classify someone as an independent contractor or employee.
If the employee's compensation includes sales commissions or bonuses, the contract should detail exactly how those amounts are compensated and when and how the employee can expect those payments.
 If the employee will receive health, dental, or other insurance, retirement benefits, and accrued leave time (whether paid, unpaid, or both), write a full description of these benefits.Your discussion of benefits should include any description of how premiums are paid and who is responsible for them.
Check with your insurance companies to find out if any particular language is required involving benefits and enrollment.
If you offer retirement benefits such as a 401(k), the contract should include a description of the plan and the investment company that administers it.
You also may refer to other contracts or agreements related to benefits and incorporate them by reference.
For accrued time, the contract should include how those hours are computed and when the employee can make use of them. If notice is required, state how far in advance the employee must let you know if they want to use their leave.
Keep in mind that specific language may be required for benefits required by law. Check state and local law or talk to an attorney if you have any questions or concerns.
 List any reasons for which the employee may be terminated, and required procedures for termination, if applicable. Here you also may want to include a discussion of any applicable performance review procedures.If you have an employment handbook with discipline and termination policies and procedures, you can mention it and incorporate it into the contract by reference. Make sure the employee is given a copy of it along with the contract. #*List specific reasons for which the employee can be fired "for cause," such as dishonesty or theft.
Depending on your disciplinary procedures and the size of your staff, you also may want to include the possibility of a probation period for the first 90 days of the contract, or if the employee is counseled for performance-related problems.
 This section gives you the freedom to establish how contract disputes will be resolved and which state's law will apply to the interpretation of the contract.Disputes under the contract are different than disputes that might occur in the workplace. Generally, you want to keep the employee from filing a lawsuit for breach of contract.
Most employment contracts specify either mediation or arbitration to resolve contract disputes. Typically the dispute resolution service to be used is named, or it is stated that both parties must agree to the service chosen in the event of a dispute.
Typically you also want to include a provision requiring notice of breach of contract that would give the breaching party a specific period of time, such as two weeks, to review the other party's complaint and fix the problem before additional steps are taken.
Choice of law can be a complicated thing, but typically with a small business you'll want the law of the state where your business is located to govern the contract. This makes it easy for you to find the answer to a question of interpretation or to find a lawyer, if need be.
 If the employee will be working with any of your company's intellectual property or trade secrets, such as recipes or client lists, the employment contract should include a non-disclosure agreement that prohibits the employee from sharing this information with others.Some employers prefer to have the non-disclosure agreement separate from the employment contract. However, if you do this you have to provide additional consideration for it to be legally binding.
If the non-disclosure agreement is included in the employment contract, the offer of employment itself constitutes valid consideration for the entire agreement.
The reason some employers have a separate agreement is that they want the non-disclosure agreement to last longer than the employment contract itself. You can achieve the same result by providing the employee an amount of severance if the employment relationship is terminated, in exchange for their signature on the non-disclosure agreement.
 If the employee will be creating content for you or working on the development of new inventions, methods, or programs, include a clause in the contract specifying that the company owns that intellectual property.Typically anything the employee creates in the scope of their employment is considered a work made for hire and becomes the intellectual property of the company.
However, whether something falls within the scope of employment can be open to interpretation, so a strong small business employment contract will define this closely.
If you're having a hard time knowing where to draw the line, think about your reaction if you found out the employee had created something. If your first thought is something like "Hey, that's mine! You made that for me!" then you should consider that within the scope of employment.
Scope of employment always includes things the employee comes up with while at work, either on location or on the clock – but it also includes things the employee works on and develops using company resources.
Intellectual property that falls within the scope of employment may even include things the employee makes at home while off the clock, if there's a close nexus between their creation and what they do at work.
For example, if you own a software company and the employee will be working on an app that locates puppies near the user so they can pet them, and the employee goes home and creates an app to locate kittens near the user, you would have a strong case that you owned the rights to the kitten app.
 Particularly if the contract's term is relatively short, a non-compete clause can keep the employee from gaining skill and experience from you and then using it unfairly to someone else's advantage.Non-compete clauses are frowned upon by judges because they restrict trade and employee mobility, and for this reason they are very difficult to enforce.
If you decide to use a non-compete clause, it is imperative that you carefully read your state's law on the subject.
Make the time as short as possible to prevent direct competition, and keep the geographic location relatively small and near to your business's physical location.
The most important thing to keep in mind with any non-compete clause is that its terms should be reasonable and it should be designed to protect a legitimate business interest.
 All contracts include a number of standard miscellaneous provisions, also called "boilerplate," that protect both parties to the contract and ensure the contract itself is legally binding and enforceable.For example, every contract has a provision that states if a judge finds any portion of the contract invalid, the invalid clause may be severed and the rest of the contract will still be valid.
There also should be clauses in which each of you warrant to the other that you have the right and ability to enter the contract and perform the duties described.
After the miscellaneous provisions, some contracts include a brief paragraph before the signature lines. However, this is not necessary for the contract to be legally binding.

