 Friends and family who have known your partner for a long time will likely have an idea if they have a dream proposal, and what it might include. For instance, your partner’s siblings may recall your partner talking about how wonderful it would be to receive a marriage proposal on a beach, at sunset. As an added bonus, informing other people about your intention to propose means that you can enlist their help with planning the occasion.


Friends and family can also inform you if your partner has expressed dislike of certain traditional proposals (e.g. on the big screen at a baseball game).
Ask a question like, "Has Jane ever told you anything about what her ideal proposal would be?";
, When planning your proposal, make a list of some of your partner’s favorite things and try to incorporate them into your plan. The event will be all the more memorable if your partner is surrounded by things they love while they are being proposed to. Some things to add to your list should include their favorite:


Flowers
Music
Food or dessert
Drink (alcoholic or otherwise)

, Take your partner's personality type into account before planning a proposal. If your partner is outgoing and adventurous, a grandiose, public proposal is an excellent idea. If they are shy or very private about things, plan a more intimate proposal that will be memorable for its sentimental value.Spend time reflecting on your partner's morals, values, beliefs, likes and dislikes and design the proposal based on these qualities. Make the proposal about honoring your partner and your relationship, not just the things that you like. You might think a proposal in front of thousands of people would be cool, but your partner might find it embarrassing.
For example, you might try writing a love letter to your shy partner that ends in a proposal. Either have them read it, or read it to them in a quiet, romantic setting. The letter will also make a perfect keepsake.
If your partner is adventurous and outgoing, try to make arrangements for a proposal on-stage at a big event, like a concert or sporting event.

