 The rolling R sound requires that your tongue be quite relaxed so it can vibrate freely when you talk. Because a relaxed tongue is not usually required to speak English, you may need to practice relaxing your tongue before you can successfully roll your Rs.Use the phrase ”tee dee va” to loosen your tongue.
Say this phrase over and over again as quickly as you can. Remember to keep your tongue relaxed and loose inside your mouth.
Your tongue is a muscle, so you may need to practice quite a bit before you can naturally relax it enough to roll an R.
 Many people, including children, are taught this rhyme in order to help learn the proper pronunciation of the letter R in Spanish, which produces the same sound as a rolling R. You can use this rhyme to practice your rolling Rs, no matter what language you’re going to use the rolling R for. The tongue twister is ”El perro de san Roque no tiene rabo, porque Ramón Ramirez se lo ha robado.”The English translation of this tongue twister is “The dog of san Roque has no tail, because Ramón Ramirez stole it."
There are only certain times when the rolled (or trilled) R is used in Spanish: when it is the first letter of a word (e.g. Roque or rabo); or when there is a double R in the middle of a word (e.g. perro). When saying the rhyme, these are the only times you should be rolling the R.
When the letter R appears in a Spanish word by itself in the middle of the word, it shouldn’t be rolled. Instead the sound produced should sound similar to the sound “dd” would make in English. If you need help pronouncing the single R properly, try listening to this video as an example — http://www.studyspanish.com/pronunciation/letter_r.htm.
If it helps, start by practicing only the words that produce the rolling R sound.
Once you’re able to say the individual words properly, move onto saying the entire rhyme.
Repeat the rhyme over and over again, getting faster and faster each time. The key is to be able to say all the words, including the rolling R sound, without proactively thinking about the fact that you’re rolling your Rs.
 The following Spanish tongue twister can be used to practice your rolling R sound, regardless of what language you’re learning: "Erre con re cigarro, erre con re barril. Rápido corren los carries, cargados de azúcar del ferrocarril.” Start by saying the tongue twister slowly. Once you’ve got the knack of saying the tongue twister, start saying it over and over again at a faster rate.In English this tongue twister translates to “R with R cigar, R with R barrel, swift roll the wagons, carrying sugar of the train."
Alternate version 1 — "Erre con erre cigarro, erre con erre barril. Rápido corren los carros, detrás del ferrocarril.”Alternate version 2 — "Erre con erre guitarra, erre con erre barril. Mira que rápido ruedan, las ruedas del ferrocarril.”

There are only certain times when the rolled (or trilled) R is used in Spanish: when it is the first letter of a word (e.g. Roque or rabo); or when there is a double R in the middle of a word (e.g. perro). When saying the tongue twister, these are the only times you should be rolling the R.
Remember that when the letter R appears in a Spanish word by itself in the middle of the word, it shouldn’t be rolled. Instead the sound produced should sound similar to the sound “dd” would make in English. If you need help pronouncing the single R properly, try listening to this video as an example — http://www.studyspanish.com/pronunciation/letter_r.htm.
As you get faster and faster with the tongue twister, the rolling R sound should come naturally.
 To keep yourself from getting bored, and to ensure you can roll your Rs when saying more than one word or sentence, try a different tongue twister every now and again. This tongue twister is about three sad tigers: "Tres tristes tigres tragaban trigo en un trigal en tres tristes trastos. En tres tristes trastos tragaban trigo tres tristes tigres.”Alternate version 1 — "Tres tristes tigres triscaban trigo en un trigal. Un tigre, dos tigres, tres tigres trigaban en un trigal. ¿Qué tigre trigaba más? Todos trigaban igual.”

Alternate version 2 — "En tres tristes trastos de trigo, tres tristes tigres comen trigo. Comen trigo, tres tristes tigres, en tres tristes trastos de trigo.”

Again, you only need to produce a rolling R sound when the first letter of a word is an R (e.g. Roque or rabo) or when there is a double R in the middle of a word (e.g. perro).
If the letter R appears in a Spanish word by itself in the middle of the word, it shouldn’t be rolled. Instead it should sound something like “dd” would make in English. If you need help pronouncing the single R properly, try listening to this video as an example — http://www.studyspanish.com/pronunciation/letter_r.htm.
As you get faster and faster with the tongue twister, the rolling R sound should come naturally.

