 People often feel they cannot be feminine and nerdy. However, this is not true. Many nerd girls enjoy a nice dress or skirt that meshes well with the nerd style.Mini-dresses often look like something out of a superhero movie. If you feel comfortable with a shorter, more revealing dress, this can look great in a nerd costume. Bright colors often come off as somewhat quirky or nerdy, so don't hesitate to pick an outfit that draws attention to yourself.
A lot of nerds enjoy skirts as well. Colorful, pattern skirts can work well in a nerdy ensemble. Many nerd girls enjoy wearing frilly tutus, which are odd enough to fit with the offbeat nature of the nerdy aesthetic. You can also go for a plaid skirt, as this is reminiscent of a school girl uniform.;
, If you're wearing pants as part of your costume, suspenders can solidify the nerdy look. Purchase a pair of suspenders at a local clothing store, strap them onto your pants, and then hoist them over your shoulders.Brightly colored suspenders can help. Many people associate nerdiness with a somewhat messy style, so dramatically mismatched suspenders may help with the look. For example, you could wear pink suspenders over a red shirt.
Tighten the suspenders so they hoist your pants and shorts up high. This further contributes to the nerdy look.
 You can also try a simple t-shirt. Online, you can find t-shirts with printings on them from a variety of aspects of nerd culture. For example, get a t-shirt with a quote from Doctor Who. Opt for a t-shirt advertising a superhero. Get a Star Wars or Star Trek t-shirt. A simple t-shirt, when paired with other girlish clothing and accessories, can help you look like a nerd., You want to make sure your feet are also looking nerdy. There is no set type of footwear for nerd girls, but you have a variety of options depending on the rest of your look.If you're wearing a dress or skirt, gladiator-like boots with a large ankle can help. You can also go for something like Doc Martens. Such boots may remind people of superheroes like Wonder Woman.
Converse shoes are also popular in nerd culture. If you have an old pair of converse, this may also help as nerds are often seen as somewhat sloppy dressers.
 If you want to go for a somewhat tomboyish nerdy look, try wearing a large button shirt and high waisted shorts. If you're using suspenders, you can use these to pull the shorts up even further. This can create an awkward, nerdy look.It's a good idea to go for a loose-fitting shirt. This contributes to the somewhat messy, unflattering appearance one associates with nerd culture. Opt for a shirt a few sizes larger than what you regularly wear.
 You'll want to look somewhat haphazard if you're nerdy. Therefore, go for a variety of patterns and colors. It's a good idea to strive to clash a bit for the nerd look.


Choose brighter colors, like bright shades of primary colors. Feel free to do awkward matching combinations. For example, go for a purple button up shirt with orange shorts.
Patterns can also help, especially if you go for a variety of different types of patterns. Wear a polka dot t-shirt with a striped skirt, for example.

