 Talking with someone who is not privy to the circumstances of the painful incident will allow you to share your feelings, without being defensive.


Each person involved will share a different account of events. Sharing with an uninvolved party will ensure your version is told.
This will also create the need to clarify some aspects for the listener and, in doing so, will help you to clarify your understanding of the events.
 Being emotionally hurt leaves us feeling vulnerable. Conveying why you feel a particular way to someone who cares about you will create empathy and help you to feel safe.In this safer environment, you will be able to further explore the source of your pain and generate new insight.
 After you finish telling your story, tell the listener you want to approach the situation rationally. Ask how he or she would handle the situation. This will provide opportunities for cognitive reappraisal and rehearsal for reengaging with the person who hurt you.


Cognitive reappraisal is thinking about a situation differently. Changing the way you think about an event may also change the way you feel about it.A common cognitive distortion is jumping to conclusions. For example, imagine that you feel angry because someone just cut you off in traffic. Your immediate response might be "What a selfish jerk! He doesn't care about anyone!" even though you only have that single experience (and only your side of it) as "evidence" for this conclusion.Cognitive reappraisal asks you to consider the other possibilities about this situation. Maybe the driver was having a bad day and not paying as much attention as he usually does. Maybe he truly didn't see you and would have felt bad about cutting you off if he had. Maybe he was rushing home to take his child to a doctor's appointment. The point here is not to react as though you know everything about the situation, but to remind yourself that there are many ways of thinking about things.
Another common distortion is personalization, or making things about us that aren't. We may feel hurt when we personalize. For example, you might interpret a teacher's comment that your daughter is not doing well in school as a personal attack on you as a parent. This could lead to you feeling angry and hurt.Instead, reappraise the situation and ask yourself what you actually know, rather than what you're assuming. Maybe the teacher's comment actually reflects her confidence in your parenting skills and she thinks you can help your daughter! Ideally, in these situations it's good to reserve judgment and clarify with the other person what s/he meant.
If you and the listener feel comfortable enough, role playing is a great way to practice responding calmly; this may help you feel more prepared and confident when you next encounter the person who hurt you.
 If a friend isn't available or you would like to organize your thoughts before sharing them with others, try journaling. Journaling can also provide the opportunity for reflection after discussing your feelings with another.


Carry a journal and pen/pencil. We usually aren't prepared to be emotionally hurt, so having a journal in your backpack or handbag is a good idea. If you don't like the idea of having a journal, you can write on loose paper and destroy it after you finish.
Excuse yourself from the situation. Politely tell others you need to take a moment to process your feelings, and find a quiet place to sit.
Write about why the behavior hurt you. Strong reactions to another's behavior are most often about perceived motivation or emotional representations of the behavior. Writing about why you are hurt by a behavior will help you better understand your emotional reaction and more effectively communicate your feelings to others.For slight grievances, writing your feelings down is often all it takes to release the negative emotions you are experiencing.If you find it difficult starting your writing, try creating a table.

Draw a vertical line down the center of the paper.
List the offensive act on the left side of the page.
On the right, explain why that act hurts you.




Reflect on the actions you can take to help you feel better. For example, maybe you just want to ignore this person and move on. Or maybe you would feel better if you have a chat with the person after you've calmed down. Noting a couple of concrete things you can do to resolve the hurt will help you stop fixating on it, which will help you calm down.

