 Remove the flat part of the mason jar from the circular threaded part that fastens it. Measure and mark the center point of the lid. Divide the distance between the middle point and the outer edge in half on both sides. Mark these two points as well.The resulting three marks should form a straight line. The first mark will be the center of the lid, and the other two will be halfway between the center mark and the lid’s outer edge.
 Position your punch on top of one of the marks. Swing a hammer with firm, moderate force and hit the end of the punch to drive its tip through the metal at your mark. Repeat this for the two remaining marks.


Place the lid on a piece of scrap wood or heavy metal to prevent the punch from damaging your work surface., Turn the lid over so the punched side is facing downwards. Drill a hole at the center punch with a ½-in metal drill bit. This will create metal shavings, which can be sharp. Dispose metal shavings in the garbage.Drilling your center hole may have created metal burrs. Prevent cuts from these by removing them with a file.
 Fit the lid into its circular, threaded part. Align the hole in the center of the lid with the hole in the flat bottom of the post. Attach the lid by fastening it to the post with a screw in each of the two remaining punched lid holes., Measure and mark the center point of the angled top of your carpenter bee trap. Drill a screw hole here for your eye hook. Insert the eye hook, screw the glass jar into the attached lid mount, and hang it to trap and kill carpenter bees., Carpenter bees will be attracted to the holes in your trap and crawl inside it to lay eggs. However, the 45° angle of the entry tunnels will confuse the bees, drawing them into the glass jar where they can’t escape.


Close up carpenter bee holes while they're away with caulk, wooden dowels, or specialized carpenter bee killing foam.
Closed nesting holes will force carpenter bees to look for the most convenient new home, like your carpenter bee trap.