 Is there a particular catalyst for their whining? Which situations cause them to act up the most? Take notes about the context for each time you hear them whining. More often than not, there’ll be a pattern that you can recognize if you’re alert to it.


Once you identify the patterns and contexts for their whining, it will help you create a strategy for addressing it.;
, If your dog seems to be whining when they make certain movements, assume specific positions, or attempt particular activities, there’s a good chance that they’re expressing pain. There may be a medical reason for their complaint. If you identify such a pattern, take your dog to the vet immediately.For instance, if you notice that your pet is whining whenever they go down the steps, they might have a joint issue. Or, if your pet is whining after each mealtime, they might have a digestive issue or food intolerance.
If there is a medical reason for their whining, oftentimes proper treatment will put a stop to it.
 Puppies instinctively whine when they need something from their mothers. This behavior can carry through to adulthood, and sometimes it is used to express a legitimate need.For instance, your dog may be communicating that they need water or need to go to the bathroom.
 Dogs may whine when they’re worried. If you notice that your dog reaches a fever pitch when they’re facing new or different situations, confronting other people or animals, and/or dealing with your departure, their whining may spring from anxiety or stress.Oftentimes, this kind of whining will be accompanied by other signs of disturbance like panting, drooling, and/or pacing.
This type of whining is common for puppies before they have been socialized. It also frequently develops in older dogs as they cope with aging.
 If your dog’s whining is accompanied by signs of physical submissiveness, such as tucking their tail between their legs, lowering their head, or exposing their stomachs, chances are that their whining is expressing appeasement to an alpha.This is normal canine behavior. However, if your dog demonstrates it excessively, you can address it through training.
 Many dogs whine in anticipation of a pleasurable event, like a greeting or a walk. If this type of whining is getting on your nerves, you can train your dog to respond differently to exciting situations., If your dog is a frequent whiner who uses whining to try to get what they want, it’s graduated into a behavioral issue that should be addressed through training.This type of whining is often accompanied by other forms of physical attention-seeking, such as staring at or pacing around you.

