 Make sure these holes are close to the ends. (But not too close, otherwise they would have openings.)
, It is extremely important to make sure your smallest dowel fits inside this hole. This dowel will support the body., Make sure this hole is near one of the ends. 

The end where the hole is will be both the top and the end connected to the hand, so choose carefully!

, You are now ready to make the head., You are going to build your puppet's head bottom to top, so make sure you have enough., Crumple them up and stick them onto the tube. Continue adding crumpled paper until you have formed a head shape, keeping in mind that the papier-mâché will make it slightly bigger once applied.

You can use glue and masking tape to stick papers to each other. Don't use too much masking tape, though, or it will be hard for papier-mâché to stick afterwards!

, Do not make it too thick (will result in too much bulkiness) or too thin. (Will cause the head to fall apart.)

This is your time to prepare for facial features. Create indents for eyes if you want, and shape a nose and a pair of ears.
 This time, make the pieces small--the smaller, the better. Use the paste to stick them onto the papier-mâché., Too thick, and that means scrape-y time is a good time. Too thin, and that mans you must add more bits of newspaper.

For necks that are too thick, once you scrape, wrap masking tape tightly around the neck to hold it in place and possibly make it thinner.
 (Not the corn-syrup-paste.) Repeat step two of "Making the Head", but this time you have more tube to attach newspaper to. Bonus!, However, instead of creating preparations for facial features, form the likings of a body. See below for examples.

Broader shoulders/men, curvier shoulders/women
Optional: Make the waist narrower than the chest if the puppet is a woman (or you feel like it).
 Stick the ends deep into the papier-mâché near the shoulders, leaving the curve to tie the arms to., Now, prepare for creating arms!, Next, push it through one of the holes of the four remaining dowels (assuming your puppet has two arms) and tie it to the curve in the wire, leaving leeway for the arm to move. This is the upper half of one arm., That means the lower hole of one dowel will be attached to the upper hole of the second. Using a hand saw, cut the unattached end of the lower arm so when finished, it resembles a chair. This is the lower arm., Get ready for hands!, Using a hand saw, cut a simple hand shape. Do this one more time for the other hand.

By no means does the hand have to be elaborate; a reasonable-sized oval shape with a straight bottom should do.
 It should fit well enough. Use clamps or binder clips to secure the hand where you want it while the glue dries., Tie it to the hole in the rod. Repeat for other hand., This is the "skin color," the "default color", whatever you call it. It will be, as the first example states, the color of your puppet's skin.

It helps to apply multiple coats.
If you would prefer for no one to see the skin color under the puppet's hair, (should you choose to make hair) you can paint it the color of the yarn being used.
 Paint the following onto the puppet's face:

Eyes
Eyebrows
Mustache or beard
Accessories (i.e. nose ring, earrings, et cetera)

, Wrap your yarn around the cardboard 25-100 times. Change the length of the short end for longer/shorter hair. Keep in mind, though, that the hair will be half the length it is now., It should be in a loop. "Fold" it in half and hot glue the center to the head, making sure there is hair on the back of the head as well., Cut a hole big enough to fit through the body dowel., (Yes, the one that supports the body.) This will cause the body to fall, leaving only the body dowel and the head., Then, slip the body through and put the supporting dowel back in place. Magic!, With a needle and thread, stitch the "sleeve" into place.,, You are finished.