 Sometimes love isn't about making grand statements or over-the-top gestures, it's about the little, everyday things that define a relationship. Try doing things like opening a door for your loved one, bringing them their morning cup of coffee in bed or sending a quick text to let them know you're thinking about them throughout the day.
 A soft kiss. A warm hug. Even a tender squeeze of the hand. These little displays of affection are the perfect way to communicate your love without saying a word.
 There's no room for selfishness when it comes to love. If you really care about someone, you'll share your thoughts, your blanket and even your last slice of pizza with them.
 You've heard it before, but there can be no love without trust. You need to trust your partner to make the right decisions, even when you're not around. It doesn't matter if it's trusting them when they say that nothing happened with their ex, or trusting them not to burn the dinner you left on the stove, you need to take them at their word.
 No matter how much you love someone, relationships can become boring if you allow yourselves to fall into a routine. Rekindle the spark by doing something spontaneous. Surprise your loved one by sending them flowers, calling them unexpectedly or planning a romantic getaway for the two of you.
 Whether it's a bang-up bacon and egg breakfast or a gourmet, ethnic-themed feast, show your love by feeding your special someone something delicious. The time and effort you put into it will be obvious to your loved one, while eating together will allow you to spend some quality time with each other. They say the way to a man's heart is through his stomach - but a tasty meal works equally well for either gender.
 As mentioned already, trust is the key to a healthy relationship, and there can be no trust without honesty. You should tell your partner the truth about everything - whether you ate the last cookie or left the front door unlocked.


There are, however, a number of notable exceptions to this rule. Providing answers to the questions "does this make me look fat?" and "what do you think of my parents?" being two such exceptions.
 If you truly love someone, you'll want them to be the best that they can be and to pursue their dreams no matter the consequences. Don't hold them back for your own selfish reasons - they'll only end up resenting you for it. If they want to learn the violin, put up with their ear-splitting practice sessions (or invest in a pair of earplugs.) If they want to study or work abroad, figure out a way to make the relationship work. They say love is about compromise, but nobody should have to sacrifice their dreams.
 To really show someone you love them, be there for them through thick and thin. Share their joy and their pain. Celebrate with them when they get a promotion at work or help them through the death of a beloved family member. Being there for someone can be as simple as sharing a drink together at the end of the week, or as important as giving them a shoulder to cry on when they're feeling low.

