 If you've got a full liquor cabinet, get rid of it. Pour out all the alcohol, recycle the bottles, give away your barware. Reminders of alcohol can trigger the desire to drink.If you always hit up the same bar on your way home from work, start taking a different route so you avoid it. Head straight home instead, or find another place to go to blow off some steam after work, like the gym.
Avoid the places you used to drink and get your friends to help you avoid alcohol for the time being. You may get to a place where you don't mind being in bars while your friends drink, but give it some time first. Avoid temptations as much as possible.
 You don’t need to drink every day to have developed a physical reliance on alcohol. Considerable binge drinking, even on an uneven basis, can lead to physical side effects if you stop drinking altogether. Even if you cut back, you may notice a variety of warning signs that, if you’re not careful, might lead you to stress out and drink to excess again. If you’re a regular binge drinker, it’s likely that you’ll experience any of the following physical symptoms:Sweating
Nausea
Headaches
Dizziness or shakiness
Insomnia

, You’ll need the support of family and friends to help you through this process. Let them know that you’re worried about your drinking, you don’t feel like you can drink “in moderation,” and you need to stop drinking entirely.If you face peer pressure or encounter friends who don’t support you, consider distancing yourself from them while you work on your drinking problem. Being around people who have their own problems with alcohol can make it very hard for you to stay on track., Disulfiram is a prescription drug that's designed to make drinking undesirable by producing hangover-like symptoms almost instantaneously by blocking the liver's ability to process alcohol.It can be extremely effective in fighting the desire to drink. Other mood-altering drugs are sometimes recommended by doctors, to help you manage stress and deal with your cravings. Talk with your general practitioner and find out what's a good idea for you.


If you struggle with other kinds of addiction, be careful when trying to stop. Quitting certain drugs, including cocaine, crack, heroin, and certain prescription drugs, must be managed under medical supervision. Drastic or sudden alterations in your consumption of these substances could cause severe medical complications, or even death., If you're psychologically tied to having that after-work beer, replace it with a healthier drink. Pour iced tea into a beer glass like you used to do and sit in the same spot and enjoy the same ritual, just without the alcohol. Soda, tea, coffee, smoothies, and other drinks can be healthier alternatives.
 If you decide to quit drinking entirely, it's likely that your friends–particularly friends that you drank with–will try to convince you that you don't have a problem, or want to debate the issue with you. It's best to avoid getting sucked into any kind of debate or discussion about whether you're "overreacting" or whether or not you really have a problem. It's nobody's business but your own., It's very difficult to quit on your own. Learn to lean on others and surround yourself with supportive friends and loved ones who will support you in your desire to quit drinking and will make the process easier on you.



Alcoholics Anonymous (AA) is the most famous and one of the most successful ways of quitting drinking. Even if you don't consider yourself an "alcoholic" strictly speaking, going to a few meetings can be an excellent way of finding support and concrete steps to quitting.

