 You can usually get good information from your hotel or from locals.;
, If it is your first time using it, you will want to clean it with toothpaste to remove the inner film and help prevent fogging. After that, some Sea Drops or a little bit of spit will do the job. Putting on the mask properly is going to mean the difference between having a good time or being miserable. Does your mask fit and is it water-tight? Put it on your face, bend forward and inhale sharply. Your mask should stay on until you exhale. Now put the strap high on the back of your head. Don't make it too tight or when you're done you'll have a ring around your face that will last for hours. Make sure there is no hair hanging down into the seal, as this will cause leakage.
 There are a lot of different styles out there from the $2 sticks to the $40 dry snorkels. Look for one that is comfortable for you. Bite down on the mouthpiece and close your lips. Practice breathing through the snorkel before you get in the water.
 Do you really need flippers? Only if you are snorkeling over a large area or in a heavy wave area. Please be careful with them, lots of coral damage is done with flippers.
 Kicking properly will mean seeing a huge number of fish everyone else will miss. Legs together, ankles together, now GENTLY, toes up, toes down- you want to be barely moving in the water. No big kicks, no splashes, no huge arm movements, just slow and easy. Fish will appear where there were none a few seconds before.
 Wearing a bathing suit is an obvious beginning, but you might want to be a little more covered than that. A shirt will keep your back from being sunburned and also protect you from some jellyfish. Board shorts will keep the back of your legs from being sunburned. Apply a water-resistant sun block and thoroughly cover exposed skin. Note that you can get sunburned through a shirt, so be sure to use sunscreen on your torso even if you are wearing one.
 Look for signs of coral and rocks in the water; that's where the fish will be. Take the time to scan the area. Boats, water toys, wind conditions? Pay some attention to the surroundings above the water before you get too engrossed with everything under the water.
 Time will pass quickly and you will get tired. Forty-five minutes is a long time to be in the water. Plan on some beach or boat breaks to keep from getting over tired.
 If you do use a camera, photograph fish from a distance. Close range usually ends up blurred. Also, focus on the reef some, too,

