 Most of the orphanages and adoption centers across the world only accept applications submitted by recognized adoption agencies. So, explore and find a special need adoption agency that provides viable help in international special needs adoption.;
, Once you discover a credible adoption agency, seek information from experts about the process, money and time involved in special needs adoption. The information will help you be prepared about the steps ahead and how to go about the adoption process.
 Your application folder requires a long list of documents, including a criminal background check, certified copies of health documents, cover letter, tax documents stating your yearly income, number of family members, pictures of your family and home and more such details. Additionally, you need to authenticate your documents from a certified and recognized person. The whole process of assembling the documents may take time. So, it is advisable to start it at the earliest once you get the entire information from adoption agency representatives.
 Apart from all the supplementary documents, you also need to send your application, including your special need child preference in age, health status and sex. Before you sign the application, think well and consult with your family members. Adopting a child with a disability is not at all an easy task. So, discuss well with your family members as your decision will determine the child that will join your family. Any changes in a later date can halt or delay the adoption process.
 When your adoption application is approved, you may receive a referral through the adoption agency. You may even get an offer for a waiting child for adoption. The referral may include medical history of the child, a picture and a brief introduction letter, covering the child’s personality and abilities. If you want more information, you can contact your adoption agency. You can then give your answer whether you wish to adopt the child or not. If you refuse, second referrals can be highly difficult to obtain.
 Once you have accepted the referral, you need to wait for the approval notice. You can then obtain an appointment with the concerned person and travel to the location, say China, India, Indonesia or Korea to complete the adoption process.
 After completing the adoption process, with the help of your adoption agency you can obtain an exit permit for your child and start the bonding process with the new member of your family.
 Show all the necessary documents to the concerned officials, obtain an immigrant visa for your adopted child and safely return back to your country along with your new family member.
 Once you return back to your home country with your adopted child, check with your adoption agency whether you need to complete any more paperwork. Social workers may visit your home at regular intervals to check how you are bonding with your new child and whether the child is adjusting well in the new environment. You also need to submit photographs of your child and get a social security number for the new addition. You would definitely want a new passport for your child as well.

