 Sealed beam style headlights were common in older model vehicles. These headlights are entirely self-contained and tend to be three to five inches in diameter. Because these headlights need to be pulled out, start by removing any parts of the vehicle’s exterior trim that surrounds the headlights.You may not need to remove any trim components depending on the application.
 In some trucks, you will need to remove all or parts of the grill in order to access the headlight screws and connections. Refer to the service manual for your specific vehicle to determine what parts, if any, of the grill you’ll need to remove.If you need to remove the grill, it is usually secured with bolts along the top and a series of clips.
You will need to gain access to the screws that hold the headlight in place. Remove anything you need to in order to reach them.
 Sealed beam style headlights are commonly held in place by a metal of plastic ring that is secured with multiple screws or bolts. Use the appropriate hand tool (screw driver or wrench) to remove each of these fasteners and set them aside somewhere safe.You will need to reuse the fasteners, so be careful not to lose them.
If any of the bolts or screws are severely rusted or damaged, be sure to replace them.
 With the ring removed, grip the headlight with your thumbs and fore fingers and pull it toward you, out of the front of the vehicle. Once the headlight slides out, disconnect the wiring going into the back of it.Depending on the vehicle, there may be a wire pigtail with plastic releases you will need to squeeze to release.
Inspect the disconnected wiring for damage.
 Remove the new light from the package and connect the loose wiring you removed from the previous light. Slide the headlight into place where the old one sat and hold it in place until you can replace the ring that secures it.If the wiring connectors are dirty, spray them with electrical cleaner.
You can purchase electrical cleaner from your local auto parts or electronics store.
 Place the metal or plastic ring back over the headlight and use the fasteners you saved to secure it into place. Once done, return any pieces of the trim or grill you needed to remove.Start the vehicle to test the headlight.
If the headlight does not work, check to ensure the wiring is securely connected and free of damage.

