 The best way to thaw frozen crab legs is by placing them in the refrigerator overnight.









Place the crab legs and claws in a container as they thaw so that they will not drip water inside the refrigerator as the ice melts.
If you do not have enough time to thaw the crab legs in the refrigerator, you can thaw them by rinsing them under cold, running water for a few minutes. At the very, make sure that the ice has melted before cooking them.;
, Insert a steamer basket inside the pot, making sure that the bottom of the basket does not come into direct contact with the water.









You only need about 1 to 3 inches (2.5 to 7.6 cm) of water in the stockpot. The water level should be low enough to avoid hitting the bottom of the steamer basket.
If you do not have a steamer basket, a metal colander can be used, instead. Just make sure that the colander can rest on the lip of the stockpot without falling into it and that the lid of the pot can still fit on top. Additionally, the colander should never dip into the water inside the stockpot.
 Arrange the crab legs and claws in a single layer and cover the stockpot.









By keeping the crab legs and claws in a single layer, you ensure even cooking. If they need to be stacked slightly, however, they should still cook through.
A tight cover is essential. If you do not cover the stockpot, you will have no way of trapping the steam inside, and the crab legs will not heat through correctly.
 This can take anywhere from 5 to 7 minutes depending on the size of the crab legs and how thawed they are before you steam them.









Once the crab legs become fragrant, they are likely done or very close to being done.If you want to check more thoroughly, carefully pick one up with tongs and touch the meaty part with the tip of your pinky finger.
 Steamed crab legs should be enjoyed immediately. They are often served with clarified butter, but melted butter, salt, and lemon wedges are also good accompaniments.









Be careful when removing the crab legs from the steamer. Lift the lid away from your face so that you do not accidentally burn yourself on the hot steam as it bursts out.
Steamed crab legs and claws have softened shells, so a crab cracker should not be used to get the meat out. Instead, use sharp kitchen scissors or shears to cut the crab apart at down the center.
If serving these to guests, you can completely remove the shell or simply cut a small slit into each one to get the process started.In case you find the crab legs or claws too hot to handle with your bare hands, or if the shell is spiny and hard to hold, you could wear a glove while working with it.

