 Hemp seed oil may relieve itching and help to moisturize dry rashes.Try putting a few drops of hemp seed oil on your fingertips and smoothing the hemp seed oil over your face. Do this twice per day after washing your face.


Test the hemp seed oil on the inside of your elbow before putting it on your face to make sure you don't have a reaction, which will only make your rash worse.
Make sure that you wash your hands after touching your face to prevent spreading the rash.
 Aloe vera gel has antibacterial properties and it can help to soothe a rash.Try applying a thin layer of aloe vera gel to your face. Allow the aloe vera to dry on your face. Repeat this process a couple of times per day.


Remember to wash your hands after applying the aloe vera gel.
 Colloidal oatmeal baths can help to soothe a rash on your body, but you may also use colloidal oatmeal on your face.You can purchase colloidal oatmeal in a drug store.


Try adding a couple of tablespoons of colloidal oatmeal to a bowl of warm water, then dip a clean cotton washcloth in the solution.
Use the washcloth to gently dab colloidal oatmeal water on your face.
Leave the oatmeal solution on your face for a few minutes, then rinse your face with lukewarm water.
Repeat this process a few times per day until your rash clears.
 Some herbs have soothing properties that may also help to get rid of a rash on your face. To use soothing herbs, try brewing a tea and using it in place of water for a cool compress.


Measure out a teaspoon of goldenseal, calendula, and Echinacea.Place the herbs in a mug and pour boiling water over them. Allow the herbs to steep for about five minutes. Then, strain the herbs out of the tea.
Let the water cool down to room temperature or place in the refrigerator for about an hour to chill the solution.
Dip a clean cotton washcloth in the solution, wring out the excess and apply the compress to your face for about five to 10 minutes.
Repeat this process twice daily.
If rash worsens with any topical "natural" remedies, discontinue use. Sometimes, the more things placed on top of rash, the worse it can get.

