 Unlike allopathic or chemical cures, herbal cures work in a natural, organic and gentle way. Do not expect miraculous results within a week. Also keep in mind that you have to use them day after day in order to see any benefits - you cannot use them sporadically.


Ideally, it would take no more than two months for any evidence of fungal/mold infection to disappear, however you can continue using the herbal remedies after this point, as they will continue to strengthen your immune capacity and the resistance level of your skin.
If you are worried about any herbal contraindications or interaction with a specific drug that you are taking, you should consult your medical practitioner to discuss the matter.;
, Garlic possesses powerful anti-fungal properties and can kill fungi, molds and yeasts. While garlic is most commonly used to cure Candida yeast infection, this herb may also help you in the days after exposure to mold. Garlic is one of the most powerful anti-fungal herbs available.


Garlic is effectual in curing ear infections resulting from the Aspergillus fungus and is often used in the form of prescription anti-fungals. For patients who suffer from Candida yeast infection, garlic is effective in removing bad fungi while preserving the good bacteria in the system.
You may take 2 to 4 grams of fresh garlic per day or opt for garlic tablets (600 mg to 900mg daily) or make a garlic infusion by infusing 4 grams of fresh garlic in 150 ml of water.
Patients who suffer from hemophilia or platelet dysfunction and those who have undergone surgery are advised against taking garlic supplements as it has blood thinning properties.
Some other powerful anti-fungal herbs that can be effectual in minimizing the effects of mold exposure problems include clove, thyme and Pau d'Arco.
 Certain herbs, such as echinacea, can be effective in protecting and boosting immune function. echinacea also can help to accelerate healing from viral infections such as flu and cold, in addition to clearing fungal infections.


Echinacea stimulates polysaccharides and forms immune stimulators that boost the immune system and help it to manufacture more T cells. Echinacea is comprised of antimicrobial compounds which support the function of the immune system by combating infection and swelling.
Add 1 to 2 grams of dried echinacea to a mug of tea and drink this three times a day. Alternatively you can apply a liquid tincture of echinacea to the affected area.
Cordyceps, oil of oregano and garlic are some other popular herbs that can help to stimulate the immune system.
 Detoxifying herbs can be used to cleanse the organs and bloodstream of harmful substances. Dandelion root, in particular, acts by enhancing the flow of urine, sweat, tears and other body secretions to detoxify the body.


Dandelion root is regarded as an effective detoxifier as it helps drive out germs and impurities from body. Vitamin C rich dandelion is a mild herb and can be consumed daily without fear of side effects.
Chopped dandelion can be mixed in a salad or drink and consumed. If dandelion is not locally available then buy capsule supplements and consume a 2 gm capsule daily.
Following a case of mold exposure, milk thistle may also prove to be effectual, though animal research done on the drug is inconclusive. However, you could try taking 420 mg of milk thistle extract daily in form of a tablet for anti-fungal benefits.
 Exposure to certain kinds of mold can give rise to nervous system damage or cerebral allergy. Therefore, herbs which safeguard the function of the brain - such as ginkgo biloba - are considered helpful for recovery.


In order to enhance cognition and memory, ginkgo biloba can be useful as a supplement. It acts by boosting circulation, leading to an increased supply of oxygen to the brain. ginkgo acts directly on the brain by boosting the blood supply. As a result, the brain sends stronger signals to the immune system which helps to fight off fungal reactions.
Take 2 to 4 mg of ginkgo biloba herbal extract daily with your tea. You can also consume it in the form of a capsule.
As ginkgo biloba has blood thinning properties, it should not be consumed by post operative and pregnant patients.
 Adaptogens work to normalize bodily functions and help the body to achieve homeostasis, or a state of balance. Most of these herbs also protect the immune system and can be used for their ability to restore the kidneys, adrenal glands and other organs to their original healthy states.


One commonly used adaptogen is Siberian ginseng. This herb, when consumed over a long time, can help your body to adjust to exposure to toxic substances such as molds, physical injury and other things that cause stress.
Ginseng comes in a powdered form and you can take 2-5 gm daily, depending upon the intensity of the fungal infection.
Maca, astragalus and rhodiola rosea are some other adaptogens that produce similar effects to gingko biloba.

