 In some cases, people may feel as though there is a ghostly or divine presence in the room with them during their OBE. In others, they may simply see a “double” of their own body. Try to remember who, if anyone, was in the room with you. Identify them if possible.Meeting deceased loved ones during this experience may be a way of grieving after their deaths. You may also feel as though they have a message or advice for you.
Encountering a divine presence in the room is a spiritual experience for many.
Some people report seeing ghosts or multiple spirits in the room. Some believe that these spirits have messages to pass on to you. , A silver cord tying your spiritual/floating body to your physical form is seen by some to be symbolic of the relationship between the body and the soul. This cord is what many believe keeps you tethered to your body and to this astral plane. You may have even felt this cord pull you back into your physical body.Did you feel as though you were limited in your movement? There have been a cord or similar force keeping you in place.
Did you feel as though you had free movement around the room? There likely wasn’t a cord.
 A tunnel of light is common in near death experiences. You may have felt you were “moving towards the light” or that you were passing to the afterlife. Some believe this is a spiritual experience wherein you have visited heaven. Some believe it is representative of being reborn. Others believe it is a disruption in brain wave patterns.Visiting paradise or heaven is much more common in naturally induced OBEs (such as near death experiences, sleep paralysis, or unprovoked lucid dreaming) than in forced OBEs (such as hypnosis or provoked lucid dreaming).The reasons for this are unknown.
 Think about whether or not you traveled in your OBE. Did you stay in one room, or did you move from room to room? Did you fly through the heavens? Did you visit another planet? Some people also report visiting distant friends and having conversations. You may be seeking something that is missing in your life. You might also be coming to terms with your beliefs of the afterlife and universe. Consider the reasons why you might have been taken where you were.


Astral projections are a type of OBE wherein people feel as though they have been transported to a “heavenly” or “alien” realm. These may be accompanied by bright colors, spiritual encounters, floating, and teleportation. Some people believe that this is a visit to higher planes of reality., Staying in one place during your OBE is perfectly normal. You may have seen the room you are in from above. This may be your brain reconstructing the location of the room from previous memories.It could also be an illusion of perception.Look around the room. See if objects were in the same place as they were in your OBE.


If objects are in different positions, you may have been imagining your room based on previous memories.
Was there anything you saw from above that you wouldn't be able to see from below? If the answer is yes, you might consider that you really left your body.
 Many people report hearing strange sounds during their OBE. Some believe this is because sound cannot transmit to other astral planes or that your brain is interpreting new sensations as sound.It could also be a neurological response to your condition.


You might hear the sound of static, wind rushing in your ears, or cracking.These sounds could be your brain trying to make sense of your situation.
Voices, both peaceful and malevolent, are common.This could be a result of your dream state, in which your brain is processing things you heard that day. Can you identify what is being said? Was it a coherent sentence, or was it just rambling? If it did not make sense, it was likely insignificant, and you can ignore it.

