 Chat about your hobbies or ask what she has gotten up to over the weekend. She may immediately volunteer some information about whether she is single or not. She will most likely tell you if she has plans with her significant other., This is more casual than a formal date but still may be viewed as one. If she hesitates, it may be because she is not single. Better yet, she may say yes because she is single and views it as a date.Make sure you know whether she thinks that it is a date or just something between friends. You can casually ask her, “is this cool with your boyfriend?” She may laugh if she’s single or appreciate how respectful and considerate you are but either way, it can put you in her good graces.
 While she may recoil, breaking the touch barrier establishes a connection and certain dynamic. She may naturally be flirty or very self-conscious, in any scenario apologize if she recoils. She may tell you exactly why she is not comfortable, which may include that she is not single. Touching lets her know that you want to get close to her.Touch her casually after a joke or after complimenting her hair or outfit.You may touch her lower back if escorting her through a door or elevator. You may also read over her shoulder if she is classmate or coworker. While this may seem innocent, subconsciously she will know that you’re trying to get closer to her.
 If you are in a social setting and she has her arms crossed and does not maintain eye contact, she may not be interested in having a conversation with you. In contrast, if she is touching your arm or leg during the conversation, it is a good sign that she is engaged in the conversation., For example, if she never mentions a boyfriend but tells you that she goes to yoga every day, takes French lessons, and she is still looking for more activities, there is a good chance that she is single., If you are obviously probing, she may be turned off and not be forthcoming. Say something similar to, “I was just wondering,” and ask if you could take her out or even just get her number if you just met.If you are going to be direct and straightforward, make sure that you have established a rapport. She might find it offputting if you ask her without getting to know her at all.

