 Although animators today work predominantly on computers, it is still important that you understand the basic foundations of visual art. This includes drawing. This artistic background will benefit you in the design process and in staging shots for animation.To learn to draw you can start taking art classes in high school, or begin courses through community programming.
Alternatively, you can practice sketching from real-life situations.;
, Whichever degree you choose, you should be sure the school has respected animation classes that will teach you about 2D and 3D animation. A degree is not necessary to find work in animation; however, it will help teach you about the industry and some of the necessary skills. It can also help you build your portfolio and gain important feedback on your work.A degree in animation will teach you how to create a storyboard, characters, and will give you the opportunity to learn different software programs.
 If you choose to study animation through formal schooling, you may be able to try your hand at gaming, mobile media, special effects, website animation, TV animation, and more. Think about which style of animation you enjoy the most and then focus your education specifically on that field.


For example, you may really enjoy stop motion animation. As a result, you should take courses in post-production and editing software.
People who focus more on a fine art path than computer animation will want to look for work as storyboard artists, painters, and modelers.
 Instead of earning a four-year bachelor's degree in fine art or animation, you can build your skills by learning to use a variety of computer software programs. These programs can be self-taught, or you can take online certification courses. Animation relies heavily on computer software programs and many employers will require some form of expertise in the following programs:Flipbook (DigiCell)
Flash (Adobe)
Blender (The Blender Foundation)
3Ds Max (Autodesk)
Maya (Autodesk)

, As 3D computer animation grows more popular, you may need to take additional training courses so that your experience stays relevant in the job market. For example, employers often outsource 2D animation to other countries, but there are many opportunities for mobile and website animators.

