 You simply can't read an entire 400-page book in the hour before class, so start tackling the reading assignment as soon as you know what it is. Most college-aged people can read an average of 300 words per minute, so plan accordingly.If you wait until the last minute, you will stress yourself out in addition to not being able to complete the reading in time.
An average document has between 250 and 400 words per page.
 You will still need enough time in each sitting for some continuity and understanding, but you need not read the entire text in marathon sessions. Instead, set out to read for an hour, or even half an hour at a time. Take breaks every half hour or hour to restore circulation to your legs and keep yourself awake.Alternatively, choose to complete a set number of pages in each sitting. It is easier to get started if you know when you will finish.
 Your pre-reading and your purpose will help determine whether you can take short-cuts. Depending on what the purpose of your reading is, you may be able to skim some of the pages. For example, if you’re reading a long document for a presentation at work, you may need to read the entire thing. But if you’re reading a textbook for class, you may be able to pick and choose some sections instead of reading all of them.Rather than read the entire 400-page textbook this semester, could you look up what you need and read only the chapters and sections that follow the class discussions?
Would reading the headlines and a few introductory paragraphs tell you enough that you could skip reading the entire chapter?
When possible try to work smarter, not harder.
 Often times, there will be free moments when you find yourself being forced to kill time throughout your day. These times are perfect opportunities for you to steal away a little time for reading. If you bring your book with you every day, you will find more time to spend reading in these breaks.


Make sure that you don’t use this as a distraction from other things you should be doing (like reading while you’re supposed to be working). Only take moments to read when you have some dedicated time when you can adequately focus.
 If your document is a popular text, it’s possible that it may be available to you in audiobook format. This means that you can upload the file to your phone or other playing device and listen to it while you do other things.


For example, if you commute to work, you could listen to the audiobook while you drive. Or you could listen to it while you go for a bike ride or while you’re working out at the gym.
 When you have to tackle a large-scale reading assignment, you’ll need to keep at it over a period of time. Make a reading schedule and stick to it. Read some in the morning and some in the afternoon. Read some today and some tomorrow.The average person can read approximately one page per minute (depending on how many words appear on each page), so plan ahead and make sure you continue with your reading schedule so you can accomplish the large reading task.

