 If you are strength training and the last few repetitions of your set are not difficult, your workout may be too easy. For instance, if you are doing three sets of 6-8 repetitions on a bench press, it should be very hard to complete the last few repetitions on your second and third set. If it is easy, it is a sign that your body has become more efficient with the exercise routine and is burning less calories to complete the same movement. To increase your strength, you need to increase the weight on the bench press or other weighted exercise. Try adding 2.5, 5 or even 10 lbs, depending on how you are feeling.If you add a lot of weight, get somebody to spot you.
 After each exercise, take notes about the difficulty of completing the lifts, as well as whether you were able to complete them in good form. The next time you do a workout, check your notes to see whether a particular strength training exercise was previously completed in good form and to determine an appropriate weight.If you did the exercise seamlessly last time, you should add more weight. Add 2.5, 5 or 10 lbs, depending on how you are feeling. If you add a lot of weight, get somebody to spot you.
If you were unable to complete the exercise in good form previously, do it again at a similar or lower weight until you have perfect form.
 Your body needs protein and other nutrients to repair muscle tissue. However, if you are not pushing yourself hard enough in your weight routine, you may not get your usual hunger pangs after a workout., If you are not pushing yourself hard enough to experience some muscle fatigue after lifting weights, your body may have adapted too much to your workout routine. Try incorporating different movements and exercises into your daily and weekly routine. For instance, try a new group strength training class or get tips from a personal trainer on how to mix up your routine.If you normally do a flat bench press, try doing an incline bench press.
If you normally use machines for strength training, try using more free weights.
 Although a consistent strength training routine is very important for tracking your progress, you need to change things up once in a while. The reason is that your body eventually adapts so well to a routine that it is no longer challenging and the fitness benefits diminish. If you have been doing the same strength training routine for two months, you should definitely try to switch things up or try a new exercise.Fitness trainers recommend switching your routine every six to eight weeks.
If you don’t want to switch your whole routine, you could change part of it. For example, you could add a new exercise in the middle of your routine and keep the end of your routine the same.

