 Paraphrenia has the same symptoms as schizophrenia. The difference is that the person never shows any symptoms early in life, but develops symptoms in their late 40s or later. Symptoms to look for in a person with paraphrenia include:Delusions
Hallucinations
Confused or disorganized speech or behavior
Excessive, unnecessary movement
Silly behavior
Agitation
Lack of response
Resistance to instruction
Isolation or withdrawal from social situations
Lack of emotion or response
Apathy, including disinterest in doing daily tasks or personal hygiene tasks
No deterioration in intellect or personality;
, Individuals diagnosed with paraphrenia can live healthy, happy lives with the proper treatment. The prognosis for those with paraphrenia is good if treatment is followed. If your loved one is not undergoing treatment, you should encourage them to seek treatment. This may include seeing a psychiatrist, getting on the proper medication, and going to regular therapy sessions.Many elderly people may be resistant to treatment. They may not believe there is anything wrong with them or believe they do not need treatment. Help your loved one see that there is a problem and it can be managed with treatment. You may arrange a discussion with their doctor, take them to a support group for others with paraphrenia, or talk to them directly. You may say, "Your behavior has changed recently, and you are not very happy. You are withdrawing from your family and friends. This doesn't have to be permanent because you have a treatable condition."
Don’t argue with your loved one about treatment if they refuse. Instead, tell them that you love and care about them. Say that you want to see them better and happy instead of upset like they are now.
 Elderly people with paraphrenia cannot take the same antipsychotics as younger people with schizophrenia. Most paraphrenia patients are prescribed atypical antipsychotics, which have been shown to be safer.You can your loved take their medication regularly by suggesting they use a weekly pillbox or other medication tracker.
 Atypical antipsychotic medications have been shown to help patients with paraphrenia; however, you should help make sure that your loved ones are being monitored by their doctor while on atypical antipsychotics. Medications for any type of schizophrenia, including paraphrenia, may be harsh. Let your loved one’s doctor know if you notice any negative side effects to the medicine.There is a risk that these medications may have a negative impact on cardiovascular function and contribute to diabetes and higher lipid levels in elderly people.
Though these new types of medications seem to result in fewer side effects, there is still a risk of tardive dyskinesia, which is a neuromuscular disorder similar to Parkinson’s.
Some side effects may not be easily identified. Some medications for paraphrenia may make your loved one restless, have less energy, or act like a zombie.
Your loved one should never stop taking any medication without a doctor’s authorization. This may cause more harm than the side effects.
 An important part of the treatment of paraphrenia is therapy. Cognitive behavioral therapy (CBT) can help your loved one learn how to manage their delusions and psychosis. It also can be helpful in addressing problems that arise from related depression or anxiety disorders.Cognitive behavioral therapy can also help with insomnia and social anxiety issues. For example, CBT helps a person replace negative thought patterns with healthier ones. Your loved one might be taught how to notice delusions and purposefully move their mind to something other than the delusion to help them sleep. They also may be taught how to socialize despite delusions. For example, a therapist might train them to think, "People are not out to get me. It's just the delusion."

, Family counseling may be helpful for you and your family if your loved one has recently been diagnosed with paraphrenia. Family counseling, group counseling, or family education can help you learn how to care for your loved one, how to deal with psychotic episodes, and learn how others deal with a loved one with this condition.Family therapy may be especially important if your loved one lives at home with your or you are the primary caregiver.

