 If you were charged with a DUI based solely on a failed field sobriety test, the physical conditions that interfered with that test may carry more weight. However, your case may be more challenging if the failed field sobriety test is supported by additional evidence of your intoxication.After you're charged, you have a right to any evidence that the prosecutor intends to use against you. This includes police reports or any statements made by the arresting officer.
You can use this evidence to uncover weaknesses in the prosecution's case. If there is very little evidence that you had been drinking, you may be able to convince the prosecuting attorney to drop the charges against you.
For example, suppose you failed a field sobriety test, but you have a neurological condition that makes it difficult for you to complete many of the tests, regardless of whether you've been drinking.
The officer pulled you over after your car swerved. However, you were swerving to avoid hitting a kitten in the road. The officer did not observe any of the common traits of drunkenness: your eyes were clear, you weren't slurring your speech, and you didn't smell of alcohol.
In that case, the prosecuting attorney may be more amenable to believing your story and offering you the opportunity to plead guilty to a lesser offense.
 If you personally have a physical or medical condition that you believe interfered with the field sobriety test, testimony from your doctor or another medical professional can help solidify your case.Once you have a medical professional who is prepared to testify that the field sobriety test results cannot be trusted in your case due to your physical or medical condition, the prosecution's case weakens.
Some medical conditions, such as acid reflux or diabetes, also can influence the results of breathalyzer tests. If the officer gave you a breathalyzer after you failed the field sobriety test, these factors may come into play.
Keep in mind that not only do you need experts to testify regarding your condition, they also must be able to explain how that condition would interfere with the field sobriety test.
Generally, it's important for your witnesses also to be able to explain that despite the fact you were unable to pass the field sobriety test, your condition did not interfere with your ability to operate your car safely.
 At any time prior to trial, you can discuss the charges against you with the prosecutor. This negotiation is commonly referred to as plea bargaining, because it generally involves you agreeing to plead guilty to a lesser charge.Typically you'll have an attorney in a criminal case, but there's no reason you can't negotiate with the prosecutor on your own. However, you'll generally come out better having an attorney on your side to conduct the negotiations.
If you have significant evidence that you can use to challenge the field sobriety tests, the prosecutor may decide it's not worth it to take the case to trial – particularly if there is no other evidence of your intoxication.
However, don't take it for granted that you can get your charges dismissed, regardless of how strong your evidence is. Having DUI charges dismissed is incredibly challenging, even if it's your first ever brush with the law.
 There may be driver safety or responsibility classes that are required in your jurisdiction for anyone convicted of either DUI or other serious moving violations.The prosecuting attorney may even tell you about these programs, or require that you complete them as a condition of reducing or dismissing the charges against you.
You also may be required to be evaluated by a substance abuse professional. You probably want to talk to someone anyway if you were drinking and driving, or if you have problems with alcohol and need help and support.
Keep in mind that taking these classes or getting an evaluation typically will end up costing you several hundred dollars. However, that's still a lot less than you could pay if you were convicted of drunk driving.
 If there is scant evidence of your intoxication apart from questionable results on a field sobriety test, the prosecutor may be more willing to work with you. However, you probably still will face other charges for your irresponsible behavior while operating a motor vehicle.Keep in mind that even if you're able to get the DUI charge dismissed, any other charges regarding the way you were driving usually stand. This means you may end up having to plead guilty to those other charges, even if you have a decent defense.
Typically, a prosecuting attorney may be willing to allow you to plead guilty to reckless driving if the evidence against you is particularly weak.
Reckless driving carries its own stiff penalties, but generally is not as bad as having a DUI on your record.
However, many prosecutors are willing to risk a not-guilty verdict at trial rather than plead down a DUI charge. This is particularly true if you were driving in a particularly unsafe manner, were involved in a traffic accident, or endangered the physical safety of others.

