 Secure the blank in place using a spur center or other similar mount., The tool rest is an adjustable platform that sits in front of your spinning wood to support your tools as you cut. Position the tool rest so that it is a few inches away from the widest point of your blank. The height should be set so that you are able to place your tool perpendicular to the spinning axis of your lathe.
 Once the wood begins to spin, you can begin the cutting process. Be sure to use caution when working with tools and a lathe.


Always keep your eyes on the wood you are cutting.
Do not use force with your tools, let the spinning action of the wood do the work.
Wear eye protection.
 The roughing gauge is a broad chisel that can remove large amounts of wood to create a round, symmetrical surface. Remove the edges of the wood slowly to turn the square piece of wood into a true cylinder. Make sure the wood becomes completely symmetrical.


Place the gouge against the tool rest and move it slowly into the spinning wood.
Hold the gouge with both hands and keep your eyes on your project at all times.
Slowly slide the gouge up and down the length of the wood to smooth the surface into a cylinder.
Remark the wood every four inches and note the diameter of each section on the wood.
 Use a parting tool to cut a groove in the wood. Remove a few millimeters at time to make sure you don’t take off too much and pass the depth for each section. Cut each groove to the desired measurement for each 4 inch section.Start at the barrel end of the bat.
Make diameter cuts for the first 12 inches of the barrel.
Stop frequently and use calipers to check the diameter of your groove.
 Remove the wood down to the diameter cut along each section of the bat. Slide the gouge along the uppermost section of the bat and remove the wood around the diameter cut. Watch the wood as you are removing it to ensure that you do not go deeper than the diameter cut.


Work from the widest point to the narrowest point.
Connect each section by removing wood down to the diameter cut along each section.
 Use the roughing gouge to narrow the wood on the handle end of the bat to 2 inches. Lay the gouge against the tool rest and slide the chisel along the handle of the bat.


Slowly slide the chisel up and down the handle to make it narrower.
Remove wood along the handle until the diameter of the entire handle section reaches 2 inches.
Stop the lathe periodically to use calipers and check your diameter.
 Mark the handle end of the bat again to create a guide for where to make diameter cuts.
 The skew chisel comes to a sharp narrow point and will allow you to cut a small groove to the desired diameter. Just like you did when crafting the barrel, cut a groove in the wood every four inches along the handle of the bat. Check the diameter of your grooves using calipers.


Cut the grooves to the desired diameter using the measurements listed above.
 Start on the barrel end of the bat and move toward the handle. Remove wood along each section to create a smooth surface from one end of the bat to the other.
 Mark the spot of your desired bat length. 32 inches is a standard length for a bat. The spot that you mark will be where the knob of the bat begins.Use a measuring tape to measure the bat from the wide end of the barrel of the bat.
Mark the length of the bat to show where the handle ends and the knob begins.
 To create the knob you will need to use a combination of tools and round either end of the knob. The knob is the bottom of the bat that helps ensure a proper grip when swinging.


Use the skew chisel to round off the top of the knob. Remove the wood from the top of the knob where it connects to the handle. The knob will be 2 inches at its widest point and go directly to the 1 inch diameter handle.
Use the parting tool to remove enough wood to insert the skew chisel to round off the end of the knob. In order to round off the knob remove wood from the bottom of the bat so you can fit the skew chisel around the bottom.
Create a rounded knob using the skew chisel to smooth the edges to a U shape.
Use the gouge to blend the handle into the rounded knob.
 Turn of the lathe and run your hands along the length of the bat. Feel for any irregularities or bumps on the surface of the bat.


Smooth off any bumps using the gouge.
Grasp the handle while the bat is still in the lathe to ensure that it is the right thickness.
Adjust the thickness of the handle if necessary.
 Ensure that the entire surface of the bat is smooth by using increasing grits of sandpaper.


While the bat is still mounted on the lathe, use a 60-80 grit sandpaper to rough sand the entire length of the bat.
Use increasing grits of sandpaper, 120, 180, 220, 400 to make the entire length of the bat as smooth as possible.

