 Each state requires that you disclose known defects to potential buyers. Your state should have a checklist form you can use. Ask your real estate agent or contact your state’s Real Estate department. If you don’t make required disclosures, a buyer could sue you.


In the U.S., federal law requires certain disclosures about lead paint if your house was built before 1978.Generally, states do not require that you actively go searching for problems. However, you are required to disclose problems you either know about or which you should know.
When in doubt, err on the side of disclosure.
 Even if you make required disclosures, you could be sued if you make a misrepresentation about the home. Accordingly, you should be very careful about what you say about the house. You can be sued for intentional misrepresentations but also for negligent (careless) ones.


For example, if your roof is leaky, you cannot tell the buyer that the roof is great.You also can’t answer “No” if the buyers asks whether there have been problems with the roof.
If you are asked a question you don’t know the answer to, tell the buyer you’ll get back to them. For example, don’t guess when the siding was put on your house.
 A warranty is a promise that a certain fact exists or will exist. Most purchase and sale agreements contain many warranties. As a seller, you want to limit your representations and warranties because you can be sued if a warranty turns out to be false.Ideally, you will want to sell the property “as is.” However, many buyers won’t go through with a sale without certain warranties. Work with your real estate agent or lawyer to limit the warranties you make as best as you can.
Also pay attention to environmental liability. Under federal and state environmental laws, a real estate owner is responsible for cleaning contaminated soil and ground water. An “as is” clause is insufficient to get out from under this responsibility.As the seller, you will want your contract to contain adequate language to shift responsibility for cleaning up contamination to the buyer.

