 At minimum, you should have two blue clays, two yellow clays, one white clay, one transparent clay, and one black clay.


One blue should be slightly warm (with a hint of green) while the other should be slightly cool (with a hint of purple). Similarly, one yellow should be slightly warm (with a hint of orange) and the other should be slightly cool (with a hint of green).
You can use more variations of blue and yellow clay, but starting with two each should provide you with a fairly accurate understanding of how to make your desired hue of green.
 Pinch off equal amounts of the warm blue and the cool yellow. Smash the two pieces together and knead the resulting ball until evenly blended.


Roll, stretch, and knead the ball continuously to blend the colors. When finished, you should no longer see any streaks of blue or yellow in the sample.
The finished color should be a relatively bright green since both the blue and yellow already leaned toward the color green., Combine equal portions of the blue and yellow clays, following the same procedure used to create the first sample of green. Continue until you've worked through all possible combinations.


The warm yellow and cool blue should create a dull green with hints of brown in it.
The warm yellow and warm blue should create a medium-tone, warm green with strong yellow undertones.
The cool yellow and cool blue should create a medium-tone, cool green with strong blue undertones.
 Pick your favorite green hue and duplicate the sample as before. After mixing the green, mix in a small pinch of white.


Blend the white into the green until no streaks remain. The color should look less bright and should also gain a lighter tint. The more white you add, the lighter the tint will be.
 Duplicate the same green used in the previous sample, but do not add any white to it. Instead, mix in a small amount of translucent clay.


Once blended, the translucent clay should make the green appear much less bright without changing the value or hue of the resulting sample.
If you use more translucent clay than green, however, you'll end up with a semi-transparent wash of green instead of an opaque color.
 Create the same green used as the base in your white and translucent experiments. This time, thoroughly mix a very small pinch of black into the green.


After blending the black into the green, the sample should develop a darker shade while remaining the same hue.
In most cases, it won't take much black to dramatically darken the green, so you should only work in very small amounts.

