 Some glides are secured to the inside edge of the face frame with a screw and mounted into a plastic bracket that is attached to the inside rear of the cabinet.


Sometimes with this type of mounting, the glides can become slightly bent or twisted.
Check to see if this is the case. If so, remove the glide screws and the glide, then use a little pressure or twisting to return the glide to shape, if possible.
This should be very simple. If too bent, then both the right and left glides will need to be replaced, as they are sold only in a set.
 Be sure to replace the damaged, useless glides.


Take one to your home center to get a proper replacement.
They cost about $6 to $8 for a set.
The good news, however, is that this type of damage is usually very “fixable” and replacement is not needed.
 More often, your glides will be mounted on wood rails that run from the backside of the face frame to the inside rear of the cabinet. The glide can be adjusted at several points along the railing and are usually mounted with 3 or four screws per rail.


If your drawer binds at the top, against the face frame, this is a fairly simple adjustment.
 Use the Phillips screwdriver to loosen the screw that holds the drawer glide to the inside of the face frame.


Loosen it only. Do not remove it.
This screw is located in a vertical oblong hole in the glide to allow for up and down adjustment.
 With the mounting screw loosened, slide the drawer glide downward and retighten the screw.


Repeat the same process with the drawer glide at the opposite side of the drawer space.
Do any necessary fine-tuning to the glides and tighten the screws to secure the glides.
 If the glides are mounted in a bracket at the inside rear of the cabinet, the mounting bracket typically has elongated slots for adjustment.


Loosen the mounting screws enough to adjust the bracket.
Tighten ONE screw enough to secure the bracket so you can test the adjustment.
When satisfied with the adjustment, you may tighten all screws.
NOTE: Because of the way the glides are designed and mounted, it is very unlikely that a drawer would bind at the bottom.

