 High schools have a list of required credits that you must take in order to graduate. Most high schools require four years of English and Math, three years each of Social and Science; two years of a foreign language or artistic class (these vary); and various other credits. In high school, you most likely are required to take some form of Biology, Physics, Chemistry for science, and American and World History for history, along with some sociology, economics, American government/civics, and psychology, along with a health credits and PE credits. You may be required to take some type of Algebra, most likely Algebra I and II, Geometry, Statistics, and some Trigonometry. Pre-calc and Calc are generally for honor students.;
, Schools will give out a "course list", a list of classes that are offered to the school. Skim through this list and mark all classes that interest you.
 Look carefully at who is allowed to take the classes. Some classes are for upperclassmen only, or only for a specific grade.
 All the classes that you want to take (that are provided for your grade level) should go on this list.
 Required courses for each year can vary from school to school, but usually English, Math, Science, and some form of History are required. Sometimes high schools ask for Physical Education or a foreign language as well.
 Though it may be tempting to cram your schedule full of difficult classes, whether you are an overachiever or just would like to get them out of the way, resist. High school is a difficult time, and although you should take challenging courses, balance yourself out with courses with subjects that you enjoy.
 Goals, dreams, aspirations... the eternal 'what do you want to be when you grow up?' question comes into play in high school. Here you start laying the foundation for your career. You should have a basic idea in your head of what you'd like to do in the future. If you absolutely have no idea, try reading this article. Remember, all plans are subject to change.

