 Most often you will find galvanized metal, which has a steel coating over it to protect it from rust. This process is ideal for props or furniture, where you want to create an artistic antique finish.;
, Use a sanding pad or sander for larger pieces of metal. Sanding will remove the shine on a finish. Rub the metal object until the surface loses the shine and slickness. Wipe away any dust left behind from the sanding.


Wipe down the metal with mineral spirits or vinegar to clean the surface. Having a clean surface will assure the paint can stick to the surface and last longer., Dip your sponge brush in water to soften the bristles.


Be sure to paint only in a well-ventilated area.
 Begin with the cracks and crevices of the object, and then continue all around it. Black should cover the piece, but have some variation to mimic the aging process.
 You will need to allow the paint to dry completely before applying the next layer. Find an out of the way area to store your metal overnight. Wash your brush while the paint is still wet to remove it more easily.
 If you want a galvanized look, buy a matte gunmetal grey and burnt umber paint color. If you want a bronzed look, buy matte acrylic burnt and raw umber paints.


Don't feel like you have to layer your paints. You can try sponging some gunmetal grey to create and aged galvanized metal look. Then decide how much, if any, umber to add.If you want a bronzed look, you will mix your raw and burnt umbers to create a warm bronze color.
 Pour your selected paint color onto your palette. Your paint color will vary depending upon the finish you want to achieve.
 You want to create the look of an uneven patina. For instance, you could make it grayer or bronze around the edges or divots.


If you are aiming for a galvanized look, you can an additional light layer of umber paint.
 Leave the metal in a well-ventilated, out of the way location for the next 24 hours.
 Take a look at your aged metal and decide if it needs a few finishing touches. If you want to create further aging or variations, go over the desire areas with the sandpaper one last time. Wipe the dust away and your aged metal piece is ready to display.

