 Not only does this show commitment to the directors, but will also give you some time to prepare. There is, of course, exceptions. Sometimes, auditions are held directly after the final bell, so leaving class early to go to your audition is impossible.;
, This doesn't mean waltz in to auditions with a baggy sweatshirt and Mickey Mouse pajamas. And don't dress up like you are going to a pageant. Just wear what you would wear to school, or to a lunch with friends. Wear a reasonably form-fitting, bright-colored shirt, some fitted jeans, and cute shoes. For men, some nice, dark jeans and a fitted sweater is recommended.
 Don't overdo it and end up looking like a drag queen, but some cover up for those pesky pimples, some shadow to bring out your eyes and a nice lip gloss. Avoid blue or green eye shadow, which is distracting to the judges, and choose light purple or brown. School play auditions are usually held directly after school in most places.

If you're a girl, by the time you get to your audition, your make-up wears off. On the day of the audition, pack the makeup that you used that morning into a purse or your book bag.
 If during the audition you're required to lift your arms, the directors will NOT like to look at your nasty pit stains. About fifteen minutes before the final bell rings and you're to go to your audition, shove the stored makeup into your pockets, and ask to go to the bathroom. If your teacher isn't teaching the class, explain your situation to them and you won't be questioned why you took ten minutes in the bathroom when you get back to class.


When you get to the bathroom and you happen to have makeup remover with you, use that instead of just caking on another layer of makeup. Reapply your makeup and deodorant, and head back to class.
 If you see some friends across the room, don't go over to chat with them. You need this time to prepare. This doesn't mean to act stand-offish or unfriendly, but don't waste your time gossiping with friends or comparing head shots with your fellow actors.
 Breath deeply in through your nose and out through your mouth. For anxiety, breathe in as deep as you can, hold it for five seconds, and release. If your audition requires singing and there happens to be a piano or something in the room, do NOT be afraid to ask the pianist or one of the directors or something if they could go through some vocal warm-ups with you. They should be accommodating, and it will only help you in the long-run. You don't want to go up there to sing and not be warmed up.
 Avoid nervous habits like hiding your hands in your sleeves or pockets, or gnawing on your fingernails. You want to appear confident to the directors and your fellow actors (but never cocky) so good posture and a smile is always important.
 Don't think any thoughts that the character themselves would not think. When you're auditioning, refrain of thinking anything that's going to make you nervous. If you mess up, go on as if it never happened.

