 When you're about to throw something out, think about if it could serve another purpose in your household. Often, even if it can't continue to serve its original purpose, it can be put to use doing something else.Use old t-shirts and towels as rags for household cleaning.
Clean grout and other small spaces with old toothbrushes.
Reuse containers you are going to throw out. For instance, fill paper egg cartons or the bottom of plastic beverage containers with potting soil and use them to plant seedlings. Alternatively, store food, office or craft supplies, or other small items in leftover glass jars.
 Composting is a great way to keep extra trash out of the landfill. In addition, you can use what you make to provide nutrients to your yard and garden. Basically, composting is where you take organic materials and let them decompose to create a fertilizer. You can compost everything from food scraps, coffee grounds, and eggshells to other household waste like clean, shredded paper, grass clippings, and ashes from the fireplace. Collect the items in a small, lidded container in your home., Most compost piles are outside. You can just have a pile that you turn periodically, but you can also use a wooden, open-sided bin or a wire mesh bin.If you don't have much outdoor space, you can also compost inside. You can purchase ready-made indoor compost pails, or create your own using two garbage cans of different sizes. Place a brick at the bottom of the larger can and add dead branches and/or leaves. Drill holes in the bottom and sides of the smaller can, and place it within the larger can.Your compost will be ready to use when it is dark brown and crumbly, usually after about three or four months. Incorporate it into your garden, or use it as nutrient-rich mulch.
If you don't have an interest in composting, some cities offer composting and mulching for items like tree branches and grass clippings.
 At the end of the day, you're still going to have some waste. The best option for this waste is to recycle it instead of putting it into the landfill. Most communities have recycling programs now, and you can recycle items like glass, plastic, paper, cans, and cardboard., It helps to have a separate trash can specifically for recycling, so you can separate it out as you toss out items. If your community requires it, you may need to separate different types of recycling. In that case, try having a small bin for each type.


Labeling the bins clearly can help ensure everything is recycled properly.
Check for the recycling symbol on the package before sticking it in the recycling. Always rinse off items before recycling. Also, you can't recycle items like pizza boxes that are covered in grease.Additionally, you should remove the lids from plastic bottles, which are not recyclable (unless your community advises otherwise).