 By default, this application is already included in your operating system's service pack.


If you use Windows 7, click on the Windows logo located in the bottom-left of your screen, also known as the "Start" menu, then type "Remote Desktop Services" into the Windows Explorer search bar. If the application is installed, it will be displayed on your screen.
If you use Windows XP, open your "Start" menu, point to "All Programs," then open "Accessories." Remote Desktop Services should be located in the "Communications" folder within Accessories.;
,


Insert the Windows XP or Windows 7 product discs that were included with your operating system into your disk drive to begin installing Remote Desktop Services.
If you do not have the product discs for your operating system, visit the Microsoft Download Center website featured in the Sources section of this article and type "Remote Desktop Services" into the search bar to locate the latest versions of the application for your specific operating system.



Click on "Perform additional tasks" when the Windows welcome screen appears, then select "Set up Remote Desktop Connection." If you downloaded Remote Desktop Services from Microsoft's website, you will be taken directly to the Installation Wizard.
Read and review the Remote Desktop Services license agreement, then click on the empty box to place a check mark next to "I Agree."
Click on "Next" to proceed to the Customer Information screen.
Enter your user name and organization, then indicate whether you want to make Remote Desktop Services available to all users of the desktop or just to your specific user name.
Click on the "Next" button. Remote Desktop Services will then begin the installation process and notify you when the process is complete.
 After the application has been installed, you will need to configure and enable your Remote Desktop settings.


Go to your "Start" menu, then open the Control Panel.
Click on "System and Security," then click on "System" to access your remote settings.
Click on the "Remote" tab if you are using Windows XP, or click on "Remote Settings" from the left sidebar if you are using Windows 7.
Place a check mark next to the box that indicates you want to allow other users to connect to your computer from a remote location, then click on "Select Remote Users."
Click on the name of each user who needs remote access, then click on the "Add" button. If users are located on multiple domains, you will have the option to select the domain from which to add users.
Click on the "OK" button within the "Remote Desktop Users" window, then click "OK" once more to finish enabling Remote Desktop Services on your computer.
 In some cases, Remote Desktop Services will not work if you have a firewall enabled that prevents remote access.


Open Control Panel from within the "Start" menu, then click on "System and Security" in Windows 7 or "Security Center" in Windows XP.
Click on "Windows Firewall," remove the check mark next to "Don't allow exceptions," then click on "OK." This will allow the users you specified in the remote settings menu to access your computer remotely going forward.

