 You don't need to stress over making a card coded or complicated to make it effective. On the inside of the card, write a few sentences for your message, sign it, and send it on its merry way. If you've gone to the trouble to make your own unique card for a gift, you don't need to include a long-winded message. "Merry Christmas!" would be perfectly appropriate for a holiday card.



For a birthday card, it's appropriate to use your own sense of humor to offer a birthday greeting: "Happy Day Old Man" might be funny for your dad or your brother, but not necessarily for your boss. For casual but sincere messages, here are some possibilities:

Many happy returns. Stay young, buddy.
Happiest of Birthdays! Here's to a whole bunch more.
Analog Text: Happy Birthday.
So proud to know you. Happy Birthday!



For romantic cards, get mushy as quickly as possible without going over the top. Some simple but romantic messages:

You mean so much to me. Love you.
So glad we could spend this day together. Loving you.
I'm crazy about you. Here's to the future.
I'm so glad you like me more than your dog does. Love.



For a sympathy card, it's especially important to go for simple and sincere:

Thinking of you during this difficult time.
Our thoughts are with you.
So sorry for your loss., It's perfectly common and appropriate to use an attributed quotation on a card, especially for religious holidays. If you're feeling stuck on thinking of a message you'd like to include, feel perfectly free to quote something and let someone else speak for you, or to go for the ultimate simple message: "Merry Christmas" or "Happy Birthday" or "My sympathy."


Bible verses are particularly common for Christmas and Easter cards, though might be somewhat preachy for other kinds of cards. Know your audience and send them the appropriate kind of message.
 The message can especially be the time you can let your freak flag fly high and be quite funny, if your friend or loved one would appreciate it. Here are some possibilities:


"Your birthday is not a reason to drink depressed and alone just because you're so old. Like really really old. That's why we're going out tonight."
"Happy Nondenominational Winter Celebration. ALL PRAISE BE TO THE SOLSTICE SQUID."
"I drew a mustache on Captain Kirk for your birthday because I know you like having your time wasted. Happy birthday."

, If you've got a lot to say and want to catch up with someone you haven't talked to in a long time, include a separate letter within your card, and a shorter message in the card. Cards work best without a long letter within them. If you want to write several paragraphs, update your family or friends about your life and adventures, write a letter.