 Navigate to the file or files you want permanently removed from your computer. Left-click once on the file and press Del on your keyboard or drag and drop the file into the Trash icon located on your taskbar., This should cause a Trash option menu to pop up. Usually, the two options that will appear are "Open" and "Empty Trash."


On its own, the "Empty Trash" icon will only delete the link or pathway to the data in your Trash. This will clear some room on your hard disk, but it does not permanently delete the data, so that data can still be recovered later on if you only use the standard "Empty Trash" option.
 Press ⌘ Command on your keyboard with the Trash menu still open. Notice that the "Empty Trash" option should change to "Secure Empty Trash."

, Click once on this option to securely and permanently delete the entire contents of your Trash from your computer.


Note that this option will only allow you to permanently delete the entire contents of your Trash at once. You cannot use it to delete one or two particular files while leaving the rest of your temporarily deleted files untouched.
This feature is only available starting from Mac OS 10.3 and up.
 Some users may experience problems emptying trash and find a message like, "The operation could not be completed because the item '(item name)' is locked." In this case, first attempt to hold ⌥ Option and select "Empty Trash" from the "Finder" menu. If that doesn't work, something else may be interfering with your trash removal.Check to see if one or more of the trashed files are locked. Users with Mac OS X 10.1 (or later) should first try to press and hold ⇧ Shift+⌥ Option while selecting "Empty Trash." Users with Mac OS X versions 10.0 to 10.0.4 can instead try right-clicking the file and selecting "Show Info," after which they should make sure the box next to "Locked" is unchecked. If those solutions don't work, read more at: https://support.apple.com/en-us/HT201583.
Check to see if you have permissions to modify the trashed file(s). If not, you'll likely see a warning message indicating that your privileges or permission are insufficient. Users with Mac OS X 10.2 (or later) can begin by selecting "Applications," clicking on "Utilities" and then opening "Disk Utility." Then click the "Repair Disk Permissions" button. If that doesn't work or you have an earlier OS version, check out this article: https://support.apple.com/en-us/HT2963.

