 A gift card is an excellent way to let someone think about what they want to do with what they’ve earned. Great possibilities could be Target, Overstock, or Amazon. Places like this have a great selection of items, convenient online ordering, and flexible return policies.


Massage certificates and going to the spa are great options to help people relax outside of work. Take it to the next level by also giving them a day off to use the reward. For those staffers who are not into massages, give tickets to a ballgame or a certificate to a popular local restaurant.
Cash is king. A cash reward is more than an old-fashioned way to say “thank you’. In tough economic times, cold, hard cash goes a long way to motivate your employees.
 It may seem counterproductive to reward hard work by allowing someone not to come to work, but there is more to this than meets the eye. A day off of work is an excellent way to show employees that you value their well-being and want them to relax. If missing a day is too much for the company to offer, or if it does more harm than good, perhaps offer a “work-from-home” day.
 Treat a staff member to a concert of their choice. The great part about music is that many smaller venues retail tickets for $20 or $30 each. However, since an Elton John ticket costs a touch more than an indie rock group, you might want to provide a few examples of concerts in your price range to show how much you are willing to spend, or you could just set a flat dollar amount.
 Even though a gift card to Applebee’s or Outback is a nice treat, find a popular local restaurant that is sure to impress. Maybe consider choosing a nice restaurant or a well-liked Gastropub. Also, make sure the certificate covers dinner for two! Whether it’s a spouse or coworker, people tend to dine with others.
 Some companies are taking rewards to another level by giving their employees the gift of beer.This can be done in very distinct, useful ways.


Go ahead and organize a play date. Many places now exist for people to brew their own beer. It’s simple: they show up, pick a recipe, and a professional brewer walks them through making the beer. So organize time for the employees to make their own brew. Take it to the next level and have them form teams to turn it into a competition.
Bring the fun into the office. Some places keep a keg of ale around the office to motivate and reward. If your team has met an ambitious quota or has just made it through a difficult time in the office, throw in a special microbrew IPA instead of the usual domestic draft and watch those frowns turn upside down. As a side note, set rules and guidelines to let people know there is a limit.

