 Floral eyeliner is usually made with colorful liners. Go for things like pinks, purples, greens, reds, and yellows. This will help give your dots a flowery feel.Make sure you have at least one green or yellow eyeliner. You will need these to create buds for your flowers.
 To start, you'll be creating a backdrop of white flowers. Start with a single white flower on the outer corner of your eye. To create a flower, use the tip of your eyeliner brush to draw five small dots in a circle. Leave a small hole in the center of the circle. You will fill this in later to create the bud of your flower.Do your best, but keep in mind not all your circles will be completely uniform. Just as flowers have petals of different sizes and shapes, it's okay if your circles are a little mismatched.
 Right next to your first flower, add another flower stemming away from your eye. Make this one slightly smaller by using smaller dots. Moving outward and upward slightly, make another flower with even smaller dots connected to the second one.The line the flowers follow should be similar to a cat eye you would make with a regular eyeliner look. It should be a small wing of flowers moving outward and upward slightly in a diagonal line.
 On top of your first line of flowers, draw another line of flowers. These ones should be all be slightly smaller than the first three flowers you drew. The line of flowers should lead back to your eye. It should end on the top of your lash line just near the corner of your eye.Again, your flowers may not be perfectly uniform. It can be particularly difficult to draw totally uniform flowers when you're making tiny dots, but mismatched flowers can make for a more realistic floral look.
 Draw a line of white flowers across your lash line. Draw the flowers in clusters of two, so you have two rows of white flowers running along your lash line as you go. Vary the size and shapes of the flowers to add some spontaneity to the look.Remember, you make flowers by drawing five dots in a circle.
 Take a brighter color, such as a purple or pink. Starting on the line stemming outward, draw a few flowers here and there over the white flowers. Again, make flowers by drawing circles of five dots. Have the colored flowers overlap the white flowers slightly. Continue adding colored flowers about halfway down your lash line.The number of colored flowers you want is up to you. Some people prefer only a splash of colored flowers while others like 50/50 ratio of colorful and white flowers.
 On a paper plate or similar surface, add a dab of your white eyeliner. Then, add a dab of your colorful eyeliner. Using a clean eyeliner brush, mix the colors together slightly., Using the new color you created, add flowers along the remainder of your lash line. Again, have them overlap slightly with the white flowers and add as many light colored flowers as you prefer., Take a yellow eyeliner. Using an eyeliner brush, dab the center of each flower with a dot of yellow. This should make it clear the cluster of dots are flowers, as they now all have buds.Keep in mind, not every flower will get a bud. Some flowers overlap, covering the hole in the center of the dots.

