 Click on an empty lot and select build/buy. Building the 1st floor of the house. Start by building a fence, measure two or three squares in from the edge of your building area. Select the white picket fence and build the fence right to the edge on the other side and again, two or three squares in. Copy this until you have a full square of a fenced area. Now, measure 1-3 squares in from the fence and select wall tool. Use the room wall tool and build a room big enough for a car/truck to go in. repeat this on the opposite side making sure they are identical and perfectly symmetrical. Now you build the kitchen. From the garage on the right-hand side, build a small room not much bigger than the garage. Make sure there is a recess between the two garages and the kitchen. This will later become the front garden. Now you build the dining room. This is going to be the same as the kitchen but bigger. From the kitchen to the left garage, build the room. Now you build the living room, make sure it is big enough! There you have the shell of your bottom floor.;
, You will be able to see the garages through the white grid. Build a room directly above each garage. These will be kid's rooms. Split the area between the kitchen and diner into a bathroom and a study. Build a small landing big enough for the width of a staircase. In the rest of the space left, build the master bedroom. In the far left corner of the room, build a small en-suite bathroom.
 I don't have the third floor but if you want, you can. I just built a roof, you can choose your own roof.
 On the outside wall, use masonry or stone. use the same stone for inside the garages. In the kitchen, use tiles for the wall. I use the black and white ones. In the dining room, use a pale paneling. In the living room, use a neutral tone of paint or paneling. In one kid's room, use pink paint. In the other kid's room, use blue paint. In the master bedroom, use whatever colors you want. In the en-suite bathroom and the bathroom use turquoise blue paint or wallpaper. In the study, use light gray paint.
 In the garages, use some kind of stone. In the kitchen, use Black or white floor tiles. In the dining room, use a deep color of the carpet, deep red is the best. In the living room use a fairly light wooden floor. In the pink room, use pink carpet. In the blue room, use blue carpet. In the study, use pure white carpet. In the bathrooms, use aqua floor tiles. In the landing, use the same wood as in the living room. In the master bedroom, use wood/carpet of your choice.
 Use plenty of windows per room. Use the windows that have a box of flowers on one side. Make sure when placing them you put the flowers on the outside. Use a good front and back door, make sure they are the same. Use a plain wooden door to all the rooms in the house. Place a picket gate opposite the front and back door.
 This is easy. Just use the room tool in buy mode. So it will have set for kitchen/bathroom/bedroom/etc. Just make sure all the colors match. Especially in the kid's rooms! One room must be completely pink and the other completely blue.
 Place the mailbox and bin either side of the front door. Use outdoor lights and place them all around the kitchen/diner/garage walls, leaving enough space for a small plant in between each one. Now place the pot plants in between each light. Go back to build mode and use cobblestone flooring to build a two square wide path from the door to the path. Also, build the path right around the perimeter of the whole house. In the back garden place a picnic table on either side of the back of the garage. Place a picnic on each table. Also, buy grills and place them near the picnic tables on each side of the house. Build a long swimming pool in the remaining space. Then click on the "edit town" above "buy".
 This will allow you to create Sims to live in the house.
,


If you have The Sims 3 Pets, you can also consider adding pets to the household. Dogs or cats are small pets; keep in mind that if you create a horse, you're going to need extra space for them and their needs.



Type freerealestate into the cheat command prompt in order to move your Sim(s) into the house without making them pay for it.
