 This method describes a somewhat-common party trick and YouTube phenomenon, but is not something that should be attempted without extreme care and adult supervision. It's a good way to really hurt yourself if you don't do it quickly and safely.
 This version of the trick involves lighting some hand sanitizer and rubbing your hand through it very quickly, then putting it out immediately. To do this trick, you'll need to make sure you get the right kind of alcohol-based sanitizer: look on the label for "ethyl" or "isopropyl" alcohol.


There will likely be lots of ingredients in some sanitizers, and only one or two in others, but the presence of one or the other of these varieties of alcohol will make the sanitizer flammable, whatever else is included. Increasingly, hand sanitizers are alcohol-free, though, meaning that they won't work for this trick. Make sure you read the label on the hand sanitizer, or the trick might not work.
 The idea of the trick is to spread a small patch of sanitizer on the surface and light it, creating a small layer of blue flame, which you can very quickly run your finger through, putting it out immediately. Using gloves for this trick is best, and it's also important to have a bucket of water on hand, in case you need to put out fire.


Find a suitable flameproof surface on which to work. You need to go outside to do this trick, preferably on a patch of concrete far away from anything flammable. The flatter, the better. Clear the space of anything flammable–small twigs, sod, bits of paper. You need to be very careful that nothing will catch on fire but the sanitizer.
 Squirt a small amount of sanitizer on the concrete and thin it out, evenly, using your finger. Wipe the sanitizer off your finger, to make sure that there's no chance your fingers will light prematurely. Before the alcohol evaporates, use a lighter and ignite the goo. It should glow with a gentle blue flame that might be somewhat difficult to see.


It's best to do this trick at night, so that you can see the glow better. Make sure you can still see well enough that you what you're doing though. Maybe try it in the evening, when there's soft light and the glow of the flame will be visible.

Under no circumstances should you cover your hands with sanitizer and then light it. The trick only works because of the speed at which you do it, not because the hand sanitizer is safe. This will burn you severely and would be extremely dangerous. Don't do this.
 If you do it quickly, you can scoop up a bit of the sanitizer that's on fire, and it will look momentarily like your fingers are a-flame. As soon as you do this, though, you don't have much time to admire it, because you'll burn yourself if you leave it on for more than a second or two.


You should feel some heat, or a strange sensation, like hot and cold. Hand sanitizer usually has a cooling feeling, which may trick you into thinking it's hot. Either way, you won't have enough time to really feel anything, because you will only swipe your finger through, look at it for a second, and put the flame out.
 The best way to kill the flame is by snuffing it. Blowing on it with a sharp gust can just move around the sanitizer, making it possibly dangerous. It can't be stressed enough: you need to put the flame out as soon as you touch it or you'll burn yourself.


Keep water close by and dunk your hand in it, if necessary. Do not let the fire burn up all the alcohol, or you risk serious injury.

