 Your trust documents hold the key to whether you can change the trustee of your family trust as the grantor. Keep in mind that if you've created an irrevocable trust, you typically don't have the power to change any aspect of that trust unilaterally.If you've created a revocable trust, you have the power as the grantor to change the trust documents whenever you like.
Creating an irrevocable trust means that you can't revoke it while you are alive. However, you don't need to revoke your trust to remove the trustee.
Many trusts include a procedure by which you can remove the trust under certain circumstances that will be spelled out in the document itself.
These circumstances typically include situations where the person you named as trustee has died or is incapable of carrying out their responsibilities. Some even allow you to remove a trustee who decides they no longer want to serve in that capacity, despite being capable of carrying out the necessary responsibilities.
Even if there isn't any provision in your trust enabling you to remove the trustee, it still may be possible for you to remove the trustee and appoint someone different provided all the beneficiaries are in agreement with your decision.
 Even if you've created an irrevocable trust, you still have the ability to change your trust documents, including naming a different trustee, if all of the trust's beneficiaries are in agreement with it and give their consent.You've created the trust for the benefit of those designated as beneficiaries of that trust. As such, you're generally unable to make any changes that would not be to their benefit or that would change the benefits to which they're entitled.
In most cases, however, changing the trustee won't really affect the beneficiaries in any way. They're still getting the same property being held in trust for them, it's just that the person who will manage and distribute that property after your death will change.
For this reason, it shouldn't be difficult to get your beneficiaries on board with what you want to do. However, if your trust document doesn't include a clause explicitly allowing you to remove the trustee and appoint someone else, you need to get the consent of the trust's beneficiaries to ensure the change has legal force.
 The traditional way to modify a trust, whether revocable or irrevocable, is to create a document called a restatement that makes whatever changes you wish to make while reasserting the validity of the portions of the trust that remain unchanged.If you used an attorney to draw up your original trust documents, you may want to call them and have them draw up the restatement for continuity and to ensure the document follows all legal requirements of your state.
You typically can draft the restatement yourself if you drafted your trust documents yourself. It will follow the same format and repeat most of the same language as your original trust documents.
Title your restatement "First Amendment and Restatement of," followed by the exact title of your trust as listed on the original document.
In the preamble or initial clauses of your restatement, describe the history of your trust, including the date you first created it and the changes you are making.
If you needed and have the consent of the beneficiaries to make the change, you should state this in the preamble. Likewise, if a clause in the original trust allowed you to remove the trustee and appoint someone else, make reference to that clause.
From this point forward, your restatement will appear just as your original trust document did, except that the name of the trustee will change. Make sure you copy everything that isn't being changed exactly as it appears in the original document.
 To be legally binding, a restatement must be signed using the same formalities that were necessary to sign the original trust document, which typically entail signing the document in front of a notary public or other witnesses.In situations where you needed the consent of the trust's beneficiaries to remove the trustee and appoint someone else, get signatures from the beneficiaries – or a single beneficiary to sign on behalf of all of them.
Once the restatement has been properly signed and notarized, make copies of it and include a copy of it with every existing copy of your trust.
This means that if you previously distributed copies of your original trust document to any of your beneficiaries, or had your estate planning attorney keep a copy, they also should get copies of the restatement. This prevents any confusion over which document controls.
You also need to make sure the person you've named as the new trustee in the restatement has a copy of both the restatement and the original trust document.

