 Things go wrong during travel all the time. Allow yourself extra time to plan all the details of your trip. Whether it’s budgeting your expenses or going to the airport, allow yourself more than enough time to get things done. You’ll avoid a lot of stress if you know that you have made the necessary reservations and feel confident that you will always arrive on time., It’s always good to know a bit about the place you are traveling to. Do some research and get a sense of what there is to do, transportation options, weather patterns, cultural customs, and anything else you might need to know for the purpose of your trip.


Consider finding an emergency contact in your destination. If possible, get contact information for people who live locally. They might be able to help you plan your trip and find your way around town.
 Check your bank account and decide how much money you are willing to spend on your trip. You may have to adjust your budget once you find out the true cost of everything, so it doesn’t hurt to give yourself a bit of extra money to spend. Once you have an estimate of what you’re working with, find out how much your transportation, accommodations, and food will cost. Explore many options so that you get the best prices!


Use travel websites to help you compare prices. For flights, car rentals, and hotels, try a website like Kayak.com.Compare options, and find what best fits your budget.
 Hotels are not the only option. If you’re willing to share a room, or just want something cheap, look for hostels in the area on websites like hostelworld.com. Airbnb.com is another option for those who prefer to stay in a (stranger’s) home away from home. Like hotels, Airbnb prices and quality vary.Also consider joining websites like couchsurfing.com. You may be able to stay somewhere for free, often in exchange for letting someone stay with you.Reserve in advance. Make a reservation with your hotel or host a few weeks in advance. Rooms go quickly during peak travel times. Although it can be easy to find hostels on the day of your stay in certain areas, you’ll avoid the anxiety of not knowing where you’ll be sleeping if you make your reservation before arriving.
 Credit cards can significantly reduce any stress you have about losing cash or getting your debit card stolen. Unlike with debit cards, a credit card left in the wrong hands won't expose your actual bank account. Credit cards can also help you track how much money you are spending.


Consider a travel credit card. There are many credit cards that are meant for travelers. Many cards offer bonus travel miles that can be used at a later date, and some cards waive any foreign transaction fees. If you plan to travel internationally, a travel card may be your best option., Make a plan for daily activities while on your trip. Create a schedule that includes a date and time for each activity. Remember to leave space for meals and travel time. Allow flexibility in your itinerary, as plans may change along the way.
 You may not want to plan every single activity before you arrive, but you’ll probably save time and money if you reserve special events in advance. Concert tickets, shows, or entrances to popular venues should be reserved before arrival. That way you won’t have to worry about stretching your budget or spending extra time searching for tickets., Avoid anxiety about not having what you need (or having too much) by packing appropriately. It’s usually easier to travel with fewer items so that moving your suitcase isn’t such a hassle. Check the weather before your go. Talk to the people you will be spending time with to see what clothes you’ll need. If you don’t know exactly what you’ll be doing, pack for both informal and formal occasions.Don't forget your passport. If you are traveling internationally, remember to bring your passport, visas, and any other important travel documents.
 Travel often becomes stressful when you don’t know where you are or where you’re going. Make sure you have access to a map or GPS, especially if you are in charge of navigating.


Use your smartphone. Download an application that helps you get around. If you are in another country, consider purchasing mobile internet access. This will give you access to the apps while you’re on the go.
 Part of the stress of travel is that you may not be familiar with the best choices to make in an emergency. Think about what supplies or information you might need if things go wrong — Do you know how to contact emergency services? If you are abroad, do you know how to contact your country's embassy? Do you know how to ask for help in the local language? Allow extra money in your budget in case you need to see a doctor or make an unforeseen purchase.


Check government warnings. Your government website has travel warnings for local and international locations. Check to see what kinds of political and environmental issues may affect you at the time of your travel.

