 In Traditional Chinese Medicine (TCM), acupressure is an approach that utilizes various points along 12 basic meridians. These meridians are energy pathways that are believed to carry “qi” or “chi,” which is the Chinese term for life energy. The basic concept in acupressure is that if there is a blockage in qi, illness is a consequence. The application of pressure in acupressure can unblock these energy pathways and restore the easy and unimpeded flow of qi.Acupressure has been shown to benefit migraine headaches in a number of clinical studies.
 When you do acupressure, you should try to use the right amount of pressure. Press the points with a deep, firm pressure when you stimulate the points. When you press the points, you may feel some soreness or pain, but it shouldn’t be unbearable. It should feel somewhere between pain and pleasure.Your overall health determines the amount of pressure you place onto the pressure points.
Some pressure points will feel tense when pressed. If at any time you feel extreme or increasing pain, gradually decrease the pressure until you feel a balance between pain and pleasure.
You should not try to endure any pain during acupressure. If something feels so painful that it’s uncomfortable or excruciating, then stop applying pressure., Since acupressure requires the pressing of pressure points, you need to make sure you use the right things to help you press the points. Most commonly, practitioners of acupressure use their fingers to massage and stimulate the pressure points. The middle finger works best to apply pressure to the pressure points. This is because it is the longest and strongest finger. You may also use the thumb. Some smaller, hard-to-reach pressure points can be pressed using a fingernail.Other parts of the body, such as the knuckles, elbows, knees, legs, or feet can also be used.
To correctly press a pressure point, you should press with something blunt. For some pressure points, the tip of the finger may be too thick. You can try a pencil eraser for small points. You may also consider using an avocado pit or golf ball.
 You can try these acupressure points on your own or you can go see an acupressurist or a traditional Chinese medicine doctor. If you decide to try these acupressure points, you should always let your physician know what you are doing to help yourself. These points will not interfere with any medication or any other approach your physician may recommend.


If these acupressure points provide relief, make certain you let your physician know. However, make sure to see your physician if these points do not provide relief.

