 Anything they get their hands on will end up in their mouth. (magnets on the fridge, Christmas ornaments,push pins, coins....);
, This will prevent them from opening it and harming themselves with chemicals.
 Choose the room in which you will receive your guests and within that room, put all the breakables up high, out of sight or in another room. Removing temptation is the most important step.
 These will keep the toddlers away from dangerous areas. (basements, stairs) Also, split level houses with steps down into another room can make for a dangerous fall for little feet.
 You never know how a dog might react to new children. Often children are terrified of dogs and cats can scratch when rubbed the wrong way.
 This creates barriers that you can then enforce by telling the children politely but firmly not to enter. Should you discover them opening any of these doors, you are perfectly within your rights to raise this directly with the parents. Remind them you are happy for their children to enter those parts of the house that you have left open.
 These are easy to break and are attractive to children of all ages. If you have children's DVDs and you do not mind the children sitting in the TV area, make them available by having them pre-loaded in your DVD player. Just let them look at the covers and choose what they want to watch from those.
 If this means leaving the living room to go to the dining room for snacks and afternoon tea, then this may well have to be the price that is paid for your sanity. Alternatively, you might like to set up a children's corner in your living room, covered by a blanket to create a boundary.
 Sometimes parents are so relieved to think someone is else is looking out for their kids that they forget to stay vigilant themselves. Gently remind them that you aren't very good with kids and that your house is not very child-proofed. Also add that it would be appreciated if the parents could take care in keeping an eye out for possible dangers to their kids around the house.
 We were all kids once. Sometimes we have to let go and just accept what kids do. And move on to the stain manual afterwards. There are some great wikiHows under Cleaning to help you.

