 If there’s a button on your RCA remote that says “Code Search” or “Set Up,” you can use this method to locate and program device codes. Start by turning on the device you want to control.Universal remotes only work with devices that support remote control in the first place. If the device didn't originally come with a remote, you won't be able to use a universal remote with it.
 You'll need to keep the remote pointed at the device as you program.
 This button is usually at the top of the remote. When the light comes on, you can let go of the button.


If your remote has a “Set Up” button instead, complete this method using that button.
 For example, to control a DVD player, press the DVD-VCR button. The light will blink and then remain lit.
 Each time you press and release the Power button, the remote will try a different code for the device. Once the correct code is found, the device will receive the signal and turn off.


This could take a while if the code for your device is at the end of the remote's internal list. There are a couple hundred codes that you may need to go through.
If you go through the whole list without finding a matching code, the light on the remote will blink four times and then shut off. There's a good chance that the remote will not work with your device, since you've tried every code available.
 This locks the code into your remote. If you accidentally moved past the correct code, you'll have to start the search again.
 If the code was successful, you should be able to turn the device on and off using the remote. Make sure you've pressed the correct device button at the top of the remote before testing the features.


Not all functions may be available on the universal remote. Your remote may have limited functionality compared to the device's original remote.
 After you've locked in the code, write it down so that you can enter it easily in the future. Here’s how:Press and hold the Code Search button until the light comes on.
Press and release the device button for the locked code you want to retrieve.
Press and release the Code Search button.
Press the number keys in order, starting with 0. When the light comes on, this indicates the first digit.
Start over at 0 and repeat until you have all three digits.

