 An important element of managing any office conversation is to be aware when people make insensitive, hateful, or inflammatory comments when talking about politics. Simply being present might attach you to those comments.


Never engage or debate someone about an inflammatory or controversial topic. Instead, shut the conversation down. Say something like “I think we should end this conversation”
Don’t be afraid to let the person know their comments are inappropriate. Say something like “Hey John, you’re insulting some people we actually work with.”
Speak to human resources or management if a person shares hate speech at work. Let them know you are concerned about these comments and how they may offend others in the office., One of the biggest dangers of talking politics at work is allowing yourself to get passionate or emotional during a conversation. Thus, you always need to make sure you stay calm and rational.


Always avoid discussing things you feel passionate about – your passions may get the better of you and draw you into a larger conversation.
If someone interjects political comment into regular conversation, don’t take the bait. Be strong and excuse yourself from the conversation. Say something like: “Excuse me, Sonya, I have some copies to run off before lunch.”
Always think before responding to someone. A good tactic is to count to ten before responding to anything that you feel strongly about.
Focus on your goal to avoid discussion of politics. Constantly remind yourself – and others – of your position by letting them know you don’t talk politics in public., If you’ve found yourself trapped in a conversation about politics, you’ll need to carefully negotiate your way out of it. While you’re finding a way to redirect the conversation, you need to make sure you are polite and nonconfrontational.


Keep your comments short and noncommittal. This works well if you’re in a conversation that includes a group of people.
Maintain positive body language. Make sure you smile. In addition, keep a loose and relaxed posture. Avoid crossing your arms and taking a defensive posture.
If you for some reason do find yourself answering or rebutting someone’s comments, be polite. Lead with a comment like “I think that’s a valid position, but I disagree” – then explain why you disagree.
Never resort to insults or personal attacks. Keep the conversation as theoretical and impersonal as possible.