 Is it one of your best guy friends? And can you tell that he's teasing? Or is it a guy that seems to hate you and insults you on a regular basis? Or is it your evil ex boyfriend or just some random idiot?;
, If he's saying this to be mean, you can either tell him off or just ignore him.
 Is there something you are doing to hide your unique feature? Are you always biting your lip? Do you stare at the floor? Do you hide your face with you hair? If you decide that you are not happy with your image, now might be a good time to change your wardrobe, hair, etc. Remember: everyone is beautiful in their own way, some in the inside, some on the outside, some both. Every has different ideas about beauty. Not everyone sees beauty in the same things. Accept that you will always be judged by some on your looks. It's up to you what they judge you for, a smile,or a frown, someone obviously obsessed with their appearance, or some one having too much fun to worry about how they look.
 One comment should not make you completely miserable. Just walk confidently and have fun.
, If you understand that "ugly" is a weak and childish insult, then respond in a polite, very adult way. Thank whomever called you ugly, and tell him that he is very kind. Then walk away. It drives people crazy when they can't get a response out of you.
 As annoying as pathetic, juvenile behaviour from people who ought to know better is, you won't have to put up with it your whole life.
 Sometimes something that makes the person who insulted you laugh, or anyone around laugh at him, can make you feel better. Some suggested comebacks are, 'I'm ugly, you're immature, nobody's perfect". 'Yeah, I'm ugly, I take after my dad - do you even know what your dad looks like?" "Yeah, I'm ugly, guess I missed out on my beauty sleep for a while. What's your excuse?" "Yeah, I'm ugly. It's called acne/a birthmark/Treacher Collins Syndrome/Keloid Scaring/name proudly your condition. Is there a medical term for people who state the blindingly obvious or are they going to name it after you?"

