 In mediation, a third party listens to you and your landlord explain the dispute. This person doesn’t act as a judge. Instead, they try to help you both reach a resolution you can live with.Mediation is voluntary, so you can walk away at any time.


Mediation can help you preserve your relationship with your landlord. This is critical if you intend to keep renting from them.
You will typically split the cost of a mediator. Depending on the dispute, they typically charge a couple hundred dollars an hour, which is probably cheaper than going to court.
 You can ask another tenant if they can recommend a mediator. If not, then look for a mediator in the following places:


Telephone book. Look in the Yellow Pages under “mediation” or “dispute resolution.”
Local community centers. Some communities have dispute resolution centers.
Your city government’s office. They might have a landlord-tenant mediation program, which is often free to use. Alternately, the office could point you in the right direction to find a mediator.Courthouse. Some courthouses have mediation programs or lists of mediators you can call. Stop in and check.
 You should only participate in mediation if you are willing to compromise. You aren’t likely to get everything you want in mediation. Participate only if you are committed to finding common ground.


Mediation typically begins with each side laying out how they see the dispute. Be honest. Mediation won’t work unless you say what you want.
Watch your language. Although you want to be honest, you shouldn’t be offensive. You might think your landlord is a slumlord, but you should be open to what they say.
Try repeating what your landlord says to you. For example, you can say, “I definitely hear what you’re saying. You are worried I’ve been late with the rent for the past three months.” By acknowledging someone else’s worries, you can calm them down.
Maintain your cool. Sometimes people vent in mediation. Try to stay calm by taking deep breaths.
 As mediation progresses, the mediator might decide to caucus with each person. This consists of meeting alone with you in your own room. The mediator shuttles between the rooms, telling you what the other side is thinking.Caucusing can be effective if you reach an impasse or if you are close to a resolution but can’t reach agreement on the final few details.
 You should document any agreement you reach with your landlord. For example, if you agree to a new lease, then you should write it out. Your mediator can help you write an agreement.


Both you and your landlord should sign. Keep a copy for your records.

