 They should be about hip's distance apart, as if you're walking as you normally would. The airwalk is all about your feet, so you don't have to worry about what to do with your arms or the rest of your body quite yet. If you've never tried this before, some people recommend that you sit with your feet apart to master the movements of your feet before standing.


To get a stronger sense of what your feet are doing, you can practice in front of a mirror or even film yourself or ask a friend to watch you.;
, Let the foot hover there straight, without pointing your toes, at about a 45 degree angle from the ground, with your toes above your heel. Lift the foot up in the air, with your toes leading, as if you were stepping over a barrier that is about half a foot tall, except that your foot won't hit the ground when you step over it and will pull back instead.
 Your legs should be straight and you shouldn't bend your knees at all when you do this. Just glide the foot back to where it started, with the heel dragging it back until it naturally touches the ground. Think of it as rocking your weight forward before you transition to the other foot.
 When you do the airwalk, you should never have both feet be flat on the ground at the same time. When one foot is moving back, the other should be preparing to move forward. It can take a little while to get into the rhythm. Just remember what we said about it being like riding a bicycle — when you're riding a bike, your feet are always in constant motion, too. If you stop one of them, then you'll stall.
 Now, just do what you did with the other foot — lift your other foot forward, with the toe leading, as if you were stepping over a short barrier, and then drag it back, as if a string were attached to your heel and was slowly dragging it back. As the forward foot moves back, the other foot should prepare to move forward by lifting up on its toes.
 Just keep doing the airwalk by raising one foot at a time and moving forward for as long as you like. You can start by practicing in place and then slowly moving forward, so you're moving forward at a much slower pace than you would if you were walking, as if you're walking on air or are having to move forward in a low-gravity situation.


When you move forward, try to form a "V" shape with your feet as they transition. So, when the foot that is up in the air moves back to meet the other, the heel of that foot should land where the toe of the other foot is pointed, so they create a "V" together as the pointed foot moves forward, and so on. This will keep you moving forward at the same pace.
 It can take some practice to get this move down, but it'll be worth it. It can also be easier to learn the moonwalk first, before you get the airwalk down, since some people think the airwalk is a little bit trickier. Once you master the airwalk, you can work on airwalking and then transitioning to the moonwalk and back to the airwalk again. You can also work on gliding, which will use somewhat similar techniques, except you'll be moving from side to side.


As you get more comfortable with the airwalk, you can wave your shoulders a bit, and get your arms into it. Just move your arms forward and back, just as you would if you were walking forward normally, except at a slower pace to sync up with your feet.
Remember to keep the movement as fluid as possible, so it looks like you're walking on air.
 Once you've got the airwalk down, you can add this small variation to make the movement more interesting. All you have to do is take the foot that is pointed on its toes, ready to move forward, move it forward, tap its toes on the ground, and then do the normal airwalking move, where the foot moves forward with the toes leading up above the heel. Then, move the foot back and do the same with the other foot, tapping its toes on the ground in front of it before it also moves forward.
 Another thing you can do is to tap the heel of each foot, and then its toe, before you take a step forward. If you've mastered being able to tap each toe once before you move forward, then you should be able to tap the heel and then the toe of each foot as it takes a step without a problem. Watch yourself in the mirror to make sure that you've got the rhythm down.
 Once you become a master at the airwalk, you can work on walking forward for about thirty seconds or so, and then transitioning into the moonwalk, so you walk backwards to the place where you started. Then you can go right back into the airwalk, moving forward again, and then move backward using the moonwalk whenever you feel like it.


The trickiest part will be the transition, and you have to work on not stalling or stopping, but transitioning right from moving forward to moving backward, and vice versa.

