 While there is no cure for HPV yet, the body can clear itself of HPV over time.Not all kinds of HPV will lead to genital warts. Some HPV varieties cause the plantar warts that most people are familiar with.
Genital warts may appear anytime from 6 weeks to 6 months after sexual contact, although they may not be noticed for years.
Be aware that certain types of high-risk HPV strains can lead to cervical or anal cancer, although these strains are more rare. The strains of HPV that cause warts are not the same as those that cause cancer.;
, Genital warts are soft growths on and around the genital and anal area. Genital warts are usually flesh-colored and can be either raised or flat, larger or smaller, and look like the tops of cauliflower.Genital warts can appear in different places depending on the gender of the patient.


Genital warts in females can be found:

Inside the vagina or anus
Outside the vagina or anus
On the cervix, inside the body


Genital warts in males can be found on the:

Penis
Anus
Scrotum
Groin area, including the thighs



, Rarely, genital warts can cause symptoms not commonly associated with genital warts. These symptoms include:


Increased moisture in and around the genital area
Bleeding after sex
Increased vaginal discharge
Itching in the genital area, A doctor—usually gynecologist—will need to diagnose genital warts before treatment. The doctor will diagnose through a visual exam and a pelvic examination in women. Several pap smear tests might need to be taken if an abnormal test appears, which is often the case with genital warts., Many men who are exposed to HPV never show any symptoms or problems associated with genital warts.Men and women who are exposed to HPV and do not show signs can still pass on the infection through unprotected sexual contact.
 After obtaining a diagnosis from your doctor, you may receive one of several common topical creams used to treat genital warts. Use as directed to treat the symptoms of your infection as effectively as possible. The following are some of the common topical treatments you may receive. Note that cremes are generally expensive and not covered by insurance.


"Podofilox." Podofilox, or Condylox, is a solution usually in gel form that is applied to the affected area. It is used for several weeks until the wart falls off. It clears about 45% to 90% of warts, although research shows that warts may reemerge in 30% to 60% of cases."Imiquimod." Imiquimod, or Aldara, is a topical immune response cream. It is applied to the wart and it causes less irritation compared to podofilox. In 70% to 85% of cases, the initial warts are removed, but in 5% to 20% of cases the warts come back."Veregen" and "Polyphenon E." These are ointments extracted from green tea and other components. They are approved by the FDA to fight against genital warts., If your genital warts don't respond to topical creams, your doctor might want to opt for several different strategies. Creams seem to respond better to warts that are on moist surfaces, while the following generally work better for warts on dry surfaces:


Cryotherapy. Using liquid nitrogen, cryotherapy freezes the wart so that it eventually falls off. It helps remove warts, but there is no guarantee they will not come back.
Surgical removal. Minor surgery is conducted by an expert physician and administered with the use of local or general anesthesia. The surgeon cuts off the cells of the wart with a scalpel.
Trichloracetic acid. This is the most frequently used medication for genital warts. Trichloracetic acid is also used for for chemical peels and tattoo removal, trichloracetic acid is a chemical applied to the wart, effectively burning it off.
Electrocautery. This procedure, less common than the other procedures, involves using an electric current to burn off warts.
Laser surgery. Not advisable for use in all areas, laser surgery is often the last resort of none of the methods work.
 Your doctor might give you two or more options to remove genital warts.You’ll have to consider the discomfort that comes along with the procedure. Whatever treatment it may be, it is still better than not having any treatment at all. Have it done before it gets worse.
 As stated previously, many of the above treatments, along with a little bit of patience, will see the genital warts removed.If, however, three separate courses of treatment by your doctor, or six doctor-approved home treatments fail to remove your genital warts, your doctor will want to re-evaluate your course of treatment.

