 Avoid overly chewy foods such as bagels or licorice. They can get stuck in your teeth, drawing attention to your mouth and causing embarrassment. Also avoid anything that is overly sticky. These foods get stuck in your teeth, which will draw attention to them. They can also cause damage to the wires and brackets of your braces.
 If you are feeling insecure about the way your teeth look in braces, teach yourself how to smile naturally with closed lips. Doing so will hide your braces from view.


Note that if smiling with your mouth closed is not a natural behavior for you, your smile may look awkward or forced. Trying too hard to hide your braces may have the opposite effect of drawing attention toward your mouth.
Practice in a mirror and determine how you look most natural and confident. A confident smile draws attention toward your personality and away from your braces, regardless of whether they're visible.
 This trick will pull attention away from your mouth and cause people to focus on other parts of your face. Try a new haircut. Cut it shorter, or switch to bangs or layers. Try a new hair color -- even a crazy one like pink, blue, or purple. If you want something less drastic, simply try out a different hairstyle, like curling your hair or wearing it in an intricate braid. If you're a guy, try experimenting with a new styling product. The attention will be on your new look and not on your braces.


Try adding hair accessories such as hats, headbands, or bows. They will call attention away from your mouth and add nice flare to your outfit.
A fresh hairstyle may also boost your self esteem, which can be helpful if you're feeling concerned about your braces.
 A fun new color such as blue, teal, or purple may draw the attention away from your mouth and toward your eyes. You can also try a smoky eye, which will highlight the intensity of your eyes. If you don't wear makeup, try wearing bright glasses or sunglasses. These also draw attention to your eyes.
 Lip gloss has a shiny, reflective quality. This will cause the metal in your braces to reflect and shine off your lips. Try a light, matte lipstick instead, one that closely matches the color of your lips. You can also forgo lipstick all together. This way, your lips will look natural and normal, keeping people's attention elsewhere on your face.Avoid bright lipstick colors such as red. These draw more attention to your mouth, which will serve to highlight your braces instead of hiding them.

