 Designed to allow passengers to view the water below them, the boats often tour reefs, shipwrecks, or other hotbeds of aquatic activity. Tours on these boats can be relatively affordable in comparison to other underwater exploration methods, and operate in many coastal cities and natural springs.
 While this isn’t a repeatable option for most (outside of buying a DVD of The Hunt for Red October) seeing as personal luxury subs start at around $600,000, both military and civilian submersible vehicles routinely patrol and investigate the briny depths. Tours of non-operational military subs are possible for a window into that underwater world, however, and companies in vacation destinations often offer submarine trips to tourists.


When discussing submersible platforms, HOVs are human operated vehicles, and ROVs are remotely operated vehicles. The National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration’s website contains information detailing multiple submersibles researchers use today (both HOV and ROV), including a model named “Alvin” that’s been in use since 1964! , Combing the shoreline for seashells, sand dollars, and sharks’ teeth allows us a unique, surface-dweller’s peek under the sea. It’s a little eerie when you think about it, considering the majority of what washes up is dead or dying, but humanity has learned much of the sea by what’s washed ashore. Indeed, until the last century, that’s how we gathered most of our knowledge about the ocean.


A living, adult giant squid wasn’t even able to be photographed until 2012. We only knew of its existence by pieces of the squid that became stranded on the beach, or by finding them in the bellies of sperm whales that themselves had washed ashore. (As stirring as it may be, anecdotal evidence presented by ancient mariners is, unfortunately, not considered proof.)
Strolls along the beach anywhere can yield once-in-a-lifetime encounters with the unfamiliar. Residents of Oxnard, California, along with other cities along North America’s pacific coast were acquainted with a sea creature entirely unknown to them (and to most people) when mass quantities of by-the-wind sailors (scientific name: Velella velella) were deposited on their beaches. 