 It is much easier to evaluate and understand how you are bowling if you are able to watch yourself.Set up a cell phone or video recorder to record your delivery.
Bowl several deliveries to get a good measure of your form.
Watch your recording to determine what aspects of the delivery need to be adjusted.;
, Proper arm placement is important to generating faster ball speeds. Avoid using a straight arm delivery and you'll have better results achieving high bowling speeds., Bowling speed comes from more than just your arm. Make sure your whole body is involved in the delivery of the ball to achieve maximum bowling velocity.Land your front foot at the same spot relative to the crease each time.
Rotate your upper body using your hips to propel you forward.
Swing your non bowling arm to whip your bowling arm forward.
 A smooth release punctuated by lots of wrist action helps to improve your bowling speed. A quick snap of the wrist puts an extra burst of momentum on the ball when you let it go., Take time to practice knowing where you want the ball to bounce to be as accurate as possible. It won't matter how fast you can bowl if you are consistently being called for no balls.Mark a target on the ground where you want the ball to bounce.
Set up a single stump to aim for.
Bowl over and over to solidify your muscle memory.
 Fast bowlers employ several specific deliveries in their arsenal with different ball or hand positions for each. Keep opposing batters on their toes by practicing different deliveries. Use different grips and spins to achieve variation in your delivery:


Practice dragging your fingers along the side of the ball as you deliver it to create spin and cause the ball to cut left or right after the bounce.
Try to throw the ball with little to no spin and perfect the delivery of a yorker.
Position the seam of the ball vertically in your hand so the ball bounces off the seam and veers to the side after the bounce.
 Count the number of steps you are taking as you approach the crease. Make sure you are consistent to solidify your muscle memory for your delivery.Practice several deliveries to determine your natural starting position.
Mark this spot on the pitch.
Measure the distance of your starting location to the crease or foul line.
Mark this spot on both ends of the field before you play each match.
 Body position and jump height will vary from person to person. As you practice your run up, determine what bound feels most natural to achieve the proper foot placement for your delivery.A high bound can disrupt your momentum and slow your bowling speed.
Having no bound will give you less power to deliver the ball.
Practice a moderate jump to optimize your form before delivery.
 Although the hand position and spin may vary on each delivery, your body mechanics and placement should be consistent. Practice landing in the same spot to prevent being called for no balls.
 After you have determined the optimum distance, bound height, and foot placement for your delivery, practice over and over so you don't have to think about these items during matches. Let your muscle memory guide your body, and the speed of delivery will come as a natural result., Although proper technique is crucial to bowling fast, optimizing your body's performance through a consistent work out routine is just as important.Set aside three days a week for weight training.
Do exercises to strengthen your arms, chest, back, and legs such as bicep curls, bench presses, lat pull downs, and squats.
 You can increase your body's ability to perform over time by doing cardiovascular exercises like running or jogging.
 Because of the stresses and twists your body undergoes while bowling, having strong core muscles will help prevent injury.Perform kettle twists by sitting with both hands on one weight; twist from side to side placing the weight next to your legs on each side of your body.
Do crunches to increase abdominal strength.
Hang from a pull up bar and raise your knees toward your chest.
 Be comfortable playing on the pitch by practicing each week. Make sure you take a few days of rest each week to prevent over exerting your muscles and causing yourself injuries.

