 Cats with pyometra will often develop a distended abdomen. A distended abdomen is an indication of infection, digestive issues, and other serious complications. Look for:

Decreased fat or muscle on the abdomen.
A bloated appearance around the area of the stomach.
A distended abdomen might also appear to have a tubular growth. This tubular growth is the infected area of the cat’s reproductive system.;
, Vaginal discharge is one of the most obvious signs of pyometra in cats. Ultimately, vaginal discharge is an indication of infection and other problems associated with pyometra. The discharge may:

Smell bad or foul
Be yellow or white
Contain small amounts of blood#Notice appetite loss and digestive issues. Cats with pyometra may have a variety symptoms associated with their digestive or intestinal tracks. As a result, you should take symptoms such as loss of appetite very serious. Some problems include:
Vomiting
Queasiness or nausea
Tiredness, One of the first things your vet may do is to culture your cat’s vaginal discharge or urine. This is important, as the vet will need to determine what antibiotic will aid in your cat’s recovery.

A culture is when the vet allows the bacteria from your cat’s body fluids to grow in a sterile environment., Blood diagnostics are important so your vet can check critical levels. Without running diagnostics, your vet won’t be able to rule out other conditions or problems. In the end, blood work will help confirm a diagnosis of pyometra.

Blood tests will check the level of red and white blood cells – this will give an indication of the strength of the cat’s immune system.
Blood tests can identify other problems that might exacerbate the cat’s pyometra., Your vet will likely take several X-rays of the uterus to get a better idea of the scope of the infection. Without X-rays, your vet may not be able to come to a diagnosis.

Your vet will take a minimum of 2 X-rays.
X-rays may give your vet an idea of whether they need to resort to surgical intervention as a treatment.
After examining X-rays, your vet may have to conduct other imaging diagnostics like an ultrasound to rule out other conditions., Intravenous fluids are important in keeping your cat hydrated. Without intravenous fluids, your cat’s body may not be able to fight the infection and make a full recovery. Your veterinarian may provide:

Intravenous fluids containing potassium chloride
Hartmann's solution, You vet will also prescribe you medicines to help your cat overcome infection and fight the other symptoms of pyometra. This is important, as cats with pyometra are susceptible to infection.

Your vet will likely prescribe a broad-spectrum antibiotic, like enrofloxacin or amoxicillin.
You should give your cat the antibiotic as prescribed. This may be once a day.
Your vet may consider prescribing prostaglandin, an enzyme that aids the body's recover from infection, over the course of 3 to 5 days.
In cases in which the infected part of the cat’s reproductive system has grown large, medicinal treatment may only have limited benefit., In many cases, your vet will need to perform surgery to remove infected parts of the cat’s reproductive system. Severe cases of pyometra may require surgical intervention.

Your vet will likely culture any part of the uterus that is removed. This will enable them to get a better idea of the type of bacteria afflicting your cat.
Some vets recommend complete removal of the uterus and ovaries. This will help promote a complete recovery.
Surgery will likely have the impact of ending the cat’s ability to reproduce., After surgical or medical treatment, you’ll have to provide your cat with a certain level of care. Without providing aftercare, your cat could relapse and develop potentially serious infections. When providing aftercare, remember:

Keep incisions clean. This may require replacing bandages on a regular basis.
Make sure to provide your cat with antibiotics and other medicines on a regular basis.
Stay in touch with your vet to make sure any complications are treated quickly.