,,






If you cannot afford one or can't be bothered to buy one, you can just apply a THIN layer of foundation topped with a THIN layer of powder.







If you want to, experiment! Use bright colors and different textures.






Whatever you do make sure you highlight! Put a light (optional:Shimmery) color in your inner corners of your eyes, near the tear ducts, the balls of your eyes, just beneath the arch of your brows.
 This will give your lashes volume and instantly open up the eyes. For even more curl, clamp the eyelash curler on the middle and tips of lashes, squeezing gently to avoid a 90 degree angle.






Apply a primer to your lashes. (Many mascaras are now double-sided and come with primer on one end.) The primer will thicken the lashes. Be sure to brush the outer and inner corners. Let dry for 30 seconds.






After 30 seconds, wipe off any excess primer with a tissue. Sweep one coat of mascara on the upper lashes from the roots to the tips. Use brown or brownish-black mascara if you are fair-skinned or blonde. Otherwise use black.






While the first coat is still wet, apply a second layer of mascara. Applying a second coat when the first coat is dry will look clumpy.






Wait for lashes to dry completely, then use a clean lash comb to separate the individual lash hairs and remove clumps.






If you want to, carefully brush one layer of mascara on your lower lashes. Be sure to use a lash comb or pinch off any clumps.







Soften the tip of your eyeliner pencil by rolling it between your fingers. This will help the color glide on easily.






Gently pull your eyelid taut and beginning at the inner corner, draw small, connected dashes as close as possible to the roots of the upper lashes just make sure to apply a bright color to the tight line and the water line and then go over the natural line with a black eyeliner or any color of your choice






Brush a matching powder shadow on top of the liner to prevent it from rubbing off.






To line the bottom lids, PUSH (not pull it will damage your eye) into the skin below the eye and draw connected dashes as close as possible to the roots of the lower lashes. Brush a matching powder shadow on top.






Fix any mistakes with makeup remover or a cotton swab.







