 Too much coffee, soda, or even stimulant medications can lead to eye twitching.Try cutting back on your intake. Consult with your doctor first before altering your dose of any prescribed medications, though.
 Dehydration can cause eye twitching. Try increasing your water intake. Aim for 8-10 glasses of water per day.
 General fatigue can lead to dry, tired eyes and result in more occurrences of eye twitching.Try to get a full 7-8 hours of sleep each night. Also, limit your use of electronic screens such as TVs, mobile devices, and computer screens leading up to bedtime.
 Any of the following symptoms may indicate a more serious condition and warrant a trip to an eye specialist:Twitching that persists for more than one week
Twitching that completely closes an eyelid
Spasms that involve other facial muscles
Redness, swelling, or discharge from an eye
A drooping upper eyelid
Accompanying headache or double vision
If your doctor suspects that a brain or nerve disorder is responsible for eye twitching (such as Parkinson's disease or Tourette syndrome), he or she will examine you for other common signs. The eye doctor may refer you to a neurologist or other specialist.
Make sure you discuss your current supplements, medications, exercise routine, and diet with your doctor when you go.
 Your doctor may run tests to measure your vitamin, mineral, and electrolyte levels since certain deficiencies (such as calcium) can cause eye twitching. Based on the test results, your doctor may prescribe something as simple as an over-the-counter supplement.
 If you experience chronic, benign eye twitching, your doctor may discuss several treatment options. Botulinum toxin (Botox™ or Xeomin) is the most commonly recommended treatment.For mild cases, your doctor may also recommend medications such as Clonazepam, Lorazepam, Trihexyphenidyl, or another muscle relaxant.If other treatment options fail, your doctor may discuss surgical options as well. Around 75-85% of patients who experience benign eye twitching benefit from myectomy. For this procedure, a surgeon removes some of the muscles and nerves in the affected eyelids.However, this is not a common treatment, as botulinum toxin injections are usually sufficient.

