 If you want to make minor changes, do so between classes, but keep in mind you might be late. If you need to tidy all of your possessions, take time when the area isn't flooded with people and you have time to concentrate on the task at hand. After school would be a great time to tidy up your locker. Also, make sure your locker partner will be there as well so you don't throw away anything they might need.


If you are cleaning a locker at work you should try to do this when it isn't interfering with your work duties. Stay late or arrive early. Consider stopping in on your day off.;
, Organize these things into three piles:


Everything you are keeping in your locker






A trash pile






A pile for things that you want to take home or have to turn in







, Use another cloth to dry it. If working with a wet rag is inconvenient you can bring a few of the pre-moistened, disposable cleaning cloths. Store them in a Ziploc bag if you don't want to bring the container. The Ziploc bag will prevent them from drying out. (This step is not necessary, but very helpful.)

, Then, sort the items you want to keep in your locker into groups again. Books, clothes, hygiene products, jewelry, and any other groups that you think are necessary.


If you don't need it or won't be using it for some time you should take it home for safekeeping.
Use extreme caution before keeping anything valuable in your locker. Most schools, sports clubs and work places can still gain access to your locker for security reasons. Not everyone is honest. Lockers are also commonly broken into, especially if you are known to keep valuables stored there.
 If you need a locker shelf, arrange to get one; it makes more space for your things. Having a shelf almost doubles your space. Metal ones work best, and are least likely to break, however, consider the following: Adjustable shelves are great, but unless a shelf has support, it may sink if it has too much weight on it. Shelves with bases are great, but they limit the height of the items that you choose to put underneath., If your locker doesn't have them, attach them yourself. You can find heavy duty hooks with the easy to remove adhesive in the home section or near the picture hooks at many stores. Get the ones that can hold heavier items.


If you keep workout clothes or gym shoes in your locker, you can add an adhesive air freshener to your locker to keep odors under control. Remember to change it as needed, since its life is limited.
 Order them by size, schedule, alphabetically, or by priority. Place your notebooks/binders on the top shelf of your rack. If you have any loose sheets of paper that you need, place them in a plastic folder, and put this on the second shelf. Think: heavy stuff on bottom, light on top. If you have a gym bag or purse, put that on the top as well. Or better yet, hang it from a hook.


Keep all books/binders in class order, as it helps to limit time spent at your locker.
 Carry that pencil case with you. Many pencil cases have three rings so you could also clip it into a binder to help you not forget.
 This area is easy to clean and keep fresh, whereas stacking dirty items on top of papers and clean items will make a mess.
 Don't attach these to the door as they can fall when the door is slammed shut. Instead, stick these to the back or side walls.


Put a magnetic white board to write reminders, so you don't waste paper!







, Make it your own, but don't let decorations distract you. Your locker's purpose is to hold things, not look nice.
 If you don't want to go get containers at the store, you can rummage around your house for containers that you already have. Just add some washi tape and stickers to decorate it. Examples of household containers are: plastic bins that used to hold your stuffed animals, and small metal buckets that you may find.
 This can help to keep it clean and is a good, absorbent surface for the dirtier items such as shoes.

Carpet offcuts can be obtained for free or very cheaply from carpet sellers.
 This will prevent a build up of clutter and make it easier to find things. Just take a few minutes every week and tidy up.


If you don't have time during the week, make Friday locker cleaning day.
At a minimum, clean out and reorganize your locker monthly.
 This makes it easy to grab your books/supplies when you are in a rush. Look through it for trash every time you use it; if you have an old papers or a broken pencil, just putting them in the trash helps clean your locker a lot.

Keep a small bin in your locker for trash and empty it every week. This will help keep things tidy if your school allows it and you have enough room. Use a mini trashcan; they are cute and although mini, are very helpful.
 It's easy to remember cleaning items and pens as you're looking at your items but it is easy to forget when you're leaving the house.

