 While you can’t control the way your coworkers or supervisors behave, you do have power over your own actions and responses. You don’t want to emulate the bad behavior or negativity exhibited by the people around you.If you start to feel upset, don't lash out. Instead, take a break and a deep breath.
Think about something positive outside of work that will help get you through the workday.
Act professionally and with integrity
Continue to perform the job you are being paid to do to the best of your abilities.
A supervisor or another company will likely find your admirable behavior under difficult circumstances impressive.;
, Although it can be difficult to identify positive aspects of a hostile work environment, viewing your work situation with the goal of learning important lessons can help you cope.For example, are there specific leadership qualities this experience is teaching you about?
Is there something you do on a daily basis that makes you feel proud?

, If you feel yourself getting frustrated or depressed, it’s a good idea to try to take a few moments and escape the negativity. Here are a few suggestions:Take short breaks outside.
If you can’t leave the office, walk around inside the building.
Wear headphones, if permitted, and listen to music or something you find relaxing.
 When you are dealing with a hostile and unpredictable work environment, it can help you feel more calm and in control to improve your surroundings.De-clutter and organize your workspace.
Bring a family picture, a plant, or something to remind you of home.
Post quotes that you find positive or encouraging on your desk or walls.
The changes you make do not have to be drastic or extreme.
 Try not to spend your time away from work worrying about what is occurring at the office or what might occur when you return. This will provide you with some much-needed time to unwind and distance yourself from the negative environment.When you are not at work or on the clock, avoid checking work-related emails and voicemails.
Although it might seem therapeutic to vent about work with friends or family, don't use all of your free time rehashing what occurred during the day.

