 Place a medium sized saucepan on the stovetop over medium heat. Try to use a heavy-bottomed, stainless steel pan, which cooks sugar mixtures more evenly than would a lightweight pan., Cut the butter into small cubes, then add the butter, brown sugar, heavy cream, maple syrup, baking soda and salt into the pan. Stir to mix the ingredients., Keep cooking the ingredients, stirring constantly with a wooden spoon, until the mixture begins to boil, around 15 minutes. You should see that the sugar granules completely dissolve, and that the mixture foams a little while boiling.If the maple mixture isn’t foaming while boiling, add in a pinch more baking soda.
 After the mixture starts to boil and foam slightly, take the pan off the heat and stop stirring. Let the mixture cool, checking on it every few minutes with a candy thermometer until it reaches 240 degrees F (115.5 degrees C), about eight minutes.240 degrees F (115.5 C) is known as the “soft ball stage” of candy making. Fudge, pralines and other soft treats are made by cooking their ingredients to this temperature.
Candy thermometers are designed to measure the temperature of melted sugar and syrups. They have a much higher temperature range than regular thermometers, which are used primarily for checking the temperature of meat and typically only go up to 200 or 220 degrees F (93.3-104.4 C).
 Use a stick of butter to lightly grease the bowl of a standing mixer, or a large bowl if you don’t have a mixer. Then pour the maple mixture into the bowl and let it sit, checking every fifteen minutes or so with the candy thermometer, until it reaches a temperature of 100 F (37.7 C), which should take about an hour., After the fudge has cooled, add in the vanilla, then mix by using the highest setting of a mixer or by beating the fudge by hand. Keep beating the fudge until its gloss disappears, which should take around eight minutes., Line a baking dish with parchment paper or foil and rub a stick of butter over the foil or paper to grease it. Then pour in the fudge, using a spatula to scrape the sides of the dish to get all the fudge into the baking dish. Place the baking dish of fudge into the refrigerator and let it chill for at least two hours until it has set., After the fudge is firm to the touch, take the fudge out of the baking dish by pulling up the parchment paper or foil that it’s lying on. Cut the fudge into squares with a sharp knife, then serve. Store any uneaten fudge in airtight containers in the refrigerator.Sealed, uncut fudge can last in the fridge in a sealed container for up to a month. Cut fudge can last up to a week in a sealed container in the fridge.

