 If you're still coming to terms with or learning about your diagnosis, consult a relevant practitioner about what they consider to be appropriate work for your condition. Depending on your unique situation, a doctor, therapist, or occupational health professional may be entirely supportive of your decision to find employment. Employment, despite the rigors and routine involved, typically has a strong positive influence on the outlook of someone with an illness or condition and often assists in the path to recovery, or at the very least the effective management of illnesses.Family, friends and trusted peers can also be immensely valuable in offering advice about what's out there or as an outside perspective to what they believe you can achieve. Like anyone, the opinions of those we listen to play a major role in our decisions and ideally will also be a source of encouragement and support.;
, Your long-term medical condition may fit the legal definitions of a disability. The Americans with Disabilities Act defines a disability as a physical or mental impairment that substantially limits one or more of your major life activities.In the EU, the European Accessibility Act requires employers to make reasonable accommodations for disabled persons in the workplace.If your condition qualifies as a disability, you are protected under federal laws from outright discrimination.


In the majority of nations, employers are prohibited from discriminating against disabled persons in the workplace, as well as disabled applicants., Your medical condition may limit your physical abilities in some ways. For instance, if you have rheumatoid arthritis you may not be able to work in a position that requires you to spend the majority of your workday typing or writing.Or, you may be suffering from a chronic condition, like a mental illness, that does not present itself through physical symptoms. In this case, you may not be limited in physical ways.


Your condition will likely change over time, either improving during the course of treatment or through the natural process of degeneration. Throughout your job search process, take note of any worsening or lessening of your symptoms for your own records. If you begin to experience any worsening in your symptoms, mental or physical, consult a medical professional.
 Legally, employers in the United States and many other countries must provide reasonable accommodations for employees with disabilities.There are a number of different accommodations that employers might make for your particular circumstances, like offering short breaks to manage pain or fatigue or providing a secure and safe place to store medication.Your potential employers are not required to provide accommodations that are significantly difficult or expensive to provide. For instance, it is most likely unreasonable to ask for a car to take you to and from work, while asking for time off for dialysis treatments would be reasonable.If you are unsure of what kinds of accommodations you are entitled to, or how to ask for them, you can contact an agency like the Job Accommodation Network.Check to see if your federal government offers a similar service to answer questions about disability legislation.
 The jobs that you will ultimately look for should take your goals, your past work experience, and your medical condition into account. It's important to understand the nature of your illness and what it may restrict you from doing; this is often more easily defined for people with a physical illness or disability than someone experiencing prolonged mental illness.


For instance, a person with a recurring spinal injury would know not to work in physical labor or other physically demanding roles; however, it is not as obvious for someone suffering from bipolar disorder as to what they should or should not do.
 The right job for you should also take into account your education, your past jobs, and your professional skills. You may have been gainfully employed prior to your diagnosis and wish to return to a similar role. Or, you may want to make a career change and look for positions in different industries that are compatible with your skills.


Continuing education courses, either online or through a local school, are a good way to stay up to date on changes in your industry and to make you a more desirable candidate.
 Working in an office or corporate space may be your goal, or you may be open to more flexible options, like telecommuting or working remotely. You can look for positions that offer remote employment that would allow you to work from home or from an office depending on your needs.


An employer may also offer flexible working hours, like the option to work from 7-3 or 12-8, so you can set and make your medical appointments as needed.
Working from home can be a great option for many people with long-term medical conditions whose situations benefit from the flexibility that remote work can afford.
 You may find that becoming self employed, like freelancing or starting your own business, works best with your needs. While starting and running a business can be a stressful endeavor, it may be right for you. When you are self-employed, you may find that this flexibility complements your situation.
 You will need to identify potential jobs and careers that are realistic and feasible for you based on your medical conditions, as well as your past job experience and education.For instance, if you worked as a personal trainer prior to being diagnosed with a spinal cord injury, it is unrealistic to continue to look for personal training position.
 Part-time employment and volunteer work are both good ways to avoid having to answer a question about your work history with the answer "I was sick."This is a good way to strengthen your existing skills and to keep up with relevant changes in your industry.


Volunteering is a great way to learn about leads for positions that are available, and it is not uncommon for volunteers to transition into full-time roles with the same organization.
 As blunt as it is, the sooner you remove unrealistic ambitions and nonproductive attitudes about what you want to do and can't, the sooner you can start doing what you can. If a side effect of your illness or the treatment thereof gives you fatigue, consider part-time or home-based employment. If high-pressure roles have a negative impact on your mental state, pursue a lower stress occupation. With the right amount of consideration and perseverance, work exists for almost any illness you may have.


The job search process is a stressful for nearly everyone. Unrealistic expectations can hinder this process and become a detriment to your mental and physical health.
 You may or may not have experienced the job search process prior to your medical diagnosis. Identifying leads, as well as positions and companies that may be a good fit, is an ongoing process. As you search online job boards, career pages, and company websites, you will begin to identify positions that are a good fit with your experience and are realistic in respect to your condition. Networking with other job seekers, recruiters, and human resources personnel through professional events, job platforms, and personal relationships is also a great way to identify new leads.
 You may want to find support groups or online communities of other individuals who share your health condition. These platforms can be a great way to learn about how other people are employed with your condition and how they identified these positions. You may also find it helpful to share your job search documents, like resumes and cover letters, with peers to receive feedback., While federal legislation is available to protect you from discrimination because of your chronic condition, it does not require employers to compromise on their hiring standards.As you look through job postings and identify potential positions, you will need to make sure that you have met the minimum requirements the company has identified for the position.


While education levels can some times be interchangeable with years of experience, you will be a stronger candidate if you meet both requirements.
 The majority of job applications will offer a list of duties that the position entails. Ensure that you are able to meet these requirements with or without an accommodation.There may be some non-essential duties listed, like having to occasionally lift 20 pounds as an executive assistant. As these are non-essential, you should focus on the essential duties and ensure that you can meet them. There are a number of different accommodations available that can help you to complete essential tasks., Federal disability laws prohibit employers from asking about your diagnosis, though laws may vary slightly in different countries. There are pros and cons associated with disclosing your condition.The upside is that both parties are aware of the situation and can make reasonable accommodations. The con is that although discrimination is illegal, applicants worry whether it will hurt their chances.


There is some debate about whether job seekers with chronic health conditions should disclose their illness. This is a personal choice, and should be made after consulting with your doctor to understand the scope of your diagnosis, as well as after considering how potential careers may influence your health., The employment laws of the country you live in will play a significant role in what you have to disclose about your illness, and also regarding your rights against potential discrimination. You are able to disclose as much or as little information as you choose, and the employer is only permitted to ask general questions about any disabilities, like whether you have a condition that would prevent you from fulfilling the job requirements.In the US, a potential employer is not permitted to ask questions like the following before extending a job offer:


Do you have a heart condition? Do you have asthma or any other difficulties breathing?
Do you have a disability that would interfere with your ability to perform the job?
How many days were you sick last year?
Have you ever filed for workers' compensation? Have you ever been injured on the job?
Have you ever been treated for mental health problems?
What prescription drugs are you currently taking?

, There are instances where an employer will require you to undergo a pre-employment medical assessment. These are intended to ensure that you are medically capable of fulfilling the job requirements of the position. They are not required for applicants; they are used after an employer has offered a conditional job offer. These examinations seem to be falling out of favor with employers, but there is still a possibility that you will be asked to undergo an examination.These are typically used in occupations where physical duties are essential, like manufacturing or drivers. They are legal only if the employer requires that every employee, regardless of whether they have a disability or not, is required to undergo the same process prior to beginning the job.The employer may also ask medical questions rather than requiring a full exam.An employer is able to rescind their offer of employment if they can show that you are medically unable to fulfill the basic job requirements.