 You can also choose one of the default names.;
, Yes, the whole idea is to farm, but you don't have to be a farmer. You can be a rancher, or a nurse, or a fisherman. Or anything really. Some places you just work part time, and the farming is where you do the real work. If you want to fish a lot, try the seaside plot, the seaside plot also has a large planting area, so if you decide to grow plants too, you'll be ready. The town plot is nice if you work in town. It doesn't have a ton of room to plant, but it's enough to plant a nice flower garden. The hillside plot is nice if you're either a blacksmith, woodworker, but it mainly works well for gardeners. All are good places to raise animals.
 When you have X's over your eyes, head to the hot spring. (It's near Carmel Falls. Just up the slanted rocks) Bathe in it to restore your energy. Of course, you can only use it once a day. Nothings perfect. Once all your weeds are picks, plow six spots. Then six beside those. (All in a row) Then take out your potato seeds, and plant them. They each have six seeds per throw.
 After you water them, you can use the hot springs again. Remember, only once a day.
 After your done watering for the day, you can go talk to people. (Remember those people that sparkled? You can marry those people.) Pick your favorite out of the little booklet from the game case. If the person you like is not in your town:

, To create the first rainbow, ship 1000G worth of stuff. The mayor will then come and talk to you. Ship ANOTHER 1000G. The mayor will now tell you a story. Talk to Gill about it. He wants you to upgrade your house first. Make 3000G and go talk to Dale, then upgrade your house. Talk to Gill again. He tells you some important stuff. Talk to the Mayor again. Find the other half of the quilt. (It's in the clock tower located in the town square.) Water the flower under the big tree near the clock. Do what the little elf asks. Presto, you have a rainbow.
 Now people will start moving in. Once you find the one your want to marry, talk to them everyday, work at the place they work at. (Part time job) give them stuff, and talk to them every time you see them. They will warm up to you and then later ask to be your girlfriend/boyfriend. Once they are up to eight hearts, the Mayor will tell you about the Blue Bird, and the blue feather. If you see the blue bird around your house, go to Carmel falls. You'll find the feather and you can ask your boyfriend/girlfriend to marry you. (Don't worry, they will say yes.) After a whole year of being married, you'll have a kid. (You can pick if it's a girl or boy. When you wife/husband asks you to come pray about the kid, do it, then pick the gender. Easy right? You can also pick a 50/50 chance of both if you wish)

, Try saving your money for a whole year, not buying anything except seeds. And fish as much as you can. You'll have so much money by the end of the year, you won't ever run out. Then, spend only little bits at a time, and you'll always have cash on hand.

