 Apple Pay and Android Pay are mobile wallet services for iPhone and Android users (respectively). Using one of these services makes it possible to use Uber without having to provide a credit card.

Apple Pay: You must have at least an iPhone 6 to use Apple Pay in apps like Uber.Android Pay: You’ll need at least KitKat 4.4 and NFC support.The best way to find out if Android Pay will work on your phone is to install the app from the Play Store. If your phone does not support Android Pay, you will see a message that says the app is not supported.
These services technically require the use of a credit or debit card to work, but you will not have to provide a card number directly to Uber. If you do not have access to a credit or debit card at all, try a different method.
 Before you can use a digital wallet to pay for your ride, you’ll need to link a card to your account. See How to Use Android Pay or How to Set Up Apple Pay for instructions on setting up your mobile wallet., Now you’ll register for Uber (if you haven’t yet).

If you are already an Uber member, just launch the app, tap “Payments” in the menu, and select “Apple Pay” or “Android Pay” as your method of payment.
 Type your name, e-mail address, phone number, and a password to protect your account., A text message containing a confirmation code will be sent to the mobile phone number you provided., The app wil automatically attempt to connect with your mobile wallet., Use the slider at the bottom of the map to select a type of Uber vehicle. For a description of each Uber vehicle type, see How to Pick the Correct Uber Type., Here you’ll find the ETA (estimated time of arrival), maximum party size, and minimum fare., On the details screen, tap “Get Fare Estimate.” Here, enter the address of your destination and tap it in the search results.

Once you’ve viewed the fare, tap your phone’s back button to return to the map.
 Enter your destination address the same way you entered your current location., In a few moments, you’ll see the driver’s name, license plate number, and a short description of the vehicle. Head to the pickup location you specified and wait for your driver.

The app will keep you up to date on how far away your driver is from your pickup location.
When the ride is complete, the total amount will be deducted from the card you have on file with Apple Pay or Android Pay.

