 If you are dealing with someone after a break-up, especially if the relationship was serious, one of the hardest things you may ever have to do is move on. Let yourself cry, be angry, be confused, and express the emotions you have bottled up inside.


Each person experiences emotions differently.You may not cry a lot, but you might like to write about your feelings. Everyone is different.
Excuse yourself from the social scene for a while, or confide in close friends or family members. Some people are more private with their feelings, and that’s perfectly acceptable.
Writing down your thoughts can help pinpoint the feelings that are causing you pain.
Don’t be embarrassed about being upset, even if other people think your relationship was not serious. No one can truly know the pain you’re going through because it is your experience.
 Most people are taught how to acquire things, but very few people are taught how to lose something. This leaves most people ill-equipped to deal with the various forms of loss that life hands out. Whether the loss is a relationship, a loved one, a job, a physical ability, or trust in someone, the damage created must be understood and managed. Grief is a complex emotion that manifests in different ways for everyone.


Feeling stuck in the state of missing a person is worsened by unresolved grief.
There are stages to the grieving process that can be used as a guide to understand your own unique experience with grief: denial, numbness and shock; bargaining; depression; anger; acceptance.Grief is an individual journey. Everyone experiences it differently.You may spend more time in one stage versus another.
Don’t rush yourself and don’t allow others to rush you through your grief. There is a time to grieve and it is essential to a healthy healing process.
 It may be too emotionally difficult to see items that remind you of the person. Place the personal items that were left behind in a box and give them back to the person, throw them away or store them out of reach. Do the same with the items you have accumulated. It will make missing the person much easier when you don’t see the items on a daily basis.


If you find that something is so special to you that you absolutely can’t part with it, then put it in storage for a while.
If you feel too much pain doing this alone, ask a friend to help you. You will feel more confident about moving on without your ex.
Think about it: how are you ever supposed to stop missing your ex if there’s a big photo of him or her right by your bedside?

, If you are certain your relationship is over yet you still talk to your ex or see him on occasion, this will make it much harder to stop missing him. If you can completely avoid seeing your ex, then you should do so. Staying in contact puts you through an emotional tug-of-war that will not help you.


Do not call or text your ex just to see how things are going. It will only make you feel worse.
If you are forced to see him at school, work or elsewhere simply acknowledge him by saying, “Hello,” and spend as little time as possible in his presence. Your emotions will likely heighten after seeing him, which may cause you to miss him. This is temporary so stay strong and work through it.
Disconnect from him on all social media channels. If you continue to look up pictures of him, your mind will wander toward remembering and missing how things were between you.
 There is a purpose to the ceremonies we follow when something ends. Graduations, funerals, closing ceremonies – they all provide an end point. They allow us to reach a sense of closure. Creating a good-bye ceremony will help complete your relationship with the pain and allow you to lessen the feelings of missing the person.


Write a letter to the person, but do not send it. Include all the significant emotional experiences you shared. Thank him for the good times, and the bad. Express the anger. Tell him, "I no longer need the pain that I am feeling about missing you so I am giving it back to you. Good-bye.", When you feel ready you can consider dating new people. You may think that immediately dating someone new will ease your pain; but it will likely make you feel worse about losing the person. The chances are minimal that you will find “the one” a week after the break-up of a serious relationship.


Being with a new person may remind you of all the qualities you loved about your ex, and it will make you miss him even more.
Dating a new person when you’re not ready will not fill the void you are feeling.
Spend time with friends who can help you feel good about yourself.
 Stop doing some of the things you did together, or the things that remind you of your ex. Avoid the restaurant where you went on your first date or your favorite spot in your local park. Get your coffee or bagels from a different bakery for a few weeks and see if it makes you feel better in the mornings. Don’t stop doing what you used to do completely, but do new things so you’re less likely to miss your ex.


It can be empowering to do something you’ve always wanted to do, but your ex never liked such as, hiking or learning to make pasta from scratch. Find ways to define yourself without your ex, and you’ll find that you’ll be missing him less in no time.
If your ex is in your social circle, you can avoid the parties he is likely to attend for a while. Find a way to make your own fun.
 If you spend time with close friends, then you will appreciate all of the love and support you receive. You always have someone to turn to who will anchor you during a struggle.


If you feel up to it, see at least a few friends per week so you’re more likely to keep your mind off of your ex.
Your friends won’t say anything that will magically make your pain go away, but having them by your side can make a big difference.
 When you were with your ex, you might not have had time to work on improving as a person. Take advantage of the time to work on being healthy, happy, and accomplished. Set a goal to train for a marathon, complete a novel, be less obsessive, or do what you’ve always wanted to do to improve yourself.


Address those qualities you would like to improve. Perhaps there are things that stand in your way from being happy. Perhaps you worry too much, or could benefit from being more assertive.
 Throw yourself into doing positive and meaningful work. You’ll be much less likely to miss him if you have a career that makes you excited to get up in the morning. Getting feedback from the people you work with will improve the quality of your career self-evaluation., Don’t mope around the house or stay in bed. Spend time outside, with friends, and keep your schedule comfortably busy and exciting to have something to look forward to in the future.


This could be a great time to pick up a new hobby, such as yoga, volleyball, playing the guitar, or cooking., The severing of a relationship may cause you to focus on everything that was wrong with the relationship. Identify the positive aspects of the relationship, what you learned and how those lessons will help you in the future. Appreciate the experience.Being grateful for the experience and what it brings to your life will improve your overall mental and physical health.When you are healthy, you are better-equipped to manage the feelings associated with missing someone.

