 Before doing anything to your vacuum cleaner, make sure that it is powered off and unplugged. Touching the parts of a machine that is plugged in can be hazardous., Remove the wand from the hose by pulling it loose from where the two pieces join together. Then remove the hose from where it joins the vacuum by placing your fingers around the hose just above where it meets the vacuum cleaner and pulling up., Look for blockages in the wand, hose, and the inlet where the hose joins the vacuum. Gently remove any stuck debris from the vacuum.You can wash the wand and hose in warm, soapy water. Allow them to dry before reattaching them to your machine.
 The cleaner head and the brush bar inside of it collect a lot of hair and debris, which can build up inside the brush bar. Access the pieces by laying your vacuum down with the front on the floor. Remove the red C-clip that keeps the cleaner head attached to the vacuum by gently forcing it out. Pull the cleaner head from the vacuum cleaner.If your cleaner head does not attach with a C-clip, you can unscrew it at the bottom., To clean the brush bar, remove the sole plate by turning the two dials on the brush bar in a one-quarter counter-clockwise circle. Pull the sole plate out. Clear any hair or debris from the brush bar or from the area where the brush bar joins the vacuum cleaner., Replace the sole plate by lining up the three lugs on the lower base of the sole plate with the lugs on the cleaner head. Slide the sole plate up into the cleaner head until you hear a click., Place the C-Clip on the cleaner head before reattaching it. Then line up the cleaner head with the connection slots on the ball. Press the cleaner head back into place until you hear the click., Press the cyclone release button and remove the cyclone. Lift up the clear inspection cover and remove any debris. Lay the base machine on its front and look for the red collar of the internal hose. Pull the red collar down to dislodge the internal hose. Use your fingers to remove any debris.

Replace the internal hose collar and the cyclone., Push the cyclone release catch or the latch on the top of the canister. Gently pull the canister from the vacuum cleaner., There is a catch release on the canister that holds the filter in place. Disengage the release, which will allow you to open the top of the canister. Take the filter out of the canister by grasping the top and pulling it out., Lay the back of the vacuum on the ground with the suction part sticking up in the air. Locate the central locking dial on the ball and turn the dial counter-clockwise until it unlocks and comes off. Turn the filter one-quarter of a circle counter-clockwise, then lift it from the vacuum.If your model does not have a ball, then Filter B will be located near the bottom of the canister.
 Do not add any kind of soap or detergent when cleaning your filters, and don’t process them through any type of washing machine or dishwasher. All you need to clean the filter is running water. Expect to rinse your filter up to 10 times.


When washing filter A, wet the filter under running water and then squeeze the water from the filter.
When washing filter B, let the water run over the filter, then gently tap it on the side of the sink to remove the water., Place both filters in a warm room with good air circulation. Filter A should be laying horizontally, while Filter B sits with the larger side facing up. If they still feel damp after 24 hours, wait until they are dry to put them back in your vacuum.

Do not try to hurry the process by placing them in a dryer, using a hair dryer, or putting them near an open flame. This can damage your filters., Slide Filter A back into its place in the cyclone. Push Filter B back into the ball, then secure it with a one-quarter turn clockwise. Place the central locking dial back into place, then turn it clockwise until you hear it click shut., If your vacuum came with additional attachments and accessories, remove them from the machine to make the cleaning process easier.

You can wash all non-mechanical accessories, including small plastic pieces and small brushes.
If you have a dishwasher, run the items through a wash while you continue cleaning the rest of the machine.If you don’t have a dishwasher, wash the accessories in soap and cool water.
 Push the cyclone release button, which will allow you to pull both pieces out since they are attached to each other. Separate the two pieces by lifting the lever that holds them together. After you lift the lever, pull the top canister out of the bottom canister.If you haven’t removed the filters already, do so now. Set the filters aside while you clean the canisters.
 The lower canister is the part of the unit that holds the debris. Empty its contents into the trash., Make sure that the latch that covers the area where the filter sits is open so that water can run out of it. Wash both the outside and the inner rim of the top canister. Use a soapy cloth to clean away the debris. Set it aside to dry., Use cloth, soap, and water to clean both the outside and the inside of the lower canister. Use your hands to loosen hair, dust, or other waste that may be stuck. Rinse the piece with clean water before setting it aside to dry., Set the pieces in a well-ventilated area so that they can thoroughly dry. If you put them back together before they dry, the pieces can develop mildew., Clean the handle, plastic back, and the bottom piece with your cleaning cloth. Scrub areas where there are holes or places where debris can hide.Clean the base while the canisters are detached from the unit.
 Lay the vacuum cleaner flat on the floor so that you can better access the bar and base. Use your cleaning cloths to wipe away dirt and debris that may have collected in the joint between the bar and the base., Most Dysons have “traps” that allow you to gain access to areas of the machine where debris might collect. Clear the debris from these traps and wipe them down with your cleaning cloth.

One of the traps should be located in the back of the machine, near the right side. Look for a small button that you can push to release the trap.
The other trap should be in the back of the machine under the hose connection. It will also have a release button., The pieces need time to fully dry, so wait 48 hours. If you reassemble the machine too early, it can cause unpleasant smells or damage to your unit.