 Before you get back into the dating scene, spend some time on self-understanding. Get to know yourself on a deeper level: think about your goals in life and what's important to you. Explore your strengths and weaknesses as a human being. Knowing yourself better will help you define what you're seeking in a relationship.Falling in love with someone can cause you to forget yourself. Re-discover who you are apart from your friend and learn to love yourself., Getting out and learning something new will give you something else to think about besides your friend. You'll also be able to learn new skills and regain some self-confidence. Join a cooking class, volunteer at a local shelter, buy an instrument to learn, or try out an activity you've always wanted to do.Pick a hobby that requires a lot of time and concentration. You can then use it to escape your mind for a while and focus on something productive.
Now is the time to revisit an activity you used to do but for whatever reason let go. Doing something you love again will help you reconnect with your inner self.
 Having a crush on your best friend can cause you to neglect other friendships. As you develop meaningful relationships with other friends, you'll gain emotional support outside of your best friend. Invite a friend over to chat, see a movie with them, or even send them a text to let them know you care.

Don't distract yourself constantly with friends. Spending time alone is important, too. If you need some space from others for a while, let yourself have that time., Once you're ready to fall in love again, re-enter the dating scene. You don't have to fall into a serious relationship right away: date a few different people for a while and have fun just getting to know them.The best way to fall in love again is by meeting new people. Join a club, volunteer somewhere new, chat with a classmate or co-worker, or visit your local bar.Think about what qualities your friend has that you want in a partner and look for those in another person. You can't expect to find someone "just like" your friend because everyone is different, but through your friend you can learn what you value in a partner.
 Getting over a crush takes time as your heart heals. In a way, you might always love and care for this person. What matters is moving past the pain and opening yourself up to loving again, even if not for a while. Don't beat yourself up if you're still pining for this person. You can find new love in the future.

If you're not careful, you may become bitter from the pain and start to hate your friend. Don't let yourself fill with negative emotions.