 Take a sheet of foil and use it to line an 8 or 9-inch (20 to 22.5 cm) square pan. Spray the foil with cooking spray to ensure the fudge will come out easily. You can also use parchment paper.Tear off enough foil so it comes over the sides of the pan. This will make it easier to lift the fudge right out of the pan.
 Find a large microwave-safe bowl and place ¾ cup (170 g) of butter in it. Microwave the butter on a low setting for 1 1/2 minutes. The butter should completely melt, so add more time, depending on your microwave. Carefully remove the melted butter from the microwave.You can stop the microwave as soon as the butter melts so it doesn't start splattering.
 Add 3 cups (600 g) of sugar and ⅔ cup (160 ml) of half & half. Stir the mixture until it's combined with the melted butter. Return the bowl to the microwave and cook it for 3 minutes.Keep an eye on the fudge mixture as it microwaves. If it looks like it's foaming up, you may need to pause the microwave and stir the mixture.
 Remove the fudge mixture after the 3 minutes and stir it well. Place it back in the microwave and cook it for another 2 minutes. Remove it again and stir it well. Return it to the microwave to cook it for another 3 minutes. You'll need to stir it and finish microwaving it for another 2 1/2 minutes.The fudge mixture will microwave for a total of 10 1/2 minutes.
 Carefully remove the hot bowl of fudge mixture from the microwave and stir in one 7-ounce (198 g) jar of marshmallow creme until it dissolves. Stir in 1 12-ounce (350 g) package of semisweet chocolate chips, 2 teaspoons of vanilla, and 1 cup (226 g) of toffee baking chips or chopped toffee bars.Ensure that the chocolate chips completely melt before you add in the toffee.
 Spread the toffee fudge into the prepared baking dish. Sprinkle the remaining 2 tablespoons of toffee bits or chips evenly over the top of the fudge. Tape the baking dish on the counter so any air bubbles in the fudge pop. Refrigerate the fudge until it sets completely.It should take the fudge 2 to 3 hours to harden enough to cut into small pieces.

