 With any new type of diet, it is extremely helpful to write yourself a meal plan. This will serve as your blueprint throughout each week while you're on the diet.The Cinch Diet is only for 30 days. Make a meal plan for about four weeks. To make this easier, do only one week at a time.
Write down every breakfast, lunch, dinner and afternoon snack that you'll consume for a week. The Cinch Diet book provides sample recipes and meal ideas that you can use to help you create your meal plan.
If you're having difficulty, just use some of the meal plans that are provided for you. After you get comfortable using these, get a little more creative and make some of your own.
For example, one day could be: Meal one: scrambled egg with spinach and a Greek yogurt with raspberries and almonds. Meal two: cottage cheese, blueberries and almonds. Meal three: 2 cups of raw spinach with a hard-boiled egg, almonds and olive oil. Meal four: fish tacos with guacamole and raspberries. Dessert: 1 oz dark chocolate.;
, One particular component of the Cinch Diet is your eating schedule and timing. Stock up on some reusable and to-go containers to help pack extra meals or snacks.


This diet has you eat more than the typical three meals a day. Eat every three to five hours during the day.There is evidence to support this type of eating pattern for weight loss.Some of the sample meal plans mention having a breakfast, lunch, afternoon snack and dinner.
If you're at work during the day, have these containers to help you pack your lunch and afternoon snack.
Choose containers that are reusable, have a tight fitting lid and can be reheated if needed.
 In addition to creating a meal plan, consider creating an exercise plan or schedule. The Cinch Diet recommends this to help you stick to a consistent activity routine.The Cinch Diet doesn't focus too much on physical activity and exercise. However, you do need to make an exercise schedule.
When you make a schedule for your activity, you're more likely to stick to you plan.
Schedules make it easier to fit in activity and you'll know each day that you've set aside the appropriate time to exercise.
The same time that you're making your meal plan, also sit down to do your exercise schedule. Look for times when you have about 30 minutes to do some activity.
 The Cinch Diet comes with a variety of resources to help you successfully follow the plan. Consider purchasing or downloading some to help you.


Many diets, including the Cinch Diet, have a book associated with them. If you purchase the Cinch Diet book, you'll have recipes, meal plans, preparation tips and information on healthy eating.There are a lot of variety in food choices, but having a book that can give you some starting points will be helpful.
There are also some websites that can give you more appropriate recipes and meal plans. Consider downloading and printing these to help you get started.
 The Cinch diet only consists of two phases within the 30 day plan. The first phase is for five days and is called the Fast Forward phase.The purpose of the Fast Forward stage is to help you jump start weight loss and detox your body from old or bad eating habits.
Your foods are limited, but are supposed to help you improve your energy, concentration and overall well-being.
You are restricted to these five foods: almonds, eggs, yogurt, spinach and raspberries.
Recipes and meal plans with these foods are included in the book. Vegetarian and vegan ideas are also included if they're needed.
A big plus of following the Cinch plan is that you don’t have to count calories.
 The second and last phase of the Cinch Diet will continue for the remaining 25 days. The Cinch Diet Core phase will help you continue to lose weight while building healthy eating habits.The Cinch Diet Core phase is easy to follow. Pick foods from five different food groups. There is no calorie counting or points to measure which can make this feel simpler to follow.
Choose a variety of foods from these groups: lean protein, whole grains, vegetables, fruits and plant-based fats.
You will have four meals per day during this phase. Any foods you want to include in those meals need to come from the approved five food groups.
 A unique requirement of the Cinch Diet is that you need to include both vegetarian and vegan meals throughout the week.If you currently eat meat, incorporate at least five vegetarian meals per week.
If you're currently a vegetarian, incorporate at least five vegan meals per week.
The book provides both vegetarian and vegan menus and recipes for your convenience. However, as long as you're choosing foods from the approved food groups, you're still within the boundaries of the diet.
 A tasty and delicious component of the Cinch Diet is that dessert is included. Have a sweet treat each night while on this particular diet.This will help you feel more satisfied overall.


Sometimes referred to as your "daily chocolate escape," the Cinch Diet strongly recommends that you indulge in some dark chocolate every day.
This theory is backed by science that says one ounce of dark chocolate may help you lose weight and maintain it long-term.
The time of day does not matter - you can eat your chocolate in the afternoon or late evening.
Choose dark chocolate only. Choose a bar that's at least 70% cocoa. This may be a little bitter, but it is still enjoyable.
 Like many diets, there are some restricted foods on the Cinch Diet. Try to avoid these as much as possible, especially during the full 30 days of the diet program.


There are just a few foods that are not recommended on the Cinch Diet. Any type of sodas (even diet sodas), alcohol, red meat, and pork are not permitted on this diet.Even leaner cuts or cuts of beef or pork that are cooked in a nutritious manner are not permitted even in moderation.
Avoid these foods for the full 30 days of the program. After you've completed the diet, choose whether or not you want to bring these foods back or continue to avoid them long-term.
 The Cinch Diet focuses mainly on eating patterns, foods and the timing of meals. There is very minimal information on exercise in this diet.Although exercise is not a main focus in the diet, the topic is discussed briefly. Aim to walk for at least 30 minutes on five or more days during the week.
It also teaches you about how regular and consistent exercise is a key part of losing and maintaining your weight loss long-term.
Use your exercise schedule and calendar to help you stay consistent with this form of exercise during the Cinch Diet.
 Another unique component of the Cinch Diet is the focus on how you feel during the day. It has worksheets and information on journaling about your hunger levels.Hunger plays a huge part in how often we eat, what we eat and how much we eat at one sitting. The Cinch diet reviews this information and how to deal with your hunger.
Part of the reason behind this particular meal plan (eating four meals plus a dessert) is to help you manage your hunger throughout the day.
If you're having difficulty managing hunger, consider using some of the worksheets in the book to help you.
 Since the author is a Registered Dietitian, there is a focus on emotional eating in this diet. It's important to connect why you're eating or what you're eating with how you are feeling.


Like some of the hunger worksheets, the Cinch Diet also provides information on how to manage and deal with emotional eating.
Use the worksheets, journaling pages and tips to help manage your emotional eating during the diet and afterwards.

