;
, Down the left hand side of the page are the manga that have been most recently updated, and down the right is a box for the "Manga of the Week" and the overall most popular manga. You can also use the search bar at the top to search for a particular title.


Each individual manga page will start off with a few fields of information, like alternate names, authors, genres, type, rating, etc. Scroll down a little to find a short synopsis. Under that will show the latest discussion threads from the forum about that particular manga. The "Go to Forum" button to the right of this will take you to the main forum section for that manga. Underneath this are the manga chapters! They start from the most recently updated, so you will need to scroll down to the bottom of the page for the very first chapter. Once you've chosen a chapter, just click through the pages and read!

, If you still couldn't find what you were looking for, go to http://www.mangafox.com/directory/ by clicking on the "Manga Directory" link from the bar at the top. Once you're there, a list of all the manga they have on file should pop up. Clicking on the headers for each column will order the list by that particular field, so you can order the list by title alphabetically, by overall rating, by number of views, by number of chapters and by how recently it was last updated.
 Clicking the "Option" button on the Manga Directory page will open up a plethora of ways you can narrow down your manga selection.


Choose from Japanese Manga, Korean Manwha, Chinese Manhua or Any. They generally have different drawing styles, and manwha and manhua are read left to right as opposed to right to left.
Do you have a favourite author or artist? Here you can filter down the selection to include only works by them, if you want.
Narrow down by genre. Hovering your mouse over the name of a genre will display a quick description of it if you're not completely sure what it is. If you click once on the genre name it will include it in your search; twice and it will exclude it from your search and clicking three times will just deselect it again. So, for example: Clicking twice on Drama will completely exclude all manga tagged with the drama genre from your search results.
Filter by year. Different years will have different content and different styles of drawing, on the whole. You can specify that the manga is from a particular year, or that it originates before or after a particular year, e.g. all manga first published after 1995.
Pick your rating. You can do this to choose manga of a particular rating to show up in your search, however instead you could just order the results you do get by rating.
Specify whether you want a completed series or not. Series that aren't completed may have stopped in the middle of the story and will not be updated again. Also with incomplete series, you might have to wait a while before the ending is published. However, the incomplete series are mostly a lot more recent, and it is easy to check for updates using the bookmarks feature or something like the All Mangas extension for Google Chrome. It's your choice.
 Just click the "Register" button at the top right of every page. Read and agree to the forum rules, choose a username and password, enter your email address, do a quick captcha and you're good to go! You will also need to enter your date of birth, but if you choose to hide it only the administrator will be able to see it. There are a couple of other bits of information you can enter at this stage: your time zone, etc. but these are not essential.
 At the top of the central page for each individual manga there will be a bookmark option (as shown in the picture). If you are signed in you can click this and the manga will be added to your bookmarks.


You can access your bookmarks via the green "Bookmark" tab at the top right of every page when you are signed in. This will show a list all of the manga you have bookmarked. You can choose to order this list here by "last updated", "last bookmarked" or "last visited". If you set it to sort to last updated, then when you check into http://www.mangafox.com/bookmark/ you can very easily find out which of your favourite manga have been updated!

, MangaFox has a huge section of forums which can be found at http://forums.mangafox.com/ You can use them to talk about manga-related topics, for general chat or just to talk with people with similar interests!


Use the search tab to easily search the forums for topics you might be interested in.
Check by manga. Do you have a particular favourite manga you like or would like to talk about? Many manga have their own forum section. If you check http://forums.mangafox.com/forumdisplay.php?f=8 manga forums will be listed by the letter it starts with.
You can change the signature at the end of your posts by going to http://forums.mangafox.com/profile.php?do=editsignature

Forum options and preferences can also be changed at http://forums.mangafox.com/profile.php?do=editoptions This includes things like email, private messaging, time zone, etc.
The default user title on your posts when you first join is "N3wb", although this will change as you start to contribute and make more posts. However, you can change this manually to whatever you want if you go to http://forums.mangafox.com/profile.php?do=editprofile and change your "Custom User Title".
 There are thousands of groups on MangaFox that you can join, meet new people and share your interests - you could even create your own! Check them out at http://forums.mangafox.com/group.php


Once you've found a group you'd like to join, go to its group page. Is should have a list of members, pictures, discussions, etc. Just click "Join Group" on the top right.
 You can choose to change what people see when they view your profile at http://forums.mangafox.com/profile.php?do=editprofile This includes things like gender, biography, location, interests, occupation, etc. It is all optional, but fun to do and will help you in making friends on MangaFox.


You can edit your avatar or choose whether to use one or not at http://forums.mangafox.com/profile.php?do=editavatar

The colours, fonts and general appearance of your profile can be changed at http://forums.mangafox.com/profile.php?do=customize

On other people's profiles, you can choose to send them a public message, which everybody can see, a private message or add them as a friend. Make sure to follow the forum rules and behave well and be nice! If you find it hard to see or read their userpage, you can choose to hide the way they have customized your page by clicking "Hide User Customizations" at the top of their profile.

