 You can use any type of shirt you want for this, but a loose-fitting shirt, such as a t-shirt, would work best. The fitted shirt may cause the paint to crack when it stretches.


Sleeveless shirts, cropped shirts, and shirts with lace insets work especially well.
The cardboard will protect the paint from transferring to the back of the shirt. Make sure it is big enough for your design.
 Draw a large, fan-shaped shell onto a sheet of thick paper and cut it out. If you don't know how to draw a shell, find a simple template online, print it, cut it out, and use that instead.The shell needs to be big enough to cover your breast, or between the size of your palm and hand.
 Position the shell where your breast would be on the shirt, just below the sleeve. Trace around the shell with a pen or pencil. Move the shell over for the other breast, and trace it as well.


You can have the shells pointing outward at slight angles, off to the style, or straight up-and-down.
Try the shirt on, place the shell against your chest where you want it to go, then make a light mark with a pencil as a guide., Start by painting the outline first, then fill the shell in. If you can, try to use a brush meant for fabric paint; it is usually sold in craft stores, right next to the fabric paints.


Mix some extra-fine scrapbooking glitter into the paint for a sparkly effect. Use iridescent or a matching color.
Your shells can be any color you want, but purple or teal are popular mermaid colors.
You can also use acrylic paints as well, but you'll need to add one part fabric medium to two parts of paint., Let the first coat of paint dry to the touch. If it looks blotchy or uneven, you will need to apply a second coat. Let this second coat dry before moving on., You can make these details any color you want, but they'll look better if you use a darker shade of the same color as your shell. A great idea would be to outline the shell, then paint the ridges., This may take a few hours, but it would be better if you let it dry overnight. From time to time, pull the shirt away from the cardboard. This will prevent it from sticking., Some types of fabric paints/mediums need to be heat set to make them permanent. Check the bottle of paint or fabric medium you used for specific instructions. In most cases, you will need to cover your  design with a tea towel, then iron it for about 2 minutes., Rhinestones, sequins, and pearl beads make great choices. You can also outline your shells with a skinny sequin trim instead. Lay them out first, to make sure you like the design, then glue them down with fabric glue. Let the glue dry, preferably overnight.You can remove the cardboard after everything dries.

