 The Social Security Administration has an Inspector General who investigates fraud involving Social Security Numbers. You should visit the website so that you can report the fraud., SSA gives you several options for maintaining your anonymity. For example, you can report and choose the following level of confidentiality:Remain anonymous. You won’t fill out the contact information on the online form. However, SSA cannot contact you if they need more information.
Remain confidential. SSA won’t share your name with anyone outside the office and will only release your name if ordered by a court. By choosing this option, you allow SSA to contact you for follow-up information.
Don’t request confidentiality or anonymity. You allow SSA to release your name.
 SSA will request information that will help in the investigation of the stolen Social Security Number. You should provide the following information:whether you are filing as an individual or part of a business
your name
your address
your email address
your phone numbers (home, work, and cell)
your Social Security Number
information about your business (if applicable)
the name of the person using the stolen SSN
the person’s contact information (address, phone number)
the person’s date of birth and state of birth
the person’s sex and race
information on anyone who might have been defrauded because of the stolen SSN
details of the fraud

, If SSA needs additional information from you, then provide that information promptly. However, SSA will not keep you updated about the investigation., If you don’t want to use the online form, then you can report fraud over the phone. You can call toll-free 1-800-269-0271 from 10:00 am to 4:00 pm Eastern Standard Time.If you reported online, then you don’t need to call.


If you can’t call during the day, then you can call any Social Security office or call the SSA’s toll free number, 1-800-772-1213. Your information will be taken and then forwarded to the Inspector General.
 You might want to report fraud to SSA by mail. If so, you can include all of the information that you would report online, and send the letter to Social Security Fraud Hotline, PO Box 17785, Baltimore, MD 21235.You might also fax the letter to 410-597-0118.
 A person with a stolen Social Security Number may be using it to obtain food stamps. You can report suspected food stamps fraud by telephone. Your report will be confidential. Call toll-free at 1-800-424-9121 or 202-690-1622. If you are deaf or hard of hearing, then call 202-690-1202.You can also report the suspected fraud by sending an email to usda_hotline@oig.usda.gov.
Alternately, you could write to United States Department of Agriculture Office of Inspector General, PO Box 23399, Washington, DC 20026-3399.
You might also report the fraud to your state’s hotline., There should be an agency in your state where you can report other kinds of benefits fraud. Search online for “your state or city” and “benefit fraud.” In Macon County, North Carolina, for example, you can report the following information to the Social Services Program Integrity Investigator:the person’s name
his or her address
the person’s contact information
the person’s workplace
the names of people living in the home
why you suspect fraud

