 Think about these three things:


Is this feasible (doable)?






Will other people want to sign it?
Will this get me suspended or expelled?;
, This is preferably done on a computer. Write "PETITION" in a large font. Hit return and write "for (your goal)" below in a medium font. That will be your title. Although you may sign your name on the petition, do not type your name.
 If it is a small goal, like salsa in the cafeteria, you only need one or two sentences. Larger goals, such as loosening the school's bathroom policies, may require a more letter-like format. Write the letter as if you are writing for your English teacher, using proper grammar and well-developed points. The things that you need to present are:


What exactly you want changed (e.g. Better bathrooms, no bathroom time limits, etc.)






Why you want it changed (e.g. No one wants to hold it or sit on a gross seat)
Some kind of scientific, medical, or other proof to back you up (e.g. "Sucking it up" can cause constipation, people who hold their bladders as youth will need adult diapers later on, excretion is a basic right of living beings)
Alternatives that provide the pro's of the rule and not the cons (e.g. Placing a guard or smoke detector in the bathroom can deter druggies without punishing those that must go)

,, Staple anywhere between 1 and 10 sheets of paper onto the back of your petition. This is what people will sign. Alternatively, you can print out a grid so that people can sign their names there and it will be easy to count.
 Start with your best friend, boyfriend, girlfriend, or circle of friends. Then expand it to other people you know.
 Take it to strangers or classmates who you don't know well. Only do it to those who seem nice and won't likely bully you.
 Let them read your petition. Do this only if you have time and it is not the middle of class.
 Give it to the front office, dean, or Vice Principal. They will read over it and give it to whoever is responsible. Some petitions even make it to the School Board!

