 You can play the game online within Facebook or on your mobile devices. Load the game, then hit the “Play” button on the welcome screen.;
, Locate “246” in the game map, then hit the button for the level to begin.
 Once you’re in, analyze how your board is laid out. Do you have any good moves that can get you a vertical Striped candy or two? Do you see any matches that can free up the Fish Candies early?

, If the board doesn’t look promising, go ahead an exit. You won’t lose a life as long as you haven’t touched any candy yet., Since the jellies are found on the bottom right and left corners, you should try and make the vertical Striped candies at the top right and left corners.
 A Fish candy is a special candy that cannot be made within the game. These are provided in the levels where they can be used. When you use a Fish candy as part of a match in this level, it will swim to a jelly and clear it. Using these in this level is key to winning it since the jellies cannot really be reached by matches. The Fish candies are all encased in gelatin, and they are lined up vertically on the center column. Make any match with the Fish candy to melt the gelatin and free the Fish candy.
 Make a match with a freed Fish candy, and it will swim to a jelly to clear one block. However, you don’t have enough Fish candies to clear up all the jellies so you need to strategically use other special candies and combos.


Do a Fish candy on Fish candy combo—Match any two Fish candies together and three Fish candies will swim to the jellies. You gain an additional Fish candy in this combo.
Do a combo with a Candy Bomb—A Candy Bomb is a special candy that results from matching five candies in a row. You should combine it with a Fish candy to multiply them. A Fish candy will be multiplied by three and swim to different jellies. Afterwards, each of the Fish Candies will again multiply by three and swim to different jellies again. One Fish candy is multiplied several times, giving you lots of Fish candies. You can definitely clear a lot of jellies with this combo.
 A Striped candy is a special candy that results from matching four candies in a row. When you use a Striped candy as part of a match, it will clear out a whole row or column from the board. Go for vertical Striped candies on the top right and left corners. These are the only areas where you can use them to clear jellies below.


Do a combo with a Candy Bomb—If you can create a Candy Bomb, you should combine it with a Striped candy to multiply the effects of the Striped candy. All similar-colored candies will be turned to Striped candies. You can clear a lot of jellies with this combo.
 This isn’t a time-limited level, so you don’t have to hurry. Take a good look at the board before doing a move. The jellies can be hard to reach, but with the proper strategy, you can get the special candies you need to clear them.