 You can do this either by clicking the Windows logo in the bottom-right corner of the screen, or by pressing the ⊞ Win key on your keyboard. The Start menu will open with your mouse cursor in the "Search" field.;
, This will search your computer for the Command Prompt app. You should see it pop up at the top of the search menu.


On Windows 8, you can bring up the "Search" bar by hovering your mouse in the top-right corner of the screen and clicking the magnifying glass when it appears.
If you're using Windows XP, you'll instead click the Run app on the right side of the Start menu.
 It resembles a black box; right-clicking it will invoke a drop-down menu.


If you're using Windows XP, you'll instead type cmd into the Run window.
 It's near the top of the drop-down menu. Doing so will open Command Prompt with administrator privileges.


You'll need to confirm this choice by clicking Yes when prompted.
If you're using Windows XP, you'll click OK to open Command Prompt.
 Make sure you include the space between the two words.
 Doing so will display a list of all user accounts registered to your computer.
 If you're changing your own account password, it will be below the "Administrator" heading on the left side of the Command Prompt window; otherwise, the name will likely be beneath the "Guest" heading on the right.
 You'll replace with the name of the account for which you wish to change the password.


When you type in the account name, you must do so exactly as it appears in the account name section of Command Prompt.
 This will run your command; you should see a new line appear with "Type a password for the user:" written.


If you instead see a group of lines that start with "The syntax of this command is:", type net user Administrator * in for an administrator account or net user Guest * for a guest account.
 The cursor won't move while you do this, so be careful not to accidentally press the ⇬ Caps Lock key.
 You'll be prompted to re-enter your password.
 Again, it won't appear as you type, so take your time.
 As long as the two password entries match each other, you'll see "The command completed successfully" display beneath the second password entry. The next time you attempt to log onto your PC, you'll need to enter your updated password to continue.

