 Children go through grief in a way that is different from adults, and becoming familiar with this process may make it easier for you to understand the child's behavior and feelings. These phases include:Understanding what death is and knowing how to tell when it has happened.
Recognizing that death exists and accepting the emotions that come along with knowing that death exists.
Reorganizing their identity, relationships, and environment in accordance with their understanding of death.
 Your child will have questions about death and the whole process. Be attentive and try to answer as many questions as you can. If you do not have an answer to a question, it is OK to admit that you don’t have the answer. Children understand openness and honesty. By showing them that it is OK to not know everything, they will also feel better about not knowing or understanding everything.If you don’t know an answer to a question you can say, “I’m not sure myself about that” or “I don’t know the answer to that.”

, Help your child feel included in the process by encouraging them to participate. Encourage them to draw a picture or write a note to place in the casket. You can bring them with you to pick out a card or flowers for the deceased’s family. Or, you can ask them to pick a song or special reading to say at the funeral., Also inform your child about what others might tell them. Tell them that others might say, “Don’t cry, ”“Be brave,” “Be strong,” or “Be extra nice to your parents, now.” Therefore, they can get conflicting messages. However, let them know that is OK to feel whatever it is they feel; that it is OK to cry.


Try to help your child understand that people cope with death differently, and that people are raised to deal with death differently. Explain to them that what those people were taught about death when they were young is different from what you are teaching them about it now., If your child does not want to attend the funeral, do not force them to. If you see that your child is feeling sad or worried, ask them about their feelings and listen. Provide them comfort by hugging them and by telling them to not worry, and that everything will be OK.


After a few minutes of talking and listening, do a fun activity together that will lighten their mood. For example, play a game, go to the park, cook, or go enjoy an activity together.