 Many of the most popular dogs breeds are poorly suited for someone who lives alone. This is especially true is you work away from home. More specifically, Labradors, Golden Retrievers, German Shepherds, and Border Collies all need more exercise and attention than many single adults will be able to provide.If left to roam your home freely, they will become frustrated and likely misbehave. Meanwhile, leaving a dog - especially a high-energy, active dog - in a crate for several hours, is considered abusive.
 While some dogs can be left at home alone for reasonable portions of the day, others cannot. These breeds in particular are content to nap for large portions of the day. Their daytime activities will be low enough to stay out of trouble at home, especially if you provide them a comfortable napping environment.While they need attention and exercise like all dogs, they will be content if you’re able to spend some time on the couch with them in the evening after a walk together.
Be aware that a Maltese is going to favor your furniture to a dog bed. That said, they are less likely to get bored and act out than many other dog breeds when left alone, and are especially good for older folks., Some dogs will be content to spend time alone even if you don’t have much room to explore. Whippets and Greyhounds in particular are clean, quiet dogs that enjoy spending the day on something soft. Meanwhile, Frenchies are as small and as content to nap as they are silly looking.If you get a Greyhound from a rescue facility, there’s a good chance they’re accustomed to sleeping in crates for much of the day. Offer them a couch or especially fluffy dog bed instead once they are comfortable in your home.
Note that Greyhounds, though content to rest for much of the day, also require at least an hour of vigorous exercise every day.
Whippets are more likely to hide then go into defense mode. For this reason, they may ideal for apartments where they can hear other things going on, as they won’t be compelled to bark at everything all day.
 One great way to prevent your dog from getting bored during the day is by getting another dog to keep them occupied. While Chihuahuas are great dogs for single people - in part because they aren’t too active - they don’t like to be left entirely on their own.