 Your invisible thread will be one strand from a thread woven of several strands. Most people use black woolly nylon, but some people will use green or dark blue. Wooly nylon is strong with a little elasticity.


Choose a thread which is a matte color as opposed to glossy, which is more likely to reflect light.
Consider the lighting and the background the thread will be used with to help choose your color.;
, You will want to have these handy to help you hold your thread and not lose it. Break a small piece of Scotch tape from the dispenser. Roll this into a circle with the sticky side facing out. Attach the two ends of the circle together and press this onto your worktable.Work on a white table or board to make it easier to see the invisible thread.
 Each piece of string is made up of many smaller threads woven together. Rub the cut edge of your string to separate these threads.You can buy this thread at craft stores or find thread in your own pieces of clothing.
Consider cutting thread from an old shirt, shoelaces, or sport socks.
 Pinch this single strand of thread between your thumb and forefinger and gently pull it up and and out from the top of the string., Press the end of the string onto one of the rolls of scotch tape. Fold the roll of tape over the top of the string and press it together to hold firmly to the end of the string. Press this piece of tape back onto your worktable to secure the end of the string to the table., Using the taped end of the string as your base, hold the other end of the woven string gently in your hand and pull away from the taped end to unravel the rest of the string. Gently peel it from the single strand taped to the table.Do not pull too hard as you peel the strands off your thread, because you may break your thread.
If your thread does break, go back to your string and choose another one, then start over.
 As you peel the strands off your thread, they will begin to bunch together where they are tugging against your invisible thread. Grab these strands from the bottom to take out the slack and straighten them to help remove them from your invisible thread.


If you are making a long invisible thread, you may need to support the thread with your other hand as you peel further away from the tape.
Gently hold the thread between your thumb and forefinger near the peeling strands as you pull them off the end of your invisible thread.
 You can continue peeling until your reach the end of your piece of thread. Alternatively, if you have peeled enough to expose the length of thread you need, you can cut it free from the rest of the strands., Press this end of your invisible thread to the other piece of tape on your work table. Fold the tape roll over the end of the invisible thread and press it firmly between your thumb and forefinger to make sure it sticks to the thread.You can now stick the tape to a playing card or whatever you would like to float.
 Cut triangles opposite each other on the sides of a piece of poster board or cardboard. The points of the triangles should be facing inward toward the center of the board, with the base of the triangle being he side of the board.


Stretch your invisible thread between these two triangles. Pass the ends over the tip of the triangles and wrap them around to the back of the board. Press the tape ends onto the back to secure it to the board.
Use a white board. This will make it easier to see the thread against the board.

