 If you're writing a book of any sort, whether nonfiction or a novel, you're probably going to want an outline or some sort of idea of the story line. If you're writing a report, gather your information before you write. Spending some time in preparation before you begin will save you time in the long run, and allow you to focus strictly on writing.


That said, and especially if you are writing creatively, you want to make sure you can write freely and without particular concern for form, structure, grammar, spelling, etc. Do research beforehand to provide you with the content and context you need, and edit afterward to clean up and clarify what you’ve written. Allow your “writing time” to focus exclusively on precisely that., If you work better with music, pick something that goes with the mood of what you're writing. Not only will this help you stay on task, it may also improve the quality of your writing.


Use headphones (with noise-canceling if possible) to block out distractions and allow the music to support your focus. If you find the music to be a distraction, try changing genres or go without it. Use white noise sounds with the noise-canceling headphones instead.Typically, classical or instrumental music is considered to be the best accompaniment for a writing session; however, we all respond differently to music. So, if you happen to write most effectively with heavy metal blaring, go for it!

, Eating healthy, exercising regularly, and getting enough sleep won’t automatically turn you into a prolific writer, but will certainly help with your concentration and stamina. Properly fuel and rest your brain so that it can be inspired and translate this inspiration to the page.


Create and follow a clear schedule, but make sure that it is a reasonable one. Don’t try to write for more than 3-4 hours at a time, or the returns will likely diminish rapidly. Schedule little breaks every hour or so to get up, get a drink, clear you head, stretch your back, etc. Then get right back to writing. Don’t let a mini break turn into an extended one., Inspiration is a very personal thing. You can’t manufacture it or force it, but you can nurture it. Before starting a writing session, try to do something that sparks your creative juices, or that puts you in a reflective or introspective mood. Go to the park. Walk in the woods. Sit at the cafe and watch the world go by. Meditate. Paint a picture. Find your inspiration.


Doing a relaxing, inspirational activity before writing may also help to reduce the negative thoughts and feelings that can pop into your head when you’re struggling to write — things like “I can’t do this,” “This poem is terrible,” “I’m no writer,” and so on. Try to eliminate them before you begin writing, and power through them if they emerge while writing. You can and will overcome them by continuing to write.If you really can't concentrate, no matter what you do to focus, relax, and encourage yourself, take the day off. Even if you have to adjust your schedule to make up for it, you’re probably better off taking a break and getting yourself into a better frame of mind for writing.

