 Rub a pea-sized amount of smoothing serum or a nourishing hair oil like argan into your palms. Use your hands to grab your hair and slick it back into a high ponytail, and then wrap it with a clear elastic band. Next twist the ponytail around itself into a tight bun, securing it with bobby pins the color of your hair. Use a medium-hold hairspray and spray it over your head in a continuous motion, with the can held about 12” from your head.Try tucking a flower into the bun slightly above and forward of your ear.
 Start on the top of your head and tease ½ - 1” sections of hair to the scalp all the way around your head before using your fingers to gently break up the teasing on the surface of the hair only, making it smooth. Next create a gentle side part and smooth the smaller section to the center back of your head, securing it with 2-3 large bobby pins in a vertical direction. Take the other side of your hair (or in sections) and use your hands or a fine-toothed comb to smooth it to the center and fold it over the exposed bobby pins. Secure the twist with 3-4 large French hairpins, or open pins, horizontally.


Smooth over your hair with your hands before finishing with a medium-hold hairspray.If you have long, thick and straight hair, try this: Pull your hair into a ponytail between the crown and the nape of your head, twist the ponytail around itself twice, tuck the ends into the twist, secure them with bobby pins and finish with a flexible-hold hairspray., Tease your hair at the crown and create one tight ponytail just beneath the middle of your head, securing it with a clear elastic band. Wrap a 2” piece of hair from the ponytail around it and the band, more than once if needed, and secure underneath with 2 bobby pins. Split the ponytail into two sections – top and bottom – and tease the bottom well while you smooth the top. Smooth the top section over the teased bottom and roll it under, toward the nape of your neck, and pin at the base of your ponytail. Use your hands to gently widen each side of the roll.


Rub a natural oil between your palms and run your fingers through your hair before spritzing on a medium-hold hairspray.For a messier chignon, divide the ponytail into four sections, twist and wind each to the ponytail’s base. Secure with bobby pins, leaving the ends out., Flat iron your bangs to the side and then use a small-toothed comb to tease your hair, starting at the crown in horizontal sections and moving forward to the bangs. Then smooth the surface of that hair back and gather the rest in a mid-low ponytail, wrapping it in a clear elastic band. Twist the ponytail upwards in a clockwise direction, tucking hair into the twist. Use bobby pins or French hairpins to secure as you go. Smooth the sides and the twist with your hands or the comb.


Set it in place with at least a medium-hold hairspray.Headbands go well with bouffants and help to hold stray hairs in place.
You can also try corkscrew pins, which work particularly well if you have curly hair.
Always use a thermal heat protectant before using a flat iron to protect your hair from potentially irreversible damage.
 Create a center part, section hair to either side of your head and braid each into thick, loose pigtails. Wrap each braid over your head, so they are slightly overlapping, and secure each at the nape of your neck with bobby pins. You may need to add bobby pins elsewhere as well. If you have extra hair, tuck it under and pin or continue winding and pin.Alternatively, you could begin by winding each braid beneath your head and securing them at the top., Flat iron bangs to the side and curl the rest of your hair with whatever size iron you prefer your curls to be. Then spray them with a light hold or working hairspray and allow them to cool. Section off your bangs from the hair going from ear to ear and tie it into a high ponytail with a clear elastic band. Use bobby pins to arrange your curls in the ponytail in your preferred pattern, securing them into the base of the ponytail. Grab curled sections from the bottom part of your hair, lift them to the ponytail and pin.Mist with a medium-hold hairspray for hold but yet enough bounce.
Tuck a flower behind your ear to add to the softness.
Make sure you’ve used a thermal heat protectant prior to using the flat iron.

