 You’ll need to establish your business before you can seek credit. Accordingly, finish the following tasks as soon as possible:Form your corporation or your limited liability company (LLC).
Get your Employer Identification Number from the IRS.
Open bank accounts in your business name.
Obtain a dedicated business phone line in your business name and have it listed.;
, Start building credit early by seeking a loan from a bank. Because you have no business credit history, the loan might be small, but you need to start somewhere. Make sure the loan is in your business’ name so that it will be reported to the credit bureaus.


You might need to personally guarantee a loan. This means that you agree to be personally responsible for the loan if your business cannot pay it back. Because you are a new business, some lenders will require a personal guarantee., If you have bad credit, a bank might turn you down for a loan. However, you can still seek a business loan from an online lender. Always research online lenders before signing up for a loan. Read online reviews and check whether complaints have been filed against the lender with your state's consumer protection office. Also make sure the lender reports to the national credit bureaus, because not all do.


For example, Kabbage, OnDeck, Funding Circle, Lending Club, and BlueVine report to credit bureaus.By contrast, FundBox, SmartBiz, and Lighter Capital don’t.
 You can find plenty of offers online, or you may want to stop into your bank and check. Ask if they report to the credit bureaus and go with a card that does. You can also check to see if the card offers rewards or points.Only make business purchases on the business credit card. If you use a business card for personal purchases, then it looks like your business is a sham. You can lose some of the legal protections of having a corporation or LLC if you mix business and personal finances.
 To build credit, you need to use it. For example, don’t get a credit card and not use it. Instead, use it as soon as possible. After you’ve established a history of responsible use, ask for an increase in your credit limit.However, don't go overboard. Avoid maxing out your credit lines. Instead, focus on using only 20-30% of all available credit., You might buy supplies on credit. For example, you’ll order a bunch of widgets and your supplier will give you 60 days to pay for them. You’ll need at least three supplier accounts (also called trade lines) in order to get a Dun & Bradstreet Paydex score.Make sure the supplier reports credit information to the national credit bureaus.
You can also get accounts with big retailers, such as Staples, FedEx, UPS, and Home Depot., Dun & Bradstreet is a business credit bureau whose Paydex score is used in most trade applications.Accordingly, you should gather required information before registering with them. Collect the following:your name
your home address
your title at the business
your business contact information (email and telephone number)
company name and address
company’s legal structure (corporation, LLC, etc.)
company phone number
year your business started
your CEO's name
number of employees
SIC/NAICS codes

, You can get your number for free. Visit this website and provide the requested information: https://dashboard.dnb.com/register. It generally takes 30 days to receive your number.


If you encounter problems, call 1-800-234-3867.
If you need an expedited number, you can get one by paying a fee.As of April 2017, the fee is $229.
If you are located outside the U.S., then visit the Dun & Bradstreet website, which has links for each country: http://www.dnb.com/government/duns-request/duns-request-guide.html.
 Some suppliers won’t report your payment history to the national credit bureaus. If not, you can list them as trade references on your Dun & Bradstreet profile. The company will follow up and collect data., Many banks will look at the credit history of each significant owner.You’ll improve your chances of getting credit if you improve your personal credit score. Do the following:


Review your credit report for errors. For example, an account might be listed as in default when you are current, or the wrong credit limit might be listed. Dispute any errors with the credit bureaus.
Pay your bills on time. If you’re late, you’ll accrue penalties and late fees. Also, your credit score will suffer.
Lower the overall credit that you use. Ideally, your balance should be less than 30% of the credit limit.
 Business credit reports contain all kinds of information. For example, they also list court judgments, liens, and bankruptcies. You’ll want to keep this type of information off your credit history.A court judgment is entered against you when you lose a lawsuit. You can avoid this situation by settling lawsuits (unless you have a solid defense).
A lien can be added to property when someone has a legal right to payment which you haven’t satisfied. Avoid liens by paying all suppliers on time.
 Business credit reports contain more detailed information on payment history than do personal credit reports. It’s best to pay at least 30 days early, if possible. Dun & Bradstreet reserves perfect credit scores for those who pay early., About a quarter of all small businesses have a major error on their business credit report.Accordingly, you should monitor your business credit history and raise any errors with the credit bureau.


Gather any documents that support your claim.For example, if an account is listed as late, then you'll want proof that you have made timely payments. Look for email confirmations or cancelled checks.

