 Moths leave behind secretions, webbing and other signs of their presence. You probably have an infestation if you notice these signs:


Food items that are stuck together or seem slightly sticky. This could be caused by moth secretions.
Food items that smell musty or "off," even if they haven't reached their expiration date or been exposed to conditions that would make them stale.
Light webbing around boxes or bags in your pantry.
The presence of caterpillars or full grown moths in your pantry is a sure sign that it's time to take action.
 Don't try to save it; it's not healthy to eat food infested by moths. Toss out the following items:


Bulk food items, such as grains, nuts, and rice, should be thrown away, since moths eat and lay their eggs in these foods.
Moths can eat through cardboard boxes. If you see tiny holes in your pantry items, throw them out.
Moths can also get into tiny spaces. Anything that has been opened before, even a plastic bag of chocolate chips or nuts, should probably be tossed.
Dispose of food in a sealed garbage bag, and remove it from your house immediately.
 If there are still moths left in your kitchen after you've thrown away their food sources, set out pheromone moth traps to attract and kill them with a sticky substance that they can't escape once they touch. Throw away the traps in a sealed container once you've caught all the moths in your kitchen.
 Now that you've addressed the immediate problem, it's time to clean the kitchen from top to bottom, focusing on the pantry, to get rid of any eggs the moths may have left behind.


Use soapy water or a vinegar and water solution as your detergent. You can also use a stronger chemical cleaner.
Dip a sponge scrubber or steel wool into the solution and scour the cabinets, pantry, and other corners and cracks in your kitchen. Make sure you really scrub the surfaces to make sure the moth eggs are removed.
 If moths reappear after you've taken these measures, they may be laying eggs in the walls or other place you can't get to with a sponge. Make an appointment with an exterminator, who will use heavy-duty products to get rid of the problem.

