 Maltipoos require a high-quality food to stay healthy. It is also important to choose a food that is appropriate for small breed dogs because food for larger breeds may be difficult for your Maltipoo to chew.


You can check the ingredients to be sure that the food is high-quality. If meat (not a meat by-product) is one of the first two ingredients, then that dog food is probably high-quality. If not, then look some more.
Consult a pet nutrition expert if you plan to make your dog’s food. Dogs have specific nutritional needs that are different from what humans require and it can be hard to meet these needs when making your dog’s food yourself.Talk to your veterinarian for advice if you want to cook your dog’s food yourself.
 Your Maltipoo’s diet depends on his weight and activity level. You can find a suggested range on your dog’s food package, but you will also need to take your dog’s activity level into account when determining how much to feed your Maltipoo.


For example, your dog’s food package might recommend ½ to one cup of food per day. If your Maltipoo is very active, then he will probably need the higher amount of one full cup of food each day. If your Maltipoo is not active, then he may only need ½ of a cup of food each day.
 Free-feeding is when you leave out a large amount of dry food and allow your dog to eat what he wants whenever he feels like it. This method of feeding is convenient, but it can also cause your dog to become overweight or obese. That is why it is better to give your Maltipoo measured portions at specific times each day.Most adult dogs do best if fed twice per day, so you can divide your dog’s total daily intake into two portions and give one in the morning and the other in the evening.
To determine how much to feed your Maltipoo at each meal, you will need to divide his total daily food intake in half. For example, if your Maltipoo is supposed to have one cup of food every day, then you could give ½ cup in the morning and a ½ cup in the evening.
 Adult dogs do well with two meals per day, but your dog may need to be fed more than twice per day if he is still a puppy. If your puppy is:


eight to 12 weeks, then divide his food into four portions
three to six months, then divide his food into three portions
six months to one year old, then divide his food into two portions, Treats are a nice way to reward your dog for being good, but the calories can add up and lead to weight gain. To prevent your dog from taking in too many excess calories, try offering:


blueberries
watermelon chunks
banana slices
cooked sweet potato slices
broccoli
baby carrots
cooked green beans, Maltipoos can also get sick from some foods, so it is important to monitor your Maltipoo’s diet as well. Foods that you should never give your Maltipoo include:caffeine
onions, garlic, and chives
avocados
chocolate
grapes and raisins
nuts
alcohol
yeast
xylitol, Like all dogs, Maltipoos need to have access to a bowl of clean, fresh water at all times.Ceramic or stainless steel bowls are ideal because they do not hold onto as much bacteria as plastic and your Maltipoo cannot chew on them.


Make sure that you change your Maltipoo’s water every day and replenish it often.

