 The rabbit's natural diet of grass and herbage is high fiber and low calorie diet. This requires the rabbit to eat for most of the day (up to 20 hours). Thus, the digestive tract is never empty but always moving food through it on a conveyor-belt type mechanism.If your rabbit is eating less often, you should be concerned about stasis. This means that you need to pay attention to how much and how often your rabbit is eating when it is healthy.;
, The production of pellets signals that food is making its way through your rabbit's digestive system. If for any reason the muscular contractions in the bowel stop, the gut contents stagnate and cause digestive problems.


You should pay attention to how many pellets your rabbit produces in a normal day so that you will be able to tell if it is producing fewer.
 It helps if the owner is familiar with the rabbit's character and habits, because the first sign of a problem may well be that the rabbit becomes quiet and withdrawn. The rabbit may spend more time hiding in its hutch or otherwise trying to avoid being seen.


You may hear the rabbit grinding their teeth, which is a sign of pain., The rabbit's belly may become distended and hard due to gas accumulation. Feel for this hardness and notice if the rabbit is unusually uncomfortable when you attempt to feel their abdomen., The rabbit will become dehydrated if it has GI stasis. To check for this, lift the skin over the scruff of the neck and let it go. In a well-hydrated rabbit the skin snaps straight back. If dehydration is present it takes a few seconds to fall back into place.
 The scenario of a shock or fright inducing GI stasis is an accurate one. This is because the 'fight or flight' hormones that are released when a rabbit is fearful, such as adrenaline, direct blood away from the bowel and reduce the muscular contraction.Similarly, anything that causes pain or anxiety can have a the same effect. Typical triggers include a visit to the vet (especially for surgery), a change of routine, weather extremes, the loss of a companion, or a fright or shock. , Some foods can make GI stasis more likely. Rabbits are not designed to eat carbohydrate rich foods, as carbohydrates inhibit the release of a hormone called motilin, which is responsible for gut motility.


Thus, avoid giving a rabbit processed human food or compounded rodent foods that are high in carbohydrate.
 If you suspect your rabbit has GI stasis you have no time to waste. The risk of GI stasis is so great that any rabbit that does not eat or pass droppings for 24 hours should be assumed to have stasis and taken to a vet.This condition is a self-fulfilling prophecy because the act of not eating creates stasis, so even if it wasn't present initially, if the rabbit doesn't eat stasis develops within a day or so., The vet will take a history and ask questions about any recent events that may have stressed the rabbit, as this could act as a trigger. The vet then performs a physical examination of the rabbit, including checking teeth and looking for any problem which might act as a source of pain for the rabbit. Again, this could be a trigger factor.The vet will then feel the rabbit's belly, and be alert for excessive gas build up, tenderness, and any possible blockage in the bowel.
The vet may also listen to the abdomen with a stethoscope. This is because GI stasis is often accompanied by a unique sound, a bit like water sloshing around in a bucket. It is caused by fluid in the gut sloshing around in the gassy environment.
 Given a history of appetite loss and no fecal pellets, most vets start treatment immediately. However, the vet may want to take an x-ray to check for bowel obstructions, which are usually a result of the stasis rather than the cause.If a blockage is present, the vet will attempt to treat the stasis first. The vet will then reassess the rabbit to see if surgery is necessary or if the gut has started working again., The treatment involves giving the rabbit prokinetic drugs, such as metoclopramide, which stimulate the gut wall and encourage it to get moving again. It's also essential to keep food going into the gut, as the physical presence of cellulose can stimulate the gut wall. A slurry of pellets softened with water can be syringed into the rabbit's mouth regularly, to provide this stimulation.If the rabbit is dehydrated then intravenous fluids may be required, or fluids injected under the skin.


Pain relief is also important, as GI stasis is a painful condition. Injectable painkillers are usually the treatment of choice.

