 Before meeting with expectant parents, you should run it by your adoption worker or adoption attorney. Ask if anything sounds fishy. Sometimes, people meet with you only to try and scam you out of money.Your adoption worker or attorney can attend if things sound sketchy. Their presence will make the meeting less casual, but you might feel more secure knowing they are with you.
 There are definitely some questions you can expect to be asked when you meet. You should plan how you want to answer. Don’t memorize canned responses, but give some thought to the following:


Describe your family?
Does the rest of your family support the adoption?
What do you think about parenting and adoption?
How will you tell the child he or she is adopted?
What kind of open adoption do you want?

, The expectant parents might decide where you will meet. However, if you have a say in the matter, pick a place that is relaxing and comfortable.Avoid any place too noisy, such as bars or restaurants during lunch hour.


A coffee shop, restaurant (on off hours), or a park make excellent choices.
 You will probably be excited and nervous to meet with expectant birth parents. After all, you may have been waiting a long time for a match. You may be worried that an expectant mother might not like you and, therefore, won’t choose you to adopt her child. In order to avoid feeling overwhelmed, you need to put the meeting in perspective.Remember that you have already caught the expectant parents’ interest, otherwise they wouldn’t schedule the meeting.
Also remember that the expectant parents know quite a bit about you. They have probably looked at your profile or read your letter.
 Dressing appropriately generally means dressing how you would normally dress to meet friends. If you are meeting during your lunch hour, then you should wear your work clothes.


Nevertheless, you shouldn’t look sloppy. Make sure clothes are clean and wrinkle free.
If you think the expectant parent might be offended by an article of clothing, then pick something else.
 The most important thing is to be natural. Expectant parents are looking to meet you, not someone else. Commit to answering their questions honestly and being yourself., Remember that adoptions—in particular open adoptions—involve give and take. You need to make sure that you like the expectant parents as much as they like you. After all, this is someone who could be visiting your home or calling you after the adoption takes place.


Can you see the expectant parents as part of your family? If not, then this might not be the right family for you.
 This isn’t a job interview where you ask hard questions. It’s also not an opportunity to talk about how anxious you are to adopt. Instead, stay upbeat.Remember to ask questions but do so in a non-threatening way.


For example, don’t ask invasive questions. If the father isn’t present, don’t ask what he thinks about the adoption. That could be a sensitive subject.
Also don’t ask the expectant mother if she has done drugs or how many times she has become pregnant.Do ask how the expectant mother is feeling. However, make the focus more about the pregnant woman than about the baby.
If you reach an awkward moment where no one knows what to say, then make sure you have a photo album with you. You can flip through it and talk about your family.
 Once the meeting has come to an end, you should ask the expectant mother if there is anything else she would like to discuss.Some people are shy and need to be prompted. However, you want the expectant mother to have all of the information that she needs.

