 Do study the business feasibility and the competition – party halls and convention center facilities in the prospective geographic market. Be prepared with your marketing collateral, list out some prerequisites about your party hall which includes square footage, occupancy limits, rental prices, booking timings and days, and other associated services mention earlier. It is always a good idea to mention your partnered party vendors like catering, decorations, live entertainment, etc.;
, This can be vital if you are setting up a party hall in a community with competing facilities. To make wise marketing decisions it is important to identify your customer. If your focus is on the wedding event market build relationships with bridal and tuxedo shops, tent rentals, live entertainers, wedding planners. If your focus is hosting corporate events develop relationships with local business communities and corporate party planners.
 A business plan will give you a road-map that identifies the business purpose, target market, and the required human and capital resources. A business plan generally includes a budget itemizing, monthly leasing or mortgage expenses, taxes, insurances, wages, utilities, advertising, and other costs. There are many business templates available online to help you draft an accurate business plan.
 This amount will be based on a calculation of the start-up costs and monthly operating costs for about a year. Some of the major costs might include are leasing, purchasing or building the party hall. Renovate the floor, wall treatments, lighting, restrooms, and kitchen. If you are starting the business from an existing party hall the dance floor and band area might require some rebuilding.
 These costs will differ from state, county or region. The local health inspector will be a part of the business operations. Health department will also be interested to ensure you meet the building occupancy limits and those occupancy notices are adequately posted. Kitchen and restroom areas will also be of interested to the inspector. It is a wise idea to take advice from a local attorney to provide all the information about the regulatory compliance in your prospective business area.
 Hire a professional interior designer who can design a perfect plan. The designer should plan a design which is adaptable to specific needs of your customer.
 Hospitality industry furniture can provide guest tables, buffet tables, some decorative items like indoor pants, chandeliers. Table linens and dishware are advisable to be taken on lease as generally customers might prefer them to match according to their particular event.
 Hire a manager who is a professional host, event coordinator, staff, and vendor services coordinator. In the long run you will need to create an employment policy and procedure manual that clearly outlines the core operations and responsibilities of the staffing team.

