 Makeup can clog pores, so it is important to start with a clean face. Toner will help close your pores, while moisturizer will smooth out your skin and make it easier to apply foundation. It will also prevent your skin from drying out and flaking beneath your foundation.










When applying moisturizer, focus on areas that dry out the most, such as the forehead and cheeks.
It would be a good idea to use moisturizer even if you have oily skin. Choose a light-weight, gel-based formula meant for oily skin types.
If you have very dry skin, basic moisturizer may not be enough for you. Choose a rich, cream-based formula that is meant for dry skin.;
, While not essential, primer can really take your makeup to the next level. A little bit goes a long way, so you do not need a lot to cover your face. It helps reduce shine and fill in large pores or fine wrinkles, making it great for photoshoots and special events. Most formulas do not clog pores.
 Foundation comes in many different forms, including powder, liquid, and cream. Powder foundation (loose or pressed) is best for oily skin, while liquid or cream foundation is best for dry skin. Normal or combination skin can use any formula they want.In the end, however, you should choose whatever you feel most comfortable with.


Some foundations come in warm and cool shades. These shades relate to skin undertone, and can help you achieve an even closer match.
The thicker the formula, the more coverage it will have. For a lighter, more natural look, try BB cream instead.
 Start by dabbing or brushing it onto your nose, chin, and forehead. Next, blend it outward towards your jaw and hairline for a smooth, seamless finish. Use a foundation brush or sponge if you are using liquid or cream-based foundation, and a powder brush if you are using a powder-based foundation.
 It is not a required part of the daily makeup regime, but it can help you feel better if you feel insecure about things like pimples, birthmarks, and under-eyeshadows. Choose a shade that matches your skin tone for the most natural look.How you apply it will depend on what you plan on covering: 








To cover up under-eyeshadows: apply your concealer in an upside-down triangle shape, extending it all the way down to the tops of your cheeks. Gently blend it in using your ring finger or a blending sponge.
To cover up extra-dark under-eyeshadows, apply an orange or peach-toned concealer first, then apply your usual concealer on top.
To cover up pimples: use a dab of green concealer first to cancel the red tones, then your usual concealer on top of that. Apply it with a mini sponge applicator or brush, then blend it in with a clean mini-sponge applicator using tapping motions.
 This will not only help your makeup last longer, but it will also help reduce shine and give you a smoother finish. Setting spray can simply be sprayed on, while setting powder needs to be dusted on with a soft, fluffy, powder brush.










Only apply a light layer. The idea is to finish smoothing your complexion, not to create a mask of cosmetics.
If you accidentally used too much setting powder, use a clean powder brush to dust the excess off., Bronzer can be used on its own, without blush, or in conjunction with blush for a sun-kissed look. You can also skip the bronzer altogether, and move on straight to the blush. To get the most control over your bronzer, choose a brush with soft, short bristles. Be sure to blend it in well. If it is still too harsh, smooth it out with some translucent powder.If you choose to use blush alongside your blush, apply along the hairline/upper forehead area, into the hollows of your cheeks, and just under your jaw.If you choose to use bronzer instead of blush, apply it to the places that the sun would naturally hit: the tops of your cheeks, your forehead, the bridge of your nose, and your chin. Some people also like to dust some bronzer under their neck to brighten the area, especially if it looks grey., Like foundation, blush comes in many different formulas, including powder, cream, and gel








If you have fair skin, go for rosy pinks and peaches, and avoid anything too brownish.
If you have medium-toned skin, you can use most pinks and peaches. If you have a cooler skin tone, you could also use something mauve-toned.
If you have dark skin, try corals, oranges, berries, or rich bronzes. Stay away from blue or light-toned blushes, or your skin will look ashy.
 How you apply the blush depends on what formula you chose. Powder-based blushes should be applied with a powdered brush, while cream and gel-based formulas can be applied with your fingers. Blush should typically be applied at an angle, starting at the apply of your cheek and going up towards your temple. You can also use blush to contour or shape your face, however. For example:If you have a round face, and wish to slim it down: suck in your cheeks, then apply the blush to the hollows. Extend the blush up to your temples
If you have a heart-shaped face that you'd like to balance out: apply the blush just below the apples of your cheeks, then blend it towards your hairline.
If you have a long face that you'd like to soften, apply blush just below the apples of your cheeks and blend it in, but don't extend it towards your temples.
 This will help prevent your blush and/or bronzer from rubbing off or fading. It will also cover any areas that you might have missed earlier.
 Eyeshadow primers help even out your eyelids and make it easier to apply your eyeshadow. They can help your eyeshadow appear brighter and last longer. Apply the primer over the entire area between your eyebrow and upper lash line.
 The colors themselves don't matter, as long as you have a light shimmery shade, a light matte shade, a medium shade, and a dark shade.You can use the same color palette for a unified look, or contrasting colors for something more dramatic.


For a natural look, choose a neutral palette with lots of creams and browns.
For an evening look, consider something more elegant, such as silver or gold.
Don't be afraid to try other colors, such as green, blue, or brown.
To make your eyes stand out, choose colors that contrast it. For example, if you have brown eyes, choose blues, greens, or purples. If you have blue eyes, try copper or gold.
 Start along your lash line, and blend it up towards your eyebrow. This shade should be close to your skin tone—not too light and not too dark. It can be matte for a natural look, or shimmery for something more dramatic.


If you want to go super-simple, you can stop doing your eyeshadow right here. If you want to get fancier, then keep reading!

, Apply the shade with your eyeshadow brush first, then blend it in using a blending brush. Focus more on the outer part of your eye rather than the inner.
 This should be the darkest color from your chosen palette. For a smokier effect, extend some of the shadow to outer corner of your eye with a thin brush. Blend the shadow into the outer corner of your eye to create a < or > shape. Focus on the outer portion of your eye, and avoid extending it to the inner corners.


For a smoky look, apply some of your dark shade to your lower lashes.
 This should be the lightest color from your palette. White or a very pale color will work best for this. The lightness and the shimmer will help open up your eyes and make them look larger and brighter.
 Tilt your head back and lower your eyelid. Gaze into a mirror, and carefully run your eyeliner along your lash line. If you are having too much trouble, gently pull on the outer corner of your eye. Keep in mind that this is not recommended, because it puts too much strain on the fragile skin around you eyes, and could lead to wrinkles.








For daytime looks, use a slightly lighter and more natural shade of liner, like a gray or brown.
For a more natural look, use a pencil eyeliner, in brown or soft black. Smudge it slightly to soften any harsh lines.
For a dramatic look, try liquid liner in black. Consider adding a wingtip by extending the eyeliner just past the outer corner of your eye.
 Choose a mascara that lengthens and volumizes. Brush the mascara on starting from the base of your lashes. Work your way to the ends of your lashes using short, zigzag motions.










For a natural look, choose a dark brown or soft black mascara, and apply it only to the upper lash line. This creates a more subtle look.
To an evening look, apply some mascara to both your upper and lower lashes. Choose a mascara that lengthens and volumizes.
 Not only will this make your lips appear fuller, but it will also help make them appear smoother.If you want to go with a more natural look, you can stick with just tinted lip balm and call it a day. If you want to get more fancy, keep reading!


If your lips are really chapped, consider exfoliating them with a toothbrush or with a sugar lip scrub.
 You can choose whatever color you want, but make sure that they match. For a more natural look, consider something nude-colored or something that is one or two shades richer than your natural lip color; avoid anything too shimmery. For a more dramatic look, consider something bright and bold, such as red. Shimmery colors also work well for the dramatic look.


If you decided to go fancy/dramatic with your eyes, choose a neutral shade. This will prevent your lips from overpowering your eyes.
 Not only will this define your lips, but it will help keep your lipstick from bleeding.If you want to make your lips appear fuller, you can extend your lip liner just past your natural lip line; don't get carried away, however, or your lips will look fake!

, This step is often overlooked, but it is an important one. It helps make your lipstick last longer because it gives it something to stick to. It also makes the color richer. Lastly, it makes any fading less noticeable.
 You can apply the lipstick straight from the tube, but a lipstick brush will give your more control. Do not extend the lipstick past the lip liner.
 This will help make your lipstick last longer. Simply fold a tissue in half, and gently press your lips around it. Reapply your lipstick the same way as before, and then blot it once more.Check your teeth for any lipstick that might have smudged onto them. If you find any smudges, wipe them off with a tissue.
 This is not completely necessary, but it will make your life a lot easier—you also won't have to reapply or touch up your lipstick as often! Start by pulling a tissue apart so that you have a very thin tissue. Place the tissue over your lips, then gently tap your lips with setting powder; use a soft, fluffy powder brush to do this. Pull the tissue away when you are done, then discard it.
 This can help make your lips appear fuller. Instead of applying the lip gloss all over your lips, simply tap it onto the center of your lips where the light hits them.

