 Become a good daughter by talking to your parents regularly about important issues and about trivial things. This will make it easier for you all to communicate when you disagree or have major issues in your life. It will also help you know more about each other as individuals.Gossip about things going on in your life. Talk about events and issues going on in the world and your local community. Talk about your goals and aspirations, as well as your fears and worries.
If your relationship is rocky, then start off with short conversations about topics like the weather or a newly released movie.
If your parents always want to talk at a bad time (like first thing in the morning or the middle of the day when you’re at work), let them know that you want to talk, but another time will be better.;
, Simply asking your parents how they are feeling or how their day was can show them that you care about them. Try asking your parents how they are doing every time you see them.


For example, you can simply say something like, "How was work today?" or "How was your day?"
If you know that your parents did something specific, then ask about how it went. For example, you might ask, "How was your doctor appointment?" or "How was the dinner party?"

, You can become a good daughter by not just talking with your parents, but also by listening to them. Listening to them lets you understand what’s on their mind, their perspective, their concerns, and more.Don’t assume that you already know what they are going to say. Give them a chance to talk and really listen to what they are telling you.


Sometimes you might have to ignore the words and listen to the well-intentioned message.
For example, if your dad says, “Do you want your car to break down? You know you need a tune-up.” Listen to what he is really saying, “I don’t want anything to happen to you. Please take care of your car and yourself.”
Although you should listen to them, also use your own judgment. If something they are saying is wrong or untrue then talk to them about it.
 But just because you know that they know that you love them, doesn't mean you should cheap out on reminding them verbally. They may know it, but everyone likes to hear it every now and then. One easy way to become a good daughter is to tell your parents that you love them and mean it., You are also letting them know you value their opinion by asking for their advice.


Because they have experienced many of the things you are going through, they may be able to offer valuable insight into the situation.
Parents usually give good advice, however, there are times when their advice is wrong. If your parents are telling you something that you know is wrong, then do what you know is right.
If you need to, ask someone else you respect and trust for advice.

