 Random pieces of rubbish, dirty clothes and old pieces of food and drinks do not add class to a room and make it look horrible. Even though you may think it will be hard keeping your room tidy, it really isn't hard at all. Its easy. All you have to do is:


Take dirty clothes downstairs to wash regularly. Why not have a laundry bag/basket to keep them in so you have a bundle to clean next time your mum collects the dirty washing?
Have a bin and just throw rubbish in it instead of anywhere in room. And they don't have to look vile either. You could have a really retro, multicolored stripy bin and another cute, candy pink one.
Clear out of all the stuff you don't want anymore but don't just simply throw it in the trash. All those cuddly toys / books / jewelry / DVD's/ CD's /clothes would benefit a local charity shop as it is nearly always guaranteed that someone else would love them instead, and everything you give or sell is for a good cause.
Vacuum regularly and wipe/dust if needed.;
, Offer to your parents to clear out all your stuff for the redecorating session and to paint. Choose a light, soft color or a loud, bright one. Shades which usually look amazing in a teen room are: Light pink, light purple, candy pink, deep purple, light blue, deep blue, light green, light red, light orange or sunny yellow. Choose a color which you know you will love for a long time, as it's not everyday you can repaint a room. Make sure your brushes and paint are good quality and you either move everything out temporarily or cover it with old newspapers and sheets.
,, It is essential in any room for a great place to work/study/do art. A desk with drawers is great for storage to keep all your books/notebooks/spare stationary/photo albums,etc. On the top you could have stationary drawers/pots to keep your pencils, pens and felt tips.You could also have your bookshelf hung on a wall above to keep your reading books on and put your art/drawing stuff on top of the desk too. A comfy chair should be in your desk area too.
 On the pin board you can put up cards, notes, reminders and photos. Some ideas are to:


Cut out collage from magazines and stick all over the cork as a unique, brilliant background.
Following a theme ( make up) and fill the cork board in a pattern.
, Use pop up canvas holders, storage containers or baskets and store them anywhere,like in a corner or under your bed.
