 You will need information about the person being abused and the facility where he or she resides, as well as details about the abuse you believe he or she is suffering.What type of lawsuit you file will depend to some extent on the type of evidence you have. Nursing home abuse may lead to a personal injury lawsuit against the nursing home in which you allege the nursing home was negligent in hiring the abusive person or in allowing the abuse to continue.
If the person's medication or medical treatment is impacted by the abuse, you also may have a medical malpractice claim.
Nursing homes that accept Medicare and Medicaid must follow federal regulations. Those regulations create the standard of duty the nursing home employees must meet.
Since the patient typically has a contract with the nursing home, nursing home abuse also may constitute breach of contract. Gather any documents or information the patient received when he or she moved to the nursing home.
 An experienced elder law attorney will be best able to assist you in protecting the rights of the abused person.An experienced attorney will be familiar with any state or federal laws that may be applicable to your situation, as well as other options available.
Many elder law attorneys will take cases on contingency, meaning you don't have to worry about paying the attorney up front.
You also may be able to find free or reduced-cost legal services at your local legal aid clinic or a nonprofit organization dedicated to assisting the elderly.
 You typically must file a complaint in the civil court of the county where the nursing home is located to initiate your lawsuit.Keep in mind that the statute of limitations typically is the same as the statute of limitations for personal injury, and can be very short – often only one or two years. After the statute of limitations has passed, you lose the ability to file a lawsuit.
Usually you can file one lawsuit, even if you have several different claims or theories. For example, if you have a breach of contract claim as well as a personal injury claim, you can list both in one lawsuit.
The lawsuit also must be served on the nursing home so it has adequate legal notice that it is being sued. After service, the nursing home has a short period of time, usually 20 to 30 days, to file an answer to your lawsuit.
 Work with your attorney to collect documents and other information to support the allegations you set forth in the complaint.Evidence may include pictures of the patient before, during, and after he or she moved to the nursing home.
You also want to collect any medical records, particularly those that mention unexplained physical injuries or other evidence of abuse.
Request medical records from other medical providers, so you can create a comprehensive list of all the person's doctors, medications, and treatments going back at least five years.
 After the nursing home answers your complaint, you will have the opportunity to request records and information from the nursing home as well as interview nursing home employees and other witnesses regarding the abusive behavior.Keep in mind that evidence may be difficult to compile and information from the nursing home may be incomplete.
One of your most powerful discovery tools may be depositions. During a deposition, you (or your attorney) interview someone under oath. The questions and answers are recorded by a court reporter, who makes a written transcript of the interview available to both parties.As part of your lawsuit, you can interview employees of the nursing home, including those you believe are engaging in abusive behavior or are aware of abuse and have not acted to correct or prevent it.
After discovery, your case will either be set for trial or will proceed to mediation. Mediation involves a neutral third party who works with you and the nursing home to come to a mutually agreeable settlement to the claim.