 Protective N95 masks are ideal for certain uses, such as construction work, but may not be for others such as invasive surgical procedures. Figuring out when to select a N95 mask over other options can ensure you get proper protection. Times you may want to wear an N95 mask include:Having an increased risk for of illness from influenza or other respiratory diseases
Being exposed to smog or environmental allergens
Caring for patients who don’t require invasive proceduresDoing demolition or construction work;
, If you have a pre-existing medical condition such as emphysema or asthma, see if you are healthy enough to use an N95 mask. Wearing an N95 mask can make breathing more difficult if you have any of the following pre-existing conditions:Breathing problems
Emphysema
Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD)
Asthma
Cardio-pulmonary problems

, Purchase your N95 mask from a medical supply store, local hardware store or a home improvement center. Find or ask where the N95 masks are and read the packaging. Select only masks certified by the National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH). These have the NIOSH logo and the test and certification approval number (TC) on the packaging and/or the mask.Masks not certified by NIOSH may not provide adequate protection.
 Each brand and model of N95 respirators comes in different size configurations. These are not standard across models. Try different, certified models of N95 to see if one particular works best with your face.Look for the following fit characteristics:

Comfort
Tight seal to the faceNo air leakage
Covers nose, mouth, and chin, Before you touch or put on your N95 mask, thoroughly clean your hands.Use any kind of soap and water and rub your hands under the flow for at least 20 seconds. You can also alcohol-based hand sanitizer if you don’t have soap and water. This can ensure no particles or other substances get into your mask.Dry your hands thoroughly after washing. This can ensure your mask isn’t saturated with water.
 Pick up your mask and place it in your hands. The metal nosepiece should be at your fingertips and the respirator in your palm. The headbands should be hanging down., Cup the N95 in your hands and lightly set the bottom part under your chin. The headbands should still be below your hand. Tip up the mask so that it covers your nose. The metal piece should touch the bridge of your nose., With your other hand, pull the bottom headband over your head. It should be below the ears and around your neck. Then pull the second headband over your head and place it high at the back of your head.Avoid crisscrossing the bands. This can affect the seal and may not protect you fully from particles., Place your fingertips from both hands on either side of the top of your nose. You should feel the metal piece under your fingers. Slide your fingertips down the metal strip simultaneously. This molds the metal strip and mask to the contours of your face and nose, ensuring a proper seal., Put both hands over the mask and respirator. Breathe in quickly and see if the mask seals tightly to your face. Then exhale and see if you feel any leakage. Feeling air leak or not having the mask seal when you inhale is a sign that you need to adjust the mask.Readjust the headbands if air leaks at the mask’s edges. If you have leaks around the nose or respirator, adjust the metal nosepiece.
 Pull the bottom strap over your head and then follow with the top strap. Hold the mask by its strap. Touching the front of the respirator may expose you to particles or other contaminated matter., Used respirators are considered contaminated after each use.Holding the mask by its straps, dispose of it after each use. This can ensure you don’t come into contact with contaminated particles or other hazardous matter. It also ensures that you’re not using a clogged up N95 that may not filter properly.