 Every day we perform different roles (from student to son, from artist to biker). What you want to do is think about the roles that you are currently playing in your daily life.


These roles could include (among many, many others): Traveler, student, daughter, writer, drawer, employee, glass-blower, hiker, grandchild, thinker, etc.
 Many of these future roles might overlap with the roles you have right now. These roles are the nouns you would want to use to describe yourself at the end of your life. Consider the roles you are playing right now. Are any of them unnecessarily stressing you out? If so, that role might not be one that needs to continue through your life. Prioritize these roles from most important to least important. This exercise will help you to determine what you really value in life and what is most important to you. Keep in mind, however, that this list is completely changeable--just as you are constantly changing.Your list might look something like: mother, daughter, wife, traveler, glass-blower, mentor, volunteer, hiker, etc.
 A role is a great way to define yourself, but the reason behind why you want to play the role is what gives it meaning. Maybe you want to be a volunteer because you see the trouble in the world and want to do your part to fix it. Or maybe you want to be a father because you want to give your children the perfect childhood.One way to help you define the purpose of your role is to imagine your own funeral (yes this is rather morbid, but it really works). Who would be in attendance? What would you want them to say about you? How would you want to be remembered?

, How do you want to progress? What do you want to achieve in your life? Think of this as your bucket list--the things you want to do before die... These goals should be the ones you really want to achieve--not the ones you think you should have. Sometimes it helps to create categories for your goals so that you can more easily visualize them. Some categories you could use include (but are certainly not limited to):


Career/vocation; Travel; Social (family/friends); Health; Finances; Knowledge/Intellect; Spirituality
Some example goals (in order of the categories listed above) include: Publish a book; travel to every continent; get married and raise a family; lose 20 pounds; make enough money to afford to send my children to college; get my Masters degree in Creative Writing; learn more about Buddhism.
 Now that you have some vague goals that you want to achieve in your life, set out some defined goals. This means giving yourself a date to complete these goals by. Here are some examples that are a bit more defined than the ones listed in the previous step.


Send book manuscript to 30 publishers by June 2014.
Travel to South America in 2015 and Asia in 2016.
Weigh 120 lbs by January 2015.
 This means being honest with yourself and really taking a look at your present life. Using the goals you’ve listed out, think about where you are in relation to them right now.For example:


Your goal is to publish a book and have the manuscript sent out to publishers by November 2014. Right now, you have half of the manuscript written, and you’re not totally sure you like the first half.
 What steps are you going to have to take to be able to achieve your goal? Assess the steps you will need to go through and write these steps down. To continue with the example of publishing a book:


From now until Nov. 2014 you will need to: A. Re-read the first half of your book. B. Finish writing your book. C. Rework aspects of the book you don’t like. D. Edit for grammar, punctuation, spelling, etc. E. Get several critical friends to read your book and give you feedback. F. Research publishers that you think would consider your book for publication. G. Send your manuscript out.
 You can do this is whatever format you prefer--be it handwritten, on the computer, in paint, etc. Congratulations, you have just written your life plan!

, As with everything in this world, your life will change and your goals will change. What was important to you when you were 12 might not be as important to your when you are 22 or 42. It is ok to change your life plan, in fact it is healthy to do so because it shows that you are aware and in tune with the changes occurring in your life.

