 There are many herbs that can help with breathing and lung health. There is not one correct way to take any of these herbs. You can drink them by making them as teas. You can also take them as supplements. If you don't want to ingest them, you can use these herbs as aromatherapy by heating them in water and letting the scent permeate the room.


To make a tea, use one teaspoon of dried herb per cup of boiled water. If you use as a supplement, follow the manufacturer’s instructions.
 The Italian herb oregano is a natural decongestant, anti-microbial and anti-histamine. The active agents appear to be volatile oils called carvacrol and rosmarinic acid. You can add this herb, either fresh or dried, to recipes for tomato sauces and to rubs on meats.


You can also take oregano as a supplement in its oil form., Peppermint's active ingredient is menthol. Menthol relaxes the respiratory tract muscles and acts as an anti-histamine. You can use peppermint as a fresh or dried herb in recipes for fish or desserts. You can also get it as an oil, which you put in food, take it as a dietary supplement, or apply it as a topical cream. There are also some versions of the oil that you can burn to permeate through the air.


Don’t apply peppermint or menthol oil directly to the skin of children. It has been associated with a decrease in the respiratory rate in children.Many people use menthol-based chest balms and throat sprays to help break up congestion.
 The leaves of a eucalyptus tree have been used for centuries. It's a natural decongestant, which loosens mucus, making it easier to cough out. The agents responsible for these properties are cineole, eucalyptol and myrtol. Clinical research suggests that eucalyptus can effectively treat chronic and acute bronchitis. You can take eucalyptus oil by mouth or as a topical rub, but it must be diluted.


Eucalyptus oil vapor acts as a decongestant when it is inhaled, making it effective in the treatment of bronchitis. Try placing a couple of drops of the oil into a bowl of hot water and inhaling the steam.
The diluted form of eucalyptus oil helps with coughing, swelling of the respiratory tract, bronchitis and numerous other respiratory problems.
It can be applied to the skin to help the swelling of respiratory tract mucus membranes., A few additional supplements might also be useful for lung health. You can take white horehound. It has been used in many traditions, including ancient Egyptian medicine, Ayurvedic medicine, Australian aboriginal and Native American medicines to treat different respiratory conditions. Cough lozenges such as Ricola drops contain horehound. Take 1-2 lozenges every 1-2 hours as needed.


Lungwort has been used for centuries as a treatment for lung disorders. It is a potent antioxidant and acts as an expectorant, which allows you to cough.
Elecampane contains inulin, which helps support mucus production and relaxes bronchial passages. It also has anti-bacterial properties.Do not use horehound if you have diabetes or high blood pressure.

