 Purchase the sorts of goodies you'd like to add into the ultimate spa basket. Some suggestions include:


Bath bombs
Bath salts
Meditation CD, or relaxing music
Scented candles
A loofah
A body brush
Soaps - gourmet versions, glycerin, and scented, some castile
Moisturizer for hands, face, and body
Bath and/or shower gel
Hand mitts
Sleeping mask for relaxing
Facial mask/ingredients, body mask
Face washer, hand towel, body towel, etc.
Lotions and creams
Bubble bath, bath oil
Perfume/scent/essential oils
Shampoo/conditioner/hair oil, etc.
Massage tools
Cute stuffed toy
A book or magazine to read in the bath
Shower cap, bathrobe
Lavender bags
Any other items that you think would make the basket awesome;
, That way you'll know how large it needs to be.
 These include:


Tissue paper for padding. Under that you might like to use crinkle paper to bulk it out and create a soft under layer
Cellophane or plastic wrap for covering the basket
Ribbon, glitter, and bows for decoration
Clear tape for holding parts together
Card
Explanatory notelets describing unique items or which provide directions

, Color coordinating can be seasonal, or related to an event such as a forthcoming baby, or the favorite colors of the recipient. For example, if you will be giving the basket in fall (autumn), use orange colored items, even add orange and gold flowers to go with it. If it will be given during Winter, use cool colors like blue or white.
 If you need to pad it, add the crinkle paper or bunched up tissue paper.
 This is an important addition as it highlights the basket's purpose.
 This may take some rearranging here and there until it looks right but the basics are:


Largest items at the "back"
Smallest items in the "front"
All other items ranging from small to large size are place in between.
The most interesting items should be the easiest to see.
 Good choices include:

Cinnamon sticks
Dried lavender
Bouquet garni
Small candles
Candy canes, mints, etc.
 Make sure that there are no wrinkles.
 It's also a good idea to add a card by sticking it to the outside with strong tape, or attaching by ribbon.

