 While such snacks are not necessarily healthy, they do tend to be lower calorie than other candy options. If you want to buy snacks in the theater, these are generally your best choice of candy. In addition to being lower calorie than other varieties, they are chewier. This means they're more difficult to eat. If you take longer to finish your candy, you're less likely to return to the concession stand for a second helping.Twizzlers have the lowest calorie count, containing only about 165 calories. Milk duds contain 370 calories, while Starbursts contain 480 calories.
Keep in mind, if you're on a specific diet plan that restricts sugar, this is not the best route for you. While these snacks are lower calorie, the bulk of the calories come from sugar.;
, Many movie theaters now sell protein bars at the counter. You can also sneak one in from a nearby gas station or drug store. Lower calorie protein bars may contain some ingredients you're craving, like nuts and chocolate, while still having some nutrients.Remember to read nutritional labels. Some protein bars may be misleading. In general, it's best to skip bars with a lot of added sugar.
 Swedish Fish are much lower in sugar than the average movie snack. They also tend to have a tougher texture, making chewing them difficult. If you slow down the pace of your eating, you will eat less overall.A serving of Swedish Fish is about 19 pieces, roughly a large handful, and contains only 140 calories and 29 grams of sugar. Movie theater containers tend to be smaller, so you may find a container that has a single serving.
If you can't find a smaller container, try splitting one with a friend.
 As it can be tricky to find candy that's lower calorie at the theater, consider bringing in your own snacks. Some theaters allow this, so ask ahead of time. If the theater does not allow it, you can sneak in food in your purse, bag, or pockets if healthy eating is really important to you. You can bring very healthy snacks from outside, which you would likely be unable to find in a theater. You can try things like:Dry, lightly sweetened cereal
Granola bars
Fruit

