 If it's really slow-draining, this may take a while, but if you remove the water, you drain-clearing mixture will be able to work on the clog much faster.;
, You have several options for creating a non-commercial drain opener. Most involve vinegar and another substance that create a chemical reaction when combined. See if you have any of these drain-opening agents on hand:


Vinegar (white or apple cider vinegar work) is the acidic base for creating the foaming reaction.
Lemon juice is acidic like vinegar, but smells refreshing. This makes lemon juice a good option for clearing out clogged kitchen sinks.
Baking soda is frequently used as a multipurpose cleanser.
Salt will help eat away at the clog.
Borax is frequently used as a multipurpose cleanser.
 No mixing is needed before pouring down the drain. The mixture will foam up on its own as the chemical reaction occurs.For a vinegar and baking soda combination: use 1/2 cup of baking soda and 1/2 cup of white vinegar.
For a lemon juice and baking soda combination: use 1 cup of baking soda and 1 cup of lemon juice.
For a salt, borax, and vinegar combination: use 1/4 cup of borax, 1/4 cup of salt, and 1/2 cup of vinegar.
 Either use the tub stopper to close the drain or cover it with a steaming hot cloth. Keep the drain closed for 30 minutes. During this time, the foam will be working on wearing down the clog., Use a small, sink size plunger to agitate the clogged-up material. Create a seal and push up and down on the rubber base of the plunger.


Plunging works best if you fill the tub or sink with water. The added pressure from the water will help force open the clog.
 If the drain is clogged with hair, take a metal hanger and twist it till you have a long piece of metal with a small hook at one end. Carefully feed the hook end of the wire down the drain. Twist the wire around and try to snag the clog. Gently pull the wire back out once you've caught the clog.


Take care not to scratch your sink or tub with the exposed metal. Also, use caution when untwisting the hanger. The metal may be sharp.
 A drain snake looks like a long metal rope. You'll need to carefully feed the snake into the drain. When the snake gets stuck, you'll want to turn the cable. This will make it catch onto the clog. When you slowly pull the snake back out, the clog should clear. Flush with water and repeat.Wear work gloves since the metal snake can be sharp. You should also have an old towel and bucket handy to set the clogged material.
 Boil at least 6 cups of hot water or several kettles full of water. Uncover the drain and slowly pour the hot water down.


If you have plastic piping, just use very hot water. Avoid pouring boiling water in the drain., If the water is still draining slowly, repeat the process again until the drain becomes clear.


If the clog still stubbornly resists draining, you may have a hairball stuck. This may require manually removing the clog. Consider calling a plumber, especially if the drain completely stops up.
 This works best on a clogged tub, since you can fill the tub with gallons of water. Fill the tub with hot water. Then, open the drain and let the pressure of all that water help break up the clog.