 In order to achieve any marketing goals, your accounting firm will need a written plan for its marketing initiatives.


Include your business targets in your marketing plan. For example, if you are reaching out to small businesses with at least 30 employees, write that down. If you want to market to individuals who need tax help, include it in your marketing plan.
Do a SWOT analysis. Your marketing plan should include an appraisal of Strengths, Weaknesses, Opportunities and Threats (SWOT) that affect your accounting firm.;
, Asking the people and businesses you current work for to recommend you to a friend or a colleague is free and doesn't require much effort.


Offer discounts or promotions to customers who help you bring in new customers. For example, take 10 percent off the monthly retainer of any client who refers a new client to your accounting firm.
 Your brand is the way you define yourself. It includes your mission, values, logo and business practices.
 Take a look at your newsletters, brochures, business cards and any other materials you give out about your accounting firm.


Consider working with a graphic design firm to really make your materials stand out.
Make sure your materials accurately reflect what your firm is capable of and who you are. All of your branding should be consistent.
 Many people use websites to find out about a company. Make sure your website is engaging and provides information potential clients need.
 Market your accounting firm by becoming more visible.


Join your local chamber of commerce and attend as many events as you can. Stay in contact with everyone you meet.
Become a member of local and national professional associations or civic organizations. Talk about your accounting firm and the services it provides. Take advantage of any resources on marketing different associations in your field may have.
 Your clients are online, and you need to be as well. Develop a Facebook page and a Twitter account.


Start blogging. Not only will it allow you to stay in touch with clients and potential clients, you can market your accounting firm as a thought leader in the accounting and finance industry. Blog about relevant issues that will get your firm noticed.
 Do some pro bono work for local nonprofit organizations or charity, or hold a class on how to fill out tax forms. This will increase your visibility and develop good community relations.
 Even if you do not have a huge marketing budget, you should pay for some targeted advertising in strategic places such as local television, newspapers and radio stations.

