 Your dominant hand will go on top. The middle knuckles of your upper hand should line up with the bottom of your fingers on the lower hand (part of the finger between your palm and middle knuckle).


Gripping the bat 1-2 inches above the bottom is called “choking up.” You can get more power the lower your hands are, but choking up improves bat speed. Find a comfortable spot for you.;
, You elbows should be roughly nipple height and the bat will be 8-12 inches away from your chest. Make sure you're comfortable, relaxed, and can swing the bat with ease.


Keep the bat high – shoulder height or higher – in order to come down on the ball with power.
 Your toes should point towards the plate and your legs will be spread apart.


Your feet should face in front of you. Do not splay your toes out to the side or in towards the plate.
 The ball of your foot is the small area in between your toes and your arches. Keeping your weight on the balls of your feet lets your move quickly. Rest roughly 60% of your weight on your back foot, towards the catcher.You should be able to quickly pick up your front foot and step it towards the pitcher’s mound.
 You want a slight bend in your elbows and knees, allowing you to move quickly and smoothly when the pitch comes. This is a small point, but an essential one if you want to catch up to a fast pitch., You need to be able to see the pitcher and the ball the entire time it is coming at you. If it helps, turn your front foot slightly towards the pitcher to open up your body.


Keep your eye on the ball the entire time you are swinging.
 If you are a batter who steps with the front foot, time your step to end when the pitcher’s leg touches down. Your front foot should be planted on the ground when the ball is released.
 This initiates a strong, powerful swing. As you start your swing your front foot must be planted firmly on the ground or you will lose balance and power.
 Your back foot will pivot on the toe and your hips will turn towards the pitcher as your bat approaches the ball. You will feel your weight start to transfer towards your front foot. Your hips are where your develop your power – think of your hips as a tightly wrapped rubber band uncoiling as your turn towards the ball.


Make sure you are turning your hips before your hands. Remember the adage: “your hips lead your hands.”, Your lower hand is the one that puts the bat on the ball, so try to match your lower hand with the trajectory of the ball. Think of taking the knob at the end of the bat and swinging it on the same path as the ball.


Your lower hand also helps you get speed, but do no try to “pull” the bat forward. Your hips are driving the bat forward and your hands are helping guide it.
 Your top arm keeps your swing quick and compact. Begin to tuck your elbow in towards your chest to shorten your swing, driving the bat quickly through the ball.Make sure your elbow stays behind your hands as you tuck it in. You want your hands to lead the bat.
 You want to keep swinging through the ball, not stopping after making contact, to get real power. As you make contact, imagine that there are two more balls right behind it that you need to hit as well. Your momentum will take the bat around your body as your weight shifts forward.
 Home run balls need backspin to help them fly longer. There are two good ways to get backspin:


Stay on the inside of the ball. Keep your swing compact and think of hitting the half of the ball closer to your body.
Hit down on the lower two-thirds of the ball. This lifts the ball and spins it backwards off the bat, allowing it to cruise towards the bleacher seats. You might feel like you are almost “chopping” at the ball, but the trick is to catch the bottom two-thirds of the ball to get power.