 Polymer clay is very good at picking up dirt and specks of dust. Wash your hands with soap and water. Wipe down your work surface with some household cleaner and a paper towel.
 Some colors, such as red, stain skin very easily. Other colors, such as white, pick up stains. If you are working with several different colors, wipe your hands clean with the baby wipes.
 Most polymer clays will be hard when you first get them, but they will soften up the more you work with them. In general, the solid colors will require more kneading than the glittery or pearly colors.


If your clay is too hard to work with, consider working in some clay conditioner or clay softener. You can usually buy it in the same aisle that sells polymer clay.
 Polymer clay is great in that it does not require water to be smoothed. It also does not harden or dry unless you bake it in the oven. Take your time to create your beautiful beads. Here are some shaping ideas to get you started:


To create a sphere: roll a small amount of clay between your palms until it is smooth and round.
To create discs: roll your clay into a thin cylinder or tube shape, about the thickness of a pencil. Use a sharp blade to cut the cane into discs.
To create tapered tubes: roll your clay into a thin cylinder, about the thickness of a pencil. Cut the cane into ½ to one inch (1.27 to 2.54 centimeters) pieces. Use your fingers to pinch the ends of each mini-tube.
Consider making a little animal shaped bead. Keep the design simple.
 Polymer clay will soften the more you work with it. Sometimes, it may even become sticky and mushy. When this happens, the best thing to do is to set it aside for 10 to 15 minutes. You can also let the clay cool down in the fridge.
 If the clay is too soft and starts to lose its shape as you poke the needle through it, set it aside or stick it in the fridge. Let the clay sit for about 15 minutes until it firms up again. Once the clay is firm, you can try poking the holes again.
 Polymer clay picks up fingerprints very easily. These can be sanded out once you bake the clay, or they can be brushed out with a soft paintbrush. Simply brush the surface of the beads until the finger prints disappear. You do not need to use water.
 Different brands will require different baking times. Refer to the packaging or the manufacturer's website for exact baking times. Most polymer clays will bake at 275 °F (135 °C) for 15 minutes per ¼ inch (0.64 centimeters) thickness.
 After you take the clay out of the oven, it will be very hot. Let the clay cool down before you touch it. If you see any sharp or jagged edges, smooth them away with some fine-grit sandpaper. The clay may turn chalky when you do this. This is just dust. Simply rinse the clay under running water, and pat it dry with a paper towel.
 Slide the beads back onto the toothpick or tapestry needle. Set the toothpick or tapestry needle down between two objects, so that the bead hangs freely. You can either spray or paint the beads with a clear glaze. Let the glaze dry and cure fully before you move the beads; if you use them too soon, the glaze may turn sticky. This may take two to four hours.
 You can string them onto clear beading elastic to make jewelry. You can also use them to make bookmark tassels or key chains.

