 Aside from creating your character in a "physical" way, you should think carefully about your character traits. More often than not, the player inserts pieces of their own personality, likes, dislikes, and perhaps even their beliefs, into their character. Try to be unique but, in some way, realistic. Think about what your character may have gone through in their past and how that may shape their personality.;
, In established settings, learning the lore is important. Someone took the time to really make a great setting for you, the least you could do is learn some of the lore. The lore in Final Fantasy XIV is rather solid and easy to grip. There is some lore that can be speculated and bent to benefit your character or the kind of RP you're looking to do, and that is where the fun comes in.


Some examples of lore includes:

Naming conventions: Understand how naming works across the races you can choose.
How magic works within the world.
"The Void" and it's place within the world.
Primals - Giant, summoned beasts.


Naturally, not all people stick to the lore 100% and that is completely fine.
 You are paying for the subscription after all, so try to enjoy the game as well. As you play, you will understand the lore, and get a feel for your character. This is also how you make friends and find out more about other roleplayers. Exploration is part of the fun!

, It can be hard to play the game or roleplay in an uncomfortable position, try your best to find a setup that works for you. Don't roleplay in pain!

, It is important that you take care of yourself, aside from snacks, make sure you are keeping up with your real life. If you are hungry, eat. If you are tired, sleep.
 There is a world of roleplayers out there, waiting for you to befriend them. Take the time to learn about people, about their characters, and you will make friends in no time! Without a friend, your roleplay is not much of a roleplay. Try your best to find forums to find roleplayers, or check out Tumblr, where many roleplayers in Final Fantasy XIV visit!

, Try out different kinds of roleplay with different people and see what is right for you. Often times, simple interactions like having your character go out to eat or drink, can open up many other doors for you. Sometimes, all it takes is a simple interaction to get pulled into a part in a much larger roleplay story.
 Part of learning your style is also learning the lingo like "In-character (IC)" and "Out-of-character (OOC)." If you are new to roleplaying this way, try to learn the lingo by involving yourself with as many different roleplayers as you can. Here are a few examples:

IC - In-character interactions, things your character does or says.

"I only like apples," He scoffed.


OOC - Out-of-character interactions, things you say or do, usually prefaced with "OOC tags" like parenthesis.

((I like apples too!))


Godmod - Controlling another person's character to benefit your own, this is usually a bad thing unless agreed upon among the two roleplayers.

A character punches another character and lands the hit without the other player being able to react.
 This step is important. If a character does not like your character, that does not necessarily mean that the player does not like you. Sometimes, characters don't make friends out of everyone. Sometimes, a character is evil. It is up to you to keep your in-character interactions separate from out of character ones to avoid confusion and conflict.
 Of course, you should be having fun the entire time, but overall, if you are not having fun while roleplaying, it may not be your thing. Roleplaying should be fun and enjoyable. People should get a real kick out of writing stories together and having interaction through their characters. Always have fun, do not make roleplaying a chore!

