 When you're looking for a healthy and nutritious baby cereal, the first place you'll need to look is the food label. This is where you'll get a lot of information on the product and be able to compare to other items in the store.


Start by looking at the ingredient list. You'll want to know exactly what you're feeding your child (especially if you're worried about allergies or sensitivities). This is usually found on the back or side of the cereal container.
Regardless of what grain you're choosing, go for 100% whole grains. If the label says white rice or hulled wheat, these are not 100% whole grains.You will also see the nutrition fact panel on baby cereals. If your child needs to meet a certain calorie level to improve growth, this is where you'll find out how many calories this cereal contains per serving.;
, Many health professions like pediatricians suggest starting babies on fortified cereals. These products have certain nutrients added to them to help them be a more nutrient dense food for your child.Look for cereals that are fortified with iron. You might find this as a "call-out" on the front of the package. Double check there is iron on the ingredient list and on the nutrition fact panel. Babies need about 10 – 11 mg of iron per day.You may also see cereals that are fortified with DHA or EPA. These are optional fortifications; however, both of these healthy fats help support the development of your baby's brain and immune system.DHA is needed for brain, eye, and nervous system development. DHA accumulates in the brain during the first two years of life. The brain grows quickly at this time of life.Some infant cereals even advertise that they contain probiotics. Although this is only an optional fortification, some studies show that probiotics may help infants with colic, diarrhea or eczema., Another option that you'll see on store shelves is organic baby cereal. Decide whether or not you want to feed your child organic or conventional baby cereal.


Organic baby cereals are produced the same way that other organic foods are. They are not raised or farmed with pesticides or synthetic fertilizers. Feeding your baby an organic cereal may limit their exposure to these pesticides.
There are different organic labels you'll see in the store. "100% organic" can be used to label a product that contains 100% organic ingredients (excluding salt and water which are considered natural). "Organic" can be used to label any product that contains a minimum of 95% organic ingredients (excluding salt and water). Up to 5% of the ingredients may be inorganic, and are not commercially available as organic. "Made with organic ingredients" means they contain at least 70% organically produced ingredients.
When it comes to nutrition, there is no difference between organic and conventional baby cereal. The nutrients are identical.
Health professionals generally recommend you choose organic if you feel that is most important; however, it's better to focus on finding a cereal that contains adequate fortification and is something you and your baby will enjoy.
 If you don't find a baby cereal in-store that you think is appropriate for your child, consider making your own baby cereal. This is not very difficult, but does take some advanced planning.


To make your own homemade baby cereal, start by choosing what grain you'd like to use. Brown rice is the most common grain, but you can also use oats or multigrain cereals.Blend 1/4 cup of your chosen grain in a food processor until it becomes a powder or the consistency of flour.
Mix this with about 1 cup of water, breast milk or formula. Bring to a low simmer and whisk for a few constantly for about 10 minutes. Taste the cereal to make sure there are not uncooked pieces.
Allow your homemade cereal to cool completely or to be only room temperature. Serve to your child within 24 hours.

