 To keep you keep you Burmese cat's muscles in shape and help keep her mind active, you need to exercise her daily. You should play interactive games with your cat to help you bond with her and give her the stimulation she needs. Try using laser lights, feather toys, and fake mice. Have her chase the laser lights around the room, chase the feather toys as you dangle them around, or fetch them across the room.


Avoid giving her string or rubber bands she could accidentally eat. Ingestion of these things can cause serious problems.
You should also get her a scratching post to help exercise her toes and feet. This will help keep her claws away from your furniture and fabrics around your house.
This is also a great way for your cat to remove the dead outer claw material from her paws and allows her to mark her territory.Think about buying her a cat tower, which gives her places to scratch as well as places to jump, play, and exercise.
 Burmese cats have short, silky hair and it typically needs very little grooming. About once a week, brush your cat to help get rid of stray hairs and cut down on how much she sheds.


This will also give you time to bond with your cat each week.You should also use this time to check for skin issues and fleas. As you brush, look for lumps, bumps, patches of red skin, or sores.
If you find fleas, buy topical flea treatment and flea shampoo to fight the fleas. If you find a skin issue, keep a watch on them for the next few days. If they grow, get worse, or become infected, contact your vet.
 Your Burmese cat's claws need to be taken care of every so often. You can use human nail clippers or those specifically made for a cat. Look at the claws and clip the white tips off the nails. Avoid the pink area of the nails because these hold the nerves and blood supply for the nails.To position your cat for nail clipping, settle the cat in your lap and lay your non-dominant forearm gently but firmly on her upper body so she can't squirm or scratch you. Pick up the paw with your non-dominant hand and gently press on it to make the nails come out. Then trim each paw this way. , To keep your Burmese cat as healthy as possible, you should brush her teeth regularly, which is about once a week. Find a soft bristled toothbrush and cat toothpaste, which you can get from your vet or at most pet stores.


Start off small with your kitten, letting her taste the toothpaste before you use it. Then use it along her gums the next day, graduating to brushing her teeth the next day with the toothbrush in small, gentle circles. It should take about a minute to do her whole mouth.
It may take a few days for her to allow you to brush all her teeth, but just keep at it. She will get used to it the more you do it.
Never use human toothpaste because fluoride is poisonous to cats., You should keep your cat's litter box clean so she has a clean place to go to the bathroom every day. Cats prefer clean, soft litter, so basic commercial clumping litter is just fine for your pet. It is possible for your cat to develop a preference for other kinds of litter. If your cat is used to a different kind of little from before you adopted her, she may require different kinds, such as clay like litter.

