 Once you've got your clamp latched on, it's time to unpackage your needle. You bought a sterile piercing needle that matches the size of your jewelry right? If not, stop now. Go get the right size. MAKE SURE YOU BUY IT STERILE. If the packaging is damaged, get a new one. This is NOT the place to be lazy.
 Once you've got your needle out, rub on just a little bit of the A&D ointment. This will make the next step easier.
 Okay! Now double check to see that both marks are still lined up in the clamp. If they are, then hold the clamp in one hand so that you can clearly see your mark. Now with the other hand, take the needle over and line it up on your mark. You can hold the sides of the needle between your thumb and middle finger and use your index finger on the back of the needle to push through, but hold it whichever way is steadiest and most comfortable for you.
 Now, take a couple of deep breaths, check to make sure you're lined up correctly and quickly push the needle through the skin till you see it poking through the other side at least a centimeter or two. Make sure you don't push the entire needle out the other side because we will use the needle to guide the jewelry in.


Pushing the needle through your skin will hurt! Very beefy dudes cry like babies during this type of piercing. You just have to push all the way through. It's very hard to keep going once you feel that initial pain, but it doesn't get any worse than that first little bit of pain, so you might as well just keep going so that it's all the way through, rather than going to all this trouble and not even having a piercing to show for it.
If it hurts, just push through a little harder. It will stop hurting very quickly once you get through to the other side.
 Great! Now that you've got the needle through, the hard part is over! Now you just have to put the jewelry in. You still have the needle sticking out both sides of the hole, right? I bet it looks pretty cool, but now it's time to put in your jewelry. So, unscrew or remove a ball from one side of your jewelry. Don't lose it! Now take the threaded, ball-less side of your jewelry and line it up inside the back of the hollow needle. It should fit in there just fine. Now you can use the jewelry to push the needle the rest of the way out and the jewelry will follow right into the hole.
 If you did everything correctly, you should see the threaded end of your jewelry poking out the exit hole of your new piercing. Now just screw that ball on and you're good!! Take the time to clean the area with another alcohol wipe.
 If you bring it to a piercing shop or a hospital, they will gladly dispose of it for you. If you absolutely cannot get it to one of these places, then put it in a hard plastic container such as a prescription pill bottle and throw it away. Be considerate, this is considered biological waste, and it's not fair to put your garbage collector at risk.

