 You will be taken to your first chance to capture Reshiram directly after defeating the Elite Four. Reshiram is an extremely dangerous Legendary Pokémon. When you fight it, it will be Level 50. That being said, you should have a good Pokémon team that can go head-to-head with Reshiram. Stock up with healing items and at least 30-50 Ultra Balls.;
,


You will receive a Master Ball after defeating the Elite Four that you can use, but you might want to save that for more difficult Pokémon such as Volcarona or Kyurem.
Reshiram can only be caught in Pokémon Black. If you are playing Pokémon White, you will need to trade for Reshiram.
 You will need to beat the Elite Four in order to gain access to N's Castle where you can fight Reshiram. The Elite Four will each have different types of Pokémon, so make sure you have a well-rounded team to beat each member.


You will be able to change your party after fighting the Elite Four, so don't worry if you don't have the right group for catching Reshiram.
 After beating the Elite Four, activate the glowing statue to descend into the mountain. After a scene, you will be taken to N's castle. You will be treated to a few scenes, and then you will need to track down N in the castle and confront him.
 When you capture Reshiram, you can immediately add it to your party if you have five Pokémon in your group instead of six. This will make the rest of the castle much easier. You can find a PC to do this on the third floor of the castle. In the second floor of the castle, you can heal your Pokémon team.


To make catching Reshiram as easy as possible, make sure your party has a Pokémon that knows False Swipe and a Pokémon that knows a move that causes sleep or paralysis. You may need four to six Timer Balls.
You can leave the castle if you need to get some more supplies or level your Pokémon up some more. Go to the third room from the right on the third floor of the castle. Talk to the Plasma Grunt and you can be teleported away. When you're ready to return, talk to the Grunt at the Pokémon Center at the Pokémon League.
 You'll find N at the top of the tower. After a cutscene, Reshiram will be summoned. You'll have a chance to save your game, and then talking to Reshiram will start the battle. Make sure to save in case you mess up the battle and need to retry.
 Use a heavy-hitting Pokémon to take some chunks out of Reshiram's health. Once it starts to get low, use False Swipe to take the health down to 1 HP without knocking Reshiram out. Use a move that causes sleep or paralysis, as this will make Reshiram much easier to catch.Reshiram is weak to Ground-, Rock-, and Dragon-type attacks.
Once Reshiram is asleep or paralyzed and at 1 HP, start throwing Ultra Balls at it. If it wakes up or becomes able to move again, use the move again.
Keep throwing balls! You may not catch it on the first ball, but you will catch it eventually.
If you fail to capture Reshiram here, you have another chance in doing so at the 7th floor of Dragonspiral Tower, which can be found to the north of Icirrus City.This is also where Reshiram can be found in White 2 once you receive the Light Stone from N.

