 These are:


Eyeshadow or eyeshadow palette (preferably one with all different blues)
White eyeliner
Mascara (volumizing)
Foundation (to match your skin color and type)
Nude coloured lip gloss
Pink/dark colored blush.
 Then moisturize your face––the moisturizing cream helps the makeup to stay on longer.
 Use either a powder or liquid one. Powder doesn't really work well with dry skin, whereas liquid foundation sometimes does. If you apply liquid foundation with a sponge, it gives you a smoother and more even finish. After you have applied the foundation, apply a little setting powder.



To do this you have to lightly pull down the lower eyelid. Then, with your spare hand, grab the eyeliner and draw along the waterline. This will create the appearance of larger eyes. Repeat for the second eye.
 This is optional but nice.
 However, a normal one works too. Cover it with a shimmery light blue eyeshadow and apply it from the inner part of your lid to the middle of your lid. Now blend.
 Apply this shadow from the middle of your lid to the outer corner. Carry on applying it, working your way up to about the crease in your lid, but stopping about 1 centimeter (0.4 in) from your brow. Blend the light blue eyeshadow with the electric blue one where it stops at the center of the lid. Repeat for the other eye.


You could also apply some liquid liner to the upper lid and maybe create a flick at the outer corner of the lid to give it some oomph.
 When the first layer has dried, apply a second one and use an eyelash curler (optional).



To do this, get a shimmery nude/white shadow and, using a clean finger, apply it under the outer part of your brow. Blend while doing this.
 Using a blusher brush, apply a pinkish to dark blush.


If you have light skin, don't use a dark colored blush.
If you have dark skin, use a blush that is a tad bit lighter then your skin color. This is because if you use a bright peachy color, it may not look very natural. However, sometimes it does, so experiment.
 Let it soak in a bit, then get a damp flannel and gently rub over your lips. Apply some more Vaseline and leave it. Use a nude coloured lip gloss to slather onto your lips, creating a shiny and plump effect.


You may also want to use some skin coloured lip liner to outline your lips and create a more fuller look.
