 Every job causes some amount of stress, and stress isn’t necessarily a bad thing. A little stress can give you extra focus and drive, but too much can cause a range of physical and emotional problems. If work stress is affecting your performance or health, your first step should be to identify its causes.Consider the following common causes, for instance: low salaries; excessive workloads; limited opportunities for growth or advancement; lack of challenging work; lack of support; lack of control; conflicting demands; unclear expectations; fear of job loss; increased overtime requirements; poor relations with a fellow worker or workers.
Try keeping a “stress journal” for a week or two. Jot down a note every time you experience a stressful episode, so you can track what exactly is causing you the most stress and how you respond.
You can also relieve stress through "belly breaths," or abdominal breathing. The "fight or flight" response you have to stress can raise blood pressure and increase your risk for heart disease. To do "belly breaths," lie down and bend your knees. Breathe in deeply and let the air expand your stomach fully. Breathe out slowly through your mouth or nose. Repeat.;
, Some sources of job stress cannot be avoided — trying to save lives as a surgeon, or making sales when you rely on commissions, for instance. To better manage your unavoidable work stress, you need to clear away the stressors you can avoid.First and foremost, you need to learn to let go of things over which you have no control. If you can’t do anything to stop possible downsizing or transfer a really annoying and distracting coworker, what good does it do to become severely stressed about them?
Use your "stress journal" to help identify all your stressors and place them in "unavoidable" and "avoidable" categories. If they're in the latter group, work on strategies to get rid of them.
Bring peace and serenity into your life by accepting the things you cannot change and changing the things you can. If you practice acceptance at the workplace, you can realize that some things are out of your control and not worth stressing about.
Practice mindfulness to bring peace into your life. Accept the things that you cannot change and change the things that you can. If you practice acceptance at the workplace, you will realize certain things are out of your control and then you will avoid stressing over them., Not being able to find what you need when you need it causes undue stress. So too does trying to complete a dozen tasks at once. Take a little time at the start of each workday (or at the end of the previous workday) to organize your work area and plot out what you should and will accomplish that day.Tidy up your workspace so you can find what you need and focus better, and break up your giant “to do” list into more manageable pieces, with priority placed on tasks that need done sooner rather than later.
Set challenging but realistic goals for yourself. Don’t expect perfection, or more than is humanly possible. Learn to say “no” or “not now” when necessary. When you are busy and do not have time to do something, do not be afraid to speak up. It’s okay!

, Accept that you are a human being, not a machine, and that “powering through” a stressful work experience is not the best or healthiest option. Taking even small breaks after every ninety minutes or so of intense work activity can pay stress-relieving dividends. Brief reprieves to meditate, take a walk, or engage in other relaxing / distracting activities can make you calmer and more focused.Try not to “bring your work home with you” when possible. Make at least part of your time at home an extended break from work stress. Also, use your vacation days, and have an actual vacation from work. Leave your job and its stress behind for a week.
Share chats and laughs with supportive, positive co-workers who understand the stress you feel. Steer clear of nay-sayers and the perpetually stressed-out.
 From deep breathing to journaling to jogging, there are numerous effective ways to relieve stress available to you. How to Relieve Stress is a good place to start when looking for some of these strategies.


Most good stress reduction methods boil down to some simple concepts. Take, for instance, the “Five Rs” of stress reduction:Reorganize — Make lifestyle changes to avoid and relieve stress.
Rethink — Shift your focus away from your stressors.
Reduce — De-clutter your mind and your surroundings.
Relax — Use meditation, mindfulness, yoga, and other relaxation techniques.
Release — Learn to let go of things that you can’t control.
 People are often tempted to cope with stress by turning to unhealthy habits like using tobacco products or drinking too much. Such habits provide only a temporary reprieve from your stress, however, and also create a host of significant risks for your cardiovascular system.If you smoke, quit. While usually easier said than done, this is perhaps the biggest lifestyle change you can make to improve heart health. Smoking causes your heart to work harder and less efficiently, among the long list of other negative health consequences.
Start your stop smoking plan with START: Set a quit date; Tell your friends and family that you're planning to quit; Anticipate hardship and struggle in your battle to quit; Remove tobacco products from car, home, and work; and Talk to your doctor about getting help.Cut back on excessive alcohol consumption. While small to moderate alcohol consumption (1-2 drinks per day) seems to have heart benefits, going beyond this amount adds no further benefit and will (in excess) begin to increase cardiovascular risks.
 Office jobs and other sedentary work activities often contribute to weight gain, which puts added stress on the cardiovascular system. In particular, excess fat deposits in the abdominal area often correlate with increased risks for diabetes, high blood pressure, and high cholesterol (all of which are gateways to heart disease).No matter the nature of the job you have, choosing a healthy diet and finding time for regular exercise are essential to shedding excess pounds and improving cardiovascular health.
Even just sitting at a desk for long stretches can contribute to weight gain and heart disease risks. Take regular breaks and walk around a bit, or work standing up at a higher desk meant for that purpose.
Only eat between 1800 and 2000 calories every day. Eat more protein, and limit simple sugars and saturated fats. Try to fill half of your plate with vegetables, and follow a heart healthy diet. Get 150 minutes of moderate intensity exercise every week., Like any other muscle, your heart becomes stronger and healthier when exercised regularly and properly. Even if your job keeps you chained to a desk all day, simply finding a few windows of opportunity for some quick exercises can help reduce cardiovascular risks. Also, the act of exercising is an excellent way to reduce stress.For the greatest cardiovascular benefits, try to get 30 minutes of moderate intensity exercise per day. “Moderate” usually means that you are somewhat out of breath and sweating. A brisk walk on your lunch break fits the bill; so does biking to and from work, mowing the lawn when you get home, or taking a dance class with some co-workers in the evening.
Exercising in a single half-hour block or in three ten minute sessions per day provides the same benefits. So, taking a brief, brisk walk during a work break can help you clear your head, reduce stress, and strengthen your heart all at once.
If you are just beginning an exercise regimen after living a sedentary lifestyle, or have underlying cardiovascular or other health conditions, consult your doctor before beginning an exercise program.
 While saturated fats and excess sodium constrict and clog up blood vessels, a diet that emphasizes vegetables, fruits, lean proteins, whole grains, and healthy fats can help keep your blood flowing smoothly, thereby reducing the strain on your heart.Aim to eat 5-10 servings of vegetables and fruits per day. The fiber content in fruits and veggies (also found in whole grains such as oatmeal) helps to clear out the buildup of plaque in blood vessels.
Lean proteins, such as fish, lowfat yogurt, and beans provide ample nutrients without high saturated fat content. Omega-3 fatty acids in oily fish like salmon and tuna can also help to lubricate the blood vessels.
Pack your lunch for work, instead of relying on takeout, vending machines, or nothing at all. It is easier to make healthy food choices the night before or in the morning than after half of a hectic day in the office.
Visit this wikiHow article for more tips on healthy eating.
 Sleep and stress can cause a vicious cycle. Stress can make it harder to sleep, and a lack of sleep can increase stress levels, and so on and so forth. The first step toward breaking this cycle is to set aside enough time each night for a full night's sleep that lets you awaken rested and recharged.


Getting more sleep is good for your heart as well. Most adults need 7-9 hours of sleep per night in order to properly rest, refresh, and recharge. Getting adequate sleep reduces stress levels and blood pressure, and benefits cardiovascular function., Small changes, especially when combined, can make a big difference in regards to your cardiovascular health. For instance, the simple act of taking care of your teeth can benefit your heart. Studies indicate that disease-causing bacteria in the mouth can enter the bloodstream and contribute to hardening of the arteries. Daily cleaning and regular dental checkups can help prevent this.Even more importantly, make sure you have regular health screenings with your doctor. Work with him or her to establish your overall health and cardiovascular disease risks. If you are prescribed medications to lower cholesterol (such as statins) or blood pressure (like beta blockers), or to thin your blood (such as aspirin), take them as directed and follow up with your physician regularly., Any job can be stressful and thereby increase your heart disease risk. Jobs that are very mentally / emotionally / physically demanding but provide limited freedom to make decisions (that is, you aren’t in charge) seem most likely to increase heart disease risk. Consider this along with other risk factors you may have due to genetics or lifestyle.Common fixed risk factors for heart disease include family history, male gender, and increased age; manageable risk factors include high blood pressure, high cholesterol, and diabetes; and preventable risk factors include smoking, obesity, poor diet, and physical inactivity., Especially if you have several risk factors for heart disease — for example, a parent who had a heart attack at a young age, high blood pressure, and a stressful job — talk to your doctor about making a more detailed assessment and plan for addressing your risks.


You can use a relatively simple formula to numerically calculate your heart disease risk, but don’t use this “score” as a substitute for medical advice from a physician. Use it as motivation to make changes and seek treatment options.
 No matter your overall risk for heart disease, but especially if you are in an elevated category, you should know the signs to watch out for. If you are having a heart attack or stroke, for instance, immediate medical intervention is essential.Heart attack signs can include chest or upper body pain or discomfort; shortness of breath; light-headedness; nausea; dizziness; or cold sweats.
Signs of stroke can include weakness or paralysis on one side of the body, slurred speech, or a drooping face on one side.
Other forms of cardiovascular disease can cause fainting, irregular heartbeat, leg swelling, unexplained fevers or rashes, and a host of other symptoms. Your best defense is to know your risk level and how to act if you suspect you are experiencing symptoms.

