 Try to find an image (or images) to emulate, just to give you something to focus on. This image was selected because her features (arms, legs, etc) were fairly delineated.


The source sites have some good reference material to choose from also.;
, Start the program and set it up for layers. The Layers dialog box is under Layers (Layers >>> Layers...).
 Call one of them concept and one avatar.
, Do this by clicking on the padlock.


At the bottom of your Inkscape canvas, you will see a type of status bar. This is another way of choosing layers to work on. Note in this screenshot that the 'Avatar' layer has square brackets around it. This tells you that it is locked as well.
 Better than having them in front of you at your desk, you can put them on your Inkscape canvas to help your work.


Import images into the concept layer. CTRL I will open up the import dialog box.

Be sure that you put them into the correct layer. Otherwise, nothing will work right.


Move them around your canvas so that they are outside of the area you will be working in.

Be aware that Inkscape isn't actually putting the images into your canvas, but linking to where they are so that you can see them. Be very sure you want to move them if you do.
 You have added all of the resource material that you need, so lock it. Also, unlock the avatar layer.
 If you haven't saved it yet, now would be a good time.
 Click on the magnifying glass icon.
 Click on the Ellipse icon or F5.
 You will want it to be perfectly round, so hold down CTRL while creating the head. For the purposes of this tutorial, the parameters will be similar to Order of the Stick characters, so set your stroke and fill to the following:


Fill: whichever color you like
Stroke: A good starting point is two

To open up the Stroke and Fill dialog box, do CTRL + SHIFT F or Object >> Fill and Stroke.
 If there is a color that you like in your resource/concept layer, click on the eyedropper and then click on the color. Otherwise, choose whatever color suits you.
 You can do this by moving your circle over to the resource images. If you can't see it, change the order of your layers by using the arrows.
 This is done a particular way so that you don't resize the stroke. Make it the exact size that you want it.
 You can have whatever you like. You can leave the color the same as the head if you think you will have some midriff showing on his/hers clothes.
 You want it behind your head, so click on Object >> Lower to Bottom (or End). This will move the torso behind the head.
 Don't worry about being exact at this point. Click on the Bezier curve icon and draw it to an appropriate link.


You might want to zoom in to make it easier.
 If you notice that there is color, you don't want it. Go to the Fill and Stroke dialog box and click the X.
 Do it again for the other side or duplicate it, flip it horizontally and move it to the other side.
 Using the bezier tool, create the legs, get them the way you want and then add the feet.
 Adjust the arms accordingly to whatever you are trying to portray.
 The basic stickman is complete, now you will be adding features. Also, keep in mind, you can edit anything that you want to later on, if necessary.
 You will be creating a hand. Using the bezier tool, add a finger on each side of the arm at the very end making a total of three fingers.
 For a pointing hand, you would want one finger pointing and two curled towards your avatar.
 Pick an image from your concept layer and zoom in closely. Using the circle tool, create a set of eyes about the right size.


Note the different sizes of the ovals. This is one aspect that helps you create expression on your stickman.
You don't want the stroke (from Fill and Stroke) present, so be sure the fill is black, right click on the stroke in the bottom status bar and select 'Remove Stroke'.
 Once you have the eyes the correct size, use the selector tool (the arrow) and select them together. Then CTRL G. This will keep them together.
 If not, ungroup them (CTRL SHIFT G) and level them out. Then regroup them.
 Zoom out a little bit and move the eyes around to compare them to the originals.
 Zoom out so that you can see your avatar and move your grouped eyes onto the avatar.
 Use the bezier tool to create a smile for your avatar.

