
You will be asked to pick a username, a password, and to provide an email address and your grade level. You will also be asked to select the type of account you want, if you are a teacher signing up a class, or if you are a kid doing it on his or her own. Additionally, you will have to read and agree with the terms of service.



 


Click "Sign Up."





;
, Once you've created a new account, you will be taken to a page where you can edit your profile.
Edit your account settings. Make sure to submit your time zone. Because NaNoWriMo YWP is an international program, you will have to choose your time zone. You can also upload a profile picture and your forum "signature," which will appear below your posts in the Forums.






Edit your author info. Here, you can provide information about yourself, how many years you've done NaNoWriMo, and links to websites where people can view more of your writing.






Edit your novel info. Here, choose your word count goal. Choose a goal that will challenge you, but that you can achieve in a month. You can also submit information about your novel and upload your novel's cover here.
 Though you are not allowed to begin writing your novel until November begins, you can decide on your novel's topic and genre, create characters, and outline your plot.


If you're stuck, NaNoWriMo provides Young Writer Workbooks for children in which you can find if you click the Resources tab. You can download these for free, or purchase a copy. Note: There is a Young Writer Workbook for children in elementary, middle, and high school, but choose whichever workbook is most appropriate for your writing level.
 You can invite other NaNoWriMo members to be your writing buddy. You can send your writing buddies NaNoMail (which is similar to email), and swap ideas, tips, and excerpts from your novels.


You can search for members with similar interests or novels by clicking on the "Search" tab. This will allow you to search for a username or search for keywords in members' novel and author information.






To add someone as your writing buddy, click on the Add as buddy link on the left of the person's userpage.
 Decide how much you will have to write per day to reach your word goal, and consider how much time you will have in the day to write. If you aren't sure how much you should write every day, ask your parents or teacher for help. Remember, the deadline for completing your word count goal is midnight on November 30th.
 Following the plan you created for writing your novel, start writing right away. Choose a quiet place to write with few distractions, and begin your novel.


Don't worry if you can't think of how to begin your novel. You can start from any point in your novel you'd like - try beginning from the end, or skip the beginning altogether and start at an interesting point in the novel. You can go back and change the beginning later in the month.
 Your "inner editor" is the snarky voice in the back of your mind that tells you that everything you write is terrible, or you won't be able to reach your word goal, or that you should leave novel-writing to the professionals and quit. Everyone, including professional writers, has an Inner Editor. Simply ignore the voice, and write every day - even if your Inner Editor tells you that your writing is absolutely horrible.


Do not edit your novel. You're supposed to write a rough draft in November; you can edit and refine your novel later.
 As you progress in your novel, you can update your word count on the NaNoWriMo website. There are two ways to do this:



Method one: Type your word count in the box at the top of the website marked Update your word count.






Method two: Go to your userpage and click Edit Novel Info under MY NANOWRIMO at the left of the screen. Scroll down until you see a box labelled Word Count Validator. Copy and paste your novel into this box to update your word count. Note: Your novel will not be saved.
 To access the Forums, click on the Forums tab at the top of the website. You can talk about your progress in your novel in the Young Writers forums, or scroll down the list to find the right forum for your topic. If you have questions about using the Forums, click on the FAQs tab at the top of the screen and then click on the Forums to find a guide to the Forums titled Cybele's Guide to the Forums.
 As November passes, continue to follow your writing plan. Continue to update your word count goal, and keep track of your progress by keeping a journal or writing in an online document. To stay inspired, read NaNoWriMo pep talks - pep talks from authors will be posted on the NaNoWriMo website, in a box titled The NaNo News at the left of the site. You can also chat with your writing buddies and get ideas and support in the Forums.


Write every day. If you decide to take it easy for a few days, you'll soon be behind in your word count goal, and it'll be a headache trying to catch up again. Explain to your parents that you have to write every day to win NaNoWriMo.
Don't think that you have to be inspired to write. Approach writing like you would approach building muscle - you have to work out every day, not whenever you feel particularly strong.
 On November 25 at 12:00 AM, you will be able to validate your word count to win. To validate your word count, go to the Edit Novel Info page and copy-and-paste the entire text of your novel into the Word Count Validator box. If the Word Count Validator disagrees with the number of words the document you're writing on says, use a random text generator to make up for the amount the Word Count Validator did not recognize. If you're handwriting your novel, use a random text generator to duplicate your word count.


After you've won NaNoWriMo, you can still keep writing your novel. Don't worry if you met your word count goal but you're only halfway through your novel! Go and celebrate - you've won!

