 Although it's easy to remember the last digits of your credit card, your birthday, or your social security number, these identifying digits can lead to a lot of trouble if someone discovers your password. Avoid using them in conjunction with other words or phrases that can easily be linked to you, as well, because a professional computer hacker will likely be able to guess your password in a short period of time.


Never use common words or phrases, such as "password," as this can be an open invitation for attackers. Instead, opt for a combination of upper and lowercase letters, along with a blend of numbers.
Be sure to change your password at least once every six months to keep your personal information as protected as you possibly can.
Write the updated passwords down on a sheet of paper rather than putting them into a Word Document or similar program, as an attack could easily reveal your security information to the wrong people.;
, You receive a new message in your inbox, and the source appears to be legitimate. At the bottom of the email is a line asking you to click on the following link to verify your Social Security Number for the new bank account you opened last month. Thinking the bank wants to verify your identity, you click on the link. However, you probably just exposed your information to a cyber criminal. Many people receive lots of emails throughout the day. Although some email is clearly a scam, with unreal promises or poor grammar, others can be quite convincing. However, you should never click on a link enclosed inside an email.


If you believe that the link is legitimate, visit the website directly. Once you log in, any valid offer will appear. If the offer does not appear, you know that it is likely a scam.
 Filters and firewalls can be great defenses against unwanted attacks. However, adding them to the wrong platform is not a good idea. This is explained in an article from Security Week, ". . . adding filters and firewalls to insecure platforms are like attaching padlocks to a screen door." Any seasoned criminal will be able to find a way into such a platform. Upon doing so, these filters and firewalls can make the platform even more vulnerable which, in turn, provides the criminal with all the access to your information that he or she needs.
 When your computer is in use, it is constantly being subjected to the threat of malware, Trojans, spyware, adware, and more. This is a frightening thought, but having the right malware protection can prevent damage before it happens.


Some must-have malware protection software are Immunet Plus, Malwarebytes, Spyhunter, Norton 360, etc. These types of software can help to remove assorted files and anything else you don't want on your system in the first place. Having a solid malware protection system for your computer can prevent attacks by malware, whether it's new or has been around for years.
 Having the latest products and tools will only go so far if they are not updated. As attacks continue to advance and attackers constantly come up with innovative new ways to break into a computer's system, updates need to be made to anti-malware software. Otherwise, your computer could be subjected to an attack once the criminal finds the weak spot in the software.


It is best to get software that automatically installs the updates for you, so that you don't forget or let the update slide before it's too late. It can take a long time to recover from a cyber attack, which is why it's important to stop it before it happens.
Every computer is vulnerable to such an attack, but having the right tools and resources can go a long way when it comes to computer defense. You can get started by installing a solid anti-malware program and ensuring that it remains up to date. 

