 Use 10-12 painted egg carton dimples on construction paper or a large plastic construction block such as a Duplo or Mega-Block single-rowed block to create a fake mouth. Use playdough to mimic food and plaque between the teeth, and let your child pick it out using dental floss.Once you have your block or dimples set up, simply place playdough between each of the "teeth" to mimic plaque.Have your child floss out the dough the same way they would floss out plaque. Teach them to scrape gently along the sides of the fake teeth to dislodge the dough.;
, Teach your child about how much pressure to apply by having them floss your fingers. Loop some floss around your middle finger and then press all of your fingers firmly together. Have your child gently practice the flossing motion on your hand, and let them know when they are applying too much pressure.To create a better visual, you can also wear a rubber glove and spread peanut butter or a similar paste between your fingers.
If your child is flossing too hard, let them know not to pull so much. Demonstrate gentle flossing on their hands so that they better understand.
 Show your child the proper flossing technique by demonstrating how much floss to cut, how to wrap it around your fingers, and move the floss around in between teeth. Have them watch you floss a few times before trying it on themselves.The recommended amount of floss one should use is around 12 to 18 inches (30 to 46 cm), so that there is enough floss for a clean segment to be used on each tooth.
Teach them to slide the floss gently up and down the side of each tooth, rather than simply pulling it back and forth between teeth.
 When your child is first learning to floss, it may be helpful for them to use floss picks or floss holders, which are picks with small bands of floss pre-secured between a u-shaped curve. This way, they can get used to the motion between the teeth without having to focus on moving and re-wrapping a length of floss.Floss picks are widely available at most drug stores and supermarkets.
 Water flossers represent more of an investment than a roll of floss, but they allow your child to safely and comfortably get in between their teeth. Water flossers are particularly useful for a child with braces who can’t get ordinary floss all the way up the side of the tooth.The water flosser works by spraying a pressurized stream of water in between the teeth to remove food and buildup. On most models, the pressure can be controlled to allow for greater comfort.
Water flossers are available online, as well as at many big box retailers.
 No one knows oral hygiene better than a dentist. Make an appointment with a practice that specializes in pediatric dentistry, and request that the dentist demonstrate proper flossing practices for your child.Dentists generally have more tools at their disposal, including accurate oral models, to help your child better learn proper oral hygiene techniques.
Request that the dentist or an oral hygienist demonstrate flossing techniques for your child, then supervise as your child attempts to floss for themselves.
 Gently remind your child to floss every day. When they are getting ready for bed, ask them, “Did you remember to brush your teeth and floss today?”Try not to scold or reprimand your kid if they forgot to floss. Instead, ask them “Will you please go floss?” if they forgot.
 For the first few weeks or even months that your child flosses for themselves, watch them while they floss. This not only helps ensure that your child is flossing, but also allows you to monitor them and make sure they aren’t being too aggressive.A little bit of bleeding is normal when your child first begins to floss, but if bleeding does not stop or gets worse after the first week or two, your child may be flossing too hard.
If your child is flossing too hard, practice with them to encourage more gentle, healthy flossing.
 Allowing your child to go with you and pick out their own floss can help instill a sense of pride and make your child more eager to use their new floss. Take them with you to pick out floss picks or rolls of floss and allow them to choose flavors and designs that suit their personality.Encourage your child to pick something that will help them enjoy flossing, rather than providing them with something they had no say in and creating a new obligation.

