 Netiquette refers to your interactions with other anonymous users on the internet. Since the internet allows anonymous communication, there is a significant amount of vitriol out there. The number one rule of netiquette is to simply be polite. Without netiquette, the internet will quickly devolve into a completely toxic community filled with trolls and personal attacks.
 Remember, there's another person at the other end of your chat conversation, and what you say can significantly impact someone. Think about how you would talk to someone in person before sending a message.
 A common courtesy is to say "Hello" to the chat room you enter or the person your message. This is especially important in chat rooms, as not everyone will notice when new people enter. Saying a greeting will help break the ice and make the chat room a little more welcoming.
 "Spam" in chat refers to the act of constantly sending messages to the chat room. Avoid sending messages in rapid succession, and avoid quick, short responses every few seconds. Take some time to formulate your response, and everyone in the chat room will thank you.
 WRITING IN ALL CAPITAL LETTERS IS CONSIDERED SHOUTING in the world of online chatting, and will be met with derision and scorn. You will likely be ignored or even kicked from the chat room. Save capitalization for single words or phrases that you really need to emphasize.
 This really applies to everything in life, but is the only way you can expect to have a good conversation online. If you aren't treating other chatters with the respect you expect for yourself, you'll likely be ignored.
 There are endless variations and implementations of internet shorthand, depending largely on the person and the community. Communities develop their own "dialect" over time, and using this dialect is a way of fitting in. Improperly trying to apply shorthand can make you appear as an outsider in that community.
 If you're chatting with your boss, you're probably going to use different grammar than when you're chatting with your best friend. Make sure you take the recipient into account when you are formulating your responses.

