 For example, if you have a VS brandy or another unnamed brandy then you can mix these into cocktails. Brandy is part of the wine family so it does not always work well with certain sodas and tonics but there are many good-tasting mixed drinks.


Although Cognac is an aged, more expensive brandy, it is commonly used in mixed drinks as well.
 The Sidecar is a classic cocktail that the Ritz Carlton in Paris, France claims to have invented in the early 1900s. You will need 1.5 ounces (45 ml) Cognac, 1 ounce (30 ml) Cointreau or triple sec, .5 ounce (15 ml) fresh lemon juice, a lemon twist for garnish and an optionally sugar for rimming.


Rim a chilled martini glass with sugar. A martini glass is shaped like an upside down triangle on a long stem. Chill the glass in the freezer and then dip the top rim in a plate of sugar to rim it.
Pour the ingredients (except the lemon twist) into a cocktail shaker with a few ice cubes and shake vigorously.
Strain to remove the ice cubes and pour into the glass.
Garnish with the lemon twist. You can make the lemon twist by peeling off a thin strip of the rind around the lemon in one full circle.
You can alter the ratio of Cognac, Cointreau and lemon juice a little bit to find the perfect flavor for you.
 A Metropolitan is a classic cocktail whose first recipe is dated 1900. You will need 1.5 (45 ml) ounces brandy, 1 ounce (30 ml) sweet vermouth, .5 tsp simple syrup and 2 dashes Angostura bitters.


Make a simple syrup by combining 1 cup water with 1 cup superfine sugar in a jar. Seal the jar and shake until the sugar is completely dissolved. Keep the jar in the refrigerator.
Pour all the ingredients into a cocktail shaker with ice cubes and shake well.
Strain into a chilled martini glass. A martini glass has a long stem with a cup shaped like an upside-down triangle.
 A Hot Toddy is a classic hot drink that has often been historically used as medicine. It can be made with a variety of spirits including brandy and apple brandy. You will require 1 ounce (30 ml) brandy or apple brandy, 1 Tbsp. honey, ¼ lemon, 1 cup water, a pinch of cloves, a pinch of nutmeg and 2 cinnamon sticks.


Coat the bottom of a mug or Irish coffee glass with honey and then add the brandy or apple brandy and the juice of the ¼ lemon.
Boil the water in a kettle or pot and pour into the glass.
Stir the mix and add the cloves and cinnamon sticks.
Let it sit for 5 minutes and then add nutmeg and enjoy!
You can alter the ratios of brandy to water. If you are using apple brandy, you may choose to increase the amount of the apple brandy for extra flavor.
 The Pisco Sour is the most popular way of consuming pisco and is the signature drink of Peru and also very popular in Chile. You will need 3 ounces (95 ml) pisco, 1 ounce (30 ml) fresh squeezed lime juice, ¾ ounce (22 ml) simple syrup, 1 fresh egg white and 1 dash Angostura or Amargo (if you can find it) bitters.


Make a simple syrup by combining 1 cup water with 1 cup superfine sugar in a jar. Seal the jar and shake until the sugar is completely dissolved. Keep the jar in the refrigerator.
Combine the pisco, lime, simple syrup and egg white in a cocktail shaker without ice and shake hard until the egg white is foamy, about 10 seconds.
Add ice and then shake very hard until it is well-chilled, again about 10 seconds.
Strain the ice out and pour in a chilled pisco sour glass. A pisco sour glass is relatively small and shaped a bit like a normal shot glass, except the base is thinner and the edges spread out a bit more at the top.
Add the dash of bitters on top of the egg white foam.
 The Jack Rose is a classic cocktail that was very popular in the 1920s that uses applejack, the American type of apple brandy. You will need 2 ounces (60 ml) applejack, 1 ounce (30 ml) lime juice and .5 ounce (15 ml) grenadine. True American applejack is hard to find but if you can get hold of it, try this cocktail.


Pour the ingredients in a cocktail shaker with ice and shake well.
Strain into a chilled cocktail glass. This glass will have a long stem with a cup that is shaped like an upside down triangle.
 This drink first appeared in print in 1857 and combines cognac and rye whiskey for a soothing refresher perfect for summer. You will need 1.5 ounces (45 ml) VSOP cognac or another good brandy, .5 ounce (15 ml) rye whiskey, 2 tsp sugar dissolved in .5 ounce (15 ml) water and 2 sprigs fresh mint.


Place the sugar and water in a tall glass or julep cup (traditional silver cup) and mix until sugar dissolves.
Add mint leaves into the glass and gently press to release the flavorful oil. Do not smash up the mint or else you will release bitterness from the leaves.
Add the brandy and rye whiskey to the glass and stir to combine.
Fill the glass with crushed ice and stir with a long spoon until the glass begins to get frost on the sides.
Garnish with a sprig of fresh mint and serve with a straw.

