 Once you have been poisoned with ricin, you’ll need to seek treatment immediately. The quicker you get treatment, the better your chances of living. If untreated, ricin may begin to shut down your respiratory and other important systems. In the US, call (800) 222-1222 to speak with Poison Control immediately.

Symptoms can begin to appear in as little as 4 hours after poisoning.
You could die in as little as 36 to 72 hours after being poisoned.
The method of poisoning impacts how quickly your body will be harmed.;
, One of the most severe symptoms of ricin inhalation is respiratory distress. As a result, if you are a victim of ricin poisoning, you may wind up needing help breathing. A doctor can provide treatment to keep you breathing while you are stabilized.

You may need to be hooked up to a machine to help you breathe.
You may need a tube inserted through your airway., Fluid therapy is extremely important when it comes to treating ricin poisoning. This is because you will likely be unable to take in the liquids your body needs to process the toxin. As a result, fluid therapy is one of the first things medical professionals will provide when you are being treated for ricin poisoning.

Fluid retention by cells may also increase the need for intravenous fluid therapy.
You may be treated with isotonic fluids (saline solution) by a doctor or other medical professional. Do not try to administer an IV to yourself.
You might also need an intravenous packed red blood cell infusion.
A doctor might provide dopamine or norepinephrine intravenously., Your body may react to ricin poisoning by swelling. Swelling could impact your respiratory system, gastrointestinal system, and other important systems or organs. As a result, you may be prescribed medication to reduce swelling.

Ricin may cause edema, which is when tissue absorbs excess water. Edema may occur in the lungs, arms, legs, or other parts of the body.
Follow the directions of your doctor, as the medication they prescribe will depend on your specific circumstances., If you have ingested ricin in the last few hours, you may benefit from ingesting activated charcoal. The charcoal will help slow your body’s ability to absorb the ricin, thus reducing the impact of the poison.

Activated charcoal may be taken by mouth or given through a feeding tube.
The quicker you take activated charcoal, the better it will work., There are several different ways you can be poisoned with ricin. It is important to know how you were exposed, as treatment is geared towards different types of exposure.

In the case that you ingest ricin, treatment may begin with your gastrointestinal tract.
In the case that you inhale ricin, treatment will begin with your respiratory tract.
In the case that you are injected with ricin, treatment may begin with intravenous fluid therapy., If you suspect you’re in an environment contaminated with ricin, you should cover your mouth immediately and leave the area of contamination. If possible, wet down a towel or other cloth and cover your mouth. Ultimately, the less ricin you inhale, the higher your chances of recovering.

While simply covering your mouth won’t completely prevent you from inhaling ricin, it may limit the amount you do inhale.
Use your hand if you don’t have anything else.
Move as far away from the initial site of contamination as you can., Once you’ve left an area of contamination, you need to discard and destroy any items or clothing that were with you when you were exposed. This is important, as they could contain traces of ricin.

Use rubber gloves to handle any potentially contaminated objects.
Any items that contact contaminated objects should also be discarded, including gloves.
Make sure to seal the initial bag with another one.
Contact your county, city, or municipal authority’s toxic waste disposal authorities. If you don’t have the number, you may want to call the police or fire department. However, make sure to inform the dispatcher that you are dealing with a suspected ricin exposure., After you’ve removed and destroyed all items you wore when you were contaminated, you should wash yourself carefully. By washing yourself, you’ll reduce the ability of the toxin to become airborne. This will limit further exposure.

Make sure to wash yourself as quickly as you can.
Rinse your eyes for 10 to 15 minutes, if your eyes burn or your vision is blurred.
Wash your eyeglasses and any important pieces of jewelry. Make sure to discard contact lenses.