 There are a set of symptoms that are the first to appear in your dog if she has ICH. The first sign is usually a high fever, which is typically greater than 104 F. This will causes your dog to lack overall energy and not want to eat her food. Your dog's gums will also appear very red and inflamed.


At this point, your dog may have abdominal pain and start vomiting.
The symptoms do not take too long to develop once your dog is exposed. The incubation period of this disease from the point of contact with the virus to the first symptoms is four to nine days, so look for these symptoms within the first week.;
, Once these other symptoms show up, your dog may begin to see other symptoms. Some dogs develop a clear, runny discharge from the nose and eyes.In some cases, the discharge may be accompanied by a cloudy membrane over one or both eyes, which is called Blue Eye., If your dog develops a severe case of ICH, there are some additional symptoms she may develop. She may develop swelling of the head and neck, meaning her lymph glands and tonsils are swollen. Your dog's liver function was also be compromised, which would mean the liver is not able to complete proper clotting. Your dog's abnormal clotting will cause her to bleed easily, which may cause hemorrhaging from the gums or from injection sites.


Any blood loss from these areas can be life threatening.
This can also lead to micro-clots in her blood stream during circulation, which may cause these clots to get stuck in the tiny blood vessels in the organs. This can lead to organ failure., Once your see any of the symptoms of ICH, take your dog to the vet. The vet will check these symptoms to ensure that they are not being caused by a condition with similar symptoms, such as distemper. A physical exam of your dog will generally determine the cause of the symptoms, which is when your vet will suggest treatment options.


An absolute diagnosis is not necessary to start care and can cost a lot of money. Typically a physical exam is enough to be sure, but in order to be 100% positive, your vet can run advanced blood tests, such as the ELISA and PCR., If your dog does have ICH, you need to make sure that she is kept separate from other dogs. If you have other dogs, keep them away from your infected dog. You should also keep her away from dog parks or other public areas where other dogs go.


Even once she gets better, be cautious with other dogs because a recovering dog who had ICH can shed the virus for around six months afterwards., The virus causes dehydration, so ensuring that your dog gets plenty of fluids into her system. If she is not keeping food or water down, you may have to seek vet care to get her intravenous fluids to keep her hydrated.


This will keep your dog healthy to help your dog's immune system combat and fight off the virus., There is no medical treatment for ICH because there is nothing that can kill the virus that causes it. However, your dog may be given medications to help bring down her fever. Your dog may also be given anti-emetics, which will help control vomiting, and pain relief medications, which will help abdominal discomfort.


If your dog's case is severe, this may not be possible because of blood clotting problems. Drugs that help reduce fevers can also be associated with blood clotting complications in rare cases., Your veterinarian may give your dog antibiotics to help her boost her immune system. This will help her combat any secondary bacterial infections that may attack her.


This will ensure that your dog's immune system is healthy enough to fully fight the virus., In more serious cases of ICH, your dog may need a blood or plasma transfusion if she is loosing too much blood. She may also need medication that helps with clotting. Your dog may also be severely ill and in a collapsed state, which means you will need to make her comfortable as she heals.


It is important that your dog is comfortable by lying on a bed that keeps moisture away, such as a Vetbed, to reduce bedsores. You should also turn your dog over regularly to ensure they don't develop as well., As your dog recovers, you will have to help her get better. You may need to hand feed her to ensure she eats her food. This can be hard at first because she may not want to eat, but try to tempt her with her favorite foods. She will need to eat to ensure your dog regains her strength.


Over time, she will regain her strength and get better., The ICH virus is spread through contact between dogs. It gets transmitted from one dog to another through contact with infected urine, feces, or saliva of dogs already infected with the virus.


If you are aware of a dog that is infected with this virus, keep your dog away from that dog., If you are worried about your dog getting ICH, there are some measures you can take to ensure that your dog doesn't get it. There are several highly effective vaccines that can protect your dog from ICH. If you don't vaccinate your dog, she will be at risk for ICH.


Ask your veterinarian which of these vaccines would be the best for your dog to make sure she is safe., If you notice any symptoms or signs of ICH in your dog, take her to your veterinarian immediately, especially if she hasn't been vaccinated. If you catch it early, your dog is more likely to pull through the illness.


If you aren't sure what your dog's symptoms mean, make sure to ask your vet. It is better to be overly cautious than let your dog suffer.

