 If you have quick access to a thermometer, you can check the person's temperature. The typical body temperature usually sits around 98°F (36.7°C). Mild hypothermia can manifest with a body temperature of 96–97.5°F (35.6–35.4°C). If it's lower than this, the hypothermia may be severe and you should seek medical help. Make sure to check his pulse and breathing. A person with severe hypothermia may appear unconscious, have a low pulse and difficulty breathing. If his breathing has stopped and you are trained in CPR, you can administer it immediately to get him breathing again. In all cases that breathing or pulse is abnormal, contact emergency medical service immediately by calling 911. ;
, If the person was outside in inclement weather without protection, in cold water, or even an elderly person in air conditioning for too long, make sure to remove her from the situation. The body will not be able to warm back up until the root cause of the temperature drop is changed.


If the person was in water, remove her wet clothes immediately. You will want to keep her movement as minimal as possible, so if needed, use scissors to cut the clothing away. Dry her off with towels, and cover her with blankets, being sure to put a blanket beneath her to insulate her from the ground.
If you are unable to get the person inside quickly, insulate her from the cold best you can. For example, put dry blankets or clothing below her so that she is not sitting on the cold ground.
 You want to avoid warming him up too quickly as this can cause the body to go into shock. Blankets are a great way to gradually raise body temperature while allowing the person to retain his own body heat, without making the changes too dramatic. , Hypothermia can cause dehydration. Introducing a warm, non-alcoholic, caffeine-free liquid. Broth, soup, warm milk or decaffeinated tea can be good options.If possible, give her a liquid that contains calories such as broth, soup, or warm milk. Carbohydrate-rich food will quickly release energy into the bloodstream, which causes a brief and sudden surge of heat. Also, proteins will help over time build up heat as her body attempts to metabolize it.
 Remove both of your clothing and lay skin-to-skin with the person under a blanket. This will raise the person's body heat gradually. 