 The two best quickscoping sniper rifles are the L115 and the USR. If you are going to use the Sleight of Hand perk, utilize the Armor Piercing attachment. If you aren't going to use Sleight of Hand, utilize the Extended Mags attachment.


The L115 has better damage.
The USR has better accuracy and has good damage.;
, The following perks to quickscope can be helpful: Ready Up (quicker aiming after sprinting), Quickdraw (faster aiming), Sleight of Hand (faster reloading), Amplify (louder enemy footsteps)

, A good way to start is by doing what you might call 'speedscoping'. This is where you aim in so you can see down the scope and quickly lining up your target into the crosshairs.


Pull the trigger quickly after aiming in and don't be afraid of missing the mark when you're just starting out. Hold the aim button and quickly let it go, But as you stop aiming you have to shoot. If you are an advance player, you can combine quickscoping with reload cancels, trick shots, jump shots, and knife lunges. But if want to combine quickscoping with advance techniques, go to your options and put your sensitivity on from 10 to 15. Select which one fits you best.
Challenge yourself to aim quickly and you will be surprised how many times you hit the target.
Practice this in 'bots' games if you are worried about your kill/death ratio being affected.
 You don't need to play at sensitivity level 20 to be a great quickscoper, but the higher sensitivity will definitely help you in the long run.
 The way the game is designed, aiming in enhances the accuracy of your shot. The moment you begin to aim, your accuracy bonus in applied, even though you can't see exactly where the crosshairs are lined up as your scope is still focusing on the screen.


There is a trick you can utilize to help you learn where your quickscope shot will most likely hit. Aim in until you see the crosshairs of your sniper scope and put a tiny piece of tape on that spot on your television screen.
Use that as a marker while you're learning to quickscope.
 Even when you are great at quickscoping, you will still miss quite a few shots. It is important to be good at dodging your opponents' shots and taking cover between shots that you fire.


Always stay on the move between shots to make it difficult for your enemy to kill you.
Drop to the ground between shots or strafe back and forth to minimize their target while you reload.

