 After the victims relatives file the lawsuit, you will be sent a copy of the complaint. You should read this document closely, as you must respond to each allegation contained in it.


The complaint will name all of the defendants.Depending on the circumstances, a plaintiff might sue individuals or a business (or both). If you receive a copy of the complaint, you have either been named as an individual defendant or your business is being sued for wrongful death.
Defending yourself from a wrongful death lawsuit is largely the same regardless of whether you have been sued as an individual or as the owner of a business.;
, You must respond formally to the complaint. If you ignore it, then the court could issue a “default judgment.” This basically means that you lose the lawsuit without ever being able to defend yourself.


Note the deadline for responding to the lawsuit on the summons, which you will receive with the complaint., The complaint will describe the circumstances that led to the victim’s death. You should read the complaint closely. Identify which act the plaintiff says caused the victim’s death. Common acts include:


Medical malpractice. If you are a doctor, nurse, or other medical professional, then you can be sued for wrongful death if the patient dies.The plaintiff will have to prove the elements of medical malpractice: that your treatment fell short of what a competent doctor in similar circumstances would have prescribed, and that this failure caused the victim’s death.A dangerous product. If your company’s product was involved in someone’s death, then your company could be sued. For example, the relatives of someone killed by a prescription drug could sue the drug manufacturer. The focus of the trial will be whether your product was “unreasonably dangerous” and, if so, whether you gave adequate warnings.
Negligence. If you killed someone out of carelessness, then you can be sued for wrongful death. For example, if you side-swiped someone while driving, then you could be sued.At trial, the jury will have to decide whether you acted as a reasonably careful person would have and whether your actions caused the death.
 After receiving the complaint, you should contact your insurance company. You may have malpractice, products liability, automobile, or homeowners insurance. Find your insurance policies and contact them. Give them the following information:


the name of the victim and whoever is the plaintiff
the date the lawsuit was filed
a summary of the events that led to the death

, You should also meet with an attorney. An attorney will be able to provide advice tailored to your unique factual circumstances. If your company is being sued, then you might have a lawyer on staff or have one on retainer already.


If you need to hire a lawyer—either for the company or for yourself as an individual—then you can get a referral for a personal injury lawyer from your local or state bar association.
Be sure to schedule a consultation. Most lawyers provide 30-minute consultations for a low price or for free. During the consultation, you can get basic information about how to defend yourself.
 To formally respond to the complaint, you should draft an answer. In this document, you respond to each allegation raised in the complaint. You must admit, deny, or claim that you have insufficient knowledge to admit or deny each allegation.Your lawyer should draft the complaint for you. However, if you are representing yourself, then you should ask the court clerk if there is an answer form that you can use. A local legal aid organization might also have a printed “fill in the blank” form.
If you need to draft an answer yourself, see Answer a Civil Lawsuit for more information.
 In your answer, you should also raise any “affirmative defense” that applies. An affirmative defense is a special kind of defense. It allows you to get the lawsuit dismissed even if all of the allegations in the complaint are true. In other words, even if you are responsible for the victim’s death, you can have the judge dismiss the case for some reason. This “reason” is an affirmative defense.


For example, you can argue that the plaintiff waited too long to sue. Every state has a “statute of limitations,” which spells out the maximum amount of time to bring a wrongful death lawsuit. If the plaintiff took too long, then you can ask for dismissal.Ask a lawyer what your state’s limitations period is.
Another affirmative defense is that your state law doesn’t allow the plaintiff to sue. Each state allows only certain survivors to bring a wrongful death lawsuit. For example, almost all states allow spouses and children to sue. However, states differ about letting more distant relatives, such as brothers or sisters, sue for wrongful death.If you are sued by a distant relative, then check your state’s law to see the plaintiff has the authority to sue for wrongful death. If not, you can get the case dismissed.
You also might be immune from a wrongful death suit. If you are immune, then you can’t be sued. Check your state law. Some states grant immunity to government officials or agencies., After you have completed the answer, you should make several copies. Take the copies and the original to the court clerk and ask to file.The clerk should stamp all of your copies with the date.
There may be a filing fee. Ask ahead of time how much the fee is and what are acceptable methods of payment.
 You must give the plaintiff a copy of the answer. If the plaintiff has an attorney, then send it to the attorney instead.Typically, you can mail the copy. Ask the court clerk for what are acceptable methods of service.


If the answer must be hand-delivered, then have the person who makes delivery fill out any Proof of Service or Affidavit of Service form. You can get these from the court clerk. Once service has been made, the server fills out the form and returns it to you. You must then file it with the court.
 Jury verdicts for wrongful death can run into the millions. Accordingly, you might want to resolve the dispute by negotiating a settlement.


During negotiations, you and the plaintiff will meet with your lawyers to try and work out a deal. If you have an insurance company, then the claims adjuster will probably take the lead on settlement negotiations. You should still attend negotiations, if possible, and make recommendations.
The purpose of negotiation is to give up something in order to get something in return. Basically, you are bargaining. If you participate in settlement, then you should expect that you will end up paying the plaintiff money.
 Negotiation is voluntary, and you can step away from the bargaining table at any time. To effectively negotiate, you need to know your “walkaway point.” This is your bottom line, maximum amount that you are willing to pay to make the lawsuit go away.One way to come up with this number is to analyze the strength of the plaintiff’s case. For example, the plaintiff might be suing you for $1 million. You and your lawyer should then discuss the likelihood that the plaintiff will win the lawsuit.
If the plaintiff has only a 50% chance of winning, then you might want to settle for $500,000.
However, if the plaintiff has a 90% chance of winning, then you might want to settle for $900,000.
 Mediation is a type of “assisted negotiation.”You and the plaintiff meet with a mediator, who is a neutral third party. The mediator listens to each side explain the dispute and then tries to guide the parties to a mutually acceptable settlement.


Like negotiations, mediation is voluntary. If you can’t reach an acceptable resolution, you can walk away.
Mediation is a good option if neither you nor the plaintiff has a lawyer.
If you are interested in mediation, then you can contact your local courthouse, which might run a mediation program. You can also call your local bar association, which might keep a list of mediators.
 Once you reach an agreement, you should put it in writing. A settlement agreement is a contract.Both you and the plaintiff are agreeing to give up something in exchange for something else. In your case, you agree to give up some money in exchange for the plaintiff dropping the lawsuit.


Your lawyers can draft the settlement agreement. Also, if you used mediation, then the mediator can help you draft the settlement agreement.
If you represented yourself in negotiations, then meet with a lawyer to review the settlement agreement before signing it. You will want to make sure that the agreement protects your rights, including a release from future lawsuits.
 The plaintiff must file a motion in court to dismiss the lawsuit. You can attach the settlement agreement.


Make sure to keep a copy of the agreement for yourself. If the plaintiff tries to turn around and sue you again based on the same allegations, you can get the case dismissed.
 If no settlement is reached, then you might want to think about arbitration. Arbitration is like a trial. You present evidence to an arbitrator, who then decides in favor of you or the plaintiff.


Arbitration has several advantages over a trial. First, it is private. When you are sued in court, the court documents become public. If your business is being sued for wrongful death, you might want to protect your reputation by participating in arbitration.
Second, arbitration usually moves much faster than a trial. Whereas a lawsuit might take 18 months from start to finish, arbitration can be concluded in 12 months.Third, arbitration is often less expensive than a trial, although the cost will depend on how much the arbitrator charges.
 Depending on the facts of the wrongful death lawsuit, you may need an expert witness. An expert witness is helpful whenever the facts of the case are beyond the knowledge of an average juror.


For example, if the plaintiff alleges that your medical malpractice killed the victim, then an expert will need to testify about whether you were reasonably careful when you treated the patient. Because jurors have no idea what treatment is reasonable in any given situation, they will need to hear from a medical expert.
Experts will also be necessary if your product caused the victim’s death. An expert will testify as to whether your product was unreasonably dangerous. Again, jurors will probably have no idea how a product should be designed. For that reason, they will need an expert to offer an opinion.
In some cases, you will not need an expert witness. For example, if you killed the victim by hitting him with your car, then a jury won’t need an expert to testify as to whether you were careless while driving. Expert witnesses are unnecessary when the issues are within the average juror’s own experience.You should have a defense expert if the plaintiff has one. To find qualified experts, you should ask your lawyer.
 Your exact defense at trial will differ depending on the facts of the case. Generally, however, you will argue that the plaintiff has not proved that you were at fault for the death.


For example, you can argue that your conduct was sufficiently careful. If you are a doctor, then you can argue that the treatment you gave was generally accepted in the medical community. Alternately, you could argue that although your treatment was outside the mainstream, a respectable minority of doctors nevertheless approve of the treatment.If you have been sued for negligently causing a car crash, then you could argue that your actions were reasonably careful. For example, you can argue that you looked over your shoulder and turned on your blinker before moving into the left-hand lane.
You can also argue that there is insufficient evidence that you caused the victim’s death. For example, if you manufacture a pill that is very dangerous, the plaintiff must nevertheless show that it was the pill (and not something else, like a pre-existing illness) that caused the victim’s death.
 Depending on your state, you can either reduce the amount of money you have to pay or win the case outright if you can show the victim contributed to his death. For example, if the victim did not take medication as prescribed, then he may have contributed to his death.


In some states, this will completely bar the plaintiff from getting any money. In five states, for example, a plaintiff cannot win if the victim was even 1% responsible for his death.In other states, the plaintiff cannot win if the victim’s own carelessness was at least 50% responsible for his death.Finally, in some states, a plaintiff can win even if the victim was more than 50% responsible for his death. However, the amount of compensation will be reduced. For example, if the victim was 75% responsible for his death, then the plaintiff can only win 25% of the amount of money requested.
 At trial, you will present your evidence. Most evidence is presented in the form of witness testimony or documents. You will need to give the plaintiff a list of witnesses and exhibits that you intend to introduce at trial, so you should go through your documents ahead of time and type up these lists.


Witnesses. If you need a witness to testify, then you should give him or her a subpoena. This is a legal document that commands the witness’s appearance at trial. It also states the day, time, and place of the trial. You can get subpoenas from the court clerk. Ask how much advance notice you must give the witness. Often, you need to serve the subpoena two weeks before the trial.
Documents. You can introduce helpful documents at trial. For example, if you argue that the victim died because of a pre-existing illness (and not because of your treatment), then you will want to introduce medical records that show the victim suffered from the disease.
 If you are representing yourself, then you should certainly sit in on a trial.Most trials are open to the public. Go to your local courthouse and ask the court clerk if she or he knows of any trials that are currently taking place.


Pay attention to where the parties sit and how they address the judge. Also listen to the kinds of questions that they ask each witness.
 As the defendant in a wrongful death lawsuit, you will probably have to testify on your own behalf. You can prepare for your trial testimony by doing a practice run with your attorney. Once on the witness stand, remember the following:Sit up straight and look at the attorney who is questioning you. But when you answer, make sure to turn to the jury and try to make eye contact with individual jurors.
Listen closely to the question. If you don’t understand something, then ask the attorney to rephrase the question.
Never guess. If you don’t know the answer, then say, “I don’t know.”
Pause after each question. A lawyer might want to object. You should wait for the judge to rule on the objection before answering.
 A typical wrongful death trial will consist of jury selection, opening and closing statements, and the presentation of witnesses. If you have a lawyer, then the lawyer can handle the day-to-day aspects of trial: cross-examining witnesses and making opening and closing statements.


If you are representing yourself, then see Represent Yourself in Court (U.S.) for helpful tips.
Also realize that in most states you can hire a lawyer to represent you at trial, even if you do all of the other work outside court. This is called “limited scope representation.”If you are interested in having a lawyer handle a trial, then you should get a referral for an attorney and ask if you can hire them for just the trial.

