 In a minority of cases, you might find out that there is a warrant for your arrest prior to the actual arrest. Find out if you are charged with a misdemeanor or felony. Your subsequent course of action will vary accordingly.Generally, a police officers don't charge people for misdemeanors unless they witness the crime. Therefore, if you have an arrest warrant based on a misdemeanor charge, it is almost always a bench warrant resulting from a failure to appear in court, usually for a traffic ticket. If this is the case, simply call the clerk of court in the county filing the charge and ask them what the fine is. If you can afford to pay it, then mail payment in. If you cannot afford to pay it, or you want the fine reduced, then you will be given a new court date.
For a few misdemeanors, such as check fraud or shoplifting, the police might secure an arrest warrant even if they don't witness the crime happening. For misdemeanors like these, follow the steps below, and handle the charge just as you would a felony.
 If you have an arrest warrant for a felony charge, then it is probably based on a citizen going to a district attorney's office and persuading them to file charges, the testimony of a witness that has implicated you in a crime, or the result of a police investigation of you and your activities. This means that the police or district attorney already have shown a judge probable cause to arrest you. You need to speak with an attorney as quickly as possible to discern the nature of the charges and the evidence against you.If you need help choosing an attorney, check out Select a Criminal Defense Attorney, or refer to Part 1, Section 4 of this article.
Even if you have an arrest warrant, in some cases, your attorney may be able to simply have you appear at arraignment rather than be arrested at booking.
 Your attorney may be able to arrange for you to turn yourself in at central booking rather than waiting to be arrested. If this is the case, prepare for what that will entail.


Bring only what you need. After you are fingerprinted and taken to jail, the jailers will confiscate your belongings and issue a you a jail uniform. Therefore, you will want to bring as little of value as possible to central booking when you go. Bring a couple pieces of identification and very little else. Bring no money, credit cards, or jewelry, including watches.

