 When you get anxious, your breathing quickens, which reduces the amount of oxygen your brain gets. This makes it more difficult to think clearly and form logical reasoning. Take a moment to focus on taking deep belly breaths. Inhale for 4 seconds, hold the breath for 4 seconds, and then release it for 4 seconds. Doing this for 1-2 minutes should help to calm your nerves quickly.
 Whether anxiety has just struck or you are chronically anxious, exercising is sure to help. Physical activity releases endorphins which increase happiness, and reduce cortisol - a stress producing hormone. As soon as you start to feel anxiety hit, go workout or take a walk. Aside from immediate treatment, regular exercise will decrease the amount of anxiety you feel over time.
 Consciously taking your thoughts off of your stressor and focusing them inwards on something peaceful will reduce your anxiety and fear immensely. When anxious thoughts start to hit, retreat inwards and repeat a positive mantra to yourself or pray. Focus entirely on this, and eventually your anxiety will evaporate on its own.
 Although it may seem silly to link your anxiety to what you ate for breakfast, the foods you eat have a big impact on your mental functioning. Studies have shown a correlation between unhealthy eating and high anxiety and stress. Try to incorporate more fruits, veggies, and whole grains into your daily diet. Get tested to make sure you don’t have any food allergies that may be triggering your anxiety as well - a common experience.
 Magnesium works in your body to reduce the effects of anxiety from regular worries to panic attacks. If you have a magnesium deficiency, you may be more anxious than you should be. Grab a magnesium supplement from a local health foods store and see if it improves your mood.
 You don’t have to rely solely on chemical filled medications to relieve your anxiety. Instead, try an all-natural herbal remedy. Many scientific studies have shown a strong correlation between reduced anxiety and taking supplements of St. Johns wort, valerian root, and chamomile. Try one of these supplements before heading for heavier medications., If your anxiety is so strong that you can’t seem to overcome it, there is no shame in going to a professional. The same way that you wouldn’t question the intelligence of visiting a medical doctor for an injury, it is similarly healthy to go to a psychologist for emotional and mental wellbeing. If you experience chronic anxiety or recurrent panic attacks, you may have a psychiatric diagnosis that can be easily dealt with through specialized therapy or medication.

