 Think about the health of your brain as you would the health of your body. Performing brain exercises can be fun and a great way to socialize. Mental exercises can also ward off certain potential effects of aging, such as memory loss and dementia. Honing your intelligence helps you to embrace it because you are giving your smarts the attention and room to grow that they deserve.Seek mental stimulation. Commit yourself to learning something new. For example, learn another language or learn how to play an instrument.
Play card, board and puzzle games. You can do this by yourself, or play such games with others so that you can have a fun time socializing as well! You can also exercise your brain by playing online memory games and educational video games. You could also work on improving your IQ score by studying and taking practice tests.
There are simple everyday ways you can give your brain a workout. Try brushing your teeth with your non-dominant hand, or changing the order of your daily activities. Expose yourself to new tastes and smells. Turn a couple of familiar objects in your house or office upside-down, which causes the creative side of your brain to kick in.;
, Doing aerobic exercise regularly can stimulate brain cell growth. This can enhance your intelligence even further by improving your ability to dismiss distractions, pay attention, and plan.Physical exercise can help your memory and improve your way of thinking.

Try to do some form of aerobic exercise on most days of the week, if not every day.For example, do a 30 minute session of jogging, fast walking, dancing, cycling, swimming, or any other activity that involves repeated, rhythmic motion of your body’s large muscles.
If you have a health condition, make sure to check with your doctor before starting an exercise regimen.
 You can retain new information better right before bed. Even if you are already smart, the need for learning is infinite, as society constantly changes and evolves. Not only can reading make you smarter, but it can also make you more empathetic!People who believe intelligence is malleable – that is, improvable – tend to be better overall learners.Reading eases tension, slows down the heart rate, and reduces stress, which can help you fall asleep., People with high emotional intelligence know themselves and others well enough to sense emotional needs.When you experience an emotion, analyze whether it is a healthy or unhealthy feeling for you. If it doesn’t feel like a normal and manageable emotion, work on responding to similar stimuli in a better way.Work on recognizing and being sensitive to other people’s feelings. For example, pay attention to their words, facial expressions, body movements, and posture.
 You can improve and develop your spiritual intelligence. People approach spirituality in different ways, within and outside of religious traditions. Spirituality for you may lie in your relationship with God, your fellow humans, or the earth.For example, you can grow spiritually through inspiration, meditation, prayer, contemplation, and other forms of psychological purification.
Explore your awareness and strive to behave compassionately. Think of your spiritual heroes and make a list of what characteristics about them you admire. Write down why you think those traits are noble to have.