 Not only are sports a great form of exercise, but they can be great fun as well. This can be a great time to calm your mind, teach yourself a new skill, and even build some muscle strength.One sport that is great to do on your own is basketball. Find an available basketball and hoop, and take some shots. Start real close to the hoop, and gradually move your body backwards, continuously attempting shots. Each time you make or miss a shot, run towards the ball and retrieve it. Not only will your skills as a basketball player improve, but your lung capacity will as well.
Tennis, believe it or not, can also be done by yourself. Find a tennis racket, a set of tennis balls, and a court to play at. First you can try and serve. Throw the ball up in the air, bend your needs, move your racket over your shoulder, and hit the ball towards your desired spot. You can also dribble the ball on the racket, which can be a very fun game: see how many times you can bounce the ball without it falling.
Running can also be a great form of stress relief, and can be fun in the process. Find a nice pair of running shoes, and make sure to wear appropriate attire (t-shirt, gym shorts). If you are a first time runner, pick a near by location to run to and back. First jog, then gradually pick up your speed. If you are a long time runner, try running to a desired location and back, beating a previous time, or simply take it easy as well.
 Yoga can be great for both physical and spiritual health.


Find a mat, and get into appropriate attire (workout clothes).
Try some of the different and unique body positions. A good first, simple yoga pose is done by simply crossing your legs, holding your hands slightly in the air, closing your eyes, and slowly breathing in and out.
What accompanies yoga is also a program of meditation, related to Buddhism and Hinduism. For more check out Do Yoga., This is a Latin based dance routine that can get you in shape, while also being creative and exciting. Often there are Zumba classes offered at local colleges or community centers. However, you can do the moves by yourself, as there are numerous online, instructional videos.
 This can be fun, relaxing, and done almost anywhere.


Simply sit in a chair or seat that allows you to be upright. Make sure your back is straight, your feet are about a foot apart(do not cross them). Rest your hands on your lap or a table in front of you.
Close your eyes, and for a minute or two, breathe in and out slowly. Find a noise in the room or surrounding environment, and allow your breathing to follow the sound.
There have been numerous studies that have shown mindful breathing can clear the mind and relax the body. Make sure to use this throughout the day, and for multiple days to get the full effect., This can be a very fun experience that allows you to enjoy the outdoors. Drive down to the ocean for the day and relax by the water, or go in the ocean and have a nice swim.


Visiting a beach requires prep work, and planning. You will want to make sure you have the following items packed: sunscreen, bathing suit, umbrella, beach towel, sunglasses, water, and food.
Plan on finding a remote beach, or find a location when you get there that is away from other people. Stick your umbrella in the ground, put on a healthy coating of sunscreen, and lay on your towel as you enjoy the sound of the ocean breeze.
Lay on your towel, and get a nice tan. Or, you can always hop in the water, and go for a swim.
 This can be a very relaxing experience that allows you to enjoy nature in quiet contemplation. Use a GPS system to find a local river/pond, or go to the one you always do.


Fishing is best done in a quiet place. Make sure that where you are headed, that there are no people around to create a lot of noise.
Bring your fishing pole, bait, a nice towel to sit/stand on, some water, snacks, and plenty of time. Cast your rod, and catch a fish to eat. Or just throw the fish back, and fish all day long.
If fishing is a new experience for you, and is something you would like to try, you can find more information here Fish.
 Spend time walking the trails in the park, ride your bike, or just sit on a park bench. Look at the people that walk by, observe cloud formations, or close your eyes and relax.


A local creek or river can be a fun and exhilarating experience. Look for one that you already know of, or go searching on your own. Make sure you wear comfortable shoes like hiking shoes or tennis shoes. Wear a healthy coating of bug spray. Sit by the creek/river and enjoy the quietness, or watch the fish swim by.
 Photography can be a fun, engaging, and creative experience. There is also almost no learning curve when it comes to this activity. Unless you are planning on becoming a professional, photography can be easy to do.


First you will need to find the right camera if you plan to take pictures. Simple film cameras or digital cameras do not give you enough variety or pixels to play around with. Some smartphones have greater and greater abilities to take better pictures, but you will have to check the specifics of your phone. In general, you will want a higher quality camera; one that is large, has a detachable lens, adjusting ring, mode switch, shutter release, and aperture.Find what you want to take a picture of. Spend time thinking critically about the lighting of the particular picture, the shadows, the color (black and white vs. natural), the perspective, the distance, and the angle. If the object or scene is outdoors, make sure that the sun is providing enough light, without being overbearing.
Adjust the camera for your particular circumstance. Sometimes moving the lens in or out is better. Tilting the camera sideways, or at an angle can create unique viewpoints. Changing the setting to black and white instead of color can also make for an interesting, artistic perspective., Art, like photography, does not have a steep learning curve. If you are not planning on becoming a professional, painting can be a great way to let loose, have fun, and get to know yourself and your surroundings.


First you will need a standard canvas, 12X16 or 18X24. Make sure the canvas is large enough so that you have room to experiment.Next, pick out oil/watercolor paints in at least the three primary colors (red, blue, yellow). Finally, buy at least three different sizes of brushes: small, medium, and large.
Next, set up the canvas in a stable position. Make sure that what you are painting, a house, tree, etc. is not so far away that you cannot see it from where you are sitting. Determine from what you see what colors you will have to use. You can always mix colors together in order to get the right value, hue, and saturation levels.
Finally, paint your picture. Of course you can do this any way you want. Try your best at making an exact copy of what you see, or maybe take on a more abstract approach. This is a great way to explore and have fun.
You can always add materials to your painting like glitter or beads. Feel free to expand beyond painting, creating various arts and crafts projects.

