 Burning 300 calories in 30 minutes should be fairly easy. However, to help make sure you hit the goal and to even exceed it, try increasing the resistance and difficulty of your exercise routine.


In general, the more challenging a workout is, the more calories you'll burn.You can increase the speed, pace, resistance, weight or add incline to make workouts more challenging.
For example, instead of just running at a steady pace, alternate between jogging and sprinting or jogging on a flat surface to jogging on an incline.
You'll burn more calories per 30 minutes when you add in these fluctuating levels of difficulty.
In addition, you can try doing one set of a resistance exercise every 5 to 10 minutes during your cardio workout, such as doing bicep curls or pushups. You can also try increasing the resistance on cardio machines - like the elliptical or spin bike.
 Although you may only have 30 minutes to work out most days, if you can, try increasing the length of your workouts. This will help you increase how many calories you can burn.You may not have time for a 45 minute run or a 60 minute spin class. However, even small additions in time can make a difference when it comes to the total amount of calories you burn.
Some studies have shown that an additional 5 to 10 minutes can help you burn an extra 50 to 100 calories.
If weight loss is your goal, try going for 35 to 40 minute workouts whenever you can. The other days you can stick to those higher intensity exercises to burn 300 calories in 30 minutes.
 You might not consider strength or resistance training to be a big calorie burner. And by itself, it's not. But when combined with aerobic exercise, it can help you burn more calories.When you have more muscle mass, your body (and metabolism) automatically burns more calories. That's because muscle tissue is active and requires more energy.
When you're performing aerobic exercise or even when you're at rest, the more muscle mass you have, the more calories you'll burn.
Most health professionals recommend that you include one to two days of strength training throughout the week. You need to work every major muscle group and your workout should be at least 20 minutes in length., Another trick to help you burn more calories (especially from fat) is by working out in the morning. Try switching your exercise routine around so your sweat session is in the morning.


Studies have shown that those people who work out in the morning before breakfast burn more calories total and burn more of those calories from fat.Try setting your alarm clock for 30 minutes earlier than normal. This will allow you to get up in just enough time to burn off those 300 calories.
Although you may not like getting up earlier those first few days, after a while it'll feel more routine and you'll find it easier to wake up.
 Another way to help increase your calorie burn over the course of the whole day is by moving more. This increased lifestyle activity can help you torch more calories all day long.


Lifestyle activities are those activities or exercises that you do as part of your regular day. Walking to and from your car or house, taking the stairs, sweeping the floor or cleaning are great examples.
Try to increase how many steps you take in a day or how often you're moving around.
For example, instead of bringing in the grocery bags a few at a time, carry in one at a time. You can extend a quick job to 10 minutes, take more steps and you could burn close to 100 calories.