 Many hair care products can strip your hair of the natural oils it needs, and sometimes you aren't using the right products for your hair type. Figure out what your hair type is and try to choose products that will improve the quality of your hair. If you can, go for all natural or organic products as these will be less damaging to your hair.


Your hair type may be fine, oily, dry, thick, coarse, etc. There are shampoos for every type of hair, so explore different products and find what works best for you. There are also shampoos and conditioners that increase the natural shine in your hair, so you may try out one of those to help you achieve softer hair.
Try to avoid shampoos and conditioners with sulfate as this can suck moisture out of your hair. Search for hair products that have hydrolyzed proteins, which make strands stronger and healthier over time.;
, Hot water can strip protective oils from your hair that act as a natural conditioner, leaving your hair cold and dry. When you are in the shower, wash with lukewarm water, and then finish off by rinsing your hair with cold water.Just as stylists will blast your hair with a blow dyer on a cool setting to create shine, a cold water rinse will also create shine. Cold water does the best job of sealing the natural moisturizers in your hair, which will make your hair feel softer., After you have showered, take a wide tooth comb and gently comb through your hair. Start from the ends and work your way up to your head, trying not to tug or snag any of your hair. Never brush your hair as this can really damage it, especially if it is already dry. If your hair is especially tangled after a shower, apply a detangler to your hair before you comb it out.To make the combing job easier post shower, consider running a brush or comb through your hair before you get into the shower. Then, when you apply shampoo and conditioner, your hair will be less prone to tangling.
 Some people feel that they have to wash their hair every day to keep it clean. However, washing your hair too much can be bad for your hair because it strips your hair of the natural oils it needs and doesn't leave much time for the oils to be restored. Try washing your hair every other day or every two days to allow the natural oils and shine to return.If you are worried about your hair looking greasy or oily, you can always use dry shampoo on your roots. Simply apply the spray and rub it in gently with your finger tips. Baby powder is a great product for this as well. Wearing your hair up on the second day is always a good idea too, because it may be harder to style down.
If you have always washed your hair daily, it make take your hair some time to get used to the exposed oils. You may experience very oily hair at first, but after a few weeks you hair will naturally produce less oil between washes. When you wash it daily, it's trying to make up for the oil lost so it produces it faster. Once your hair is used to going a few days without a wash, the oil production will slow down and become manageable.
 Blow drying and using styling tools like wands, straighteners, and curling irons can wear away hair's cuticles, resulting in dry or frizzy hair that breaks easier. If you really want softer hair, try to let hair dry naturally and try to avoid overexposure to heat.If you must use heat styling tools, make sure you spray heat protectant on your hair first. Then, when blow drying your hair use a cooler setting and don't keep the blow dryer in the same place for more than a second or two so that it won't scorch your strands.
 Once a week, apply a deep cleansing conditioner to your hair. This conditioning treatment will help restore life and moisture back to your hair but don't overdo it. If your hair starts to feel weighed down, or you are noticing build up, deep condition your hair less. Apply this conditioner mainly to the roots, and let it sit for 20 minutes. Then, rinse it out with lukewarm water.You can also use a leave in conditioner once a week to restore moisture back to your hair and bring health to the ends of your hair. Squirt a pump or two into your hands and then scrunch it into the ends of wet, freshly washed hair. Then, style your hair as usual. You can use leave in conditioner as a styling product, or solely as moisturizer., Hair naturally begins to split around three months, and once you have reached that mark your hair will feel drier, get easily tangled, and will not grow as quickly. Aim for getting a trim or hair cut every three to four months to keep your hair healthy. Keeping the ends of your hair trimmed will help your hair feel softer and it will be easier to style and manage., When you spend time in the sun, you might protect your skin with sunscreen, but you also need to protect your hair. Your hair can be damaged by overexposure to the sun, so when you head outside for a long period of time, make sure it is protected. Wear a hat or apply a light hairspray with SPF protection to keep your hair from being damaged by the sun.After you have been outside for a while, apply a hair mask to restore moisture and life back to your hair. Even if you protected your hair from the sun, it couldn't hurt to do some conditioning to keep it from drying out. This is especially helpful if you have spent time in a pool.
 Coconut oil is a natural product that can restore moisture and life back to your hair, leaving it soft and shiny. Warm up a quarter cup of coconut oil. Then, apply evenly through your hair and leave on for about an hour. Rinse it out with luke warm water once you have allowed it to sit.Coconut oil can stain clothing and linens, so be careful when using it! Make sure to have an old towel around your shoulders or put your hair up in a shower cap as you let the coconut oil sit.
Your hair can be wet or dry when you apply this mask, but it may be easier to apply over wet hair.
 Egg yolks can provide silkiness and softness to your hair as well as restoring strength to your roots. Olive oil is a natural moisturizer that can add shine and repair damage in your hair and honey has similar effects. Mix one egg yolk and three tablespoons of olive oil and honey and apply to damp hair by massaging it into your scalp and through your strands. Then, rinse out after 20 minutes.In place of an egg you can also use yogurt or buttermilk. There are many ingredients that are good for your hair, so it doesn't matter so much which ones you mix together.In place of honey and olive oil you can add an avocado. This ingredient works much like the other ingredients by bringing shine and moisture to your hair., Combine one ripe banana, one tablespoon honey, one tablespoon almond or olive oil, and two to three drops of lavender oil. Blend these ingredients until smooth and then saturate your hair with the mask, massaging it into your scalp for extra hydration. Wrap your hair with a warm towel and allow the mask to sit on your hair for 15 minutes. Then, rinse it out.The protein in bananas improves elasticity of your hair, while the honey can provide hydration to your scalp.
Wrapping your hair in a warm towel provides extra heat to your hair, which will help create more penetration.
 Mix 1/4 cup of aloe vera gel, juice from half of a lemon, and three to five drops of argon oil. When you are in the shower, after you have washed your hair with shampoo, apply this mask evenly through your hair. Allow it to sit on your hair for three to five minutes and then rinse it out.This mixture is great for your hair because it replenishes moisture and shine to your hair, and is especially helpful if you have just spent a lot of time outside. You can also apply it to your skin if you are looking to moisturize especially dry, sun exposed skin.

