 Place the dried chilies into a medium-sized saucepan and cover them with water. Bring the water to a boil, then reduce it to a simmer. Allow the chilies to cook for 15 minutes.You can also use guajillos or chile California.
You can also use 8 ancho peppers instead.
 Pour the chili water through a strainer over a sink. Toss the cooked chilies into a blender. Add 1 cup (240 milliliters) of chicken broth. Cover the blender, then blend until the mixture is smooth.Save the remaining 2 cups (475 milliliters) of chicken broth for later.
 Place a pan on the stove. Pour 2 tablespoons (30 milliliters) of olive oil into it. Heat the oil over medium heat. You will be making your sauce in this pan, so make sure that it is big enough., Once the oil is hot, pour in the blended chili sauce. Add the rest of the chicken broth, along with the cumin, oregano, garlic powder, onion powder, pepper, and salt and give it a stir with a wooden spoon. Bring the mixture to a boil, then immediately reduce it to a simmer., Measure the masa harina into a small bowl. Pour in the water. Stir them together with a fork or mini whisk until the mixture turns smooth.

If you can't find any masa harina, you can use flour instead.
 Pour the masa harina and water mixture into the pan. Stir it in with a whisk until no streaks remain. Cover the pan with a lid. Allow the sauce to cook over low heat until it turns thick, about 20 minutes.This completes the homemade enchilada sauce. You are now ready to prepare the enchiladas themselves.
 Pour enough oil into a large skillet to cover the bottom. Set the skillet down on the stove, and turn the heat up to medium. Wait for the oil to get hot., Drag the tortilla, front and back, across the edge of the pan to get rid of any excess sauce. You will be frying these tortillas, so only dip as many as you can fit onto your pan., Depending on the size of your skillet, you may be able to fit several tortillas—don't let them overlap, however! Fry the tortillas for 15 to 20 seconds. Flip them over with a spatula, then fry them for 15 to 20 seconds more.This will sear the sauce into the tortillas., Use a spoon to scoop some of the cooked, shredded beef or chicken into the center of each tortilla. Fold the tortillas over, like a taco, then set them down into a platter. Keep dipping and filling the tortillas until there are none left.

Beef picadillo is beef is recommended for this, but you can use your own filling as well.
 You can top them with your desired garnishes, or you can place the garnishes into separate bowls. Great choices include lettuce, onions, tomatoes, cheese, and sour cream. If you have any sauce left over, keep it on the side.