 This means first defining the goals of your marketing campaign in terms of both the results you expect and the media you expect to use as part of it: flyers, brochures, sales letters, postcards, Web content (pages and podcasts), radio ad copy or video scripts. Knowing the scope of your project before you start looking for a writer will help direct your search to find a good writer, or several good writers, if the project dictates it.


Many writers have expressed frustration with clients who don't communicate their needs well in the beginning or during the run of the project. Having your goals clearly defined at the start will help you communicate them to the writers you interview and work with.;
, In addition to determining the type of output the writer is to generate for you, also determine the input, what you expect the writer to bring to the project. Does the writer need to have a strong background in the subject, or do you want someone who can approach the project as an outsider and bring a new perspective to the project? Do you want someone to write copy, do light editing, or do you want someone to develop an overall marketing strategy and produce the materials to implement it?


Consider the amount of time allotted to produce your business marketing materials. If you want fast turnaround on a highly technical project, you need someone who has considerable experience with the subject matter to target your copy to its intended recipients. If you are developing your strategy more gradually, you may want to hire a writer to learn along with you or bring in writers as needed, with the first writer helping you define your strategy and producing style sheets and guidelines for subsequent writers to follow.
In some cases, you may want to choose a writer for his or her experience in the subject over experience in a particular medium, particularly if that writer has done a lot of work for you in the past.
 In addition to being able to write well and having a sufficient knowledge of the subject, the writer also needs to work well with the software applications you use to create the project and with other people, such as graphic artists, subject matter experts and other marketers.

