 Positive reinforcement produces a pleasant impact on our brain. It motivates our brain to repeat the reinforced behavior in order to experience the pleasant feeling again. Positive reinforcement can be provided by a family member, a teacher and even by the student himself.
 Students with traumatic brain injuries get exhausted easily and need rest. Therefore, children with TBI should not be forced to stay in school for very long periods of time, like other students. They should be allowed to leave school earlier and should also be given plenty of breaks throughout the day.


The physical and mental abilities and capacities of a child might be limited initially during the rehabilitation phase, it is important to gradually increase the attendance at school instead of imposing strict attendance and difficult tasks initially.
Make the work given more home based and gradually increase the difficulty level. The assessment will reveal the current capacities and functioning level of the child. Plan and structure the environment accordingly.
 Teachers should be less demanding. The routine and assignments should be flexible. There should be no time limit for such students. They should be allowed to have rest many times a day and should be given separate place for getting relaxed and getting out of agitation.
 Patients with brain injuries should be allowed to spend most of their time in leisure activities. If they enjoy watching TV, playing games or passing time on internet; give them enough time to enjoy these activities. Take them to beach, to a park or to the cinema, they should be allowed to have as much fun and enjoyment as possible. Develop some new hobbies like gardening, walking, painting etc.
 Students with TBI often have problems in moving from one place to another. They should be given seat near teacher with some good student beside them. They should be given enough space for moving. They should also be helped while changing their class according to subject. Teacher should allow them to leave 5 minutes earlier for reaching other class without having difficulty or confusion.

