 If you really want your friend to be jealous, then you have to act like you're so busy, happy, and interested in your own life that you can barely be bothered with the friend. Take hours to respond to her texts, don't pick up the phone half the time when she calls, and just always act like you're excited about something on the horizon. When you do hang out with your friend, make sure you never stay that long, because you of course have something more important to do afterwards.


Don't be too eager to hang out with your friend when she asks. Let it be known that if she wants to make plans with you, she has to ask one or two weeks in advance so you can "fit her into your schedule."

, If you want your friend to be jealous, then you have to have great clothes, the latest iPhone, perfect hair, and even the nicest school supplies in town. Make sure your friend sees your things, and let it be known that she can borrow them, if she wants; this will show that you have superior stuff. You don't have to shove your cool stuff in your friend's face. Just letting her see you using it is enough.


Always be a step ahead of her. If she has a Blackberry, you get an iPhone; if she has Maybelline makeup, you get MAC or Chanel; if she has an Mp3 player, you get an iPod touch.
 So it obviously does take effort to look hot, but you should make it look like it comes completely naturally to you. Don't ever let your friend see you stressing out over what clothes to wear, what makeup to put on, or about how to wear your hair. You should figure all of that out before you see your friend, so what she sees is the final product, not the thought that you put into it.


If she compliments your clothes, even if they're new, say, "This old thing? Thanks." Be very casual about it.
Wear really cute stuff that complements your body type and your attitude. Wear bright colors to show your 'bright' attitude and remember to always look positive.
Work out often because then she'll be jealous that you have such a cute, fit body. Plus, being healthy is never a bad thing!

, Who doesn't want beautiful, healthy hair? Your friend is bound to be jealous of your shiny, soft hair.

Shower daily. Using a volumizing or moisturizing shampoo is recommended because it will definitely help your hair Additionally, wash your hair with the coldest water you can handle because it will help keep your scalp from being oily.
Condition. Condition the middle to the ends of your your hair and leave in for 5 minutes then wash out.
 Okay, so this is actually impossible, but you can definitely make it look like you're getting an endless stream of As without lifting a finger. If you get a perfect test grade, pretend to look surprised or say, "I barely studied for that." The key is to make it look like you've achieved effortless perfection; your friend won't be as jealous if he or she knows you spent five hours studying for the test.


If you get really good grades, you shouldn't talk about what an amazing student you are all the time. Let your friend hear it from someone else.
If you really want to be annoying, you can talk about how you really wanted an A in a class when all you got was an A-.
In general, don't ever mention the word "studying." It just isn't necessary for you, right?

, Who isn't jealous of an amazing vacation? If you're lucky enough to go on vacations regularly, make sure you mention them. You can do it casually, just by saying, "I have soooo much packing to do before I go to Hawaii with my family next week." Make it sound like it's no big deal, just a run-of-the-mill activity for you. If you know your friend doesn't go on a lot of trips, you can casually ask her what she'll be up to next summer, even if you know it'll be nothing.


You can post a few photos from your trip on Facebook, but minimize the enthusiastic captions. Let the images speak for themselves.
If you go on a fun trip with your friends, make sure you talk about how much fun it was, even if your friend wasn't invited.
 Social Media is the perfect place to inspire envy. You should aim to spend no more than 15-30 minutes a day on Social Media so it looks like you have a life and can't really be bothered with it, but when you do go on, make it count. Post pictures of yourself looking hot and see how many likes you get. Post pictures of you and your other friends and significant other having an amazing time. Wait for your friend to see your photos or statuses and to get very, very jealous.


The occasional status update saying what cool concert or restaurant you're going to can help make your friend feel jealous and left out.
Even if your friend comments on your photos a lot, try ignore her photos or updates as much as you can. Remember, you can't really be

