 A goiter is an abnormal enlargement of the thyroid gland. It is more common in women than in men. Under normal circumstances, an individual or physician cannot feel the thyroid gland, but if you have a goiter, then you will be able to feel it.


Goiter may be due to a swelling of the thyroid or multiple growths on the gland. It can also indicate hypothyroidism (underactive thyroid) or hyperthyroidism (overactive thyroid).;
, The main symptom of goiter is the goiter, the enlarged thyroid gland that you can feel. Most individuals with goiter have no other symptoms.The thyroid is a butterfly-shaped gland in the front portion of the neck, just below the Adam’s apple and just above the collarbone. If you can feel this gland, then you may have a goiter. If the goiter grows large enough, it may also cause the following symptoms:Swelling or tightness in the neck
Breathing difficulties
Swallowing difficulties
Coughing
Wheezing
Hoarseness of voice

, To help your doctor develop the best course of treatment, you should consider any preexisting conditions that you have that may have caused the goiter. Causes of goiter include:



Iodine deficiency. Iodine deficiency is the most common cause of goiter worldwide. However, it is rare in the United States due to the fact that table salt is supplemented with iodine.Graves’ disease. Graves’ disease is an autoimmune disorder that causes hyperthyroidism (overproduction of thyroid hormones). The disease causes the body to produce a protein, thyroid-stimulating immunoglobulin (TSI), that attacks the thyroid gland.The protein attacks cause swelling of the thyroid and overproduction of thyroid hormones as TSI mimics the actions of thyroid-stimulating hormone (TSH).Other symptoms of Graves' disease include bulging eyes, anxiety, heat sensitivity, weight loss, and frequent bowel movements.Treatment for Graves' disease includes radioactive therapy that reduces thyroid activity, so you will probably need to take thyroid replacement hormones after treatment.Hashimoto’s disease. Hashimoto’s disease is an autoimmune disorder that causes hypothyroidism (underproduction of thyroid hormones). The disease occurs when the body’s immune system attacks the thyroid, which leads to swelling of the gland. It progresses slowly over the years and produces chronic thyroid damage leading to low levels of thyroid hormones. The disease is also known as chronic lymphatic thyroiditis.Other symptoms of Hashimoto's disease may include fatigue, depression, joint pain, weight gain, and constipation.Thyroid nodules. Thyroid nodules are lumps or abnormal masses within the thyroid gland. They may be solid or filled with fluid or blood. Individuals may have one thyroid nodule (solitary) or many. They are common and almost half of the population may have them at some point in their lives.Most thyroid nodules do not cause symptoms and 90% are benign (not cancerous).Some thyroid nodules may cause overproduction of thyroid hormones (hyperthyroidism) and an even smaller fraction masquerade as thyroid cancer.