 Yogic asanas (or poses) are associated with deep breathing and physical stances that help expand the lungs. They are immensely beneficial for asthmatics to gain better control over their asthma.Sit on the yoga mat with your legs crossed. Place your hands on your knees and make sure your back is straight and erect.
Breathe in and out deeply five times. Repeat this for 10 minutes every day.
 You should be completely relaxed in this pose and feel like you are releasing stress with every breath. It’s not uncommon for people to fall asleep in this pose!Lie down on your back on the floor or a yoga mat. Spread your legs out and point your toes outward.
Place your hands outstretched and away from your body. Relax your mind and body by closing your eyes.
Focus on your breathing and your relaxed body. Practice this asana for five minutes every day.
 This pose allows the lungs to be filled with the maximum amount of air.Lie down on your back on the floor or a yoga mat. Your legs should be straight and your arms can be placed on either side of your body.
Keeping the lower portion of your body relaxed and passive, gradually raise your head so the top of your head touches the floor. Your chest will also slowly lift upwards. You may place weight on your elbows to help prop your chest up. Your lungs should be fully expanded with air.
This posture will stretch your neck and your upper chest as well as your spine. Bending your spine upward will allow for full expansion of your lungs.
Practice this pose 10 times every day, for four to five breaths.
 This is a great beginner yoga pose as it is extremely easy to do and highly beneficial.Stand on the yoga mat with your feet spread an inch apart. Stand straight, roll your shoulder blades back, and tuck your lower back towards the ground.
Raise your arms in the air so that your spine is stretched to its fullest height. Breathe in and out consciously and deeply. This will help expand the lungs to their maximum and help you mentally relax.
This pose also tones and strengthens your abdominal muscles, which are a key support for heavy respiration and breathing.
Practice this pose for five to ten minutes (or breathes) a day.
 This breathing technique will stimulate your lungs and improve lung performance.


Sit in a comfortable seated position (legs crossed, or Lotus pose).
Rest the thumb on your right hand on your right nostril.
Inhale through the left nostril.
Hold the breath in for a few seconds.
Remove your right thumb from the right nostril and exhale. As you exhale, close the left nostril with your middle and ring fingers.
After exhaling through the right nostril, breathe in through the left nostril and exhale through your right nostril. This completes one round of breathing.
Do up to ten rounds of breathing like this. As your practice advances, you may do this exercise for about 10 minutes.

