 Do you want it to cover a whole wall or just a segment of the wall? Do you want the things on the wall to be lots of little things or bigger things. If you are planning to cover an entire wall you have to be aware that it will take a while to fill it, and if you are doing a whole wall collage I would recommend filling it with larger things.;
, So with wall collages there is no limit of what you can put on. Whether its sweet wrappers or just photos of you and friends, its your wall collage and so it just has to represent you and your creativity. Some ideas for what you could put on are photos (of you, friends, family, pets, holiday destinations, animals you want to see, celebrities you like etc...), or you could put your own drawings on (perhaps cartoons, portraits of celebrities, Disney characters.. anything you feel like drawing, Quotes which inspire you or maybe even film quotes, song lyrics, concert/cinema/bus/train tickets, album or dvd covers and even wrappers of your favorite food or drinks.
 So begin by going through photos, magazines and newspapers and just look for things that you would not mind having on your wall.
 Its easier to sort your images and quotes into piles before going about sticking them on your wall. You could sort them into your photos, quotes, tickets and magazine and newspaper clippings. This will mean that when you are sticking things on your wall you are less likely to have similar things next to each other as you want your wall to look like a scrapbook not an organized photo album.
 This could be a picture in a photo frame, canvas or a poster. You do not need to do this, you can just begin your wall collage but it does make it a little easier to know where to start. Start by putting bigger things on the wall, it doesn't matter if there are gaps because you can fill them in after or over time.
 It doesn't matter if the images overlap because the whole point of a collage is to look messy.
 Once you have stuck all your things onto the wall, it may not be full. This doesn't mean you have failed; you can just add more things overtime.

