 In order to prevent stalkers or angry drivers from showing up in person, federal and state governments heavily regulate who has access to this information. The Drivers Privacy Protection Act is especially strict, and individual state laws may make this task even harder. Here are some common scenarios:


If you were affected by a hit-and-run accident, some states will give you the name and address. Others will only provide this information to the police.
If you are filing an insurance claim due to a car accident, the information will typically be sent directly to the insurance company, not to you yourself.
In many states or situations, only the VIN (Vehicle Identification Number) will be released, and even then not always to your personally. Your insurance company can still use this number to file a claim on your behalf.;
, The nearest Department of Motor Vehicles can begin processing your request, and answer your questions about the legality and logistics of your situation. Contact a DMV within your state, or the state that issued the license plate you are tracking, since state laws may restrict your access or require additional information from you.
 Each state has a different form and different laws, which is why contacting the DMV in person or over the phone is recommended. However, if you search online for "record information request" and the name of your state, you might locate the correct form. Fill this out and follow the included instructions to mail it to a DMV office in your state.
 You can find state-licensed investigators online who offer license plate look-up services. Search for the name of the state that issued the license plate and "private investigator license plate look-up." These services typically cost approximately $40 per license plate, require you to submit a legally acceptable reason for investigating, and can take one or two business days to deliver the results. If the service does not match this description, look below for tips on avoiding scams.
 There are many online services that request information from court records, department of motor vehicles' records, and other databases to find information on a given license plate number. However, most of these use misleading payment schemes, deliver out-of-date information, or fail to deliver the information at all. If possible, look up the website on a scam review site. You should also check for the following signs of a reputable service:


The company name, address, and phone numbers should all be listed on the website.
The service you are paying for should be clearly described. "Access to databases" may just mean a link to other websites. Subscription services are highly likely to be scams.
A delayed processing time before you can get the information. Don't believe promises of "instant" results; even if delivered, these are typically out-of-date., If you witnessed a car flee the scene of an accident or a crime, report the incident and license plate number to the police. While you will not necessarily be given access to the driver's personal information, the investigation may provide evidence for insurance claims and legal disputes.

