 If you are a jogger, you can improve your runs by employing better breathing techniques. The main technique involves breathing in a certain rhythm and deeply inhaling and exhaling.

Try to keep your breathing ratio around 3:2, in relation to your steps. For three steps, inhale deeply. For the next two steps, exhale as fully as you can.
You may need to change the ratio as you increase the intensity of your run. Always keep the inhalation longer than the exhalation as you make your adjustments.
Shorter breaths mean less oxygen and greater amounts of carbon dioxide in your body. This results in your heart working harder than it has to and a decrease in athletic performance.
 Weight lifting or body weight exercises can be a great way to build strength and add muscle. Breathing properly during these activities can increase the amount of exercise you are able to do. Remember the following tips during your strength training routines:

When you are exerting yourself, exhale. For example, when lifting a weight, let yourself exhale fully.
Inhale when relaxing the movement. For instance, when lowering the weight back down, take a deep breath.
Your breathing should correspond to the lifting and lowering of whatever weight you are lifting.
Properly breathing during strength training prevents injury and increases performance.
 Breathing during your stretching sessions, after or before a workout, most closely resembles the way in which you normally breathe. Relaxed and full inhalations and exhalations are the key.Inhale through your nose. Your nose is specially designed to filter incoming air.
Some experts believe that it's best to exhale through your nose as well.
Get a deeper breath by inhaling with your diaphragm as opposed to your chest.
Never force your breath, either on the inhalation or exhalation.
Try getting a deeper stretch as you exhale, relaxing into the motion.
 By getting proper exercise you will increase the quality and efficiency of your breathing. The main cause of this is that by improving the health and strength of your muscles, they will function better, requiring less oxygen.If you are new to exercise, or have a condition such as COPD, try starting out with light workouts. Aim for increasing the length of time that you exercise rather than increasing the intensity of exercise.

