 To acquire security training courses, you need to be in good shape. Physical fitness is necessary and gives in consideration. Good condition is highly essential. You need to have good and improved vision, balanced emotional condition, great mindset and good hearing.;
, It is essential keep the record clean which will give certification of your character. While getting employed whether in government or any private firm, there is the possibility of coming across with frequent or random inspection that will keep a keen eye on your illegal activities. This will ensure the eligibility for the job. Termination of employment can take place if you are involved in any illegal activity. The minimum age for employment may vary with respect to different countries' rules.



For UK aspirants : Security Industry Agency (SIA) In the UK is a non-profit organization that offers SIA training to candidates. This training is highly beneficial as it can help you get SIA license which is the authorized way to complete operation and perform the duties legitimately.
 No matter from which institute you are acquiring the training course in security, you need to possess certificates that can add credibility to your profile. It is an important part to get through a job interview as this will act as an approval process while hiring for security guard job.
 It is necessary like any other job requirements. Security firms will be hiring people who are highly qualified and is suitable for the job. They would preserve a strong status within security sector. Certifications and degrees associated with this area will act as an added advantage to your career and offer suitable job to you.
 If you have the necessary skill and education, you are certainly on the beneficial side. The education and training of the course will depend on the potential hazard that you need to manage in your career. In case of armed guards, it is necessary to have intensive training that helps in handling fire arms and get a license.
 You can be a security guard only if you can respond quickly to any difficult situation. You will be coming across with different scenarios where you need to take faster and immediate decision which will keep the situation in control.

