 While it may not seem realistic to increase your savings, you need to look at the situation in the long-term. Think about short term and long term goals in order to increase your savings.If you don't have a savings account, create one. Consider setting up your direct deposit with your employer so that a portion of your earnings automatically is set aside to a savings account.
Learn to make small changes that can lead to larger savings. For example, if you're able to save just $20 more each month, that could end up being $240 a year.
Be willing to make big changes in your lifestyle in order to get out of debt or overspending. For example, does a half or one-third of your income goes towards rent or your mortgage? Consider if there are ways to reduce your housing expenses. This may entail larger changes such as moving apartments or homes, or living with roommates.
 It's likely easier said than done, but it can make a big difference in your stress level. If you are struggling with student loans, credit cards, or other forms of debit, make debt reduction a priority. Be realistic that you may not pay off your debts until many years from now, but focus on how you make each day and month seem less stressful.If you are struggling to make your monthly debt payments, consider talking with the credit card companies, banks, or student loan companies about any recent hardships such as a job loss or a loss in income. See if you can negotiate lower rates or reduced monthly payments.
Only use your credit cards when you know you can pay off the bill each month (or pay off the bill and pay down any previous debt).
Get informed about your rights when dealing with debt, credit counseling, debt collection, and debt consolidation: https://www.usa.gov/debt


, Think about your spending as everyday choices you make. Many people overspend because our modern culture values wealth and luxurious living. You may feel like you want to have certain things because "you deserve them." Choose to make everyday choices that help you to save and feel more secure about your spending.
For example, if you like to regularly go to the mall, consider how the mall is a tempting place that can lead to overspending. Think about if there are other activities that you enjoy which could be less tempting.
You may find greater pleasure and reward in your purchases when they aren't everyday anymore. For example, if you switch to making your coffee at home or bringing your lunch to work, the pleasure of buying coffee at Starbucks or going out to lunch will have that much more meaning as a reward.
 While many people lack enough savings to cover an unexpected expense such as major car repairs or a broken refrigerator, there are unexpected expenses that can come up more often than you'd think. Address these unexpected expenses through an emergency fund.Anticipate that there will be unexpected expenses in life. Avoid increasing your debts because of a lack of foresight.
Once you have evaluated your monthly budget, factor into this budget some savings towards an emergency fund. An emergency fund should ideally cover about three to six month's worth of basic expenses.
Only use the emergency fund for emergencies. For example, don't use this fund to pay for Christmas gifts at the end of the year. If you need extra money for family gifts and expenses, then create a separate fund for this.
 One way to balance your spending is to increase your earnings. Consider the costs and benefits of increasing your income. That may involve taking on a second job, changing your job, or asking others in the household to contribute more.


Think about other job opportunities that could increase your earnings. Maybe there are ways to get a promotion and a higher salary in your company? Maybe you could interview for a new job and negotiate a higher salary?
See if there is another part-time job or extra income you could pick up. For example, if you're a handyman, you could help with a neighbor's chores around the home. Or if you like kids, you could babysit. Discuss with your family about how they may be able to contribute some of their earnings more.
With any of these options, just make sure that your work-life balance is still being considered. Many people reduce their financial stress through more work, only to face other stressors such as reduced time with family and friends, or a lack of sleep.

