 Aspirin is an anti-inflammatory medication, so it can be used to help reduce the inflammation surrounding a pimple and make it less visible. Make a paste out of a ground aspirin tablet to treat your pimples.Mix three parts crushed aspirin with one part water until you form a sticky paste.
Take a Q-tip and apply the paste directly to your pimple. Leave it there until it dries completely.
In about thirty minutes, the aspirin will begin to flake off. Wash it off your face and your pimple will be visibly smaller.;
, Pimples become more visible due to the inflammation of the skin caused by the pimple as it forms. Just as you can reduce swelling on injuries like a sprained ankle using ice, you can reduce the inflammation of pimples by doing the same.Wrap an ice cube in a washcloth and hold it against your pimple for a minute or so.
The ice will reduce the irritation and inflammation, making the pimple look noticeably smaller.
 Due to the acidic nature of tomatoes, they can be an effective way to dry out troubled areas of your face. If you find that the tomato pulp causes irritation to your skin, try diluting it in a bit of water.Cut a tomato in half and squeeze some of the pulp and fluid out from the middle of it.
Apply the tomato pulp to troubled or greasy spots on your face to prevent pimples from forming.
Apply the tomato pulp to existing pimples to dry them out and reduce their visibility.
 You can dramatically reduce the size of your pimples by applying toothpaste to them and leaving it overnight. As the toothpaste contains silica, it helps to absorb the moisture from the pimples, causing them to dry out and shrink.Do not use gel based toothpaste, as it will be less effective.
Leave the toothpaste on your pimple overnight and wash it off in the morning.
If your results aren’t what you hoped, wait a few hours after washing the toothpaste off before trying this method again to avoid over-drying your face.
 Tea tree oil is both anti-bacterial and anti-fungal, making it a great acne treatment. Mix some tea tree oil with water in a 1:9 ratio. Then, after cleaning your face, apply this diluted mixture to the affected area with a Q-tip.

Tea tree oil is widely available. You should be able to find it at local health and skin care stores.
 Baking soda can be used either as a facial cleanser or as a spot treatment. You can mix three parts baking soda and one part water and scrub it into your face gently for five minutes before washing it off to use it as a facial cleanser or apply the paste directly to pimples you want to shrink.Apply baking soda and water directly to pimples and allow it to dry. The baking soda will absorb the moisture from the pimple, effectively shrinking it.
Make sure to wash the baking soda off of your face when you are done to avoid over-drying your face.

