 Whether or not you have children, how much you exercise, and how often you’re home can help determine whether or not a dog is right for you. Think about your lifestyle, and consider all of the ways that a new dog will fit into that lifestyle.If you like to go out on weekends or travel frequently, a dog may not be right for you. Remember that you will have to ensure that the dog is taken care of while you are out of the house.
If you have young children under the age of six, you may want to wait a few years before getting a dog, as many dogs may not do well around small children.
If you already own one pet, consider how that pet acts around other animals and dogs. Will your pet appreciate a new friend? Or will they become territorial?

, When you adopt a dog, your home becomes their home too. Some dogs do well in apartments while others need homes with fenced-in yards. Some might be hardy enough to live outdoors while some can only survive indoors. Decide how much space the dog would have to roam, whether or not they’d have a yard, and where you would store a dog crate, food, beds, and toys.


If you are renting, you will have to check your lease to make sure that dogs are permitted on the property. There may be size and breed restrictions as well., Dogs are expensive. A dog can easily cost over $1000 to care for in the first year and $500 every year after.Make sure you can afford a dog before you bring one into your home. Things you may have to pay for include:


Food
Water bowl
Leash
Collar
Microchipping
Toys
Treats
Spaying or neutering
Vet visits
Emergency treatment
Medication
Dog-sitter or boarding

, Dogs need to socialize with people and other animals. Not enough activity means that they will become bored, destructive, or anxious.Make sure that you will have enough time to spend with your dog each day, not just to take care of basic necessities like walks and feedings but also to play, cuddle, and socialize with your pet.


If you work long days, remember that the dog would be alone at your house. Dogs need regular stimulation, such as walks, as well as social activities and toilet breaks outside. If the dog is a puppy or incontinent senior, you may need to hire a dog sitter or walker who will visit them during the day., To understand how strong your desire or reasons are for a dog, test your commitment to caring for one. Determine if you are capable and willing to fulfill all of their needs, even when you are feeling tired, sick, or lazy.You can ask yourself:


Am I committed to training the dog?
Will I be available to feed and walk the dog every day, rain or shine?
Do I mind cleaning up dog poop while housetraining the dog?
Do I own valuable items that might be destroyed by the dog?
Do I mind dog hair on my rugs, furniture, and clothing?
Will I bathe the dog when needed?
Am I able to spend time with the dog every day? Am I willing to skip social events or vacations to care for the dog?

