 Vinegar is an acid, and baking soda is a base. Thus, if you mix them together, you will get an acid-base reaction. Vinegar is probably the most common way to activate baking soda..


The reaction can turn the baking soda into a powerful cleaning agent. For example, vinegar and baking soda can be used to clean a kitchen sink.Add ¼ cup of warm tap water and 2 tablespoons (29.6 ml) of vinegar into ¼ cup of baking soda to see if the baking soda is still good. If it bubbles, it is. This is called “proofing” the baking soda.Vinegar will create a powerful fizz when added to baking soda because of the degree of acidity in it. It's the acetic acid in the vinegar that causes the chemical reaction.;
, Lemon or lemon juice will create an alkalizing effect when mixed with baking soda, activating it.


Add a teaspoon of baking soda to a glass of mineral or other water, and add in the juice from half a lemon. Mix thoroughly before drinking. Some recipes call for adding peppermint leaves or a pinch of salt into the lemon and baking soda mixture, in addition to water.This mixture has purported health benefits. Some people believe it can be used to combat acidosis. The mixture helps the body remove toxins and burn fat. It can be helpful for kidney care.Drinking lemon juice and baking soda can also improve your digestion and combat acid reflux. It helps to purify your liver and provides some needed nutrients, like vitamin C. Always check with your doctor, though, before using any natural remedies.
 Although lemon juice is one of the most common acids to add to baking soda, other juices can work too.


Try adding orange juice to baking soda, and you will get bubbles that come from the release of the carbon dioxide. Fruit purees also activate baking soda. Orange juice has more acid in it than most other fruit juices.
Other juices that will react to baking soda include grape juice, vegetable and fruit juice blends, and limeade.Ketchup can react with baking soda because it contains vinegar.
The acidic reaction will cause fizzing that indicates the baking soda is fresh and actively working.

