 Choose a specific topic within global warming to elaborate on, so that you don't go over the word limit trying to cover too much. Global warming is an extensive subject that may be regarded from different angles. For example, you could choose one of the following angles:


The greenhouse effect and global warming
Global warming: real challenge or far-fetched issue?
Global warming: mechanism of action
Is it possible to reverse global warming?
What caused global warming?
And so forth.;
, With various information sources available, you can conduct a profound research but the extent of information out there can mean you run over time just with research alone. In order to minimize efforts spent on investigation and enhance your performance, act with a goal in mind. Global warming, being a scientific topic, is based on facts, therefore:


Stick to a certain number of reliable sources. Don’t confuse the essay with a research paper, where you would need to cite dozens of references. Writing a composition, limit yourself to five if possible, or a maximum of 10 sources.
Narrow down the allowable sources. Many teachers view some websites with some skepticism and wouldn’t want you to cite them. Instead, you may be recommended to use printed sources. Ask if your teacher hasn't already made this clear.
Choose reliable sources, scientific journals or government supported websites. For example: climate.nasa.gov, nrmsc.usgs.gov, epa.gov, etc.
Write down facts, figures, statistics or other accurate data that will serve as strong arguments to support your statement.
Consider the evidences that are at odds with the view you adhere to. For example, if you are aimed at expanding on the global warming problem, you can’t ignore information saying that our planet faces an opposed process – global cooling. Further, these arguments will come into play and help you reach the appropriate conclusion.
Don’t forget to note the information needed for designing the bibliography. Doing so, bear in mind the required reference format (MLA, APA, Turabian, Chicago, etc.) assigned to you by your teacher.
 Once you are in the picture of the global warming problem, generate the ideas that you will unwrap in the essay. To help you achieve this, try the following:


Write a mind map. Suppose you need to cover the topic “Effects of Global Warming”. Put the theme in the center and briefly list the most burning consequences.
Proceeding from the scientific data you have collected, come up with your original ideas. For instance, if you dwell on the impact of global warming on ice caps, you may suggest a scenario provided that the ablation isn’t stopped.
 Once you've produced topic-related ideas, highlight the ones that will govern the thesis statement of the essay.


If you can incorporate all ideas within one extended sentence, you will get a powerful statement. For example: Global warming is just a fanciful problem invented to suppress substantial challenges that constitute a real threat for humanity.
Irrespective of the way you formulate the topic, global warming is a pressing issue, and it shouldn’t leave the reader feeling indifferent. Thus, your thesis statement should provoke feedback and come across as challenging. For instance: Lifestyle change is the most considerable contribution to global warming problem treatment.
 Start with a paragraph that will set the tone for the whole essay and make it exciting to read.


This may be a quote, such as: “We have passed the tipping points, but, we have not passed a point of no return. We can still roll things back in time, but it is going to require a quick turn in direction”, Dr. James Hansen - top climatologist of NASA. You may get a glimpse of the future and come up with a scene that depicts the potential dire consequences of global warming.
Use the techniques applied in an expository essay to explain what global warming is about. Utilize figures and statistics that could not be bettered to speak about the seriousness of the problem.
Be specific and don’t waffle, since the core of the matter you are to develop in the body of the essay.
Write a thesis statement, which is the embodiment of the problem.
 Now it is high time to put forward your arguments supported by valid facts. For the reader to tune into the beat of your vision of the global warming problem, demonstrate succession in your case presentation.


Provide an explanation of the evidence you describe in the body of the text. If you are writing about factors that contribute to global warming, give specific scientific support. For example: Carbon dioxide emissions, coming from electricity production, top the list of causes for global warming. Just imagine, emissions have increased by 16 times since 1990 and have now reached a dangerous level.

As far as global warming problem is the issue that touches all and sundry, you might have felt its impact in everyday life. Share your experience with the reader. It will definitely strengthen your arguments: Look out of the window! It is mid-January, but instead of snow banks, there is mud and drizzling rain. Isn’t it a vivid demonstration of global warming?
Suggest solutions to the problem. People like happy endings, where the good always wins. Similarly, there are sure to be methods to reverse global warming. And they do exist. Provide the ways to handle the problem that, in the first place, are within power of every person. After all, to change the world, one should start with himself/herself.
 Writing a conclusion is your chance to create traction in the reader’s memory and to keep your audience pondering the global warming issue beyond reading your piece. For this:


Go back to the thesis statement. It is known that repetition has a powerful effect, though, you shouldn’t reword thesis statement. Instead, paraphrase it, keeping its primary meaning intact. For instance, instead of saying "Lifestyle change is the most considerable contribution to global warming problem treatment", write "Having changed our social behavior and consumer attitude to nature, we can reverse global warming problem".
,


The Greenhouse effect as the main consequence of global warming
Global warming: real challenge or far-fetched issue
Global warming: mechanism of action
Is it possible to reverse global warming?
What caused global warming
Etc.



Limit number of sources
Choose valid information
Find and note accurate data connected with global warming issue
Consider various approaches to global warming problem
Adhere to particular reference format

,


Make a list of global warming consequences, causes and solutions
Generate own ideas, based on research findings

,


Use one sentence to craft powerful thesis statement on global warming issue
Make it challenging to provoke reader’s feedback

,


Be specific and concise
Utilize figures and statistics to demonstrate the seriousness of global warming problem
Write thesis statement with the problem exposition in it

,


Provide evidences of global warming and expand on them
Suggest global warming examples from personal experience
Suggest ways to handle the problem, with a special focus on the role of every person in prevention global warming

,


Restate thesis statement for it to have a greater impact on readers
Summarize main ideas in the last paragraph including call to action speech.

