 Meditation has been clinically show to reduce stress and anxiety, which in turn can lead to an improvement in health and immune system function. If you are feeling well enough, try getting a good meditation session and enjoy the benefits that it can bring. Here are some easy ways to get started:Take deep breaths and keep your focus on those breaths. If your mind wanders, return your focus to your breathing.
Examine your body and notice how each part feels. If you find any areas of discomfort or tension, you can imagine them beginning to feel more relaxed.
Read or listen to an important passage, poem, or song lyric. Take a few moments to reflect upon th meanings it holds for you.;
, Even though you might not feel well, getting some laughs in can help boost your immune system and might make you feel better. Laughing has been shown to reduce stress levels and increase your bodies natural killer cells that fight of invading cells.Watch your favorite funny movie or television show.
Listen to a comedy show or your favorite comedy podcast.
Read a book that always makes you laugh.
 Use some of your free time to call up someone you love chatting with. Having a great conversation with a friend or family member has been proven to raise levels of oxytocin, which can help with healing and well being., Take some time for yourself during your sick day and do some light activity you enjoy. This can help take your mind off being sick and can improve your mood. Try some of the following examples to make your sick day an enjoyable one:


Listen to music.
Play a board or video game.
Do your favorite craft or art if you feel well enough.
Plan a future vacation.
 If you have a cold, you might want to try getting some exercise in during your sick day. Listen to what your body is telling you if you do exercise. Don't over do it and stop if you feel worse.Light exercise can alleviate some symptoms such as congestion.
Exercise is fine if your only symptoms are runny nose, congestion, or sneezing.
Do not exercise if you have any symptoms in your chest, like coughing, wheezing, fever or muscle aches.
Stop immediately if you start to feel worse.

