 Many doctors advise against plucking nose hairs: not only can plucking be much more painful than trimming, but it may leave your nasal passage vulnerable to dangerous contaminants and bacterial infections. If you do decide to pluck, be judicious with the tweezers and don't pluck everything.Keep in mind that nose hairs serve an important biological function: they grow so thickly in order to prevent bacteria and other foreign contaminants from entering your nasal passage. When you clear away the majority of your nose hairs, you open yourself up to infection.When you pluck a hair from your nose, the tender hole that the plucked hair leaves behind can easily become infected by any bacteria--including potentially dangerous Staph bacteria--that happen to be lurking in your nostril. It is rare for serious infections to take root in the wake of plucking, but it is always a risk. If you notice redness, oozing, or a non-healing sore in your nose, ask your doctor to test you for infection.
 Ideally, they should be small enough to fit comfortably into your nostril, but not so small that they're flimsy. Clean your tweezers with water and antibacterial soap, and towel them dry before you use them.


Consider using antiseptic to sterilize the tweezers: if they have been used before, especially by other people, they might carry germs and bacteria that you don't want to inhale.
Consider making your own nose hair plucker using a metal spring. This design may enable you to pull out many hairs at once, but it won't necessary alleviate the pain or protect you from infection.
 Make sure that your nose is clean and dry. Blow your nose beforehand, if need be, to remove any gunk. If you're battling a cold, a flu, or any other sinus-related infection, wait until the sickness subsides before you try to pluck your nose hairs: not only will the procedure further irritate your nasal passage, but it may give other contaminants a ready passage into your already-compromised immune system.
 Make sure that you have a place to dispose of the hairs that you pluck--a sink, a waste bin, or a disposable towel will do. Make sure that the lights are bright enough to clearly see into your nostrils: good lighting helps you see the lighter hairs that may be sticking out of your nose.


You may need to get up close to the mirror to see enough detail. Try using a magnifying mirror or a hand-held mirror to get the right angle.
Nose hairs may stick to the tweezers as you pluck. Keep a tissue, napkin, or towel on hand to wipe the tweezers down. If you have access to a sink, you can rinse the tweezers clean of any clinging hair after each pluck.
 Try to pluck only the most visible hairs: the hairs near the rim of your nostril, and any large hairs that noticeably protrude from your nose. Smile at yourself in the mirror to reveal nose hairs that don't poke out otherwise. Resist the temptation to pluck hairs toward the back of your nostril, and by all means leave most of your hairs intact. Again, your nose hairs serve an important function by protecting your body from infection, and removing nose hair completely could have negative side effects.
 Focus first on one nostril, and then move on to the other. Stick the tweezers directly into your nose, but not so far up that it's painful. Grip each hair firmly at the root and give it a quick, sharp tug. Wipe the hairs off onto a clean tissue, or rinse them off of the tweezers with water.


Be prepared for sharp, fleeting pain--it hurts to pull out any hair, but the skin inside your nose is especially sensitive. Make quick, purposeful plucks, and give yourself a few moments for the pain to subside between each tug.
Your eyes will water, and you may feel a sudden urge to sneeze. A sneeze is a muscular twitch that expels airborne irritants from your nostrils. When you pluck a nose hair, it can irritate the skin of your nostril and trigger the "expel airborne irritant" response. You can push your tongue against the roof of your mouth to suppress the urge to sneeze, or you can just let the sneeze happen.
Consider numbing the pain: you can use a quick-acting topical analgesic like IcyHot, or you can try sticking a small ice cube up your nostril for 20-60 seconds. Be aware that if you can't feel any pain, you may pluck so much that your nose hurts later on.
 Remember: you may be scrutinizing your own face much more closely and critically than everyone else see your face. When you're finished, clean the tweezers: wipe them with antiseptic or wash them with soap and water. Blow your nose to expel any hairs that you missed--and consider cleaning out your nostril with a tissue, a sanitary wipe, or a nasal spray. Clean up any stray hairs that have fallen onto the sink, the counter, or the floor.

