 A walk is often a great way to rid the mind of stressors and provide a relaxing time to reflect. Being out in open air can often refresh people and it gives them exercise which can create endorphins (which help boost your mood). If your girlfriend is feeling down, go on a walk with her and allow her to vent if she needs to, or talk about things that will help distract her., Nothing can lighten a heavy mood more than laughter. Crack some jokes around your girlfriend that you know she would laugh at. If she's feeling especially down, she may have a hard time laughing, so just keep on trying until you get her to crack a smile. Don't make light of whatever she is experiencing, but throw in some humor that is completely unrelated to her circumstances.Sometimes the bad jokes are the best jokes to make someone cheer up. Tell your girlfriend a "dad joke" or something really corny. She may laugh out of the fact that he joke is so bad or pitiful.
 Sometimes when people are upset, they just need some time to be lazy and veg out. If you and your girlfriend have some extended time together, ask her if she wants to watch her favorite show. Grab some popcorn, snacks, and candy and spend hours in front of the tv.


Sometimes this is a good approach to cheer someone up for the time being, but it doesn't always help in the end. After you have indulged in hours of tv, consider doing something that will refresh and revitalize you. Go on a run or take a walk outside for some fresh air and exercise.
 This is a great way to distract your girlfriend from any hurt or pain she may be feeling, and it will give her a fun night. Take her to her favorite dance place, whether that's country western dancing, salsa dancing, swing dancing, or dancing in a club. Spend a few hours there and help her let go and just enjoy her night.Even if you're not a very good dancer, your girlfriend will appreciate your effort and will be able to take her mind off things for a little while. If you don't want the sole responsibility of dancing with her, consider inviting some of your mutual friends so that she has a group to dance with.
 This may seem like a strange time to take on a new task, but if you girlfriend has been upset about something for a long time, it could be good to introduce something new into her life. Choose a hobby or skill that you both are interested in, and begin learning and perfecting it. Learning something new will be a good way to distract her and provide something fun in her life.


Maybe your girlfriend has always wanted to learn how to play a certain instrument, wants to take up cycling, or is interested in gardening. Be by her side as you two learn this new hobby and support her in it. If she seems uninterested in learning something new, encourage her slowly. Don't force her to pick up a hobby, but slowly show her how good it can be for her. Start learning the new skill or hobby on your own and share your experience with her. This may motivate her to join you.
 If your girlfriend is feeling especially stressed about something, or something that has upset her has made her body tense, a massage is a great way to ease her mood. By helping her to relax her body, you may be helping her to relax her mind as well. Ask her first if she wants a massage and then work out any tension in her muscles.As you do this you might consider playing some soft music so that she can fully rest and relax. She may just need to keep her mind off things for a while, so a comforting massage and peaceful music may just be the trick.
 Food is always a great way to distract someone or cheer them up. Very few people can resist their favorite dish or dessert, so try taking your girlfriend on a night out to her favorite restaurant. Let her order and eat whatever she wants. She may just need a night to indulge and veg, so be by her side and veg with her.


Some people lose their appetite when they are upset about something. If your girlfriend seems really upset about something, ask her first if she is up for going out. She may just need a night in or time to herself, so do whatever will suit her best.
 If your girlfriend doesn't seem up for going out and just needs a night in, prepare her favorite dinner -- and dessert! Surprise her with a delicious meal when she comes home from work or school. If your girlfriend enjoys cooking, ask her if she wants to cook along with you. It may be a good distraction for her., What girl doesn't get cheered up by holding puppies? Find your local pet or puppy store and take her there for an hour or so, so that she can love on some puppies and they can love on her back., Think about the things in your girlfriend's life that she enjoys or mean a lot to her. Maybe she really likes a certain band, or has been wanting a specific piece of jewelry or clothing for a while. Surprise her with a special gift on a day when she's feeling especially gloomy.


You can also take her shopping, so that she can pick out some things herself. Spending a few hours with her at her favorite stores can go a long way, and it will likely help cheer her up, especially if she finds something she likes.
 Instead of just going on a short date, plan an entire day with your girlfriend. Try to incorporate some of her favorite things and also some things that will refresh her. Plan a picnic or spend some time at the beach. Go to an amusement park for some exciting rides. Visit some touristy areas in your town.

