 What kind of airplane do you want to make? How many people will it seat, how big will it be, and what do you envision it will look like?


You may want to draw your design on a sheet of normal or graphing paper before proceeding to the next step.;
, Enter Roblox Studio and gather different types of bricks that you will need to make your plane. For example: normal blocks, wedges, cylinders, and spheres.
 Make sure the bricks are unanchored and welded on ALL sides.
, Start with the very bottom and work your way up to the "ceiling" of your aircraft. Be sure to add windows and doors where appropriate.
 Wedge bricks will work great for the tail section, and when used in a realistic way, will make the aircraft's nose section look great, too.
 Try making them as neat as possible and in a realistic ratio to the rest of the plane.
 Use this time to add more cool stuff to your plane. Do you want landing gear, winglets, antennae, guns and turrets, or anything else? Feel free to add them now!

, Are all your bricks unanchored and welded together? If not, do so now.
 You can read the ROBLOX Wiki page or find a plane kit that can help you with this step. What this step does is make your plane ready to fly.
 The engine brick is the key to the success of your airplane. If you do not include it, the plane will not fly. The red seat should be a normal welded seat, but also should be colored Bright Red; this is where the pilot will be able to fly the plane from. If the seat isn't bright red, the plane won't fly.
, At this point it is probably a good idea to make a backup model of your aircraft in case something goes wrong. Make sure that the backup model is NOT in the Public Domain.
 Grab a normal plane tool, hop into the red seat and press Y to start flying. If you take off, test how the aircraft handles and behaves. If your plane does not fly, first test other plane tools with your plane. If it STILL does not fly, I recommend going through the contents of the plane to make sure everything is there or increasing the size of the engine brick.
 Congratulations, you have created your first airplane! Now is the time to release your plane into the Public Domain. Name your aircraft and publish it so that others can see what you've made.
 As they say, practice makes perfect. Building the perfect plane will not be easy at first, but once you get the hang of things then you will find that making ROBLOX aircraft is exciting, creative and fun.

