 Your vocal chords are similar to muscles, and they need to be loose and warm to stretch to their fullest. Never go into a song or show without at least 5-10 minutes of simple exercises, like these:


Hum. Humming activates your breath without straining your vocal chords.Trill your lips and tongue to warm up your mouth and jaw (ie. roll your r’s)
Begin with a simple scale, going up and down slowly (doh – mi – sol – mi – doh).
Begin with the easiest songs you are going to practice, waiting 10-15 minutes to tackle the tougher parts.
 When singing in a low register, make sure you sing with an open mouth. Practice in front of a mirror to make sure you're doing this. Don't force your voice, but sing with abdominal support throughout. To strengthen your low register, exercise using a descending scale, repeating and descending semitone by semitone.


If you don't know scales, practice with the classic "Do-re-mi-fah-so-la-tee-doh," lowering your voice at each interval. You could also simply pick a phrase, like "la la la la" to work through.
 When singing in a high register, smile and lift your cheeks. Imagine the sound is coming from the space behind your nose, and try to produce a sound like a witch's cackle. Exercise using ascending scales, placing an 'n' sound in front of a vowel. The 'n' will help push the sound into your high register.


Practice songs you like that hit this high register. Lower the background music so you can really hear yourself and know if you're actually hitting the notes cleanly.
 Singers like Ariana Grande, Celine Dion, Beyonce, Mariah Carey, and Christina Aguilera will often belt out their top notes. Belting is essentially a form of shout-singing. When belting, support your voice by holding in your abdominal muscles and sing in your high register rather than pushing up from the bottom of your voice.


Belting out big notes takes practice. Keep working on hitting normal high notes cleanly, then practice these bigger notes at shows or when you feel comfortable. They will come.
 Pop singing is actually as much about the vocals as the performance. If you want to learn to sing pop songs, you'll need to get out there and really start singing pop. You'll have far more opportunities if you can play an instrument too, or have instruments behind you.


When singing pop, use the mic to your advantage. If you think you're about to miss a note, lean back "dramatically," away from the mic. Need a little more volume, a growl, or some distortion -- get right into the mic and or cup it with your hand while singing.

