 It’s also possible to buy your way into the Actors’ Equity Association through an associated organization. The only qualifications are that the original union you’re in be approved by the AEA and that you remain an active member for at least a year. This is perhaps the fastest way to gain entrance to the AEA if you’re already actively involved in an actors' union.Eligible unions include SAG-AFTRA, The American Guild of Musical Artists (AGMA) and the Guild of Italian-American Actors (GIAA).You’re free to continue your membership in other unions once you’ve been admitted to the AEA.
 Annual participation in an acting union is considered good experience, and will put you on the fast track to joining the AEA. During this time, it will be a good idea to go out for roles that will give you more exposure—you may even manage to secure an Equity contract before the year is over, accelerating the process.Be sure to attend any required meetings or events in order to maintain your standing within the union.
Actors are still encouraged to take part in the EMC Program, even if they’re joining up from another union. The 50 weeks of hands-on training will give candidates practical knowledge of industry standards., Before you’re given the green light to join the Actors’ Equity Association, you’ll be asked to provide proof of membership (in good standing) with another credible actor’s union. They’ll also want to see evidence of your work throughout your year of membership. Be sure to include these documents with the standard Equity application.A letter of recommendation from your current union may be a requirement, as well., Get in touch with the AEA to request an application. If all the necessary conditions are met, you’ll be prompted to pay $400 down on the $1,100 initiation fee. This first payment must be made within six months of the original application date. After you’ve taken care of all this, you can begin enjoying the advantages that membership in the AEA brings.The fee is higher for transferring union members because it cuts through steps that would otherwise be necessary for joining the AEA.
The AEA also asks for regular membership dues, which are paid semiannually in May and November.

