 It's possible that she does, but doesn’t know how. If she agrees that she want to quit, you can help her work on a plan to do so.


If she doesn’t want to, continue gently but persistently sharing with her the dangers of smoking and the benefits of quitting. With luck, your message will get through to her eventually.

Compromise if she decides quitting smoking is not an option. If she refuses to quit, at the very least, encourage her to cut back on the amount of cigarettes she smokes, or encourage her to smoke outside.
 The quit date should be realistic but no longer than two weeks away. This will give your grandma time to prepare, but not be so far off that she forgets to decrease her cigarette intake. Tell her to mark it on her calendar.


If grandma is tech-savvy, encourage her to enter the date in her phone or laptop calendar.
She should also enter reminders like, “Quit date is five days away.” These will keep her focused on reducing her cigarette intake up until the date when she actually quits.
Don’t let your grandma quit cold-turkey. This isn’t impossible, but is very difficult and makes the odds of quitting for good much harder.
Suggest to your grandma that she quit on a day when she normally wouldn’t be meeting friends or acquaintances who also smoke.That way, the temptation to light up will be low.
 For instance, perhaps the health benefits are not that important to her, but the drive to save money on cigarettes is. Whatever her reasons for quitting, she should identify them explicitly. Direct her to write a statement that reads, “I want to quit because … “ followed by her list of reasons. Suggest that she consult this document each day, especially when she’s having a craving for cigarettes, in order to keep her committed to quitting.
 They are different for each person. Some people might be inspired to smoke when they are in social situations and see others smoking. Other people might smoke when they feel bored, stressed, or lonely. If your grandma can figure out what her triggers are, she’ll be in a better position to avoid them or deal with them in more constructive ways.
 Simply quitting smoking is not enough. Your grandma needs to learn to replace her bad habit with a good one.If your grandma smokes in social situations, tell her to spend more time with friends who do not smoke, or suggest to her friends that they go somewhere smoking is not allowed. If your grandma smokes because it helps her relax, encourage her to find other ways to relax. For instance, she might engage in light exercise like walking, bike-riding, or visiting the spa.


In addition to changing her habits, your grandma might be able to kick the smoking habit by obtaining nicotine gum or patches to help her fight cravings.
 Wash her clothes that stink of smoke. Use aromatic candles, potpourri, or scented sprays to conceal the smell of smoke. Open the windows of the house and car and allow them to air out. By erasing all evidence and reminders that she used to smoke, it will be that much easier for your grandma to stay away from tobacco and cigarettes.
 Cigarettes are addictive, and quitting takes tremendous strength and willpower.Encourage her not to smoke. Comment upon and remind her of her progress. For instance, mark a calendar with an “X” for each day she has not smoked. Or you could write “Days without a cigarette” on a dry-erase marker board, with the number of days your grandma has been cigarette-free beneath it.


Say things like, “I’m proud of you” and “I knew you could do it.”
If she starts backsliding, remind her that she should stay focused on quitting and not give up.
Don’t get angry with your grandma. She is surely trying hard. Show her love and understanding.
Distract your grandma by engaging in other activities with her to keep her from smoking. For instance, go shopping together, see a movie, or walk around the neighborhood with her.
 In addition to all the information about health impacts and practical benefits associated with quitting smoking, encourage your grandma to do some research of her own. Sources like smokefree.gov, for instance, offer tips and step-by-step guides on quitting. Similarly, the National Cancer Institute’s Smoking Quitline can provide counseling and assistance for quitting.The more information grandma has, the more likely she’ll want to quit.

