 Or, you could ask a friend to make the designs for you. You'll have to give your friend some of the money you made, though. You'll also need a sketchpad, colored pencils/markers/crayons, pens, and an open mind.;
, Find a spare room in the house, a little nook or cranny, or even the basement or attic, and make that your own personal space. You can work up there, get inspiration, and stuff like that. It can also operate as a showroom, so you can show your friends your creations.
 Make anything that comes up in your mind. If you're not a good sketcher, maybe take drawing classes from a friend, or even take art lessons at your school or community. If you want to make it REALLY real, you could draw it on a human body. If you can, great, try it. If you can't, it's okay. If you have the desire to, take drawing classes. There's an article on how to draw a woman body here, on wikiHow.
 It's a good way to put yourself out there. Share your illustrations and/or creations and get feedback from other fashionistas. Write your feedback on the latest Alexander McQueen shoes or the new Ralph Rucci collection.
 Try to keep in touch with the latest, but don't follow the crowd. Your designs are YOURS and unique. Add whatever you like and leave whatever you don't like out - no reason for not liking it is too stupid or too crazy to leave the item out!, Maybe make your friend's prom dress, or give your cousin your new garment. They'll start showing it off to other people, and they'll say, Where did you get that? and they'll say, Oh, my friend made it. Don't be afraid to put yourself out there, and remember to accept feedback. Feedback only makes you better.
 It could be your name, it could be something like FIERCE or OMG or something like that. Remember that it doesn't have to be a one woman operation. You could have your best friend help. It's way funner!!!

, Like I said about sharing your work: people will comment if it's good work.
 Though fashion designing is stressful, it's exhilarating and not only one of the hardest jobs, but probably the funnest, too. You'll be up there with Dior in no time!!!

