 Mentally aware people are capable of getting out of their head and appreciating the world around them. One way to do so is writing expressively. Purging your inner thoughts on the page can help you engage in the outer world.


Keep a diary. Make a nightly ritual of writing down any thoughts, fears, or hopes you have about your life at the moment. Be honest and use as much detail as possible.By practicing expressive writing on a regular basis, many people are able to disengage with troubling or persistent thought patterns. This can help you become mentally aware and appreciative of the present., Mental awareness is not something you can achieve solely on your own. Surround yourself with people that are self aware, strong, and supportive. Seek out the company of friends and family members that give good advice and seem content with their lives., Mentally aware people accept things they cannot change, including feelings. Acknowledge that sometimes life will be painful and stressful. Accept that both negative and positive feelings are a normal part of life.


Avoidance can be appealing when we're feeling down. However, certain habits people use to disengage in negative thoughts can be more harmful than helpful. Things like drinking and drug use, for example, should not be used to avoid negativity.Instead of trying to cope through avoidance, try to take a moment to acknowledge the feeling the next time you're sad, in pain, or stressed. Say to yourself, "I am not feeling good right now, but this is a normal part of life and it will pass over soon." Mentally aware people embrace their emotions on all levels, positive and negative., Mentally aware people accept they do not always have all the answers. Sometimes, acknowledging that you don't understand a situation, feeling, or person is better than seeking an inaccurate explanation or assumption. Accept that life is sometimes confusing and answers are not always apparent.People often engage in behaviors to try to avoid dealing with uncertainty. These include seeking excessive reassurance from others, list-making, double-checking, procrastination, and avoiding situations. Keep a diary of how you avoid coping with uncertainty head on. Write down any activities you engaged to avoid uncertainty.Once you have an idea of how you avoid uncertainty, try engaging in behaviors that allow you to practice living with uncertainty. For example, if you excessively double check e-mails before sending them out, try sending a few e-mails out each day without re-reading them before hitting "send." Leave your house without double checking to make sure you locked the door.Keep up with your diary. Write down how you felt about, say, sending an e-mail without reading it over. Writing about your feelings can help you cope with them.Keep practicing. It can take awhile to feel comfortable with uncertain aspects of life. Move from small stakes activities, like leaving without double checking the door is locked, to activities that are more difficult for you. For example say you dislike going to parties as you're uncertain about what precisely will occur in social situations. Force yourself to go to a party by yourself or attend a social gathering you would normally avoid.