 It can be any kind, anywhere. It's best to have a specific rock in mind. Be sure to look and see what breed it is, also see if you want a smooth rock, or a bumpy rock. You can find different rocks at the park, your garden, etc.;
, If it's for a traveling companion, pick a small one. If it's for a friend, a larger size is best. But you can adjust to what you want. If you want one that's medium, or extra small, you can pick it! Its up to you. It's your special rock.
 See Bathing for detailed instructions.
 You now have a pet rock!

, You could give your rock simple names like Rocky, or settle with an exotic name, like Star. Make sure it suits you and your rock. Be creative and maybe name your rock a type of berry or a flower. Like for example the name Lemon, it might have little yellow cracks or be yellow. Or if you would call it Blossom, it could be slightly tinged pink or be a white color. You should also determine your pet's "gender". Don't call a boy rock Petal unless you really want to. If you can't decide, think of whatever name you like, boy or girl.
 If It's bumpy or smooth, give it a name that suits it. Maybe you have a brown rock? Get to know it's appearance to ensure you've picked the right name.
 It will give you plenty of names to look through. Some advice: Make a list of all the names you want, then narrow it down. Remember, you can always give the rock a middle name and a last name!

, It can't eat physical objects, so provide it with food for its other senses, such as sight, touch, smell, and hearing. You can play sweet music, paint or print of a nice image, find something soft, etc. If you can't print or find any thing that smells nice, try to see if your rock is interested in looking at your food and maybe if you're comfortable with it your rock could smell your food.
 This is only if you can. If you're a young child, ask an adult to assist.


Add some lemon or orange peels to a handful of cloves. You can also add rose petals, mint, or lavender.
 Again, you can just let it see what you do for snacks.
 Classical music will do nicely. But if you don't like classy music, your rock can still be comfortable with catchy pop. Despite their name, pet rocks don't normally like rock music.
 Rub your pet rock over these different textures. This is a good idea for if your rock gets a bit rough.
, Stir it together, and carefully place your rock inside the mix. But before you do, check the rock's type. Some rocks may not be able to go in water.
 Scrub for 2-4 minutes. Make sure it rubs all over, under any crevices.
 Now, let your pet rock rest. Bathing is very important when "pet rocking", and rocks like to contemplate their day after a relaxing bath. You may need to redo any text/pen that you may have drawn on.
 If you are a child, ask and adult to help.
 a matchbox or Altoids box) against a corner of the box. Fill it with a soft material, such as cotton, felt, or some cloth. Even newspaper shreds will do.
 Make sure it fits the whole area.
, You may want to halve it.
 If you don't have doll pillows, try sewing a pillow.


Set the beanbag couch on the side, and make a table by setting a piece of sturdy material over four pebbles. You could glue them on.
 You can also play some music.
 Use this color for the carpeting in the house.
 Bring it to school, on a vacation or just take a nature walk with your pet.
 You can add an attachment for its belongings.
 The remaining flaps are to be folded about 3-4cm away from the ends.
 Please ensure that when you close the box the slits are lined up.
 Fold it.
 Then it's ready for use!

, Rocks can get sick too! They may pick up moss, fungi, lichen, and other unwanted diseases.



Throw dried flower petals into some hot water and mix in very little bubble mix.
Massage your pet rock! Rub its nooks and crannies with Vaseline or baby oil. You could also get some other rocks to come.



Gather some friends, whether they have pet rocks or not. If they don't, you may desire to give them some.
Grab some of your favorite snacks, and feed your pet rock as well. Remember they must use the senses other than taste!
When it's time to go to sleep, bring your pet rock's bed with you in your sleeping bag. Tonight, you sleep with your special pet. If you don't want to, put the rock in it's home. If your friends brought or have been given pet rocks, place them in as well. Remember which rock belongs to who, though!

, If you remember the day you found your pet rock, a birthday party is a great way to celebrate each year you and your pet spend together. If you don't, host it whenever you like!


Make a special meal for you and your rock. Keep in mind it can't eat your food, but you can eat yours.
Spend some alone time together. Maybe play a game.
 Its a great way for you and your pet rock to spend some quality time together. First of all, find some thin card (this will be used as a wall so find a box with walls the same size, if needed cut to size).
, When complete, cut out one side of the wall on your box and glue your cut out wall in its place.
,, Put your favorite movie or video on, pop some corn. And of course give your fellow friend a little beanbag to relax on, sit back, relax, and enjoy not having friends!

