 There are two types of surrogacy, and you will need to find a surrogate who is willing to use the route you prefer.


In the most common process, called "traditional surrogacy," a surrogate mother gets pregnant through the artificial insemination of sperm into her own egg. The sperm can be inserted into her vagina at a doctor's office, or in some arrangements, she can inseminate herself using such devices as a turkey baster. She then carries the baby to term and delivers it, at which point the intended parents assume custody and raise the child as their own. This method is most affordable, and the baby will have the DNA of one of its (male) intended parents and the surrogate.Donor sperm can also be used for traditional surrogacy (either from a sperm bank or a willing friend).
Another option, gestational surrogacy, uses the egg and sperm from the intended parents and a process of in vitro fertilization. The surrogate mother in this case is basically the birth mother and has no genetic claim on the child. This method is more expensive but allows two opposite sex parents to both have their DNA represented in the child (in other words, they will be his biological parents).
Because traditional surrogacy involves the surrogate's own egg, it is more legally complex. Some states allow for a surrogate mother to change her mind and back out of a surrogacy contract if the egg is her own, because they see her as the biological mother with claims to her own offspring. Because of this, gestational surrogacy is legally easier in most states, even though it is more expensive.;
, Surrogacy is increasingly common, as there are many situations in which parents might choose to reproduce using surrogacy. Some of these scenarios include:


A woman is biologically unable to conceive a child or doing so might be medically risky (for example, if she takes necessary medications that would be dangerous during pregnancy).A gay couple wants to have a child that has one of their DNA. Either using the surrogate's egg or a donor egg, one of them can use his own sperm to fertilize the egg.Advanced maternal age makes reproduction impossible or difficult, and/or failed attempts at in-vitro fertilization have made natural conception difficult.
Many other reasons, such as a woman's professional career making pregnancy and birth undesirable or impossible.
 Depending on where you live, you may experience some social backlash or disapproval for your decision to use a surrogate. You should prepare for this reaction.


Many people consider it unethical because there are children in need of foster and adoptive homes. Some families who conceive via surrogacy report that they are often asked "Why didn't you just adopt?"
Many people disapprove of it because it can separate the act of reproduction from the context of marriage, which some people disagree with on ethical or religious grounds.
While you can prepare answers for these types of personal questions, perhaps the best thing to do to prepare for social reactions is to find a support group or other people who have been through the same experience.
 Depending on where you live, there will be rules about what you will be expected to pay and what kind of rights you have during the surrogate's pregnancy.In some states, like Indiana, Kansas, and Kentucky, the state government has indicated that surrogacy contracts are either unenforceable or can be overturned by a party to the contract. Entering into a surrogacy contract in states like these might be risky.Michigan and New York expressly prohibit surrogacy and will fine people who enter into a surrogacy contract.Utah is notoriously strict on surrogacy. Traditional surrogacy (which uses the surrogate's egg) is against the law, but gestational surrogacy (which implants an egg fertilized through IVF) is allowed, provided that it uses the egg or sperm of at least one of the intended parents.People in Utah who want to opt for traditional surrogacy will have to go outside the state to find a surrogate and conduct the legal proceedings.
Most states, however, are generally favorable toward surrogacy contracts and have no major obstacles facing prospective parents or surrogates.
 The route you take toward surrogacy, whether through private party arrangements or an agency, influences how expensive it might be.


The cheapest possible route will still cost you. If you have a friend who is willing to be a surrogate, and you want to use your own or donated sperm from a friend, you may only have to pay fees for legal proceedings, the surrogate's medical insurance and bills for procedures and delivery, and whatever compensation plan you agree upon. This will differ depending on your agreement, but you should know that the average cost charged to insurance for all medical expenses associated with a pregnancy and delivery in the United States is about $30,000 for a vaginal birth and about $50,000 for a C-section (including fees for routine checkups and screenings like ultrasounds, blood tests, and cervical exams; as well as the expenses of labor and delivery including anesthesia and the hospital stay).Women with insurance pay an average of $3,400 out of pocket.Using a surrogacy agency and donated eggs and sperm is the most expensive route, but sometimes it is the best option. Between agency fees, psychological screenings and monitoring (generally required to help the agency avoid liability if there are problems), medical procedures and screenings, legal representation and fees, and insurance fees (covering the pregnancy, delivery and newborn(s)), the cost to the parents can easily top $150,000., Sometimes, family members are willing to be surrogates for their relatives. This has its benefits and challenges, but may help you feel better about the surrogacy process if you are working with someone you know and trust. It is also sometimes the only option because of how expensive an agency can be.


Be sure that you choose someone who is reliable, healthy, and who does not engage in risky behavior. While there are no official laws for who can be a private surrogate, you should choose someone who has had at least one healthy pregnancy and birth and is involved with that child's life, is at least 21 years old, has no health problems, and is not addicted to any substances. Its also a good idea to find someone who does not have a history of pregnancy issues or miscarriage.
Surrogacy is a huge commitment and sacrifice, so do not ask someone that you have a nominal relationship or who does not fully support you.
Be sure the relationship is acceptable. There are certain familial relations that cannot be a surrogate because it would endanger the baby's health (as in incest). For instance, you cannot ask your husband's sister to be the surrogate using his sperm and her egg. But, you could ask her to be the surrogate using donated sperm from another man.
 If you don't have a friend or family member who might serve as a surrogate, its possible that your friends know of someone.


Consider setting up a blog about your family and why you want to find a surrogate. Then, share the link on your social networking sites like Facebook, Twitter, or Instagram, and ask your friends to spread the word.
Ask your church or civic group to spread the word.
Be sure that anyone who is referred to you is well known by someone you trust. Conduct a thorough interview of this person. Find out why they want to be a surrogate, and what they hope to get out of the experience.
 If your friend is willing and eager to proceed, it is still important to ensure that everything is done legally to protect you, the surrogate, and the baby.


Be sure that she agrees on the terms of the surrogacy, including what steps she will take during her pregnancy to ensure the health of the baby:Does she agree to not smoke, drink, and to exercise?
Does she agree to attend regular checkups and screenings at the obstetrician's office?
Does she agree to notify you of every test result and finding?
Does she agree that you may be present at ultrasounds and the birth?
Does she agree to relinquish all rights to the baby immediately at birth?
What will happen in case of miscarriage, still birth, or multiple births?



, A lawyer specializing in surrogacy law or reproductive rights will be able to ensure that all legal requirements are met.


A lawyer specializing in surrogacy will be prepared to include all necessary terms, but be sure to include all of the steps she has agreed to take to ensure the health of the pregnancy, as well as expenses for her insurance, medical expenses, maternity clothes, stipend for food, coverage of lost wages due to maternity leave or if she should be unable to work for unexpected reasons, etc.).
Be sure that your paperwork is signed by all parties and filed before proceeding with insemination. In states that are favorable to surrogacy, the judge can issue a "determination of parentage" before the implantation or insemination procedure takes place, to help prevent any legal issues later.In some other states, you will have to undergo adoption procedures after the birth, and until those procedures are completed, the surrogate will have custody of the child., Agencies exist to match parents with women who are willing to be surrogates. These agencies charge a fee to handle all aspects of the surrogacy.


Agencies screen potential parents and provide counseling about options (such as traditional vs. gestational surrogacy, and local vs. international surrogacy). They locate and arrange interviews with surrogates, handle the contracts and legal aspects of the arrangement, and act as a go-between for fees such as surrogate compensation and medical fees. They also help you resolve any problems that arise.
They also have the ability to conduct thorough background checks, psychological evaluations, and health screenings on all parties, and provide ongoing counseling throughout the process., You can locate an agency using the yellow pages or Google, or by word of mouth.


If you know someone in your area who has had a baby via surrogacy, ask them what agency they used and if they were satisfied with the experience.
If you don't know anyone who has used a surrogacy agency, put the word out in your social circles that you are looking for a reliable agency. Post to Facebook, Twitter, or to private groups like mommy groups or church groups to ask for referrals. Even if no one has used an agency, someone likely knows of someone else who has.
 The first appointment should be a free consultation (verify this when you call to be sure you won't have to pay a fee if you decide to go with someone else).


At this appointment, you can interview the agency to be sure that you are comfortable working with them. Bring a list of questions and write down their responses. Be sure to ask:

How long have you been in business? How many successful surrogacy births have you arranged in that time?How many unsuccessful surrogacy arrangements have you had? Why?
How do you select surrogates? (They should screen them medically and psychologically as well as having criteria like those suggested by the American Society of Reproductive Medicine, such as being over age 21 but under 34, having had one child, good health, no smoking, etc.)Have you been sued by clients or surrogates (if yes, why?)? What was the outcome of the litigation?Are there any state-specific problems with surrogacy that they have encountered, such as delayed court orders or adoptions? What do they do in these situations?How close are the estimates they give clients to the final fee that clients actually pay?If you feel comfortable with the agency, you can also begin to discuss the process and look at profiles of available surrogates. You might also want to set up your own profile so the agency can help find you an ideal surrogate match.



This is a personal decision based on your circumstances and finances, so there is no right or wrong answer; but you will only be able to choose a surrogate mother who agrees to that method. Most surrogates prefer to use the gestational process rather than the traditional process, since the former does not require the use of their own egg.



A history of a successful birth helps ensure that the woman's reproductive abilities are intact and that she is healthy and strong enough to birth a child.
This is also recommended by the American Society of Reproductive Medicine because a woman who has given birth is better able to make an informed decision about the process understanding the difficulties of pregnancy and labor and the emotional issues that come with the birth of a baby. She will be able to decide whether she can handle growing and birthing a baby that she will never see again.
 Someone who takes care of her body, eats healthy food and gets good exercise is an ideal candidate. She will also need to be comfortable undergoing invasive medical tests and procedures.


She should not smoke, drink, or take recreational drugs; she should also be free of STDs and not engage in non-monogamous sex, and/or be willing to abstain from sex for the duration of the pregnancy.
She should be willing to take prenatal vitamins and any medications prescribed by her obstetrician, as well as changing her diet as needed throughout the pregnancy (some women develop gestational diabetes, which requires a major change to the diet).
She should have no history of pregnancy complications or miscarriages. If you are using a traditional surrogate, she should also have no family history of genetic disorders.
In addition to physical health, mental health is a major consideration. Ask for a mental health evaluation from a qualified therapist. You want to make sure your surrogate will be able to give the baby to you after birth without any trauma or regrets.
 If you are going to be using her egg via traditional surrogacy, you might prefer to choose a surrogate who looks like you or your partner or who has a similar ethnic heritage.


If you are using a donor egg or your own egg via gestational surrogacy, then this is not a factor since the child will not have any of the surrogate's DNA.
 A good match depends on you and your surrogate being compatible. Pick someone you will enjoy getting to know for the next 9 months to 1 year.


At the initial interview, she is also interviewing you. While you need to ask very personal questions eventually, some of them might be best saved for the second interview (like personal questions about her sexual history). On the first interview, you should get to know her as a person and ask more general questions like:Why do you want to be a surrogate?
(Assuming she has had a successful birth) What are your favorite and least favorite things about pregnancy and birth?
How do your family and friends (and/or husband or partner) feel about you being a surrogate for someone else?
How do you feel about me (and/or my partner) being present at doctor's appointments, ultrasounds, and the birth?
Do you want to maintain contact after the birth, and if so, what do you hope that looks like?
How many babies are you willing to carry, and what are your feelings on selective reduction?
If there were complications with the fetus and the doctor recommended terminating the pregnancy, how would you feel about that? Would you be OK with it if that was our choice?



, Make sure your surrogate is willing to go through legal channels and to sign a contract stipulating reimbursement, fees, healthcare and level of involvement before, during and after the birth of the baby.


Be sure that the contract is written up by a professional to avoid any loopholes or errors in wording that could be potentially damaging later.
Include all the expectations for all parties, agreements on what to do in contingent circumstances (like multiple fetuses, miscarriage, terminating the pregnancy, etc.), agreements about compensation and reimbursements, and requirements for the surrogate (health related behaviors, regular doctor's appointments, no smoking, etc.)

