 Recognize that many of them are struggling with problems you cannot see—broken homes, grumpy parents, undiagnosed disabilities, sick family members, friendship troubles, et cetera. Everyone (including you) is fighting some sort of hidden battle. Treat them with

, particularly if you think there's something more going on. Compassion matters., Some days it might be tempting to yell at your class, but this is not good for the classroom atmosphere. Instead, manage your own anger (if your students see you using techniques, they'll try those techniques), take a few deep breaths, and speak calmly but firmly.


Write it down or talk into a recording device.
Breathe deeply for several seconds.
Squeeze a stress ball.
Count to ten.
 Bullying, sexual harassment, and cheating are very serious issues. Do not allow students to interfere with others' learning or sense of safety.


Talk with bullying victims one-on-one about what happened (because the bully's presence may intimidate them). Get the principal and parents/guardians involved.
Take harassment seriously. Enforce the concept of personal space, and do not allow lewd comments. Punish the perpetrator and let the victim move away from him/her.
Ask cheaters why they cheated, and talk with them about more constructive ways to handle their trouble with school. This (along with punishment) can help prevent future incidents.
 You will have students of different races, gender identities, sizes, and sexual orientations. Some students will have disabilities like autism, Tourette Syndrome, or dyslexia. Be a role model by respecting all students, and making accommodations without batting an eyelash. This teaches others that all needs are valid and worthwhile.


Ignore disability symptoms (e.g. tics and stimming), and students will learn that these are normal and not a big deal.
Don't let the boys interrupt or talk over the girls.
Respect the pronouns of transgender students. They know their own identity best, and can tell you how you should handle it.
 Disabled children (and even teens) may not be diagnosed yet, and you can help by mentioning if you see something unusual. Consider not only your struggling students, but your overachieving students, and the students in the middle. Tell the school and the parents/guardians so they can get the child tested for various conditions.


Anxiety, lethargy, isolation, and irrational thoughts may mean a mental illness is at play. (These do happen to good people.)
Struggles at school may mean a learning disability.
Difficulty in gym class may mean asthma, chronic pain, or another physical disability.
Social struggles, need for routine, sensory issues, and passionate favorite subjects may indicate autism. (Average and bright students can also be autistic.)

