 Like a loan, a grant is typically a one-time infusion of cash. Unlike a loan, however, you do not have to pay back the money. You can think of a grant as free money. But it can be trickier to qualify for a grant than for a loan. Typically, grants are awarded to businesses that meet special criteria. For example, non-profits, minority- or women-owned businesses and those that perform highly-technical research and development activities often qualify for grant money.
 The federal government does not give grants for starting or growing a small business. Some businesses do receive federal grant money if they are involved in something related to a policy initiative. For example, the Small Business Administration (SBA) can sometimes make grants to non-profits for education and training. Also, federal grants sometimes fund medical research, science, education and highly-technical research and development activities.SBA grants for non-profits are announced on grants.gov.
Businesses qualifying for specific initiative grants authorized by Congress will be notified.
U.S. government’s Small Business Innovation Research (SBIR) program and its Small Business Technology Transfer (STTR) programs offer grants for high-tech research and development. You can find out about these grants at SBIR.gov.
 State and local governments sometimes offer grants to specific kinds of businesses. For example, some states offer grants for expanding child care facilities. Other initiatives for which you may find state grants include developing energy-efficient technology and creating marketing for tourism. You usually are required to match funds if you receive one of these grants. Also, the grants are typically small, so you may have to seek other forms of financing, such as a loan., Most states offer grants for women- or minority-owned businesses. Also, federal agencies assist women and minorities to find funding to start or expand their businesses. Finally, private funding sources are available for women- and minority-owned businesses.Go to the business section of your state’s website to find available grants. Here you will also find information about any incentives or programs your state has available for your business.
Visit the Minority Business Development Agency (MBDA) at mbda.gov. This agency is run by the U.S. Department of Commerce, and it helps minorities and women to establish and expand their businesses. Here you can research grants and find links to state funding for your business.
Private companies that fund grants for women-owned businesses include Huggies, Chase Google, InnovateHER, Fedex, Idea Cafe, the Woman Veteran Entrepreneur Corp (WVEC), Walmart and Zion’s Bank.
Private companies that offer grants for minority-owned businesses include Fedex, the National Association for the Self Employed (NASE), Miller Lite and Huggies.