 Shop at thrift stores, flea markets, and, whenever possible, garage sales. Though you can find gear designed to look “hippie” in other places (like New Age stores and eBay), the whole point of hippie fashion was to stop buying what big corporations were selling in favor of used clothing that was purchased locally.


Many hippies are into sewing and other handcrafts; if you can make your own clothes, that's even better. In making your own clothes, a little effort goes a long way; something that was made by you nets you a lot more credit than something that was anonymously bought from someone else.;
, A simple tee will work if you have other accessories to dress it up with, but try to opt for faded, old, or used tees. (If you're a woman, wear a soft, cotton bra — no under-wire or padding — or don't wear a bra at all.) Hipsters have largely claimed the ironic and retro tees, but that doesn't mean you can't dabble, too. Still, there are other options for you to try if you want to branch out:


Incorporate tie-dyed tops into your repertoire. Sure, they probably shouldn't be worn every day, but once in a while, they're a great alternative.
Dashikis can add beautiful color and tribal patterns to an otherwise drab outfit.
India is another source of hippie clothing inspiration.
Nice, long-sleeved peasant blouses are an especially popular choice among hippies, as they're stylish without being fussy.
 A vest is a great option for accessorizing with other tops. In the '60s, at the height of hippiedom, the suede fringe vest was a classic option for man and woman alike. There's a lot that says "hippie," but this screams "hippie." Alternately, any variety of vest should work:


Long vs. short
Colorful vs. monochrome
Loose vs. tight
Floral
Beaded

, Although the vintage denim jacket is classic hippie, there are other options if you want to spice things up. If it has beads, embroidery, or patterned trim, go for it. Leather, suede, sheepskin, or even fur (although if you're an animal-conscious hippie, you may want to steer clear) are all fair game. An army jacket could also be appropriate in some situations, although some hippies might misinterpret the clothing. You could embroider peaceful slogans on it to make your intentions clear.


Hoodies, although comfortable, are not generally thought of as hippie material. You can wear them in a pinch, but don't rely on them.
In general, stick to older jackets. Newer tees can be made to fit into hippie wardrobe, but newer jackets are hard to incorporate.

