 If you have a side part you can keep it, just split your hair in half at the crown of your head. Otherwise, start from the front of your head and part your hair evenly down the middle.
 This keeps that side of your hair out of the way while you work on the other side. It’s up to you which side you’d like to start with, just make sure one side is secured and out of your way.
 Start near the front of your face and near the part. Take a 3 inch (7 cm) section of hair and divide it into three equal, smaller sections.
 A plait is just the first section of a braid. To make one, cross the front and back strands over the middle strand. Start with the back strand – the one closest to the back of your head – and cross it over the middle strand. Then cross the front strand over the middle.
 After you’ve made the first plait, add another, small section of hair from behind the back strand to it. Then cross the thicker back strand over the middle strand. This allows you to incorporate more hair into the braid and keeping moving toward the back of your head.
 Instead, grab a section of hair from immediately underneath the front strand. Use this as your new front stand and incorporate into the braid by crossing it over the middle section. This creates a waterfall effect.
 Keep repeating the process until you reach your part. Then braid the loose hair at the end into a regular braid and tie it off with an elastic. You may need to pin it to get it out of the way as you work on the second braid.
 On the same side of your head where you created the waterfall braid, create a French braid. You should do this underneath, but close to, the first waterfall braid.








Divide a section of hair near the front of your face into three sections, using one waterfall piece as one of the sections. Cross the back strand over the middle, then the front. Once the first plait is complete, add the next waterfall section to the back strand, moving toward the back of your head.
 Once the French braid reaches your part, braid the loose hair into a regular braid. You should now have two regular braids from the first side of your hair.
 Take the hair on the opposite side of your head out of the elastic and repeat the whole process on that side of your head. Make sure you keep the braids close together to maintain the woven effect.
 Once you’ve finished braiding your hair, gather all four regular braids (the ends of the waterfall and french braids on each side of your head) into one ponytail near the middle of the back of your head. Then take the smaller elastics out of each braid so that the hair in the ponytail is loose.








You might need to gently brush or run your fingers through the loose hair in the ponytail so the hair looks evenly distributed.
 Don’t pull too hard, since you can pull the braids out. But pulling lightly on the edges makes the woven effect look thicker and more incorporated.







