 If you use the same quilt or comforter year-round, you might need to reevaluate. If you find yourself waking up hot when you sleep, your covers may be too heavy and trap heat in your bed. , Fabrics like flannel and satin don't breath and can trap heat in the bed with you, causing you to overheat. Switch out these materials for cotton sheets. They will allow better circulation, which will help cool you off throughout the night., Down pillows can trap heat around your head, which can cause your whole body to overheat. Replace your pillow with a different kind of pillow, such as a buckwheat pillow. This material is a little less comfortable, but it breaths more and allows more air to reach your head while you sleep., To make your bed nice and cool, try bringing something chilly, like a frozen water bottle or a cold compress, to bed with you. There are lots of different approaches you can take to cool your bed down.Try putting your sheets and pillowcase in the fridge or freezer a few hours before bed. Remove them when you are getting ready for bed, putting the chilled sheets on your bed right before you lay down. The material will be nice and cold and help keep you cool while you sleep.
Try placing a cold compress on your pulse points at your ankles, wrists, neck, elbow, groin, and behind the knees. You can use a frozen washcloth, and ice pack, or a bag of frozen vegetables. This will cool your core temperature down and help reduce your heart rate, which increases as you heat up.
If you need some cooling down, but don't want to be too chilly, consider going to bed with damp hair, or even placing a damp sheet on your bed. You can also mist your whole body with some water. This works best if you can open a window for a nice breeze.
There are also a variety of high-tech cooling devices on the market, including pillows and mattress pads that are designed to keep your bed at the ideal temperature for sleeping., If there is nothing you can do to make your regular bed cool enough on hot nights, you might want to try sleeping in a hammock or a cot. Both of these will increase the airflow to your skin, which will cool you down as you sleep. They are also typically lower to the ground than most beds, which will get you away from hot air.