 You'll need to know exactly what's going into the dishes. Is there chicken broth in the stuffing? How about the gravy? And how do they feel about catering to your wishes? You know them best -- what would they respond to?


Offer to make a compromise. You can either offer to host (taking the weight off their shoulders and the pressure to stay healthy off you), offer to help cook (that way you can influence what goes in the recipes or have portions set aside pre-meat stage), or offer to bring some side dishes. You'll definitely need to plan the menu together!;
, Many vegetarians find that if they don't make a big deal of it, no one else will either. So if you're fine just using logic, reason, and a bit of coy prying ("Mmm, grandma, this looks so good! What's all in it?"), you may get through Thanksgiving without Uncle Bob waving bacon in your face. Consuming a bit of chicken stock once a year will not make the vegetarian gods take your gold star away.
 You know what your family will respond to. If Aunt Flo won't accommodate you when you say, "I have a disturbing documentary for you to watch on the terrors of the agricultural industry, Flo," don't waste your time. Instead, consider saying, "I'm trying to be as healthy as possible. Vegetarians live longer, have lower rates of heart disease and cancer, and you know about our history of high blood pressure." In other words, speak their language. If they see your reasoning, they may be more open to compromise.


Know your pesky uncle is trying to make you smile. When you're subject to a surprising amount of Tofurkey jokes, don't be alarmed. Your awkward relatives are just trying to relate to you in any way they know how. That and, well, they may honestly just not get it. And that's fine. Smile anyway.
 Going into Thanksgiving and demanding your 94 year-old meat-and-potatoes grandma change up the Thanksgiving she's been cooking for over half a century and leaving her to the wolves is just cruel. Give her some tips! If she doesn't want you in the kitchen with her (or you bringing your own dishes), she may need some pointers.


You know the drill. Mushroom gravy. Using olive oil instead of butter. Almond milk instead of dairy. Coconut oil in the sweet potatoes. Vegetable stock instead of chicken stock. Yadda, yadda, yadda ad infinitum.
Ask for a portion to be put aside before meat or animal products get put in. That way everyone can be happy! And you're perfectly willing to join in the dividing and adding the mushroom gravy and veggie stock yourself, of course.
 If the host doesn't mind, of course. If anything, they should be grateful that you're taking some of the heat off them. And, really, veggie dishes are delicious -- other people will be eating them too!


Wonders can be had with pumpkin, potatoes, beans, and pasta dishes. Vegetarianism is really the diet of the future (preaching to the choir, eh?); you could spend days online looking at recipes before you hit your second lap.
Start your own tradition. Acorn squash, anyone? Do you have a veggie recipe you love? It could become part of your family's Thanksgiving. More and more people are becoming health concerned -- or at least trying to avoid gaining weight over the holidays!

, Many health-conscious stores (like Whole Foods) do Thanksgiving dishes (and entire meals) that are catered to vegetarians and vegans. So if you don't feel like whiling away the hours on dem Internets looking up kale and lentil recipes, know that someone else can totally do the work for you.


Whole Foods even offer Thanksgiving vegetarian cooking classes.Do you know how to massage kale? Make cashew cream? Useful stuff!

, Since you're only able to eat a portion of what's at the table, you have every right to jump on those vegetarian dishes. If you're sitting at a table of 10 and the mashed potatoes are rotating to the left, you may be subject to slim pickings by the time it makes its way over to you. It's not rude -- you need to eat!

, Just because you're vegetarian does not make you healthy. Eating a dozen rolls on turkey day and calling it good isn't the idea here. Make sure you load up on a variety of dishes (if at all possible) and get in your vitamins and nutrients. Think veggies, not rolls and dessert!

, The fact of the matter is that this is one meal. If a little meat gets in, that's 1 meal out of the thousand that you ate this year. That's .1%. The industry won't reap the benefits, the animals won't spurn you, and your vegan friends won't condemn you. While you should stick to your principles, don't let your dietary constrictions ruin your holiday! You're supposed to be giving thanks, remember?

