 Telling anyone, even your grandparents, that you are pregnant does not have to be an elaborate event. You can just come right out and tell them the next time you call or visit their home. They will be surprised to hear the news any way that you break it.


For example, you could simply say “I have some big news. I am pregnant.”

, There are several ways to deliver the message to your grandparents. If you meet them for dinner, or have a family gathering, you can choose any vessel you’d like to deliver the message. Some common examples are:Put the message into a fortune cookie.
Write it on the label of a wine bottle.
Make a greeting card (e.g. Christmas card) for them.
 Aside from a straightforward announcement, you can always create a clever message or puzzle to surprise your grandparents. This could be a riddle on a greeting card, a suggestive message, or picture. You could also show them an ultrasound picture or baby clothes that say something like “World’s Cutest Baby.”One example of a clever riddle is to put a hamburger bun in the oven and find a reason to show them your oven. This plays off of the common phrase that pregnant women have a “bun in the oven.”

, This is a subtle way to get their attention and let them come to the conclusion that you are going to have a little one. Just be prepared for a lot of questions after you say it!


For example, you could say something like “So, how have the world’s best great grandparents been lately?”

, If your grandparents enjoy coffee, this could be a perfect announcement gift. This allows them to take home a souvenir and look back on the day of your announcement. You can have cups printed with pictures or words like “Great Grandparents.”.
 Just like decorating a coffee cup, giving them a picture frame allows them to display the announcement. To top it off, put a picture of the ultrasound in the frame. This will be their first look at their great grandchild.
 Printed T-shirts are a fun way to tell your grandparents that they are going to be great grandparents. You can go as simple as having “Great Grandparents” printed on the shirt, or you can have pictures designed for the shirt as well. Your grandparents will appreciate the thought that went into this announcement.

