 Don’t rush into the healing process. Understand that you will have setbacks – times when it seems you are not coping well at all, even though you were doing okay before. Allow yourself to grieve at your own pace, then allow yourself to take as long as you need to heal.Take a small vacation if you need to. Use the time to focus on healing yourself.
Gradually resume your normal routine. For example, work ½ day for a day or two. Then slowly return to your normal work schedule.
 You will not just need to heal your emotions, but your body may need healing as well. Changes in eating and sleeping habits, tension, and the emotional strain of coping with the suicide of a child can physically drain you.Eat healthy meals and snacks at regular times. Make sure you are drinking plenty of water, eating fresh fruits and vegetables, and getting other recommended nutrients.
Stick to a regular bedtime and waking routine. Make sure you get enough sleep. Try to go to bed and wake-up at generally the same time each day.
Do yoga, tai chi, jog, swim, play a sport, or do some other physical activity.
Practice meditation as a way to calm yourself and help you heal.
 One way to begin to heal and cope with a child’s suicide is to learn more about suicide itself. While it may not give you all the answers you are looking for, it can help you to make some sense of what happened.


Educate yourself about suicide statistics, warning signs, risk factors, and prevention.
The American Foundation for Suicide Prevention, the Centers for Disease Control, and similar agencies and organizations provide excellent resources., The anniversary of the child’s suicide, holidays, and other special occasions can be especially difficult times.Emotions that you may have thought you had worked through may surface again. You will heal better if you plan in advance for these times.


Things can begin getting difficult for days before the trigger and continue being hard after the trigger.
If possible, let friends and family know that this will be a difficult time so that they can be there for you.
Remember the child’s life in some meaningful way.
 Unfortunately, a child’s suicide can sometimes divide a community.The school blames the parents for conditions at home. Or the parents blame the school for bullying that occurred there. Or they both blame the coach for the intense athletic regimen. Instead of placing blame, cope with the suicide and start to heal by working with the community.


Join organizations and agencies that provide suicide prevention education, training, and resources.
Organize schools, community centers, athletic teams, etc. to form suicide prevention task forces.
Arrange a Bereaved Parents Month event in July to honor parents of children who have died.