 "Hunting" UFOs describes the act of spotting UFOs, usually in the night sky, and taking pictures or recordings to capture their activity. Many people have declared they've seen a UFO, and some have even reported being abducted, but no one has been able to provide definitive proof that this has occurred. Because we live in a society of skeptics, it's absolutely imperative for a serious UFO hunter to have serious equipment for getting concrete data on UFOs.


Buy a camera that takes excellent pictures at night. You'll need a special lens that can capture the faint lights and patterns created by the UFOs.
A video camera is also useful to have. The more ways you have to document the UFOs, the better.;
, You'll need to be able to keep a record of the details of your sightings. Have a notebook and writing instrument with you at all times so that you'll be able to jot down all the necessary information right when it happens. Later, when you get home, plan to record the information in a log on your computer.
 Organizations like the National UFO Reporting Center have online databases listing sightings by state, date, and shape.Look into hotspots in your region. It's not guaranteed you'll see a UFO there, but it's a great place to start.


Plan on visiting the same spot multiple times.
If necessary, make travel arrangements to visit a spot in a different state. Some states don't have many, if any, hotspots.
Go to a place that doesn't have a lot of air traffic, so you don't mistake human aircraft for UFOs.
 Once you're there, you may have to sit tight for a long time before you see any activity. Patience is a virtue among UFO hunters; be prepared to spend a lot of time waiting under the stars.
 As soon as you see activity, even if you aren't sure what you saw was indeed a UFO, write it down. Record the following information:


The date and time of the sighting
The location of the sighting
The shape, size, and color of the UFO
Whether there were additional witnesses

, After you've hunted for UFOs for awhile, you'll start to notice patterns. Do research to find out whether what you're seeing may have an explanation; for example, if you're looking for UFOs near an Air Force Base, you might be seeing human-made aircraft, even if they look unfamiliar. Real UFOs may have the following characteristics:


They don't move in a straight line, but rather up and down or in zig zags. They may not move in regular patterns at all
They don't blink, like airplanes would
They may be shaped like discs, triangles, or something else entirely

, Ufology organizations have databases where they keep all the important statistics on UFO sightings. If you spot a UFO and report it, you're contributing to the community at large. You can also learn a lot by spending time reading through others' reports.
 There are several established organizations with chapters in every state. If you're interested in pursuing Ufology long-term, its worth joining up with a group. Here are a few options:


Mutual UFO NetworkUFOdbNational UFO Reporting Center