 Staph often begins on the skin, and it may infect skin wounds. If left untreated and it if continues to worsen, the infection may get deep enough to get into your bloodstream. This is why prompt recognition and treatment (as well as prevention) of staph infections is key.


Staph can also develop on tampons that are left in for too long. This can lead to what is commonly known as "toxic shock syndrome."
Staph may occur as food poisoning.
Staph may also infect tubing that goes from the outside environment into your body (such as catheters or other tubing). In serious cases, it may infect prosthetic devices that are inside your body.;
, They may appear as boil(s) on the skin, as an impetigo rash (a contagious rash with large blisters that may ooze and develop a crust), as a cellulitis infection (a red, hot, and swollen area of skin that is indicative of a deeper skin infection) or, in younger children, as "staphylococcal scalded skin syndrome" (which includes a fever, rash, and blisters that break open leaving a raw red area that resembles a burn). The best ways to prevent staph skin infections are:


Avoid sharing personal items such as razor, towels, or sheets with others. Staph can be spread from contaminated objects, as well as from person to person.
Regularly wash your clothing and bedding in hot water. This is because staph bacteria can be present if your clothing and bedding is not properly washed.
Wash your hands regularly with soap and water for 15–30 seconds to ensure that they are not contaminated with bacteria. If washing with soap and water is too much of a hassle, using an alcohol-based hand sanitizer that you can carry with you throughout the day is another option.
Clean and care for any skin wounds carefully, and as directed by your doctor.
If you abuse injected drugs such as opioids, you are putting yourself at risk for a staph infection, especially if you are sharing needles. Common practices that go along with IV drug abuse — such as injecting in the same location, not cleaning the site properly, reusing needles, leakage of the drug into the skin — can all lead to infection.
"Toxic shock syndrome is a staph infection that is generally associated with keeping a tampon in for too long. Recommendations to greatly reduce your risk of toxic shock syndrome include:


Use tampons for four to eight hours at a time, and then change them.
Alternate between tampons and sanitary napkins, if possible.
Use tampons with a lower absorbency (on days that you do not need the higher absorbency), as this creates less of a potential breeding ground for staph bacteria.
 She will be able to test for the presence of staph bacteria, and to offer you treatment as needed if the test comes back positive.
 Receiving antibiotics sooner rather than later can help your immune system to clear up the infection before it progresses to the point of developing complications, such as spreading to your bloodstream, which can be very dangerous and even fatal.


Antibiotics commonly used to treat staph infections include Cephalosporins, Nafcillin, Sulfa drugs, or Vancomycin.
Because more and more strains of staph bacteria are becoming resistant to antibiotic treatment, Vancomycin is often used because it tends to be the most effective. The downside of Vancomycin, however, is that it has more side effects than other antibiotics and must be given by IV (rather than in pill form).
 It is important not to stop taking the medication once you feel better, or once symptoms subside, as there may be residual bacteria left in your system that could flare up later. It is essential that you finish all of the antibiotic pills prescribed, in exactly the way that your doctor has directed.
 Ask your doctor for advice on how to best care for your skin infection, depending upon its location and severity.


You may also need to have skin wounds drained by your doctor, in order to clear the infection out of them.
Ask your doctor if this is needed, and book an appointment to have your skin wounds drained of their pus if this is needed.
 The doctors will need to do a blood culture to determine whether the staph bacteria has spread to your blood. If it has, you will need intensive treatment in the hospital and heavy-duty antibiotics.
 Needless to say, an infection that has spread to your bloodstream can be very dangerous and requires immediate medical treatment.
 Otherwise, it will simply become a breeding ground for the staph bacteria.

