 Babies as young as 9 months know when something's amiss.For instance, if you put a pan on your head, your kid will realize something's wrong and will likely find it funny.
Try funny faces. Pull funny faces by making your eyes wider and pulling out your lips or sticking out your tongue. Your kid will find it silly and funny.Babies that are 6 months will find this especially hilarious because they think anything silly or out of the ordinary is funny. Try different noises to see what your baby finds funny.If you want your baby to keep laughing, change your facial expression to something else.
Laugh in response.;
, You can do things such as dancing, clapping, or other gestures to make your baby laugh. Use a hand puppet. Making a hand puppet dance and sing for your baby will make him giggle.Making funny hand gestures isn't usual, and your baby will notice. It's funny because your baby doesn't expect it to happen., Babies love unusual sounds. They will get your baby's attention.Sing a song. Any song that has hand or body gestures will make your baby giggle. Try the "Itsy-Bitsy Spider" or even the "Hokey Pokey."Play a funny sound. Kids like sounds that are odd or silly, such as farting noises. You may have to try different noises to see what your baby finds funny.
Kids also love animal sounds, so try copying the family cat or dog.
Try not to make these sounds too loud or startling. This might scare the baby!

, These kinds of games help to build a physical bond between you and your baby, and serve to make him laugh and be happy. Tickle your baby. Babies often find tickles funny, but keep them to a minimum. Too much can be annoying to your baby.Chase your baby. If your baby is crawling, get down on the floor and crawl after her. Make sure you're smiling so that your baby knows it's a game.Kiss your baby, and make raspberries. By blowing bubbles on his tummy or face, you'll get a laugh out of your baby. You can also try kissing her toes or fingers.Capture his nose. Pretend you're stealing his nose, and show him your thumb between your fingers (his "nose"). He'll giggle at the thought.