 Are you mature and sensible enough to be hanging out with the older boys? Are they going to find you immature? Are you going to find them hard to say no to, and difficult to handle? Be realistic about the value of meeting older boys at this time of your life because you need to be around people who get you, not try to use you or laugh at you.;
, Is this something you've actually thought through or are you doing it because your friends think it's a cool idea or you've got a notion it might make you look better than them? Your reasons for wanting to meet older boys must be based on sound reasons, such as perhaps wanting to be with someone who isn't going through the dramas of your year or someone who is less likely to act immaturely around you.
 If you're thinking about guys who are three or five years older than you, forget it now! Don't aim for trying to pursue anyone more than a year or two older than yourself. While you're a young teen, there is a lot of difference between the teen age-groups, even year by year, and you don't need to feel pressured to grow up faster than you should be. There is plenty of adulthood ahead of you for testing the intimate relationship waters.


Think about where you expect to be five years from now. Still hanging out with this so-called cool older guy or getting on with your life uninterrupted by the drama of him going away to college or working while you're still at high school? Think things through, you're worth the effort.
 Be honest with yourself. Are you mature or is this just a flight of fancy? Talk to your friends and ask them what they think about your maturity and ability to handle mature conversations and issues.
 If you have an older sibling, she or he might be the right person to introduce you to some of their male friends whom they trust to spend time around you. Already vouched for, these guys might be more interested in you thanks to your sibling's relationships with them. However, don't push your luck here––your older sibling might just put you in your place and demand that you don't hassle out their friends.


Hang around with older siblings and friends who have older friends, on weekends and after school. At least you'll know someone and can make it seem natural that you "just happen" to be around.
 This might be a school musical or play, a sports game, a debating team, a language club or some other activity. With something in common together, there is an increased chance that you'll get to talk to the older boys without having to appear lacking in knowledge or worldliness.
 This could be a sports game, an assembly, a school competitive event or even house choir. Make a beeline for sitting near the older boys you've got an interest in.
 When you connect with an older guy, take care to avoid being stuck for words. Find a subject to talk about, look at what they are doing (don't stalk them) and ask them about it. Don't ask stupid questions, remember he is older than you and will be looking for maturity. Try a simple greeting to begin with, everyone likes a friendly sweetheart!

, Not stupidly and don't overdo it, smile normally and make sure you say something (it might be a bit strange if someone you don't know just randomly smiled at you).
 Don't stare at him; make eye contact that includes looking away at natural pauses, then meeting his gaze again. Don't give out mixed emotions either; an older boy won't be interested in drama from a younger fan.
 Just a cool friendship or something deeper? You might be better off gaining a "big brother" type friend than getting involved in a relationship that could end in tears due to the different stages of life you're both working through. Be very sure about what you actually want by this stage.
 But wait a while before starting to flirt with this boy, only when you know he's likely to respond in kind and is worth your effort. Flirting is only okay after you have gotten to know the person.


A flirty conversation might do the trick but you could also hold their hand and smile and laugh at the same time, what a combo! You could also speak softly close to them and look closely at them. If they look uncomfortable then just stop.
More details can be found in How to attract an older boy, if you decide to go that far.

