 This means a couple things. For one, if you wear an undershirt, it can actually keep you cool as your top shirt will be less sweaty and can breathe more. It also means keep sweatshirts and long pants handy as summer tends to start out cool in the morning, get hot during midday, and often cool off again at night.


If you are going to be away from your bag throughout the hot afternoon and cool evening, you probably don’t want to wear your warm clothes all day, but you’ll definitely want to keep them with you.
As long as you follow the dress code at camp, it’s always good to have a sleeveless shirt or tank top on under your t-shirt so you can take the top layer off as the day warms up.
 For guys, swim trunks are basically the same as shorts anyway. For girls, a bathing suit may not be quite as comfortable as a bra and panties, but will serve a similar function.


Summer camp may include a lot of spontaneous swimming, so wearing your swimsuit as clothing, or under your clothing, makes it easier to take a quick dip.
Once your suit is wet, it probably won’t be the best for walking around in, so you may want to go switch out for dry clothes after you swim.
 You would typically dress up for a dance, maybe even a fancy gown or tux, but a summer camp dance can be a little less formal, while still looking nice. Girls could wear a light sundress while boys could opt for khaki shorts and a short sleeve polo.


You can still look nice enough to impress your peers without going overboard.
Since you probably won’t have access to an iron, you want to pack clothes that will hopefully not get too wrinkled in your bag.
 Many summer camps will require one piece swimsuits, tankinis, or shorts and a shirt for girls. Boys may have less restrictions, but will most likely be required to wear swim trunks, as opposed to just underwear or street clothes.


Even with a swimsuit, you may want to wear shorts and a shirt that you can take off before you swim. Wear something old that you don’t mind possibly getting chlorine on.
 Although tucking your shirt in is supposed to be a nicer look, in the heat of summer it just means more clothing around your already covered waist. Tucking your shirt in can cause more sweating and discomfort.To avoid the need for tucked in shirts, aim for shirts that are the appropriate length, which is just a few inches past the waistline of your pants.
 If you camp in a place with wilderness nearby, hiking is inevitable. Its often good to wear pants for hiking to keep out of poison ivy and avoid scratches from brush. Sturdy shoes are a must so you have good support.


Sunscreen, bug repellant, and water are also super important. If you’ll be gone for a long time, being without those could lead to serious discomfort or even illness.
 At camp you will probably be walking from your bed to the mess hall and all over camp in the course of the day. You don’t want to do that soaking wet, so plan for the chance of rain with a waterproof jacket or a poncho of some kind.


You probably won’t need to carry this around all day, every day, but pay attention to the weather and grab your gear if it seems like a chance of rain.
It’s better to carry something around for a while that you don’t need than it is to be soaking wet and uncomfortable.
Wet clothes, shorts and pants especially, can irritate your skin from all the rubbing if you walk around in them for too long.

