 If you or your former spouse have relocated to a different state since your custody order was made, it is necessary to know the rules regarding the enforcement of custody orders across state lines.


Currently, the Uniform Child Custody Jurisdiction and Enforcement Act (UCCJEA) governs the enforcement of “foreign” (i.e. out-of-state) custody orders.The UCCJEA is a “uniform act”, which means it is a model act proposed by the National Conference of Commissioners on Uniform State Laws,a non-governmental organization that publishes model acts that promote legal uniformity across the various jurisdictions in the United States.A model act needs to be adopted by the states for it to become enforceable in that state.
As of February 2015, the UCCJEA has been adopted in 49 U.S. states, the District of Columbia, the U.S. Virgin Islands, and Guam. Puerto Rico rejected a proposal to adopt the act whereas Massachusetts remains 1 of the 50 states that has not adopted the act yet,although a bill has been introduced in Massachusetts to adopt the act., If you have an out-of-state custody order, consider registering the order in your current state of residence. The UCCJEA establishes a procedure for registering your out of state custody order. Registering your order is not required but doing so can be beneficial for a number of reasons, which include the following:


By registering, you put the courts in your current state of residence on notice regarding your custody order.By registering, you are in effect testing whether your order is enforceable in the future. Registering gives you the assurance that the order will be enforceable in the future if necessary.By registering, you limit the possible defenses to enforcement that may exist. This means that if you need to enforce the order some time in the future, you can do so without delays.By registering the order, you may reduce or eliminate the need for a lawyer, which can save you money.By registering the order, you make the order (as of the date of registration) enforceable as if it were an in-state custody order., If you do decide to register your custody order in your new state of residence, you must send a request for registration in a court in the new state. You will provide, as documentation for that request, the custody order and other required information. That court will then file the order and will “serve notice” (i.e. formally inform) on the other parent about the registration. The other parent has 20 days to request a hearing to contest the validity of the order, and if the other parent does not contest, the order becomes enforceable as if it were a local (i.e. in-state) custody order., The UCCJEA creates a fast-track enforcement mechanism in those cases in which your objective is to regain physical custody of your child immediately. If the other parent presents a risk to your child of physical harm or abduction, this expedited remedy can be used. A warrant will be issued to allow you to take physical custody of the child. This will occur after a hearing that will take place as soon as possible (i.e. the same day or the next day) and the warrant will be issued unless the other parent has a valid defense., The UCCJEA includes enforcement provisions designed to prevent one of the parents from kidnapping the child. If you worry that your child is imminently likely to suffer serious physical harm or is about to be physically taken away from the state by the other parent, you can file a petition for what is known as a “pickup” order.The court takes testimony (by phone or in person by you or another witness). If the court finds that the child is imminently likely to suffer serious harm or be removed from the state, the court will issue a warrant directing law enforcement personnel to take physical custody of the child.The other parent will be served with the petition, warrant, and order at the time the police is picking up the child, and there will be an opportunity for a hearing to take place as early as the next day if possible.