 Firstly, never ignore a person who really cares for you. In this day and age, it really is quite hard to make time and prove to people that you really do care about them. Whoever that is trying to care for you is going out of their way to do so. Don't ignore them and don't hurt their feelings. This person is worth your time.;
, How many times have you heard, "Sorry, I can't come out sightseeing with you, I've got no time". The person that asks you to hang out with them has the time, so why don't you? If your day is filled with activities that are really quite useless, get rid of them and make time for your partner. Try going for a walk to somewhere really beautiful with them. They'll appreciate it and so will you.
 Instead of just ignoring your children and letting them get on with life alone, help them up when they fall. Go into their rooms at nighttime, tuck them in and read them a bedtime story. Let them fall asleep to the sound of their mother's/father's voice. If they need help with their homework, talk them through it. don't just tell them to ask a sibling. They want you to help them. Also, let them tell you their silly gossip stories from school, it helps them build a close relationship with you.
 This step applies quite well between workers and bosses but can easily be carried across to all the other types of relationships. Being humble doesn't only mean being kind. It means helping people out in a time of need, it means talking to others when they need to tell you their issues and it means trying to make sure that everybody is happy. If you are humble with others, people are most likely going to be humble with you.
 Everybody needs friends in their life. Friendships are one of the best kind of relationships. It can be hard to find a good, sincere friend these days but that doesn't mean that they're non-existent. When you do find a friend that is good to you, you must be good back to them to keep them as your friend. If you don't ever help them and just ignore them, they won't want to be your friend for much longer. Always be there for your friend when they need you and they'll surely return the favor.
 Whether it's your mum, your dad, your teacher or your friend, to understand the importance of a relationship you must listen to their opinions and respect them. Without listening to them, you won't ever get to maintain a relationship long enough to fully understand how your relationship with them will affect your and their lives. Always keep your ears and your mind open to new ideas.

