 Almost every solo is performed around a scale of some sort. The most common scale for soloing in rock n’ roll music is the pentatonic scale. Once you know how to play a scale, you can change which key you play in by changing the starting note. This is helpful because you don’t need to relearn the same scale based on a different key. Utilize patterns for while you’re playing as much as possible.


Other important scales to learn are the minor pentatonic, blues, natural minor, major, and the chromatic scale., There are two different approaches to a guitar solo: vertical and horizontal. The vertical approach is when you solo according to the current chord. A horizontal approach is when solo according to the current or relevant scale. The best players utilize both of these practices., Consider the measure of the song you are going to solo over and make sure you know all the chords. Once you know all the chord shapes, you will be able to select notes out of each chord. This technique is called wrapping chords. Pick out notes from whichever chord is being played and pair those notes with notes from a neighboring chord.


For example, if the song is made up of E, A, and D, you can pick out various notes from these chords during the measure.
You can add variations to the sound by including neighboring tones. A neighboring tone is a note that is a half step below or above the note you’re playing.
Jerry Garcia, for example, utilized neighboring tones in his solos.
 A horizontal approach has a few more options for playing than the vertical approach. For most chord patterns there are multiple scales that can be played to add different moods. You are usually safe to play a scale in the key of the root note. The root note is the key of the song. For example if the song is in the key of C, you could play around a C major, pentatonic, or blues scale.If there are chords that contain notes that are not in the scale you are playing, you’ll need to accent those notes. Like the vertical approach, it helps to know the chord shapes and each note in the chord.
Some common scales to play in a solo are the major, harmonic minor, and melodic minor scales.
 Voicing is a powerful tool for a soloist. The voice of the sound refers to the octave you are playing at. Start small and try to identify each “E” on your fretboard. You can use common patterns like skipping a string and playing a step up. Try hard to ingrain into your memory where each note is.


In the midst of improvising, you can benefit from switching the voicing to alter the sound of your solo.
A commonly overlooked octave for soloing is the lowest register. This voicing sounds great after playing in a high register for a bit.
 You can’t practice too much when it comes to playing an instrument. This is especially true if you plan to take a lot of solos. An easy way to practice is to challenge yourself by changing the key of your solo. Many guitarist are comfortable soloing in E and A, but can they solo as well in Bb?


Apply the same type of practice to each key to best prepare yourself for playing with other musicians.

