 Mix 2/3 cup (160 ml) of distilled white vinegar with 2/3 cup (160 ml) flour. Stir the ingredients together in a plastic or glass bowl until smooth and thoroughly combined.Never use a metal dish to combine the ingredients. If possible, you should also use a plastic or wooden utensil to mix the ingredients over a metal one.
Vinegar is acidic, and this acidic quality can dissolve debris responsible for tarnishing and dulling brass. The flour makes the polish slightly more abrasive, but the main benefit of flour is that it thickens the vinegar and creates a paste.
 Mix 1/2 cup (125 ml) salt into the paste until well combined.


The salt adds an abrasive component to the paste. It works, both chemically and physically, to make the paste more effective.
Note that this paste will not store well, so you should only make as much as you need at the present moment.
 You'll need to let the polish paste sit on the brass for a prolonged period of time, so you should arrange the brass items in need of polishing on a plastic or glass platter and in a single layer.


If you decide to use a metal baking sheet, line it with a layer of parchment paper or wax paper first to avoid letting the brass and the paste come into direct contact with the metal sheet.
 Use a spoon or your fingers to apply the paste in a thick, even coat onto all sides of the brass surface. Allow the paste to sit on the brass for at least 1 to 2 hours, if not longer.


For severely tarnished or dulled brass, you can even leave the paste on overnight.
As the vinegar paste does its thing, you should see it take on a green tint. This green tint is a natural result produced by the chemical action taking place, and it means that the tarnish and surface debris being dissolved and removed.
 When the brass is ready, gently scrub the paste off with a soft cloth and lukewarm running water. Gently buff the surface of the brass using small circular motions as you rinse.


Use a soft cotton or terrycloth rag for best results.
Scrub the surface of the brass thoroughly to make sure that all the paste has been removed. Depending on how thick your paste ended up being, it could take a bit of scraping with your thumbnail to chip it away.
 To dry the brass and give it a final boost of shine, buff it with a soft, dry cloth using small circular passes until you cover the entire surface.

