 Having a head injury at any time in your life may increase risk for Alzheimer’s. Concussion and other head injuries can happen playing sports, falling from a bike, in vehicular accidents, and many other ways. Always take care to protect your head as much as possible. Wear appropriate safety gear playing sports and riding bikes and motorcycles, and never talk on your phone or text message while driving or biking.


In the elderly population, falls are a very common cause of injury – including head injury. Prevent falls by staying active and strong and setting up your house for safety. Ensure there are no loose stairs or carpets to trip over, and that you remain aware of where pets are in the home.This is known at Chronic Trauma Encephalopathy, which can be seen in athletes that suffer from constant concussions like hockey players, boxers, and football players.
 Do exercises like yoga, tai chi and pilates to improve your balance and coordination. Maintaining muscular strength and physical alignment can help prevent falls and subsequent head injuries in older adults., A great way to stay mentally fit is by learning new skills and knowledge. Learn how to play chess, take up piano or the fiddle, or study a foreign language; challenge your brain to go outside your comfort zone., You can solve puzzles like crosswords, Sudoku, or cryptograms.Risk is a great strategy game, and the game Memory is a fun tool for improving your memorization abilities to keep memory and cognition sharp.
 Drive a new way to work, change the order of your morning bathroom routine, or just read a different kind of book (historical fiction rather than your usual sci-fi). Changing up your usual routine can help keep your brain active and engaged.
 Research actually suggests that staying socially engaged as you age and maintaining close relationships with others can decrease your risk for Alzheimer’s disease. Challenge yourself to join a new club, start an activity, engage in a hobby, and reach out to those you know. Take advantage of Church groups, your local YMCA or community center, volunteer activities, and neighborhood events to meet new people and stay social., Maintaining your role in the work force may help you stay sociable and active. Some seniors find that when they retire they feel a loss of purpose, and their health starts to decline. Staying mentally and physically active at work may be of benefit for overall brain wellness, if your health is good enough and you enjoy your job.Or retire, then travel! You’ll be challenged by meeting new people and interacting with new cultures and languages.
 It’s well-known that getting insufficient sleep makes you less able to function well the next day, but the same may be true in the long-term. Set a regular sleep schedule and ensure that you get around 8 hours of uninterrupted sleep nightly.If napping during the day makes it harder to sleep at night, skip the daytime rest. When you start feeling that afternoon drag, go for a brisk walk instead of giving into the urge to sleep.
If you are unable to get a full night’s sleep for some reason, then nap during the day. It’s healthier to get enough broken sleep than not enough sleep.
Get tested for sleep apnea. This is a breathing condition that severely impacts your ability to sleep well, and is treatable., Feeling really stressed out releases a hormone in your body that negatively affects your health, including brain health over time.Lowering your stress level on a consistent basis can keep your brain healthy for longer.


Find an activity that helps you feel calm. Consider yoga, meditation, warm baths, slow walks in nature, or simple breathing exercises.
If you live a high-stress life because of work or family, study stress-management skills like Cognitive Behavioral Therapy or mindfulness. You can’t eliminate stress from your life, but you can change how you mentally and physically respond to it.
 Adults, especially older adults, who suffer from depression may have a higher risk of Alzheimer’s.Loneliness and isolation often play a hand in depression for seniors. Stay connected to your community. If you struggle with depression, seek the medical and therapeutic care you need to help improve your mood and mental health.

