 The body of the letter does not need to be especially rigid or too straightforward, but rather more relaxed and friendly. Use figurative language and imagery. Paint a picture for the recipient of your letter like an author might do for a reader.


When telling a story in your letter, be imaginative with your writing. Be descriptive, and even use dialogue if you want to. Allow the scene you are relaying to come through like an image.In January of 1960, Queen Elizabeth wrote a letter to President Eisenhower. She used a specific image to convey the purpose of her letter by writing, “Seeing a picture of you in today’s newspaper standing in front of a barbecue grilling quail, reminded me that I had never sent you the recipe of the drop scones which I promised you at Balmoral.”, Once you have gotten to the point and elaborated on or explained that point, you can always spend a few sentences catching your reader up on what has been going on in your life.


If your recipient is a friend or family member that lives far away, you might let them know how your other friends and family members are doing.
An actual letter from a friend or family member from far away is an easy, simple way to make their day a bit better. We have come to rely on technology so much that most of us probably do not send snail mail very often, so sending or receiving a letter is fun and different. It can help people far away from us feel more connected to us and our lives.If something especially interesting has happened in your life lately, let your recipient know! Tell them exciting news about your career, your love life, or even about recent travels you took. Just try to avoid discussing anything negatively—especially another person. Letters are permanent documents that your recipients could keep for any period of time. You don’t want to write anything that might come back to bite you later. If you have something negative to vent, say it out loud.
 If you use your letter as a medium for creativity and imagination, it will feel just as fun to write it as it will for your recipient to read it.
 Rather than simply having a conversation, a letter is more permanent. It is a physical artifact of your relationship with another person, and that makes it very special.

