 A pale base is a good starter, so use either rice powder, talcum powder, or another chalky white, dry powdered substance like translucent finishing powder (matter,not shimmery) to get the Bella Swan-like base you do so desire.;
, Perfectly arched brow's make a face! Make them bolder by,after plucking them, highlighting them with a brown eyebrow pencil,and smoothing them out. Brush with an eyebrow comb, them spray with hairspray to dry and hold in place.
 So sculpt the face, brush a small amount of a rosy blush onto a special blush brush, and brush in an upwards motion on your cheek bones. (HINT: If you smile, the apples of your cheeks will be easier to locate- that is where you brush.)

, Instructions should be in the box that contains the lashes, but as an alternative, try different types of thickening or sculpting mascara's instead (try brown-blacks and ebonies for shade variations to see which one suits you the best.)

, If you have blue or green eyes, try brown, for brown eyes - black is best, though lucky brown-eyed girls can work both. Brush a small amount of charcoal grey or smokey brown eyeshadow with either a small eyeshadow applicator or a finger.
 Avoid lipstain, a natural looking 'rosewood' lipstain, or 'blushed plum' eyeshadow (This does work!) applied to lips, with a thin layer of Vaseline coated over, is the best way to go. Don't apply to much gloss otherwise you might kill the look.



HAIR OPTION 1#- Get Wiggy! Fake it with a Rapunzel blonde wig that can be bought for $6 to $60. Curl the hair with a curling wand to achieve the 'wavy' a affect, or use a 'crimping iron' for a fuzzier look.
HAIR OPTION 2#- Hair already identical to Miko's? Just crimp, (not til crisp!), then use a manual or heat-powered curling wand to create the fuzzy, doll-like look the video's stylist has created before you.
HAIR OPTION 3#- Looking to switch from Halloween outfit, to daily look? Go to a hairdresser or a salon! Look around for tips, and definitely go to a hairdresser to have your hair bleached for the first time! If you have virgin hair (hasn't been bleached or dyed, or damaged chemically), then keep in mind; this is going to cause a fair bit of damage! If you're naturally Delta-blonde, try using plain dye, If you can't afford a hairdresser, or are stubborn about a DIY job- You'll need a box of bleach (FIRST level if natural hair, if very dark or previously dyed dark, but extreme or L++.), a blonde dye two shades later then what the bleach will colour you- various tools, and patience. You'll go through coppery-ginger-orange stages, until you reach your final colour, so don't panic! Seek professional consultation before dying your hair, and research various dying or alternative methods!

