 You’re dating or married to your partner, not their whole family. Don’t let problems with your partner’s family members turn into difficulties in your relationship.

If you feel like the conflict is affecting your relationship, take a moment to remember all the things you appreciate about your partner that have nothing to do with their family. Write these down and read over the list now and then.
For example, if you only see your partner's family on holidays and special occasions, you might not fret so much about any tension because you don't have to deal with it all that often."

, Sit down with your partner and come up with some reasonable limits together. Think about what both of you can do to minimize conflict and maintain family peace.For instance, one of your boundaries might be that your partner’s family members can’t stay the night when they come to visit.
Another boundary might be not allowing the family to factor in on certain couple decisions such as having babies, practicing a certain religion, or deciding where you live.
 Your partner’s family members will need to know about the new rules you and your partner have decided on. Your partner should communicate these boundaries to their family members, and you can both enforce them as needed. Be kind and polite, but firm.However, if someone insults you over the new boundaries, then stand up for yourself.


Make sure your partner’s family knows the reasoning behind your boundaries, too.
You or your partner could say something like, “We’re really glad that you care about us, but we’d rather not discuss our finances anymore. Our decisions about money are personal.”

, You may need to remind your partner’s family about your boundaries now and then. It takes time for people to learn new behaviors when they’ve gotten used to acting a certain way.If your boundaries are violated, you need to reinforce them by saying, "Remember, we decided that we are not having children, Mom/mother-in-law. Can you please support our decision even if you don't like it?"

