 Verbal abuse is difficult to identify. This type of abuse can happen in all types of families, whether you are rich or poor and regardless of race or location.Below are some common signs of verbal abuse; if you can answer yes to any of these, you may need to contact professionals for help:


Do your parents use threats to make you do something or to keep you from doing something?
Do your parents curse at you, call you names, humiliate you in public, or degrade you?
When you share your thoughts and feelings about something important with your parents, do your parents ignore you or make fun of you?
Are you afraid of your parents?;
, If your parent or parents are verbally abusing, it is likely to have negative consequences in your life. Severe verbal abuse can even lead to the same kind of post-traumatic stress disorder experienced by combat troops.If you exhibit any negative consequences of verbal abuse, you may need to contact professionals for help. Some of the most common consequences of verbal abuse are:


Issues with being insecure and poor self esteem
Withdrawing socially
Being overly demanding or overly compliant with others
Depression

, Conflict is a normal part of any relationship, but verbal abuse is not. If an argument always feels one-sided, if there are threats involved, and if your parents humiliate or demean you, a fight qualifies as verbal abuse. Some examples of verbally abusive statements are:


“Hey, fatso, come over here!” This counts as humiliation.
“If you didn’t make me mad, I wouldn’t have to treat you like this.”
“Don’t you dare do that or I’ll punch you!” Threats are always abuse.
 Because verbal abuse often escalates into physical attacks and can have severe consequences, it is necessary to report any verbal abuse that is happening in your life.


If you think the definition and consequences of verbal abuse accurately describe the issues you are struggling with, 1-800-4-A-CHILD (1-800-422-4453) will connect you to the Childhelp National Child Abuse Hotline.A professional will help you report verbal abuse.
If you do not have access to a phone, ask a teacher or trustworthy adult for help calling.

