 Our brain and central nervous system require carbs to work properly. Eliminating carbs entirely will make you feel cranky, tired, and lethargic. You should eat the right amount of carbs first thing in the morning and after a workout.Get 45 to 65 percent of your daily calories from carbohydrates from whole grains, beans and legumes, and fruits and vegetables., Soluble fiber helps to improve your cholesterol and blood sugar levels. Good sources include oats, dried beans, apples, and oranges. Insoluble fiber helps to prevent constipation. Try eating more vegetables and whole grain to add more insoluble fiber to your diet. Women need 22 to 28 grams of fiber a day. Men need 28 to 34 grams of fiber a day., You need protein to grow and develop. Protein provides your body with calories and energy. 10 to 35 percent of your daily calories should be from protein. There are great protein options from both plant and animals. Foods high in protein from plant sources include beans, lentils, soy products and unsalted nuts. Meat, poultry, and dairy are good sources of protein from animals and should be lean or low fat., Fat has a lot of calories, which can lead to weight gain. Some types of fats do increase your risk of heart disease and other health problems. However, fats also help your body absorb vitamins, keep your immune system functioning and maintain cell membranes’ structure and function. All sources of fat should be kept to 20 to 35 percent of your daily calories. It’s important to focus on unsaturated fats from foods like lean poultry, fish, and healthy oils like olive, canola, and nut oils., Your body’s water supply needs to be replenished in order for it to function properly. Men need about 13 cups of water (3 liters) and women need about 9 cups of water (2.2 liters) a day.You’ll want to drink water before, during and after your workout. You’ll need to drink extra water when you exercise because you will lose more fluid when you sweat. An extra 1.5 to 2.5 cups (400 to 600 milliliters of water) is recommended for short periods of exercise under an hour. How much you need will vary depending on how much you sweat during exercise, how long, and the type of exercise, so adjust accordingly., Supplements can help optimize your well-balanced diet.


Supplements can be used once a well-structured diet is formed. Some popular ones for those looking for an athletic build include creatine, glycerol and glucosamine sulfate. Creatine is a substance that occurs naturally in our bodies. Used as a supplement, creatine that leads to improved strength and power. Glycerol is a supplement that keeps you hydrated for longer for better performance. Glucosamine sulfate helps to re-build cartilage and prevent joint problems.You should eat smaller amounts of protein throughout the day to make the most of its muscle-building and repairing abilities. Supplements like protein shakes and bars can be good sources of protein in-between meals. Make sure to eat protein-rich snack during the 30 minutes that follow your workout so you can optimize the amino acids.