 No matter what bleaching method you use, it’s going to cause your hair to become drier and more fragile than normal. Starting with healthy hair prevents excessive damage from the bleaching process. Don't dye or otherwise process your hair for about a month before you plan to bleach it. Use gentle products, like shampoo and conditioner made from all natural ingredients, to make sure your hair is as healthy as possible before bleaching.
 Use a deep conditioner a day or two before bleaching your hair to help build up moisture in your hair. There are many types of deep conditioners, from less expensive ($5-$8) to more expensive ($30+) store-bought ones to more natural, DIY ones. There are recipes to make your own deep conditioner, which typically use foods as their base. Search online for “deep conditioner recipes” for suggestions using bananas, avocados, mayonnaise, yogurt, eggs, coconut oil, or other foods.This step will help minimize ending up with extremely dry and brittle hair after you bleach it by increasing your hair’s moisture and elasticity. , Depending on how long your hair is and how much of it you want to bleach, you'll need the juice of 2 to 5 lemons. Cut the lemons in half and use a juicer or your hands to squeeze their juice into a bowl. Strain the seeds when you're finished juicing.


Don't use lemon juice that comes in a bottle. It contains preservatives that may damage your hair.
 Pouring full-strength lemon juice on your hair can really dry it out, so it's important to dilute the juice with water. Add an amount of water to the bowl that's equal to the amount of lemon juice.
 It's best to use a new spray bottle, which can be purchased at most drug stores, but you can also recycle one you already have at home. If you're using a recycled spray bottle, make sure it is completely clean. Wash it out with soap and water before you fill it with the lemon juice solution. Shake the lemon juice solution well, and do a few test squirts to make sure the spray bottle is functioning properly.
 Spray the area you want to bleach liberally with lemon juice solution, making sure the area is completely damp. Spray more lemon juice in the areas that you want to lighten the most. The more lemon juice you use, the lighter it will get.


If you want to highlight a few strands of hair instead of bleaching it all over, use a cotton ball to rub lemon juice solution on the parts that you do want to bleach.
 The sun will react with the lemon juice and cause your hair to lighten. Wait for all the lemon juice solution to completely dry in your hair for about 30 minutes. Be sure to cover yourself with sunscreen and clothing to protect yourself from the sun's rays as you bleach your hair. Remember that this process can dry out your hair. Sitting in the sun for a long time will help your hair get lighter, but it will also cause some damage.
 After the lemon juice solution has dried, wash it out with shampoo and then condition your hair with a good moisturizing conditioner. Style it as usual.


Once your hair is dry, take a look at the color. If you want it to be even lighter, repeat the process again in a few days. Don't bleach your hair with lemon juice more often than once every two or three weeks.

