 For men, body shape is based more on the length of your torso and your ability to gain muscle on your chest and shoulder area. There are five main body shapes for men:The trapezoid body shape: You have broad shoulders and a broad chest with narrow waist and hips. Because your upper body and lower body will be pretty proportional, you can fit most styles and fits.
The inverted trapezoid body shape: You have broad shoulders and chest, but your hips and waist are narrower. So your upper torso is much wider than your lower torso, and the lower half of your body. This body shape is common in athletes and men who regularly weight lift or do body building.
The rectangle body shape: You have shoulders that are the same width as your waist and hips. So, when dressing, your aim should be to widen your shoulders and make your lower torso appear more narrow.
The triangle body shape: Your chest and shoulders are narrower than your waist and hips, and you appear larger on the bottom half of your torso. So the lower half of your body may appear wider than your upper body.
The oval body shape: Your chest and stomach will create a long oval shape. You may also have narrow looking shoulders and skinnier legs.
 Because you are well proportioned, you can experiment with the latest trends and cuts with a certain amount of freedom.Try bold vertical or horizontal stripes on a collared shirt, a navy or cargo green cotton blazer, and long sleeve shirts in a bold print. Go for slim cut khakis or blue jeans.
Look for tops and pants that are not too tight, but don’t hang off you or are too baggy. Your body shape suits form fitting clothes and cuts.
 The idea is to give your look some balance and proportion.Try straight or relaxed slim cuts (rather than slim or skinny) for legwear as they will help balance your proportions and broad shoulders.
Wear belts and go for pants with pockets. This will help to break up an outfit and draw attention to your narrow waist.
Go for v-neck knits and tees as they will narrow your chest area. Breton striped tees are great for this body shape, especially stripes that go across the stomach area rather than the chest area.
Graphic prints and logos on your shirts as well as your pants can give you a leaner look. Just don’t wear them both at the same time. If you’re wearing a graphic print or logo on a top, keep your pants simple and subtle.
Look for unstructured double-breasted that widen your torso, but don’t add width to your shoulders or upper chest area.
 This will only emphasize the width area on your body, rather than slim it down.


Say no to tops with wide scoop necklines, or three quarter length sleeves. Stick to shorter sleeves for anything but formal shirts., Layering smartly, with a v-neck sweater over a collared shirt, can help to widen your chest and shoulders and narrow your hips.You can also wear scarves and circular necklines to widen your upper torso.
A structured blazer or jacket, preferably customized by a tailor, will give your upper body a more slim look.
 Double breasted suits will only give you a more rectangular shape, rather than a proportioned shape.


Probably a good idea to also avoid geometric prints on tops as they draw attention to your wide chest. Sleeveless tops will also emphasize your bulky arms, so if you do like to wear them, layer them.
 Go for single breasted and button down styles, as they will streamline your torso, like collared shirts and coats.Straight leg trousers and chinos are also great for this shape, as well as structured tailored blazers and jackets.
Go for darker colors on top as they will instantly flatter you. Layer a bright shirt or a tee with a bold print underneath a darker collared shirt.
 They will only emphasize your round shape. Instead, look for tops with vertical stripes.Polo necks or narrow crew-necks on shirts will decrease your shoulder width. So go for regular cut t-shirts instead.
Instead of tapered trousers or skinny jeans, look for regular cut pants.
 They will instantly lengthen your body and give it a more lean look. Avoid horizontal stripes as they will make your body appear rounder.Make sure your pants are the correct length, falling just below your ankle, as baggy pants will shorten your legs and give you less definition in your bottom half.
Tapered trousers will lengthen your legs, and give you more shape.
 Combine a print or textured shirt with a darker colored pair of pants or a jacket to keep your look interesting and flattering.
 They will only make your upper look rounder, rather than slimmer.Statement or colored belts will only attract attention to your waist area and highlight your widest points. So keep your belts simple or avoid them altogether.

