 Henna paste is moist when applied. After application, you need to keep that body part away from any obstructions—clothing, hair, environmental factors—so that it doesn't smear the design. The paste usually dries within 5-10 minutes, but err on the side of caution. It will take approximately half an hour before the henna paste is dry enough that you don't have to worry about smudging it., The longer the paste stays on the skin, the darker the stain will be. Let the paste dry on your skin for at least 6 hours, and consider leaving it on overnight. Don't wash it off; don't rub it off; don't accidentally brush it against anything. , Once the henna paste starts to dry, coat it with a mixture of sugar and lemon juice. Leave it to soak in for a few hours, or even overnight. This will keep the paste moist for longer, making the resulting stain even darker. Fill a small bowl with lemon juice, then mix with sugar until the solution is sticky and syrupy. Use a cotton ball to blot the sugar-lemon-juice onto the dry henna.The lemon sugar helps moisturize the henna. It also serves to seal the henna and protect the design. The acidity of the lemon can also help highlight the color of the henna.
Be careful not to oversaturate the henna; you just want it very slightly damp. If you use too much moisture, the dye may smear and drip – especially at first.
If you leave the sugar-and-lemon-juice solution on your skin overnight, it's important to wrap or otherwise protect your skin from rubbing and smearing.
 The warmer the body temperature, the faster the henna will stain. If you are cold, try drinking something hot before you start. Gently steaming the paste-coated area also helps impart warmth and moisture.
 The henna paste will flake and crumble as it dries, so consider covering up the inked area to keep the crumbs from spilling everywhere. Wrapping also helps make the stain darker by conserving heat and moisture. You can wrap the area with an elastic bandage, paper medical tape or toilet paper. Try covering the wrap with a sock to make it more secure.


Try laying a piece of toilet paper over the design, then wrapping the area with an elastic bandage. If you want to use plastic wrap, be sure to wrap with toilet paper first to soak up any perspiration and to prevent smudges.
Know that henna stains textiles like clothing, sheets, and towels. If you leave the paste on overnight, wrapping may protect your sheets.
Some claim that wrapping is the only way to care for a henna design, but others say that you only need to wrap your ink if you've gotten extensive work done.
 Use room-temperature water and mild soap. Dab the stain with a gentle cloth. If you rub the design at this early stage, it might begin to fade more quickly.
 Use any clean, dull scraping tool: a toothpick, a fingernail, a file, or the blunt side of a knife. Rinse your skin with room-temperature water once you've cleared most of the henna paste. Avoid using soap on the fresh henna.When your skin is clean, pat it dry. Then, gently moisturize the design with oil or lotion.
 Try not to get the area wet for at least 6-12 hours after paste removal, although the effect will be even stronger if you wait a full 24 hours. Water can interrupt the oxidization and darkening processes of your henna stain., Once you've exposed your skin and cleaned off the dried henna paste, you'll be able to watch the ink mature into its fullest form. Your design should begin in a shade of orange ranging from bright neon to the color of a pumpkin. Over the next 48 hours, the stain will deepen into a rich, red-brown color. The markings will end up somewhere between orange-brown, maroon, and chocolate brown. Your design will be at its darkest within a day or two of its application.The final color hinges on your skin type and your body chemistry. The ink usually looks darker on hands and feet.
 The duration is highly dependent upon how well you care for your skin. If you keep the stain moisturized and keep it from rubbing off on things, it may last three weeks or even longer. If you don't care for the henna at all, it may begin to fade or peel within the first week.The longevity of the henna stain also depends where the design is located on your body. The ink tends to show up darker on your hands and feet, but those areas also tend to exchange the most friction as you interact with your environment.
 Apply a coat of a natural oil, butter, or lotion after the paste is removed. While the henna is on your skin, moisturize regularly to protect the design and prevent exfoliation. Many store-bought moisturizers contain chemicals that can prematurely lighten the stain, so it's best to use something natural.


Do not use moisturizers that contain bleaching agents and/or fruit acids (Alpha-Hydroxy Acid). These chemicals tend to strip your skin of moisture and nutrients, and they can make the henna fade prematurely.Spread a coat of essential oils over the design. Oils will keep your skin moist, which may prevent the henna from fading or flaking prematurely. Try using wax lip balm, coconut oil, or olive oil. Look for specialized henna-care oils.
 Exfoliation can fade the henna. Rough washing and friction from clothes can also lead the stain to disappear more quickly. The less you touch the area, the better. If you have a henna design on your hand, consider wearing gloves when you wash dishes.
 Apply with your hand or a soft towel. If possible, rub soap around the edge of the henna design, but not into the stain itself. Avoid using acetone (found in nail-polish remover) and hand sanitizers. These relatively powerful chemicals strip your skin and make the henna stains fade more quickly.

