 Attitude is a huge component of personality, especially friendliness. Fortunately, you can control your attitude! Choose to approach everything you face – especially when others are involved – from a positive perspective. Even if your own inclination about something is negative, make a point of stating a positive perspective on the matter.For instance, you and a co-worker may be assigned a task that neither of you are happy about. Instead of complaining about it, say something like, “This will give us the experience we need to start getting better assignments!”
The specifics matter less than the collective mood that a positive approach can help create. Contributing something lighthearted and humorous will help keep everyone in a friendly, cooperative mood.
 There are entire libraries filled with tomes about the importance of listening. In short, the better you are at actively listening to others, the better you will get along and the more productive you will be together.


Maintain eye contact, and focus on thinking about what another person is saying as opposed to what your response will be. Wait until they are finished speaking and think about your response for a moment before responding.
 Relationships with some of your peers may become dominated by the responsibilities you share. Even if you sometimes do something fun together with co-workers, for instance, there’s likely room to add to your friendship with those you usually interact with formally.


Ask co-workers or fellow students you admire to grab a coffee sometime, or simply walk out to the parking lot together.
Even better: as class or the workday is wrapping up, voice your interest in shifting gears together. For instance, say something like “who’s in the mood for walk to the ice cream store?” Even if no one bites, the offer sends the message that you are friendly and accessible.
Plan ahead for periodic group social events. For instance, get one or two others to commit to bowling next week, and let everyone else know the plans ahead of time!

, Whenever someone makes your life easier or brightens your day, let them know you appreciate it. Catch them somewhere private and say something like, “Hey, I really appreciate what you did for our project. Everything’s finally coming together and you really helped make it happen.”Feel free to make it personal. Say something like, “Hey, I wanted to let you know: you made my day earlier. I’ve been in a better mood since, and I’m really glad I know you.”

, Being helpful is also a good way to act friendly. If you notice that someone seems overwhelmed or like they could use a little assistance, then offer to help.


For example, if you see someone struggling to open a door because they have too many things in their hands, then hold the door open for the person.
Or, if a friend expresses that he is overwhelmed by the amount of studying he has to do for a big test, then you might offer to study with him to make it seem like less of a chore.

