 Career counselors can be excellent resources if you're unsatisfied with your current job. You can find out about openings in your field, as well as ways that you can translate the work skills you have into other fields. Whatever you do, talking to a career counselor can be a great way of switching jobs.


Career counselors and coaches are available in almost every city. Call one close to you and make an appointment.
Before you visit with a career counselor, it's important to give some thought to what you actually want. What kind of work would make you more happy? What do you think you're equipped for?, If you've been used to working at a computer, locked up in an office, you may be craving work with more human interaction. Try to think about switching to jobs that will allow you more face-time with other people, giving you the chance to socialize.Think about any of the following fields:


Sales
Customer service
Hotel management
Public relations
Event planning
Restaurant management

, If you've been stuck doing something that you think doesn't matter in the grand scheme, you may be craving a job that's part of a higher calling. If you want to make a difference in your world, consider researching jobs in any of the following fields:


Medicine
Education
Social work
Human resources
Law enforcement

, If you find a job doing something that you're passionate about, work will automatically be a lot more enjoyable. How would you spend your work day, ideally? What skills do you have that might translate into a more fun career?These might not be achievable for everybody, but if you've got the right talents and a little luck, here are some fun career options:


Disney World character
Stunt person
Flower arranger
Voice over artist
Video game tester
Wine buyer

, An advanced degree gives you more options. If you have a high school degree, you'll typically qualify for entry level jobs only. Any kind of upper management will require either lots of experience or a degree, but mostly likely you'll need both. Keep working and consider heading back to school to give yourself a chance to move up, or get other kinds of jobs.


Some jobs will require upper-level degrees as a part of advancement, but will pay for your schooling for you. Clerical jobs, manufacturing, and university administration departments will often do this for employees with the right attitude and experience.
 While it sounds nice to say that work needs to be "your passion" and that you should "follow your dreams," there's also a good argument for treating it like what it is. A paycheck. There are lots of good jobs available that don't require advanced degrees and lots of networking. Manufacturing, skills-based apprenticeships, and manual labor jobs offer solid paychecks and the ability to be your own boss. Consider finding a laborer to apprentice to, or get on-the-job training as a laborer in any of the following fields:


Bricklayer or mason
Plumber
Carpentry
HVAC
Electrician
Construction worker
Automotive technician

, Where previous generations had life-long careers, people today often must do things a little differently. Having a single job for 40 years and then retiring is a thing of the past in a lot of ways. Consider switching up your employment regularly, instead of staying put. Work somewhere for a couple years, then go elsewhere. Treat it like a hustle.

