;
, Let me show you my 3 favorites."

, When doing this, it is important to make it so the four aces stay on top.
 It is very important to count off the four aces on the top first so that they are the first four cards that land in your left hand during the shuffle. The end of the shuffle should resolve in the four aces being on the bottom of the deck.
 It would be a good idea here to make a joke about it like: "The only time you ever see this one is when you are watching a couple of drunk heads trying to shuffle cards."

,
With your right thumb, rub over about the top 15 cards or so into your left hand. ( doesn't have to be exactly 15 cards, just around there.)
It is important to hold the cards in your left hand with your thumb on top and your four fingers on the bottom.
Flip the 15 cards you just handed over to your left hand face up.
Hand over about 15 more cards to your left thumb so that the two sets of 15 cards are now back to back in your left hand.
Flip the cards in your hand over again. You should still see a face up card since the two sets are back to back.
Hand some more cards to your four fingers to that you are just adding to the bottom pile of back to back cards.
Flip your left hand over again and hand some more to your thumb.

NOTE: there should still be two piles of cards that are back to back and you are just adding to them every time you do it.


WHILE YOU ARE PERFORMING THE PREVIOUS STEP, HAND ALL THE CARDS FROM YOUR RIGHT HAND OVER EXCEPT THE LAST FOUR CARDS WHICH ARE THE FOUR ACES.

NOTE: Right now you should have 2 almost even piles in your left hand back to back, and the four aces in your right hand.


Place the four aces face down on either side of the deck.
The deck put together should now look like a normal deck with the top aces face down and the two back to back piles underneath it.
Now that you have performed all three shuffles you say "So do you agree that these cards are pretty messed up now?" ("yes")
Say your right and follow the following steps:
Explain "some cards are back to face" --- split the lower part of the deck and show them that the bottom half is back to face.
Explain "some cards are face to back" ---split the top part of the deck and show them that the top is face to back.
Explain "some cards are even back to back" and find the point in the deck that is back to back. (there should only be one back to back spot)
Once you have split the two piles, one with the four aces and one with no aces, flip the four ace pile over so that the four aces that are on top go into the middle of the deck.


,




There should be four aces near the middle and the only four cards face up.
