 Having good posture while standing is important, especially if you are on your feet all day. If you are standing with proper posture, you reduce stress on your body and may actually have more energy, as your muscles are used most efficiently when you have good posture.Use the following guidelines to make sure you are standing correctly.Hold your head up straight, not tilted forward, backward, or to the side. Picture a string attached to the top of your head, and someone is gently pulling it, keeping your head lifted.
Keep your shoulder blades back, but not so far that they are touching.
Knees should be straight, but not locked.
Tuck your stomach in without tilting your pelvis forward of backwards.
Keep your weight on the balls of your feet.
 Keep your back straight and bend your knees and hips to retrieve the object. Never bend forward from the waist with straight knees.


Use a wide stance with feet firmly planted on the ground. Start close to the object.
Straighten your knees in a steady motion, standing upright without twisting the body.
Hold heavy objects close to you, with elbows bent and stomach muscles tight.
 If you are on your feet all day, you'll want to look for shoes designed for comfort and to adequately support the weight of your body. Look for brands that offer added support and cushioning, plus a roomy toe.Look into orthotic shoes or inserts to support good posture, and avoid high heels., You can easily check your posture by doing a wall test. Stand against a wall, with your head, shoulder blades, and buttocks touching the wall. Your heels should be two to four inches from the wall. Place your palm against the wall and slide your hand behind your lower back.If your posture is good, then there should be a space about the width of a hand between your back and hand.
If there is more space than that, then you can flatten the curve of your back by tensing your abdomen and pulling in your belly button.
If there is less space and your back is touching your hand, arch your back until it is no longer touching your hand.
Once you have corrected your posture, walk away from the wall. Remember how you had to adjust your body to achieve good posture, and make an effort to correct your posture throughout the day.
 You could buy a back support brace, which can be worn under your clothes. You can buy different types of braces to support different parts of your back, such as a belt for lumbar support or a brace that focuses on pulling your shoulders back.


In addition, you might investigate devices that are on the cutting edge of technology, such as a sensor that attaches to your shirt and buzzes when you slouch or one that sticks to your lower back. You can even download an app that detects when you're craning your neck over your smartphone.