 If you have some dirty canvas sneakers, you can easily get them clean by throwing them in the washing machine, just as you would any other dirty garment. You may also be able to wash some non-canvas sneakers in the washing machine, but check the manufacturer's instructions before attempting it, as not all sneakers are machine washable.Put a few towels in the laundry with your shoes.
Remove the laces and use a brush to remove any loose dirt from your shoes before you put them in the washing machine.
Place your shoes inside a pillow case to protect the drum.
Use warm water for white shoes and cold water for colored fabrics.
You can add some vinegar or hydrogen peroxide to the washing machine to help disinfect your sneakers and remove odors.If you have embellished your canvas sneakers with paint, markers, or other decorations, avoid washing them in the machines, as the decorations may not hold up.;
, You can clean most sneakers by hand with cleaners that you probably already have. Simply add a small amount of laundry detergent or dish soap to a bowl of water and use a small brush to scrub the solution into your shoes. Once they're clean, pat them dry with a clean rag or paper towel.








You may also want to add some baking soda to your solution, especially if you are cleaning white sneakers.Remove the laces first. If the lace holes are very dirty, clean them with a cotton swab.
It's a good idea to use a dry brush to remove any loose dirt from your shoes before you get them wet.
If your sneakers have been stained by any kind of oil, use a gentle shampoo instead of detergent.Never use this method on suede. It should be fine for most other sneakers, but consult the care label to be sure.
 No matter how you cleaned your sneakers, it's important to make sure you dry them properly. Air drying shoes is typically the best method, regardless of material.









Never dry your sneakers in the dryer or on the radiator, as this can cause the rubber soles to become misshapen.Stuff wet shoes with paper towels to help them dry faster and retain their shape.You can let most sneakers dry in the sun, but never do this with leather shoes, as direct sunlight can cause them to become discolored.You can blot moisture off of your shoes with a rag to help make them dry a bit faster.
You can hang your shoes to dry if you want, but this is not necessary.
 You can't clean suede with water, as it may damage the material. Instead, purchase a suede eraser solution, which is available at most shoe stores. Use a brush to work the solution into your shoes, then brush away the excess solution with a clean brush.








Be sure to brush the suede in only one direction., If you can't find suede cleaner, you can try gently scrubbing your suede shoes with white vinegar to get them clean. For the best results, use a special suede brush, which you should be able to find at any shoe store.








If you have bad stains, blot them with the vinegar-soaked rag instead of rubbing.
Use a microfiber cloth or sponge to dry off your shoes after you're done cleaning.
 If your shoes are leather, it's best to use a cleaning solution that is specifically designed for cleaning leather. Simply use a soft towel to gently rub the solution into your shoes, and they'll be sparkling clean before you know it!








You should be able to find leather cleaning solution at any shoe store.
 Another effective way to clean leather sneakers is with a little bit of toothpaste. Simply dampen the surface of your shoe with a wet rag, use a toothbrush to scrub the toothpaste in, and wipe the shoes clean with another damp rag. Let them air dry indoors or outside in the shade.








Be sure to use white toothpaste, as colored toothpaste may stain your shoes.
Avoid using too much water. You just need enough to dampen the surface of the shoe and wipe away the excess toothpaste.
 To quickly brighten up your leather sneakers, try wiping them down with a rag or cotton swab coated in baby oil. This method may not get rid of serious stains, but it's great for everyday cleaning.








Avoid using this method on canvas or suede sneakers, as the oil may stain the material.
 If you have any scuffs or stains on the rubber part of your sneakers, you can get rid of them quickly by rubbing them with a white eraser, which you can buy at an art supply or office supply store. The sooner you do this, the better it will work, so don't put it off.








A Mr. Clean Magic Eraser is also excellent for getting rid of scuffs on rubber surfaces., To clean rubber soles, simply use a toothbrush dipped in a mixture of baking soda and rubbing alcohol. It may require a little elbow grease, but your soles will be back to white before long.








If you have stubborn stains, you can try soaking your shoes in a shallow pan so that only the soles are submerged.
 If you have sticky substances on the sole of your shoes, regular cleaning may not be enough to get rid of it. Luckily, it's fairly easy to get even nasty things like gum and tar off of your shoes.









If the sticky substance is not dry, place your shoes in the freezer inside of a freezer-safe bag for a few hours. This should cause the substance to become brittle, so you can scrape it off.If you have tar on your shoes and normal cleaning doesn't do the trick, apply a tar and sap remover. These products are typically designed for automotive use, so always check the label to make sure it's safe for rubber. You can also try WD-40 or baby oil., Even if your sneakers are not machine washable, your laces are. Remove your laces and get them sparkling clean by putting them in the washing machine with your regular laundry.








Place them in a lingerie bag or inside a pillow case to prevent them from getting tangled in the machine.
Washing your laces is especially important if they are white.
Never machine wash leather or suede laces.
 If you don't want to wash your laces in the washing machine, you can get them clean by soaking and scrubbing them as well. Simply let them sit in a bowl of hot water, baking soda, and dish washing liquid for about five minutes. Then use a small brush, such as a toothbrush, to scrub them clean.








Use a suede cleaner or vinegar if your laces are suede.
 If you want the insides of your sneakers to be as clean as the outsides, you should definitely take the time to clean the insoles. Remove them from your shoes and use a brush to scrub them down with a mixture of warm water and detergent.








Be sure to allow the insoles to air dry before putting them back inside the sneakers.
 If your insoles are a little smelly even after you wash them, you may need to take an extra step to freshen them up. Baking soda and vodka are both terrific for removing odors.








Try placing them in a plastic bag with some baking soda overnight. Shake the bag well so that the baking soda covers the entire insole. The next morning, simply shake off the excess baking soda and put the insoles back in your sneakers.
For really tough odors, soak your insoles some vodka for a few hours. This will get rid of all odor-causing bacteria and fungi.

