 The first, and perhaps most important step in the process is actually determining if you should buy and hold at all. In real estate, you profit from the difference between the initial cost of the property and how much you end up selling it for. There are two ways to do this. In a fix and flip, you make improvements to the home that increase it's value. In a buy and hold you'll need the house to appreciate in value. If it doesn't look like the market will get any better any time soon, you might want to try a different route.;
, Like any form of real estate investing, you need to find the right house to make the project worth while. Get an accurate ARV, or "after repair value", from a trusted real estate broker and never pay more than 70% of that number. Consider elements like neighborhood, school district reputation, and general location. In a fix and flip you would try to find an ugly duckling in a good neighborhood with strong bones and no major structural damages. With a buy and hold, you could go this route and repair the home, or you could simply find one in already good condition.
 While making money years down the road is your main goal, it's always a good idea to have a short term plan too. A great way to generate a monthly cash flow is by leasing the house out to tenants. There are a few different ways you can do this: leasing, lease purchasing, or lease optioning out to tenants. A lease purchase legally binds the tenant to purchase the home after the lease term is over, while a lease option simply gives them the choice to. The lease option also comes with what is called an "option consideration", which is a fee that the tenant has to pay to have a choice in the matter. If the tenant chooses not to purchase the home at the end of the term, the option consideration is yours to keep.
 This is a step that many investors overlook. You want to find a tenant or tenants that will cause the fewest problems as possible, and is the most reliable. If the tenant is constantly late on rent, you might not have the cash you need to invest in other properties. If the tenant is a party animal or destructive in any way, you might end up having to pay for new appliances and have to get the house worked on. Finally, you don't want tenants that are going to do anything illegal on your property, or even do anything without a permit.
 If you've found the right tenant, this step can sometimes be a breeze. All you'll need to do is sit back and collect the rent, fixing the occasional problem. Once you get the lay of the land, you might consider buying a few more properties to rent out and doing the same thing. Just make sure you keep your tenants orderly, and keep your property in prime condition so that you can sell it when the time comes. Which brings us to our next step.
 When the house has finally appreciated in value, it is time to sell the property and collect your long-awaited profit. If you are selling it to the tenant through a lease purchase or a lease option, the work is already done for you. However, if you are selling to a third party, you will have to put the house on the market. In addition to using a real estate agent, you should also list your home online and in newspapers. A cheap way to get the word out that you have a property is by using bandit signs. When you've found the right buyer with the right offer, just sign the papers and cash your check!

