 Before you start imposing rules on your family, it is a good idea to sit down and talk to your spouse about how you feel. This will give you a chance to come to an agreement on what is and is not acceptable electronic use.


Share your ideas about how to encourage your family members to unplug, but listen to your spouse’s ideas as well.
Try making a list of what you want to happen regarding electronics in your household.;
, One way to encourage bonding in the family is to set a “no electronics” time once a day. You may speak to your family members and ask them to help you choose a time where you all put your electronics away and spend time together. Perhaps the “no electronics” time is set for the hour after dinner so you can all talk and hang out at the table together. Or maybe you all agree on a “no electronics” time on a Saturday morning for one hour so you can do a family activity together without distractions.You may all agree on a rule where you can only pick up your electronics in the event of an emergency. Otherwise, the “no electronics” time should be free of any phone calls, texting, or surfing on the web.
 To make bonding with the family easier, you can set household rules around the use of electronics at home. You may make a rule where electronics are not allowed during any family meals, such as breakfast and dinner. For the duration of meal, everyone has to agree not to check their phones or take any calls.Another rule could be not allowing electronics when eating out or when on a family outing. You may tell the family that they should leave their electronics at home or in the car when eating out. You may also encourage family to put their electronics away when you all go on a family outing together.
 Talk to the family about how unplugging can help you all bond in a more meaningful way. You may have a family meeting where you address the use of electronics and discuss why it is important to unplug and spend some quality time together. Allow everyone to speak at the family meeting and share their perspective. As a family, you may all come up with some rules and guidelines around using electronics so you can all feel you are connecting in a real way.For example, you may say to the family, “I’ve noticed that we all seem distracted by electronics. I want us to feel we are spending quality time together and I want to bond with you all in a meaningful way. Can we talk about our use of electronics and ways to bond more as a family?”

, You can encourage your family to unplug and spend quality time together by heading outside, preferably to an area with no cellphone or internet reception. You may plan a hiking trip where you camp and hit the trails together without the use of electronics. Or you may do a day trip where you hike in a large park in the city and attempt to focus more on nature than your cellphones.Get the family involved in planning the trip so they feel invested and included. You may have a family meeting where you discuss the logistics of the trip and the no electronics rule for the outing. Give each family member a job or role in the planning of the trip so everyone feels included.
 Another way to encourage your family to unplug is to play games as a family that do not involve electronics. This could be board games, word games, or a simple game of hide and seek. Try to play a family game with no electronics at least once a week so you can all spend quality time together and have fun.Designate one "Game Night" a week where you play a different board game as a family. You may also plan family hang outs on the weekend where you run around together and play outside, rather than staying indoors on your electronics.
 Connect with the family through in person conversation, rather than simply texting, calling, or using social media. Try to engage your family members in conversation at the dinner table or in the morning before they head out for the day.When you engage the family in conversation, keep it casual and open. You may say, “What’s your plan for the day?” or “What’s in store for today?”
Listen to the person speak in an interested and engaged way. Maintain eye contact with them and nod to show them you are listening. Then, ask follow up questions to indicate you are paying attention to what they have to say. For example, you may say, “Why are you worried about that test?” or “What are you looking forward to the most at school today?”

