 This is an important step in recovery. Find someone positive in your life that you can trust and rely on. It can be scary and embarrassing to seek help for an eating disorder, but gaining support from a trusted friend, family member, religious leader, school counselor, or work colleague is for many people the first step on the road to recovery. Research suggests that feeling connected socially is an important factor in recovery.For example, if your dietitian has helped you create an eating plan, ask a friend or family member to help you stay on track.
 It's essential that you get a strong amount of social support in order to recover from anorexia. There are support groups across the country that you can join, where you can discuss your feelings and the struggles you are enduring. There are groups led by professional therapists as well as volunteer-led groups. Volunteer-led groups are typically led by someone who has recovered from an eating disorder. Use this link to find a group local to you:



Click here.
 If you aren't able to join a support group and you need people to talk to, there are chat rooms and forums on the internet where you can find sympathetic people. Because of how important maintaining social connection is for eating disorder recovery, you may want to consider posting on these websites.Many of these people are going through the same issues. Here are a couple different options:



National Eating Disorders forum.

Anorexia Nervosa and Associated Disorders forum.
 Many people with eating disorders are tempted to isolate themselves from the people in their lives, usually because of the strongly held belief that there is something wrong with them.As tempting as coping via isolation may be, you should avoid it at all costs. Isolation will only make the problem worse. Allowing family and friends to be there for you is one of the keys to recovery.
 Unfortunately, there are websites out there dedicated to the spread of anorexia and other eating disorders. These websites advocate anorexia and bulimia as lifestyles. They may not realize how harmful, painful, and even deadly eating disorders can be. They are usually called "pro-ana" or "pro-mia" websites, and you should avoid them in order to keep yourself free from negative influences.