 A major pitfall for some new piano teachers is focusing too much on the lesson plan, at the expense of the student. Students learn at different paces, and have different strengths and weaknesses. Tailor your teaching to each student's needs. Keep an open dialogue about the student's musical tastes, and how he feels about the pieces and exercises you've assigned.;
, If you're new to piano teaching, you may spend more time than you expect on finger position, middle C, and other basic concepts. This is especially true if you are teaching young children.


Try letter notation to introduce students to reading music. Move on to regular staff notation once the student is ready.
Even some intermediate students may not have the type of training you expect. Do not assume they can read music or identify key signatures.
 Take notes on where your student struggles, then adjust his lessons and homework to focus on those areas. During a lesson, have him play a song once through, then guide him through repetitions of the sections he had trouble with.


Don't overdo it with difficult assignments, especially if the student is not devoted to the piano. Keep the student motivated by including pieces that he excels at or particularly loves.
 Use games, repetition, and mnemonics to help students engage with the lesson. Try inciting student to want to excel, by introducing them to things like some of Liszt's Transcendental Etudes. Find a balance of fun and focus that works with your teaching style. This is especially important for children, who often learn best in a relaxed, but not distracting, atmosphere.

Young kids often respond well to reward systems. Try putting up a sticker chart and offering a prize when the student fills it with stickers.
A big part of this is giving students some choice over which pieces to play, or the chance to explore a style of music that appeals to them.
 The best way to help a student improve is to hold her to a high standard. If you aren't strict about technique, the student may develop bad piano habits. This is especially true for advanced students who are serious about improving, but even a young beginner needs a teacher who can hold them to basic standards.

Criticism does not mean negativity. Acting exasperated, angry, or condescending will demotivate your students.
 Many students are reluctant to practice, being more interested in sports or being with their friends instead, which can make all your work together nearly useless. Keep an eye out for students who don't (or won't) practice, and talk to them (and if necessary, their parents) about ways to motivate them. If the student doesn't want to learn, the lessons will not lead anywhere.

