 Click on your blog name, and select "Dashboard" from the menu. You should see a list of options on left hand side of your screen.;
, Choose the "Export" box from the list of options. You will most likely want to export your content first, so you can import it somewhere else.
 The top option is "All Content," and it is the most popular choice. Click "Download Export File" to create an "XML" file of your entire blog on your computer.


You may see the option "Guided Transfer" on your Export page. This is a service, provided by WordPress.com, for approximately $119. They will export your website and import it onto the site of your choice. If you choose to download the Extensible Markup Language (XML), or website, file, it is always completely free of charge.
Some uploads, photos and links may not be exported into your file. You may need to re-upload some of this content onto your new website.
 You will need this file in order to import it later.
 Go to the blog page. Find the Tools section of the Dashboard and select the "Import" option.


You can try to transfer your WordPress.com or .org blog to a non-WordPress platform. Some content that does not match the website format may be lost. WordPress is free, and open-source, so if a web programmer can install the WordPress.org software on your new website, it may be the easiest option. You will already have familiarity with how the blog can be changed, leading to fewer problems.
 Click "Upload" to upload the XML file to the new blog. Select "Download & import file attachments" to move your media along with the rest of your blog.
 It is important to follow exact instructions to make sure your database stays intact and uploads properly to a new website.
 Under WordPress, click the "Structure" tab and then the "Export" option. Click the box for "Add drop table/drop view" and the box to "Save as file."

, Open the file in a text editor program. Select the find function to find all of the previous URL (website) addresses.
 You can click "Replace All" to do this in 1 step. Check your document to make sure all the URL addresses are changed before saving the file.
 Login to your server and go to "MySQL Databases." Create a new database and assign it a new user to serve as an administrator.
 Under the "Import" tab, select the file you just downloaded, changed and saved. Click "Go" to upload the file to your WordPress platform.
 Change the database details, replacing them with the new server and domain settings.

