 The supine (lying face up) figure four is a yoga pose that also stretches your hips. It can be a good pose to incorporate into your routine right after you do the windshield wiper stretch.After the windshield wiper stretch, drop your feet to the floor so that you're lying on your back with your knees up. Make sure your lower back is pressed into the floor.
Raise one leg and turn it so that your ankle is resting on the opposite thigh, just above the knee. Thread your inner arm through your thighs to grasp the lower thigh, and grasp the outside of that thigh with your other hand.
Hold the position for 15 to 20 seconds, then lower your leg to the floor and repeat with the opposite leg. You can do both legs three to five times if you want.
 Don't let the simplicity of this yoga pose fool you. This stretch is good to release muscle tension in your legs and stretch our your hamstrings. Like the windshield wiper stretch, "legs up the wall" can help ease lower back pain.For this pose, lie on your back with your legs towards a wall. Scoot up towards the wall so that your hips are as close as possible to the wall itself without resting on it. Your legs should be extended straight up the wall, although your knees can be bent a little. Flex your feet.
Make sure your lower back is flat against the floor. You can put a rolled towel or blanket under your hips if necessary.
Your shoulders should be rolled back so that your shoulder blades are tucked in against your spine, pressing into the floor.
You can stay in this pose as long as you want, breathing deeply. Spread your feet further apart on the wall to stretch your inner thighs.
 When you open up your hip flexors, you aren't stretching your back like you are with the windshield wiper stretch. However, stretching your hip flexors is another way to ease lower back pain by moving your hips to a better alignment.To do these stretches, get down on the floor on one knee, other foot flat in front of you. Your knee should be at a 90-degree angle, while your other leg is in front of you with the knee also bent at a 90-degree angle and your thigh parallel to the floor.
Press your pelvis forward until your gluteal muscles engage. Be careful to keep your back neutral – do not arch your spine and lean forward.
When the glutes engage, they gently open your hip flexors and help press your hips into correct alignment.
Hold this stretch for 15 to 20 seconds, breathing deeply, then switch and do the other side.
 Pigeon pose is perhaps the ultimate hip-opening stretch, and can also relieve stress and tension. However, if your hips are particularly tight, you may have difficulty with this yoga pose. Take your time and don't push into the stretch any further than you can without discomfort or pain.You can get into pigeon pose from all fours. Raise up and walk one leg forward so that your foot is between your hands as you extend your other leg behind you. You are now in a lunge position.
Slide your foot over until your lower leg is roughly parallel with your shoulders and hips in front of you, resting on its side on the floor. Lower your hips until they are resting on the floor – or as low as you can go without any pain or discomfort.
You can keep your torso straight, or fold forward to deepen the stretch. Hold the position for 15 to 20 seconds, then raise back up to all fours and repeat on the other side.

