 If you want to get to work on your house or yard, start out by writing down all the chores and projects you’ve been meaning to do. These can be small things, like taking out the trash or dusting the bookcases, or big projects, like painting the kitchen or cleaning out the garage.


Remember that you’re not trying to do all of the listed items in one weekend. You’re starting out by just listing all the things you eventually want to get done around the house. Afterwards, you can break up the items into manageable chunks and place them in order.
Be as specific as possible. For example, don’t just write “Clean the house”. Instead, write “Wash the kitchen and living room floors”, “Clean the toilet and sink”, and “Pull weeds in the back yard”.;
, Once you’ve got a master list of chores and projects you’d like to do, arrange them in descending order from most to least important. You’ll do the top one or two projects this weekend, and then tackle the other ones on following weekends.


Take environmental and other factors into consideration when prioritizing. For example, if you have yard work on your list and it’s already late autumn, you should get these tasks done before temperatures fall too low or the first snow falls.
Don’t forget budgetary considerations as well. For example, you might be longing to resurface your driveway or refinish your basement, but not in a place financially to take care of these large-scale projects. Keep these items on your list, but know that you’re tabling them until you’ve saved enough money.
 Attending to menial cleaning and maintenance tasks might not seem as rewarding or productive as tackling your bigger renovation projects. In fact, though, having a visibly tidied home environment can make you feel more organized, capable, and energized to keep cleaning or take on bigger, upcoming projects.Starting with the easiest chores, such as taking out the trash, doing the dishes, and changing lightbulbs around the house, means that you can cross off several items from your list in short order. This quick payoff can help keep you motivated and build momentum.
 After cleaning up inside your home, get started on outdoor chores, such as cleaning the gutters, washing the car, or sweeping the driveway. These tasks can be more labour-intensive than indoor ones, though, so only do one or two per day in order to avoid exhaustion.


If you live in an apartment, your outdoor to-do list will probably be minimal. Double-check to make sure there aren’t little things you can do to help out, such as vacuuming the foyer or picking up litter from the courtyard, but don’t get distracted or procrastinate by doing unnecessary tasks.
 Once you’ve taken care of all the chores on your list, think about what you’ll need to begin your larger home improvement tasks. If you’re planning to paint, put up curtains, or put in new carpet, for example, you’ll need to visit a home improvement store and purchase things like paint, tarp, tape, rollers, nails, curtain rods, and caulk.


Don’t underestimate the time required for these kinds of preparatory errands. In order to allot yourself plenty of time and avoid falling behind on your to-do list, you might want to schedule supply-gathering errands and projects on different days.
 You may be able to do big home improvement projects on your own, but most people could use a little help. And, even if you’re capable of going solo, having friends and family come over to assist can be a good way to socialize and have fun while being productive at the same time.


Make sure that you have all the necessary supplies for you and your helpers. For example, if you’ve invited friends over to do some painting, make sure you have enough painting smocks, brushes, and rollers for everyone.
Proper etiquette recommends that you purchase lunch and beverages for your helpers in order to show gratitude for their time and energy. You can order pizza, make sandwiches, or take them out to your favorite neighborhood joint. Also be sure to have plenty of cold water, sports drinks, or lemonade on hand for when your friendly helpers work up a thirst., If you're considering a major project involving lots of construction or complex work, consider working with a contractor to reach your goals. A professional will not only have experience doing the kind of renovation you're attempting, as well as useful contacts for purchasing the required materials and finding additional resources or workers when necessary.


Just be sure to do your research first by consulting consumer review sites, interviewing different candidates, and asking for references from friends and family., You might get bored with painting after awhile and want to start on your kitchen cabinets, but try to focus on one task before switching to another. Studies have shown that you work more efficiently when you work on one task continuously rather than jumping between multiple tasks.