 This creamy mac and cheese makes a great weeknight meal and can be served with kale. You will need the following ingredients: one head of roasted garlic; twelve ounces of gluten free penne; four tablespoons of olive oil; four cloves of minced garlic; four and a half tablespoons of arrowroot starch; two cups of almond milk; five tablespoons of nutritional yeast; half a cup of vegan Parmesan cheese; and sea salt to taste. Using these ingredients, make your mac and cheese:Roast your head of garlic in the oven at 400 degrees Fahrenheit (200 C) for one hour.
Cook the pasta for eight to ten minutes, following the instructions on the package.
To prepare the sauce, saute the minced garlic for a couple minutes and then add the arrowroot starch. Slowly add the almond milk until it starts to look clumpy. Add the salt, pepper, nutritional yeast, and vegan Parmesan cheese.
Cook the sauce in the skillet for a few minutes.
Add the cooked pasta to the sauce and top with more vegan Parmesan cheese.
 When you buy your conventional macaroni and cheese product, it will come with a packet of conventional cheese. Discard this cheese and replace it with vegan cheese. Alongside non-dairy milk, this will transform your conventional package of macaroni and cheese into a dairy-free recipe.

If you are working with a traditional mac and cheese recipe, you can simply substitute with vegan cheese and an alternative milk.
Try using a vegan Parmesan cheese.Cheesy vegan white cheddar style cheese is known to melt well. You can buy it online or at your local health food store.Try Sheese melty smoked cheddar. This vegan cheese is a great vegan cheese that also melts well for pizza or, indeed, macaroni and cheese.If you have a friend, family member or roommate who enjoys conventional macaroni and cheese, you can give them the cheese packet.
 When you follow the directions on your box of conventional macaroni and cheese, it will call for cow milk. At this point in the recipe, replace the cow milk with a non-diary option such as almond milk, soy milk, or rice milk.

A cup of soy milk has six grams of protein, twelve grams of carbohydrates, and four grams of fat. It contains one hundred and five calories.A cup of almond milk has a gram of fiber and protein, two to three grams of fat, and around 40 calories.A cup of rice milk has twenty five carbohydrates, two grams of fat, and a hundred and twenty calories in total., If you want to make a dairy-free macaroni and cheese but only have a little bit of vegan cheese and a box of conventional mac and cheese but no non-dairy milk, you can still make mac and cheese. If you are in this situation, simply replace the milk with the starchy water from cooking your pasta. It will help the pasta to stick to the vegan cheese.

Instead of throwing out the water when you drain your pasta, catch the water in a pot.
When the recipe calls for milk, simply use the starchy water instead.

