 Clark always listens to his parents and respects his parents no matter how annoying there rules can get, trust me, he gets annoyed a lot. His dad always told him not join the football team because he was afraid that that Clark would hurt someone by accident or reveal his secret. Have you ever disobeyed your parents and found serious consequences, that's why you should listen to your parents. But make sure they give you room to make mistakes and be your own person. It is all about growing up. And trust me, they been there. As impossible as this sounds, some parents actually want what's best for their kids.;
, You never know, It might be your future career choice. Clark always enjoyed journalism. It has always been one of Clark's major studies. He is a natural writer yet not as good a snoop as his friend Chloe. It is very important that you find something that interests you, it does not have to be the same as Clark, just choose something that gives you purpose.
 Your gifts make you special in your own way. You have a responsibility to use them for others. Oliver Queen had once said that with Clark's potential, you can't wait them to come to you. It takes time but Clark discovers that there is no greater calling than helping humanity. But that's totally your call. You don't have to be some hero. Just take action in helping others. You know that old saying. Watch your action, it will become your habits, Watch you habits, they become your character, and watch your character because it will become your Destiny. That's just it, you are responsible for your actions, for your destiny.
 Clark always felt pretty comfortable being the big brother figure. Help them with homework, play sports with the kid. Sky's the limit. Trust me you'll feel so awesome to help make a difference in some kids life. You never know, you might find a piece of yourself in them.
 It might be hard, but if you want to be like Clark you got to be able to trust those you tell those secrets. Clark highly values trust. But don't let it overwhelm you or you will end up like the "Clark Relationship". You need someone that you can be honest with, someone to share your trails and hardships, and I promise, if you find the real thing you are sure to soar. Find your Lois.
 Since you can't walk around public wearing a Superman suit (unless you were really that motivated), use Smallville's Clark as an example of what you can do. Clark is almost always seen wearing a combination of the primary colors. Most commonly it's a Red Jacket/Blue T-shirt, Blue Jacket/Red T-shirt, and a Yellow-Beige Jacket/Red or Blue T-shirt combination. Even during formal occasions, such as his graduation, he is wearing a Blue Shirt, Red Tie, and Yellow-Beige Trousers. You don't necessarily have to do that, but find a look that's exclusive to you: something that everyone else recognizes you by, even if it's something as simple as a hoodie you always wear (make sure you wash it though, Clark has a good sense of hygiene too). It's a lot less conspicuous then tights and a cape.
 Clark never put himself in a place where his classmates at Smallville High (or people in Smallville generally) ever had a reason to hold grudges against him or be mad at him (unless they were meteor freaks that were put into Belle Reve by him). Be friendly to everyone, and everyone should be friendly to you. Even if people aren't, just don't abandon the self righteous attitude and keep treating them the same way. If they continue to act unfriendly, try to put yourself in their shoes and understand if they might be going through a tough time in their life. Keep in mind all kids weren't raised by parents like Jonathan and Martha Kent, and not everyone is so lucky to have some of the luxuries of life that you do.
 Even your enemies. Clark has always been slightly too trusting, even to a fault. So yes even his enemies needed a chance. You have got to learn to forgive and forget, though even Clark has had trouble with doing that. They may just be looking for someone to save them. Who is Superman's greatest enemy? Lex Luthor. Who would have thought that they were once best friends, no, brothers. Even bad guys need someone to save them. Don't give up on them.
 In doing all these steps you find strengths in yourself that you never knew were there. You will also see what makes you weak. You can't ignore these things, or you will be doing a disservice to yourself and everyone around you. These gifts were meant to be used for the greater good. Clark had discovered that he had a purpose and was done running away from it, he was ready to walk into the world though not fully prepared. He decided to work at the Daily Planet so he could find those who needed him. But that was only the beginning, by accident he was exposed by a small degree and learned maybe the idea was someone out there saving people wasn't such a bad idea. The Red Blue Blur was born. Though you don't need to create an alias as Clark did it may be time to start a new life with a new identity, Clark was ready to take what new out into the world to make it a better place, and in doing so he was starting a new life. Maybe it's time to do the same.

