 Schizophrenia is a severe brain disorder that can be kept under control with medication and therapy. Schizophrenia changes the way a person thinks, feels, and generally perceives the world. For this reason, it is very common for people with the condition to have hallucinations and delusions., To have hallucinations means to see or hear things that others cannot. To have delusions means to accept false beliefs as true.


An example of a hallucination would be hearing voices that other people cannot hear. An example of a delusion would be a person with schizophrenia thinking that someone else was reading his or her mind.
 Although loss of contact with reality (psychosis) is a typical sign of schizophrenia, it is not the only one. People with schizophrenia may also exhibit loss of interest and drive, speech problems, depression, memory difficulties, and mood swings., Exacerbation of symptoms usually occurs when people stop undertaking treatment. It can also be the result of substance abuse, other diseases, psychosocial stress, and adverse effects of the drug being used for treatment.
 Although schizophrenia cannot be cured, symptoms usually improve with proper treatment. As many as 50% of patients receiving medical treatment experience significant recovery. It is also important to remember that treatment of schizophrenia requires more than just drugs. When treatment is combined with psychological and psychosocial therapies, patients can recover more quickly.
 The reality is that while 20 to 25% of people struggling with schizophrenia will experience remission, and about 50% will continue to have persistent or intermittent symptoms. Many people think that with love and support they will be able to cure their loved ones. While love and support do play a large factor, it is also important to check your expectations and make sure that they reflect the reality of the disease.
 Early detection of the return of psychosis and prompt treatment generally prevent a full relapse. However, you must be aware that relapse in schizophrenia occurs very often; and it cannot be entirely prevented, even when the patient has the best treatment. Although symptoms of relapse are sometimes difficult to detect (since they are usually non-specific for schizophrenia), pay attention to:


Subtle changes in the behaviour of your relative, including appetite and sleep problems, irritability, loss of interest in daily activities, and a depressed mood.
 A person may stop going to follow up treatment or discontinue the medication, frequently leading to a return of symptoms. Without treatment some people with schizophrenia may become so disorganized that they cannot attend to their basic needs, including food, shelter and clothing. Ways that you can help make sure your loved one is getting all that he or she needs include:


Keeping an eye on the person's use of medications. If you notice your loved one skipping medications, either intentionally or unintentionally, make sure that they keep taking them.
Keeping a record of the types of medications, dosages, and affects the meds have on your loved one. Because schizophrenia causes disorganization, it is up to you, at least until the medication starts working, to monitor the doses of each medication your loved one should receive.
 For some reasons that are not fully understood, people with schizophrenia are more likely to abuse drugs and alcohol. Similarly, they have an increased risk of suffering from obesity, diabetes, and cardiovascular disease. To help the person overcome these issues, you can encourage him or her to live a healthy lifestyle that includes a good diet and regular physical activity. For example:


Offer to go on walks with your loved one each day. Or, drive him or her to the gym and set up a daily exercise routine.
Stock the refrigerator with healthy food options. Offer to cook dinner every other day and served balanced meals. Balanced meals include servings of fruit, vegetables, protein, low-dairy products, and whole grain carbs.
Avoid drinking more than minimal amounts of alcohol around them and refrain from using any illegal drugs. It may help them stay on this same path.
 Because schizophrenia affects the brain, many people living with the disease having a hard time understanding others and communicating effectively. To help them understand you, speak slowly and in a crisp, clear tone. Defuse arguments before they begin because tension can exacerbate your loved one's condition.You should also speak with empathy and compassion in your voice. People with schizophrenia react poorly to harsh or negative tones, so speaking with love in your voice can play a large factor in effective communication.
 The conversation will almost always lead to tensions rising. Talk but do not even attempt to get into lengthy discussions about the delusions which they experience. Learn to adopt what is known as ‘constructive disengagement’ wherein lengthy discussions about delusions are avoided.
 At times, it may seem like your loved one's actions or words are intentionally meant to provoke or disturb you. When this happens, keep your patience about you. It is very important to not get stressed or angry in the face of their actions--a charged atmosphere can lead to a relapse. Instead, develop some techniques to keep yourself calm. These could include:


Counting to ten or counting backwards.
Practicing breathing techniques.
Removing yourself from the situation rather than engaging.
 It is important that you convey through your actions and words that you are with your loved one in their struggle to get back their identity. Your acceptance of them and their situation encourages them to accept themselves and their situation which is key to their voluntary participation in their treatment.
 Many people with schizophrenia do not enjoy being around large groups of people. Keep visitors to small groups or individuals. Also, do not put pressure on your loved one to do an activity that he or she does not want to do. Let them display a will to do things and then do them at their own pace.
 In contrast to what has been shown in movies, people with schizophrenia are generally not violent. However, some might act in an aggressive manner as a result of hallucinations and delusions. As such, they can become a danger to themselves or others.


For example, individuals with schizophrenia have a 5% lifetime risk of committing suicide, a significantly higher rate than the general population.
 When facing a psychotic break, it is important not to challenge the person's beliefs even when you know they don't coincide with reality. For people with schizophrenia, hallucinations and bizarre thoughts are not just products of the imagination: they are quite real. The afflicted truly perceive things that you cannot. For this reason, try not to argue about delusions or false beliefs.
 When you are confronted with your loved one's unrealistic beliefs, it is important that you state that you do not see the world in the same way. Make sure to let the person know that things may appear differently to him or her. Doing this may help him or her remember that they have an illness. However do not get into an argument about those beliefs.


If they think that you are challenging their beliefs, try to change the topic or draw their attention to something else that does not incite a disagreement.
 When a person is in the throes of psychotic break, it is important to continue to show them love, kindness, and empathy. Say kind things to them and remind them of good times. However, if they are acting aggressively, maintain your distance while continuing to show love and support.
 Although it does not occur very often, people with schizophrenia may become dangerous. In this case, the police can assist in getting an emergency psychiatric evaluation. You should consider the possibility that the person you live with may have to stay in the hospital for a few days until his or her symptoms are under control.


Be cautious about dealing with police, especially if your loved one is male and/or a person of color. The police may respond violently or with lethal force. Their track record regarding mentally ill and disabled people is not particularly positive., You should plan your everyday life so that you don't forget to take advantage of free time. It is important to take the time to enjoy yourself as this will help you cope better with the situation. Make time to be by yourself or go out with friends.


Go see a movie with friends, create special hours of ‘alone time’, or get a massage every once in a while.
 Despite the fact that you are taking care of someone else, you should still keep your social life active. Keep in contact with friends, maintain your romantic relationship, and visit family when you have the chance. Having a good network of friends and family will help you to get through the tough days that will come along.
 Mental and physical health are linked. When your body is healthy, your mind and emotions can also be healthy. Get regular exercise and eat well-balanced meals. Exercising can also be a great way to lower stress or remove yourself from a tense situation. If you find yourself struggling to maintain your patience, go on a run or for a long walk.


Yoga is great way to exercise both the mind and body. Enroll in a local yoga class and practice finding your inner calm.
 A support group is place where you get an opportunity to meet multitude of people who in various capacities are associated with people struggling with schizophrenia. It is a place where you can expect to be accepted as you are, where you can be extended unconditional support and where your situation is completely understood without any tagged-on stigma.


Encourage your loved one to join a support group. On top of offering assistance to family members, support groups also help people with schizophrenia develop personal strengths and resilience, both of which are needed to combat this illness.

