 This is a medically designed and studied diet plan focusing on reducing blood pressure. It was shown the significantly lower both numbers measured with your blood pressures. The diet is high in vegetables, fruits, low-fat dairy products, whole grains, and lean proteins. It is also low in sodium, added-sugars, and fats. Most of the dietary advice that follows will take the DASH diet as its model. If you want to know more about the DASH diet and other dietary advice, schedule an appointment with your doctor.
 Sodium can significantly affect how high your blood pressure is. A central goal of the DASH diet, then, is to lower the amount of sodium the patient gets through both table salt and foods themselves.


The current recommended daily intake of salt is set by the 2010 Dietary Guidelines for Americans at 2,300 mg.If your doctor believes that you belong on a low-sodium DASH diet, you should probably consider lowering your daily salt intake to about 1,500 mg. That's less than a teaspoon of salt per day.
Many processed foods contain high levels of sodium. Be careful of processed foods when considering how much salt your body is getting. Even processed foods that don't taste salty may have significantly more salt than is healthy. You can check the packaging on most foods to see how much sodium it has. Sodium is listed in milligrams (mg) on every nutrition label.
Be mindful of serving sizes and track the sodium you consume each day to try to keep it below 1500 mg., The DASH diet consists of 6 to 8 servings of grains, preferably whole grains, per day. Try to eat whole grains over refined grains. There are some smart choices you can make in order to avoid refined grains and eat the ones most healthy for you.


Quinoa, bulgar, farrow, oats, rice, wheat berries, and barley are all good sources of whole grains.
If you've got a choice, opt for whole grain pasta instead of regular pasta, brown rice instead of white rice, and whole wheat bread instead of white bread. Always look for labels that clearly state 100 percent whole grain or 100 percent whole wheat.

Choose food that is as unprocessed as possible. If it comes out of a bag, a drive through, or in a box with more than 3 ingredients, it is probably too processed. If is comes out of a tree or is grown in the ground, it is more than likely healthier.
 Vegetables are delicious, diverse, and very good for your blood pressure and general health. DASH recommends that you get 4 to 5 servings of vegetables per day. Squash, tomatoes, broccoli, spinach, artichokes, and carrots are good examples of vegetables that are high in fiber, potassium, and magnesium.


These vitamins are needed by the body to keep it running and help lower high blood pressure.
 Your body needs the vitamins, minerals, and antioxidants that are found in fruit. You can use fruit both as a natural treat and a substitute for refined, sugary sweets that you might want. DASH recommends that you get 4 to 5 servings of fruits per day.


Leave on the edible peels of fruits for extra fiber and roughage. The peels of apples, kiwis, pears, and mangos can all be eaten and enjoyed along with the fruit.
 Adding lean protein to your diet can be helpful, but you need to make sure you limit your intake every day. DASH recommends that you get no more than 6 servings of lean protein, such as poultry breast, soy, or dairy, in a day.


When eating lean protein, be sure to trim away any fat or skin from the meat before cooking.
Never fry your meat. Try grilling, broiling, roasting, boiling, or poaching instead as a way to cook your meat.
Make sure to get lots of fresh (not fried) fish in your diet. Fish such as salmon contain heart-healthy omega-3 fatty acids, which help ease high blood pressure instead of contributing to it., Aside from having plenty of omega-3 fatty acids, nuts, seeds, and legumes are rich in fiber and phytochemicals. DASH recommends getting about 4 to 6 servings per week as opposed to per day.


This restriction is because nuts, seeds, and legumes are high in calories and should be consumed in moderation.
Eat foods such as almonds, flax seeds, walnuts, sunflower seeds, lentils, peas, and kidney beans.
 You should only have about 5 servings of sweets per week if you want to follow the DASH diet strictly. If you do have sweets, try going for low-fat or non-fat sweets such as sorbets, fruit ices, or graham crackers.

