 Get some rest during and after attacks. Make sure you are resting as much as possible. While it is not always easy to achieve in our busy modern age, getting rest and relaxation can minimize the effects of vertigo.If you feel dizzy at any point, sit or lie down immediately. Sudden movement—and sometimes any movement—can worsen the sensation of vertigo.
Avoid bright lights if possible, such as those from a television, overhead lighting, or your phone, as these can aggravate your vertigo.
If you are experiencing episodes of vertigo, avoid driving a car or operating any heavy machinery. Also avoid environments with flashing lights, such as video games, some movies, dance clubs, etc.;
, Vertigo or dizziness may be caused by dehydration as it decreases the blood volume and thereby the oxygen supply to your brain. In addition, the balance system in your inner ear uses fluids to transmit information about fluid levels in your body, which is in turn interpreted by the brain to produce a sense of balance. Rehydrating frequently, especially while exercising or suffering from diarrhea, can help minimize your dizziness.The body needs 2.2–3 liters (0.6–0.8 US gal) of liquids a day (respectively). While all liquids fall under this umbrella, water is best. It has no empty calories, no caffeine, and isn't a diuretic, like some sodas, coffees, teas, and juices are., Chinese sailors used ginger for centuries to combat motion sickness, and now it's widely used to fight dizziness. Ginger can be consumed in food, in your tea or you can even munch on it raw.Ginger (zingiber) combats blood pressure as well as acidity and helps blood circulation overall, thus decreasing the episodes of vertigo. Ginger is believed to contain substances that control inflammation and thus soothe an agitated stomach and vertigo.
Add a piece of raw ginger to boiling water to make ginger tea. Up to three small roots per day is acceptable but usually one root or one tablespoon of juice is enough for the body.
 Taking motion sickness medicine, such as meclizine or dimenhydrinate, which are available over-the-counter, can relieve dizziness. However, this should only be taken when absolutely necessary and not depended on. It's always better to address the problem instead of over-medicating it.You should consult your doctor before self-medicating for dizziness. He will be able to tell you what medication and what dosage is best for you.

