 To make a petition list that looks professional so the principals know you mean business what you should do is go on Microsoft Word and make a table that takes up your whole page (3 across and as much as you can down, with space to write full names) or you can use Google Docs (Newly Re-named Google Drive) or use any equivalent program. At the very top left hand corner in your table type: Names. So people can easily know what it is they're supposed to write and don't forget a title so people know why they're signing their names.;
, Ask your friends if they agree with your idea and if they'll sign your sheet, friends are always the best way to start your petition and can help you in the long run with organizing things.
 Ask your teacher if you can tell the class about the petition your doing and tell her why, she/ he will probably say yes because they believe it's good that you are starting to show some initiative, however if you ask her in the middle of class and interrupt everything she/ he may be less kind so maybe after class stick around with a few friends and ask her when she isn't busy.
 Make a big colorful sign you or your friends can hold before and/ or after school to try to get random passersby to sign your petition or attract other students to. If you do this prepare to be answering the same questions more than once, and don't get frustrated be patient.
 You can ask your parents if you can get them to maybe spread a sheet or two around their work or even ask some of their adult friends to sign or if they're on something like a parent council at school if they can get other members to sign.
 Honestly your principal probably won't even look at anything under 50 signatures so don't be let down if after the first day you only have 3 there's always another day of asking tomorrow. A principal can probably not turn down anything that's signed by over half of the schools population, because that means majority of parents and students agree with you.
 Happy signing!

