 You can't marry any sims who the game created. You can only marry a person from the street, aka a "free" person.;
, You are only allowed to be married in places that have the "Get Married" goal, and when you get married you must live in your current house.
 Your energy meter must be completely full.
Go to the bathroom. This will help avoid having to dismiss yourself later, when it is imperative that you be with your lover.
Take a shower or bath. You don't want to smell, or the person may not want to hug/kiss you.
Call your lover. Make sure the time is at least 7:00 AM. If its not, then wait. You don't want them mad at you for waking them up!
Serve them a breakfast. Be sure not to burn it. This will require you having at least decent cooking skills. If yours are lacking, read up on a cookbook to raise your level.
Don't do anything. Seems kind of backwards to the plan, yes, but refrain from television, radio, etc. for a few minutes. You may use the bathroom, though.
Greet your lover. This will establish, yet again, good relations between the two of you. It should be about 10 or 11 AM by now.
Go eat lunch. It doesn't even matter if you order a pizza, just eat something. They must be following you to eat.
Go to watch television. Call them to you so that you can enjoy something together. Just make sure that you watch something that they like. Try a romantic show first, though.
Use the toilet if you didn't before. Do this while watching television. When you are done, call them in there.
Leave your lover to use the bathroom. After two meals, they are probably in need of it, too, and you must be considerate!
Go into the living room and call them. This will assure that you don't end up in the bathroom the whole time. This step is definitely optional.
Be sweet to them. Give them a gift, kiss them, dance for them, etc.
Propose to them. They should say yes, as long as whatever you just previously did was well reciprocated. You may have to do other things to get in their good graces if you upset them, however.

