 When purchasing the ingredients, look for the best quality. Go to a health food store or market that you can trust has a rapid turnover in its bulk goods. Ask about the origin and quality of the items if this is not evident to you.


Purchase organic grain where possible. The possibilities include: oat flakes (traditional), rye flakes, barley flakes, rice flakes, and spelt flakes.
Look for organic and/or unsulfured dried fruits. These will be better for you and the lack of sulfur is good for people who have a reaction to sulfur, such as asthmatics.
Prefer organic nuts and seeds where possible. It is even better if you can purchase the nuts and seeds in their shells, as this guarantees their freshness. Note that peanuts and cashews are not nuts but still make a great addition if liked.
For the milk and yogurt additions, again organic makes a good choice. If you don't use dairy products, look for alternatives such as soy, oat, and nut-based milks and yogurts.
Don't buy too much. It is best to buy enough ingredients to make enough muesli to last a few weeks, and then to stock up again. This will ensure freshness and enable you to consume the muesli within a short period of time.;
, Muesli needs to be stored in an airtight container to maintain its freshness. Find a suitable airtight container (for example, a plastic cereal container with lid, an extra large resealable freezer bag, or a glass jar with a close-fitting lid, etc.). Store in a cool, dark place.
 It is easiest to mix the ingredients in a large bowl and then transfer it to the container. However, if your container is large enough to shake the ingredients around, you can add direct (see following step). If you're making muesli intuitively, ensure that the bulk of the muesli is grain, with the other ingredients added in quantities that suit your needs. Remember that dried fruit is high in calories and fructose, so keep these to a minimum. Alternatively, follow the more precise amounts outlined in the recipes provided with this article.


Cut larger dried fruit, such as dried apricots or apples, into smaller pieces to make it go further. Smaller dried fruit, like raisins and dried cherries, can go in whole. Dried fruits can also be expensive, and you only need a little piece to flavor a bite of muesli.
 A good method is to leave some space at the top of your container, then close it tightly and slowly turn it upside down. Turn it right side up again and repeat until well mixed.
 You can add milk to it or enjoy it with some yogurt and fresh fruit (prepare those separately). See the following recipes for additional ideas on eating muesli with yogurt and fruit.

