 If you scrub your clothing with this sponge, your pilling will be gone!;
, Depending on the number and size of the pills, you may be able to trim them away with a pair of scissors. Lay the garment on a flat surface. Pull up individual pills trim away with your other hand. You may also put your hand inside the garment in order to pull it taut, and then gently trim away the pills.


Make sure to hold the scissors close to the fabric. Be gentle and slow, so you do not damage the fabric.
Small nail scissors are safer to use. They are duller and more precise, and are less likely to damage the fabric. , Take a disposable razor and lay the garment on a flat surface. Pull the fabric near the affected area taut with one hand. This will prevent you from cutting through the garment. Gently shave upward with the razor in small strokes. Start with the lightest contact possible and increase as necessary.


Once you have accumulated a pile of pillings, use tape to remove from the fabric. Wrap a large loop of packing tape around your closed fingers, sticky side out. Press against the fabric to pick up the accumulated pillings. Replace tape when it becomes full of pills. If you do not have packing tape, small strips of masking tape will also work.
Make sure to use a sharp, new razor. This will most effectively remove the pills. Avoid using shaving razors that have moisture strips or soap bars on either side. This will likely cause more pilling when rubbed against the fabric.
 Hair rollers are very gentle, making them ideal for use on delicate fabrics like wool and cashmere. Lay the garment on a flat surface and pull it taut. Lay the roller flat on the affected area. Gently roll upwards and out until the area is pill-free. The pilling will get caught in the hair roller. Pick it up and move it to another area if the garment is pilled in several areas.
 If you have a piece of Velcro you can also use this to remove pillings. Consider using Velcro found on a shoe or wallet. Apply the Velcro hook-side down to the affected area of the garment. Gently pull up and repeat until the pilling is gone.


This method can damage very delicate fabrics, so do not use on cashmere or wool.

