 A window will provide you with a wall to lean against while you sleep.;
, A sleep mask will block out artificial light and sunlight, especially if you are traveling during the day.
 A pillow may provide additional comfort if you are sleeping in a chair or seat.


Bring a large-sized or full-body pillow if you have booked a seat that provides extra space, such as a seat in the exit row of a bus or airplane.
Bring a small neck pillow to use if you are sitting in an aisle seat or if you will be sleeping in locations such as bus stations or airports. A neck pillow may also take up less room in your carry-on bags or luggage.
Consider bringing a pillow made of memory-foam, which may be pliable enough to fold up and pack away after using it.
 Loose-fitted clothing made of soft material may be the most comfortable for you while you sleep.


Dress in layers to prevent yourself from becoming too cold while you sleep. If your sleeping conditions are too warm, you can remove layers and stow them away for later when you wake.
 You may fall asleep easier if you were physically or mentally busy throughout the day.


Consider exercising before you travel, such as walking laps inside of airport terminals. You may also want to wake up early on the day of your travels to go shopping or sight-seeing.
 Eating will prevent you from feeling hunger pains as you try to sleep, whereas certain foods can encourage sleepiness.


Eat foods that contain tryptophan such as turkey or almonds, which will naturally induce sleepiness.
Eat foods that are high in fiber such as granola, nuts, or dried fruit if you are traveling by airplane because the air pressure in the cabin may adversely affect your gastrointestinal system.
 Airplanes and trains may provide dry air that will dehydrate your body and make sleeping difficult.


Stop drinking coffee at least 6 hours before you plan on sleeping because the caffeine may keep you awake in addition to dehydrating your body.
 This will prevent flight attendants from waking you up as the plane begins to descend or if the plane experiences turbulence and you are required to wear your seat-belt.
 Some railway systems around the world offer sleeping accommodations for travelers who plan to sleep during the trip.

