 Lessons from a professional horse trainer will provide you with the know-how to stay safe and confident when riding your horse.


Check the American Riding Instructors Association for a detailed database of riding instructors near you.Community Education and smaller, rural colleges often offer high-quality horse-riding programs.
Ask your instructor lots of questions. If there’s anything you’re unsure or confused about, rely on your riding instructor’s expertise to help guide you. Get the instructor’s advice about which saddle is right for you, as well.
Get private lessons, not group lessons. That way you’ll get more personalized attention to your riding style and habits.
If you can’t locate a professional horse trainer, you should at least link up with someone who is familiar with horse-riding who can give you ongoing, detailed lessons.;
, You should have a clean, comfortable stable where your horse can be housed comfortably. A barn with an individual stable is the best bet. Alternately, you might be able to convert a large shed into a personalized stable for your horse. If necessary, build a small barn for it.


Your horse’s pen should open onto a large fenced-in space where the horse can trot, and where you can practice riding.
Do not buy a horse in an urban space.
 A farrier is someone who makes and fits horseshoes. Horseshoes are important for protecting your horse’s hooves. Having a good farrier is will keep your horse’s hooves healthy and strong.Get advice from your riding instructor or veterinarian about where to find a good farrier.
 Horse ads have their own language. For instance, you should look for a horse described as “bombproof,” meaning that it is not easily startled. You should avoid horses described as "gymkhana prospect," or "endurance prospect." These terms -- as well as “barrel prospect” -- indicate the horse is hyperactive and difficult to control.Other, more obvious keywords that you want in a horse include “steady,” “reliable,” and “calm.”
Horses described as “serviceably sound” may have health problems.
 Horses can be expensive. Thoroughbred racehorses can cost upwards of $50,000. However, you should never invest such a sum in your first horse. Even a racehorse can be purchased for much less, closer to $35,000.If you’re purchasing a horse simply for fun and taking pleasure rides, you’ll probably be able to get a good starter horse for around $5,000. The actual purchase price of your horse, however, is just a small part of your total budget. You’ll also need to factor in several other costs which vary depending on your area, including:


training
riding lessons
insurance (if you want a racehorse)
farrier
veterinary care
feed
equipment (saddle, tack
stabling costs
trailer hitch (if you intend to travel with your horse)

, The more knowledge you have about horses, the better equipped you’ll be to make an informed decision when you’re ready to buy.Although nothing can compare to hands-on experience, arming yourself with knowledge beforehand can help you avoid common first-time horse buyer mistakes.
Once you’ve learned all you can, decide if you’re ready to own a horse.A horse is not like a fish or other small pet that needs minimal care and attention. Horses need lots of love and affection, an adequate space to run and gallop, and lots of food. Depending on the age of the horse, it might also need training. Be sure you can provide these things before buying a horse.

