 It is recommended that men drink no more than two and women no more than one glass of alcohol a day, and do not drink every day.How often do you drink and how much do you drink per occasion? What would it be like to quit drinking for one week? One month?


If you're unsure about amounts, consider tracking your alcohol consumption for a few weeks.
Consider why you choose to drink alcohol, and if these are good reasons to continue drinking.;
, Take an online self-assessment that looks at symptoms associated with alcohol dependence. Some common indications include:


You use alcohol when you did not intend to use, and you continue to use despite negative outcomes.You lie about or hide your drinking. This can include going to different liquor stores to buy alcohol or making excuses for your drinking.You find yourself drinking in the morning, are often drunk for long periods of time, or drink alone.Your social plans revolve around alcohol.
You have a desire to quit but feel unable to stop., Hangovers and/or drunkenness can affect your day-to-day life minimally or detrimentally. Drinking too much alcohol will often affect a person's functioning, especially over the long term.Reflect on the days you wake up after drinking versus the days you do not drink, and observe whether your functioning differs.


Frequent hangovers or frequently being drunk may affect your next day's activities and may indicate a problem with alcohol., This can include consistently neglecting duties at work and/or at home, using alcohol in risky situations, having legal problems and relational problems as a result of alcohol consumption., Sometimes other people may notice changes in behavior that you do not notice. Don't dispute, debate or argue their opinion (after all, you asked). Thank them for caring enough to share their feelings with you.


Receiving negative feedback from friends or family about behavior as a result of alcohol may be a clue that your use of alcohol is impacting people close to you. , Drinking can lead to weight gain, skin problems, and sleep disturbances. Other effects of alcohol can include problems with the heart, liver, lungs, stomach, and kidneys. Alcohol can interfere with immunity and make you more prone to sickness.Consider your health prior to drinking compared to how you feel now. If you experience more difficulties with your health, it may be related to alcohol.
 If you find yourself developing a tolerance to alcohol, or having to drink more to attain a desired feeling, this may indicate an alcohol problem.Think about the amount of alcohol you consume and whether it has increased to attain a desired feeling.
 Withdrawal happens when your body receives less of a substance than it has become dependent on receiving.Withdrawal can occur when quitting alcohol and it is best to be prepared to face these symptoms. Withdrawal symptoms can include sweating, hand tremors, difficulty sleeping, restlessness, and anxiety. Severe withdrawal can include hallucinations, increased heartbeat, fever, and seizures.If you experience severe withdrawal, seek immediate medical attention.
 Addiction occurs when a pleasurable activity becomes compulsive and begins to interfere with daily activities such as work, social, personal, and financial life., Having a family member who has suffered from alcohol abuse increases the likelihood of you struggling with abuse. Higher risk exists for an immediate family member, but consulting extended family is also recommended. Pay attention to a history of addictive behaviors., While genetics and personality play large roles in addiction, other factors can also affect alcohol problems. For instance, males are three times more likely to develop an alcohol addiction than are females. Also, an early exposure to alcohol also increases risk for later addiction. Further, having a mental health disorder also increases chances of developing an alcohol problem., They can check your mental and physical health to assess for any problems that alcohol may be causing. Additionally, the can provide support to help you with recovery.
 Sober living homes offer safe housing with other people who are trying to stop drinking. Sober living facilities have a strict no alcohol policy. The benefits of sober living include meeting other people who are living a sober lifestyle, finding support and accountability, and not being surrounded by alcohol in the home.
 If you experience severe withdrawal or believe you may need detox, seek out medically supervised care. Many recovery centers are available to assist in alcohol rehabilitation that provide consistent care and supervision. Following a program allows you to receive medical and psychological care for alcohol problems.

