 In order to get a copy of a Florida birth certificate in person, you need to make sure you meet certain requirements for getting the document from the Florida Bureau of Vital Statistics. If you know whether or not you may apply for a birth certificate copy, it can keep you from wasting time on a questionable request.


Florida requires that you meet one of the following requirements to obtain the copy of a birth certificate: be the child named on the certificate and 18 years of age or older; be the parent, guardian or legal representative of the person named on the certificate; have a court order., If you’re planning to use the online service provided by the State of Florida to apply for a birth certificate copy, which is called Vitalchek, have all of your documentation available as you fill out the online forms. This will ensure there are no delays in getting your copies.


Have copies of your social security card or number and a photo ID. If you are applying for a birth certificate for someone other than yourself, make sure you have proof of your relationship to that person.Vitalchek accepts credit cards as a form of payment for their services and for the application fees. You can pay with Visa, Mastercard, American Express, or Discover., In order to apply for a birth certificate copy online, access the VitalChek website to begin and complete your application. The service has the advantage that you can use it any time you’re ready.


VitalChek’s website for Florida birth certificates is https://www.vitalchek.com/birth-certificates/florida/florida-vital-statistics.
You can file your application 24 hours a day, 7 days a week., The Vitalchek website will ask you questions about your application for birth certificate copies. Follow these questions and any prompts for additional information or documentation until your application is complete and you receive a confirmation email.If you have any questions about the process, you can access Vitalchek’s online FAQ page at https://vitalchek-solutions.custhelp.com/app/home or call their hotline at 1-877-888-0248.
 At the end of filing your request online, the Vitalchek website will request your payment. Vital Chek charges not only for the copy of the birth certificate, but also for its expedited services.


Vitalchek charges $19.00 for computer copies of Florida birth certificates and $24.00 for hard copies.Vital Chek accepts Visa, Mastercard, Discover, and American Express.
The fee for Vitalchek’s services ranges from $5 to $16 for obtaining the birth certificate. In addition, Vitalchek will charge you an additional fee for whatever shipping method you choose. The price for that will also vary depending on how quickly you want the birth certificate copy., After you’ve filed your application with Vitalchek and paid the relevant fees, you will receive a confirmation number by email. You should receive your birth certificate relatively quickly by using the online service.


Make sure to note the confirmation number for the requested birth certificate in order to check up on the status or ask questions you may have.
Vitalchek offers fast turnaround on birth certificate requests. The will file your application within one business day to government office and you should expect your copy in about a week.You can also check on the status of your application at https://www.vitalchek.com/order_status_signon.aspx with the order and pin numbers that Vitalchek provide you.

