 Wild horses, race-horses, jumping horses, any horses. Look at the markings and colors.;
, Say, "Wow, those are cool markings", "I like the color", or "That one looks friendly!"

, Events could include a parade, a horse show, a horse race, or a park where police officers often patrol on horses.
 Be warned though, they may go off on a long tangent about a certain horse in their life. The best thing to do is be polite and hope for a distraction.
 See if you can relate to these reasons, such as, they are great friends and don't judge you.
 Many places have cool t-shirts with horses or unicorns. Try to pick out things you would buy.
 Be polite. Never stand directly in front of a horse, always stand to the side so they can see you. Pet them gently. If the horses will not be wearing bits or bridles, bring treats. Some ideas are peppermints, carrots, apples, sugar cubes, or even watermelon. Place the treat in your hand and hold it flat so they cannot accidentally bite you.
 An ear tells you more about how a horse is feeling than anything else. If the ears are pinned to the backs of their heads, STEP AWAY! If their ears are perked up they are happy. If they are halfway up and slightly sideways, they are relaxed.
 Never stand directly in front of a horse. Try not to walk behind a horse. If you have to, pat them so they know you are there. If their ears are pinned, step away.
 You've made progress.
 Now is the time to step it up a notch. Pet every horse you see. Ask owners questions. Talk to friends. Be friendly to horses and ponies. Try to find a special horse or pony you see a lot that you can bond with.
 Learn about cruelties and horse abuse cases. Most likely, these will trigger emotions and make you want to help. Did you know that most racehorses are ridden too young? This allows joints to not form properly, giving them shorter, more unpleasant lives. They often die young. Also, many unsuccessful racehorses are directly sent to slaughter.


Many, many, old or unwanted horse are sent to slaughter houses. They normally end in Europe where horse meat is a delicacy. What they don't know is that horses are treated poorly and unsafely in these slaughterhouses, meaning their meat is not as fresh and healthy as it should be.
Not all, but several carriage pulling horses suffer from pulling too heavy carriages.
 Feel emotional about these animals.
 If possible, take riding lessons. Hug them. Share your story with people.
