 Especially if this is your first time helping this person, make them feel comfortable by explaining what you're going to do, talking about the brief, and asking them about their routine. Encourage them to ask any questions and to tell you if they're uncomfortable, too.


Briefs are used for heavy incontinence; they also come in many forms. If the user complains if this variety being uncomfortable, let them know they may have other options, too.
Give them the option of standing up or lying down. Standing up will be easier for both of you if they support their weight. Lying down will be necessary if they're bedridden or otherwise unable to stand.
 If they have a brief on from before, help them take it off and discard it. If you get the chance, assess their skin. Is it clean and dry? If it's cold, odds are it was wet; if it's warm, there is adequate blood flow and the skin is dry.


If any wounds are present, halt the procedure. Grab a cotton ball and douse it in hydrogen peroxide or betadine. Place it over the area, starting in the middle and working your way outward. Let the area dry before you place the brief.
 Make sure that all sides are unfolded and the brief is in perfect condition. Then, fold the brief length-wise – this is done to easily insert the brief between the legs later.


Briefly inspect the brief. Is the the right size for the user? Are there any holes or tears?

, They'll also need to lightly spread their knees while you are inserting the incontinence pad beneath their pants or dress. Any assistance they can offer will make this process go much more smoothly and quickly.
 Have the user spread their legs as necessary. This front-to-back maneuver should be carried out to reduce the chances of transferring microbes from the anus to the urethra.
 Spread out the back part of the brief and position the absorbent pad in line with the crotch. Have them pull the brief on the other side. Proper alignment of and position of the brief helps in avoiding leaks that might occur.
 Fit the front panel in a cupped position over the groin to avoid leakage and any liquid spreading over the skin. Make sure it's comfortable for the user and seems to fit appropriately.
 You can now begin connecting the adhesive tapes in the belt. You can start either from the left or the right. Incontinence pads usually have 4 adhesive tapes, 2 from the left and 2 from the right.


Slowly pull the top adhesive tape in the belt of your desired side and connect it to the other side of the pad.
Pull the bottom adhesive tape of your desired side and connect it to the other side of the brief. Do this on the remaining side, too.
Make sure it's not too tight and not too loose to promote proper air circulation.
 For aesthetic purposes, make sure the brief is lying smooth and flat and smooth any wrinkles. After the belt is secured, instruct the patient to lift their buttocks while you pull their pants or dress up. Arrange their clothes and secure as necessary.
 To gain the user's trust and cooperation, it's a good idea to explain the procedure beforehand. The idea of needing someone else to help with this very personal issue can leave them feeling very vulnerable and, at times, uncomfortable; do your best to assuage their worry.


Briefs are used for those suffering from heavy incontinence. How many briefs do they go through a day? Do they find this specific variety comfortable? There are many types of briefs out there they could try if not.
If the user can stand, you may wish to have them do so. This will be easier for them to help you and make the process quicker. However, if they cannot, lying down will work.
 Create a fold at the center in a length-wise position. Folding the pad in a length-wise position creates a line in which will be used as a baseline to be aligned between the buttocks.


Briefly inspect the brief to make sure there are no slight tears or holes and that it's the appropriate size for the user.
 Take a look at their skin, assessing the area for signs of pressure ulcers or dermatitis (inflammation of the skin), redness, swelling and wounds.


With the first two fingers of your dominant hand, touch the area to be affected and feel if it is cold or warm. Cold skin indicates a lack of blood supply in the area because it was likely wet; warm skin has good blood circulation and is likely dry. Wet skin can lead to infection if not cleaned properly.
If a wound is present, clean it with a cotton ball soaked in a betadine or hydrogen peroxide solution. Clean from the middle of the wound and work your way out. When you're finished, let it dry before replacing any clothing.
 Spread the bottom of the brief on the buttocks; the line you made on the brief earlier should be laterally between the buttocks. This is to evenly distribute the pad between the cheeks of the butt.
 This will make it easier to apply the front panel of the brief. Unfold the front panel, giving it a cupped shape in the crotch. Cuffs should fit snugly against the groin.


For male users, position the penis downward. This avoids any potential leaking.
 Follow the contour of the groin in securing the pad. This will be the most natural, comfortable, leak-free position. Secure the tapes depending on the manufacturer’s instructions (there will likely be 2 on each side).


Be sure to make it not too tight and not too loose to promote proper air circulation. The brief should be snug but comfortable.
 Smooth any wrinkles for aesthetic purposes – often the biggest issue with briefs is that the user feels they're too obvious. Assure them that it's fine and help them replace and adjust their clothing as necessary.

