 When road rage poses a danger to you or other drivers, call 911 or dial 411 and ask to be connected to the local police department dispatch. Since it can take several minutes for responders to arrive, it is important to call as soon as a dangerous situation becomes evident.


If road rage is limited to angry gestures, it is likely that you do not need to call the police. If an angry driver follows you, or directly threatens you, it is appropriate to report the incident. In these situations, you are the best authority regarding whether the other driver is a danger that should be reported to the police. Trust your instinct.
If you are regularly in heavy traffic, or anticipate being on congested roadways in a certain area, ask the local emergency responders the best way to reach them in an emergency. 911 may not be the most effective way to contact police from a cell phone., Once you connect with the dispatcher, give them your cell phone number in case you get disconnected. Give them your location, as exactly as you can., It may be tempting to exaggerate the danger that you face or to try to downplay your own wrong-doing in a case of road rage. Avoid this course of action as you could make the officers’ job harder and, in some circumstances, you can be arrested for filing a false police report., Responding police will want a description of the dangerous driver and car. If you are able, write down the license number or have a passenger do so.


Be prepared to give a description of the vehicle and the driver. It is important for the police to have accurate descriptions so that they can recognize what is happening as soon as they arrive on the scene.
 It can take time for emergency responders to reach you, so address the situation. Road rage events may be difficult to reach or low on their list of priorities. If you don't think you're getting the attention that you need, keep yourself safe. If it means using your horn and turning on your hazard lights to get the attention of other motorists, do it. Your safety is more important than keeping traffic moving.