 Ask your vet if they have any suggestions of how you can reduce the amount that you’re paying on veterinary bills: both for the current bills and for any future billing.While it might be impolite to directly negotiate with the vet, at least ask if they can remove any charges from the bill. If you’re lucky, the vet may find a way to reduce the amount you’re being billed, or take a flat percentage off of the bill as a discount.


Say something like, “I appreciate your service, but this bill came to a larger dollar amount than I anticipated, and more than I can afford. Is there any way we can discuss and lower this billing amount, or any way I can decrease the amount of future veterinary bills?”
This step will be more effective if you have a good working relationship with your veterinarian. You can cultivate this by maintaining a friendly conversation with the vet when you bring your animal in for appointments, and treating the staff with respect.;
, It’s relatively common for veterinary offices to offer payment plans for customers who cannot afford to pay the entire cost of a bill up front. Many veterinarians offer a 6-month plan, wherein you can pay off a veterinary bill over 6 months without having to pay any interest.If you’re unable to complete payments within the 6-month window, your vet may be willing to extend the interest-free period.
 If you’re unable to pay any of your veterinary bill up front, ask your vet if they’re willing to grant you a deferral. This could be for a period of weeks or, if your vet is generous, a period of months. Under a deferral, you would not need to pay any money for the duration, but would likely need to begin making substantial payments immediately after the deferral has ended.Even if the vet agrees to defer your payments, interest may still accrue during the period over which your payment has been deferred. Make sure to ask your veterinarian about this before you agree to a deferral. If the vet plans to give you a high interest rate, the deferral may make you spend more on the bills than you will be able to afford.
 Your vet’s bills should never come as a complete surprise to you. Always ask how much a procedure, prescription, or surgery will cost beforehand. If you’re concerned about the price of a procedure, consider shopping around other veterinary offices in the area to find one that offers a more affordable rate.When you call or visit a new veterinary office, say something like: “Hi, my pet needs an ultrasound to examine a strange lump in its intestine . Some of my local vets are prohibitively priced. How much would you charge for this service?”

