 Simply pour 1/4 to 1/2 cup of white vinegar to the laundry load during the rinse cycle and your clothes should come out clean and static free. This is an especially good choice for cotton clothing or sheets, but it doesn’t do as well with fleece or polyester.The vinegar will also keep soap residue off the clothes as they’re rinsed.;
, A popular product known as Static Guard is one such product which can eliminate static charge in clothes after they dry. Sprays contain special compounds which discharge static electricity in clothes. They can be applied to freshly cleaned clothes to make them static-free. Simply point the nozzle at the article of clothing in question and squeeze the top. A mist of aerosolized liquid will eject from the can.


If you don't want to purchase a spray, you can create one at home by mixing fabric softener and water in a spray bottle. Approximately one bottle cap of fabric softener mixed into a standard-size spray bottle will create an effective homemade substitute for Static Guard and similar products., Fabric softeners are liquid concoctions of chemicals used to make fabric softer. They impart a pleasant odor to your clothes and are capable of preventing static cling in laundry as well. Popular brands include Downy, Bounce, and Snuggle. Each softener has directions on the back of the container. Generally, you must pour them into your washing machine during the rinse cycle, then allow the cycle to run as normal.Check your washing machine for a built-in fabric softener dispenser. If it has one, pour the fabric softener into it so that the fabric softener will be automatically dispensed into the washing machine at the right time. If there’s no such dispenser, you can simply add the liquid to the washing machine itself after adding the clothes.
You can also purchase laundry detergent with fabric softener added to it. This type of detergent provides the same results that a fabric softener does, without adding the extra step of having to manually pour fabric softener into your machine.
 Spraying a fine mist of distilled water across the surface of the clothes as they come out of the dryer will prevent them from being too dry and sticking to each other or other surfaces, which can lead to the buildup of static charge. Fill a standard size spray bottle with distilled water and give the handle one good pump across the surface of your clothes from a distance of approximately two feet.

