 When your teen starts their warm-weather sport, make sure that they have enough athletic clothing. In addition, make sure this clothing is conducive to staying safe in the heat.


Since heavy weight clothing could increase their risk of heat stroke, you need to make sure you purchase them more light weight and light colored clothing.
Light colored clothing helps reflect sunlight and keep your body cooler compared to darker colors.Also choose fabrics that are light weight and are designed to wick sweat away from their body. There are many specialty fabrics that are designed specifically for high intensity sports in warm weather.
Take your teen to a fitness equipment store or specialty clothing store and stock up on the appropriate types of clothing for them.
 Although many sports teams do provide the teen athletes with water and other beverages, make sure your teen is prepared with their own resources.


Go with your teen to purchase a reusable water bottle for them. They can choose a water bottle that they like and won't mind carrying along with them.
You might want to get one for them to carry to class so they can get hydrated during the day. In addition, consider getting a second one that they can toss in their gym bag and have with them during practice or events.
Remind your teen to fill up their water bottle on a regular basis during the day and before practice.
 If your teen athlete has a lot of practices and sporting events outside, also give them sunscreen. You may be surprised, but sunscreen is part of a great defense to heat stroke.If your teen were to get sunburned while practicing outdoors, this sunburn affects their body's ability to cool itself. Your teen's skin is not able to remove heat through sweat as effectively when it's damaged, so it's not as good at cooling off.
Make sure you purchase a sunscreen with a minimum SPF of 15.
In addition, remind your teen to apply their sunscreen at least 30 minutes before going out side. They'll need to reapply every two hours or sooner (if they're sweating continuously).
 When your teen is sweating outdoors, it's not only fluids that they're losing. Sweat also consists of electrolytes which need to be replaced in order to hydrate effectively.Sports drinks are common "go-to" beverages for many teen athletes. Some, not all, are a great idea so your teen can replace all the electrolytes that they've lost through sweating during their practice.
Look for sports drinks that have added electrolytes. Sodium, magnesium, potassium and some carbohydrates should be listed in the ingredient label. However, beverages that have overly high levels of added sugar or caffeine are not acceptable.
It's a good idea to dilute a sports drink by half with water; your teen will still replace necessary electrolytes, but the sugar content of the drink itself will also be closer to your teen's blood's natural sugar content.
Stock up on these beverages at home so your teen can grab one on their way out to school or practice.
 Another way to help your teen stay cool is by providing some shade. Help them take a break and get out of the sun's hot rays during their practice or events.


If you can, go with your teen to practice. Or, let them bring some of these items with them.
You can try bringing a tent or a large beach umbrella to set up. They can take a water break or rest in the shade.
In addition, you can give them a wide brimmed hat or umbrella for a convenient way to get their head and face in the shade.

