 You may find that it is easier to beat this area if you stay calm.;
, It kills everyone in the room, and it saves you a whole bunch of health and ammo. If you are skeptical about wasting money on a rocket launcher, it costs 30,000 pesetas. Each of the Garradors drop 15,000 pesetas, so you can easily buy another one.
 If you don't have one, and cannot backtrack to get one, read the following to beat the garradors with other weapons:


Handgun only. Walk forward and alert the two Zealots. Walk into the corner close to the door, and kill them here. The Garradors will not hear. Next, walk up the stairs. For some reason the Garradors will turn around, and get their claws stuck in the wall. Run up to them, and take about 4 shots in each of their backs. They will scream in pain and stay there for about 8 seconds. Now, run into the tunnel, and shoot the Zealot in his knee. Suplex him, and he will die. When the Garradors come, they will get their claws stuck for SURE! When they do, run to the bottom where you entered. For some reason, they continue to roam the tunnels. Once here throw a grenade at the last set of Zealots, or go into the corner and shoot them there. Then, all you need to do, is shoot the bell, and get about three shots in there back. Done!
Shotgun/Handgun Only. Follow the instructions above on how to kill the Zealots. Simply do what it says above, only when their claws are stuck, shoot their parasite with the Riot Gun/Shotgun. About 4-5 shots to kill each.
Rifle. Pretty easy. Kill the Zealots like in the handgun directions. Then shoot the bells, and rifle each of their backs. Try to take multiple shots. Easy!
Broken Butterfly. This is so easy! Kill the Zealots like in the handgun directions. After this go up the stairs, and they get their claws stuck. Do two Broken Butterfly shots each. They will die, before the next flight of Zealots arrive!
Knife only. O.K, this will be very hard. It's best to go anywhere (walk) and kill the Zealots. When they are about to attack, back it, then rush in and knife. Then focus on the Garradors. (Stay on the bottom floor!) Run around and one will charge. Dive out of the way, and begin knifing his back. When he turns, don't run! Stay there! The other Garrador will stay up there if you are luck. Keep turning so you are facing his back, and knife away. After a while he will die. Pick up the money and repeat for the next blind guy. After this, you have 30, 000 pesetas. Go to the merchant and buy a gun!

