 A big part of becoming an inspiration is setting an example and leading from the front. You can do this in any number of ways, but it's best to start with the relatively small everyday things and build up to larger interventions. Spend some time thinking about what you can improve about what you do on a day-to-day basis and make a list.

Identify changes you want to make to your lifestyle which you can put into action straight-away, such as improving your diet, doing more exercise, or spending more time reading.
Don't just think about yourself, but consider things like spending more time with your family or visiting your grandparents more often.
Asking yourself difficult questions and trying to forge your own path can be very inspiring.;
, Once you have thought through how you want to begin, draw up a rough action plan of how you will implement your ideas. Your plan should meet your goal of being an inspiration to others. Be as specific as possible when making your plan and write it down. This way, you'll be more likely to follow through with your goals.Try to give yourself a timetable to stick to as well as an outline of activities and achievements.
You can then keep track of your progress and consider what more you can do to inspire others.
 Once you have drawn up a list of things you want to change about yourself, or new things you want to adopt, get started as soon as possible. Seeing somebody make a big change in their life can be very inspiring for others, but it's important to give whatever changes you choose to enact the best chance of success.


Begin with things that are relatively straight-forward to help you gain confidence and self-belief before you move on to the bigger challenges.
Don't be too harsh on yourself, but remember that if you want to be an inspiration you have to lead from the front.
Don't set yourself up to fail by demanding that you radically transform your life immediately.
 While it's sensible to start with small and achievable goals, if you want to progress further and really become an inspirational figure, you need to think big and stay committed. This means expanding your horizons and world-view further than before, and thinking about the impact your actions have on those around. Ask how you can focus on putting other people first, and lead by example.Being able to identify the needs and aspirations of others is a crucial step in inspiring and helping them achieve their goals.
Letting somebody know that you think she can achieve big goals can be inspiring.
Just being enthusiastic about the potential for positive change can also make a difference.

