 If you can't find any corn starch were you live, try searching for cornflour instead. This sand will be pure white if you don't add any color to it. It can look almost like snow!


If you plan on creating different colors or smells, separate the corn starch into different bowls.
 It is much easier to mix dry ingredients with other dry ingredients. If you have any glitter, spices, or powdered colors that you want to add to your sand, do so now. Here are a few ways in which you can spruce up your sand:


Add in a few teaspoons of glitter to make your sand sparkle. If you are leaving your moon sand white, consider using white, iridescent glitter instead.
Add in a few tablespoons of powered tempera paint, powdered watercolor, or powdered chalk to give your moon sand some color.
Add in a packet of powdered drink mix, such as Kool Aid, to give your sand a nice scent and color.
Sprinkle in some baking spices, such as apple pie, pumpkin pie, cinnamon, cocoa, or vanilla sugar to give your sand a nice smell.
If you want to add any essential oils or oil-based food dyes, save those for later.
 You will need ¾ cup of vegetable oil. Because oil and water do not mix, you cannot use any water-based coloring or dyes. Whatever you add to the oil must be oil-based.


If you can't find any powdered colors but still want to color your sand, add in a few drops of oil-based food coloring or oil-based candy coloring. Do not use plain old liquid food coloring; oil and water do not mix.
If you can't find any spices that appeal to you, but still want to make your sand smell nice, add in a few drops of essential oil or baking extract, such as: vanilla, almond, or orange.
 If it seems a little on the dry side, add a tablespoon or two of vegetable at a time to loosen it up. If it is too wet, add some more corn starch.


The main advantage to this recipe is that these two ingredients combined make a moon sand that looks like snow. Only it's not cold, wet, and doesn't turn to black the more you play in it.
 Once everything's in, put your hands in and start being creative. How do the colors combine? What's it feel like? Ask more questions to get your child engaged in sensory play, which moon sand is notoriously great for., After your child has gotten his or her fill (and you have, too, of course), transport the moon sand into an air-tight, resealable container. Keep it in a cool, dry location, like in a closet, under the bed, or in a toy box.


When you go to play with it again (it keeps a few months, though it's cheap enough you could always make a new batch), bring it back to life with a few tablespoons of water. Start molding the sand with your hands to work the water in, and it'll be good as new in no time.

