 This will help give you a clean "canvas" to work on. Even if you have very oily skin, some moisturizer is a good idea; choose something lightweight or gel-based.;
, Face primer is not absolutely necessary, but it will fill in any pores and wrinkles, and make your makeup appear smoother.









If you have oily skin, try a liquid or powder-based foundation. If you have dry skin, try a liquid or cream-based foundation.
If you have oily skin, focus your powder on the T-zones: your nose, forehead, chin, and cheeks. If you have dry skin, go easy on the powder, or skip it entirely.
 This will help contour your face and bring out your cheek bones.You can also try contouring your face instead, which was also very popular in the 80s.Contouring is ideal for a darker, punk, or gothic look.









To contour your face, choose a bronzer or foundation that is 2 to 3 shades darker than your skin tone, and apply it to either side of your nose, your temples, and the hallows of your cheeks.
 Use a medium-shade all over your lid, and a lighter shade across your brow bone. Finish off with a darker color in the crease.









For a standard 80s look, choose bright colors, like orange, red, purple, blue, neon green, or hot pink. Blue was especially popular.Use darker colors for a punk or gothic look. Punk and goth were popular during the 80s.
Eyeshadow does not have to cover just your eyelid. You can make it shaped like a lightning bolt even. This was David Bowie's trademark makeup when he played Aladdin Sane Consider applying some eyeshadow primer first. This will make those bright colors stand out even more. Simply apply the primer over your entire lid, from lash line to brow bone, then brush on the eyeshadow.
 You can do a simple eyeliner, or a thick Gothic one. You can even use the eyeliner to draw a bold shape across your eye, such as a lightning bolt.









The eyeliner does not have to be black. It can be a different color, such as bright purple.Blue an teal eyeliners, especially on the lower lash line, were very popular., Position the brush at the base of your lashes, close to the lash line. Then, comb upwards, towards the tips of your lashes using a wiggling motion. The 80s look is all about the eyes, so you will likely be wearing a lot of eyeshadow and eyeliner. A good, volumizing mascara will help balance the look, and open up your eyes.









Mascara does not have to be black. If you want a bright, wild look, try purple, green, or blue mascara. Bright blue mascara was very popular., Pluck away any stray hairs, and comb through your brows using a brow brush. If your brows are thin, fill them in with eyebrow pencil or brow powder. Thick, bushy brows were popular during the 80s.
 Try to use a frosted lipstick color, if you can. It will make your lips appear fuller; the frosted look was also very popular in the 80s.Also, don't be afraid to experiment with different, bold lipstick colors, such as hot pink or purple.









If you want to do a more punk or gothic look, use a very dark purple or red, or black.
Lip gloss was popular too, but mostly among younger girls. If you'd like a younger, more youthful look, go for lip gloss., This is essential if you are going to a party.
 These will weigh your hair down, and make it too smooth.Big, wild hair was very popular in the 80s.


Consider spraying your hair with salt spray. This will give your hair some extra texture, and make it easier to work with once it dries.If your hair has troubles holding styles, add some lightweight styling mousse into your hair.
 Once your hair is completely dry, take the braids out, and fluffy them up.









If you are short on time, blow dry your hair first, then spray it with a heat protecting spray. Crimp your hair using a crimping iron and set it with hairspray.
 Comb your hair backwards at the crown while your blow dry it. You can also bend forward, so that your hair hangs in front of your face, and aim the hairdryer nozzle upwards.
 Take a ½ to 1 inch (1.27 to 2.54 centimeters) wide section of hair from the front of your head. Pull it straight up and hold it taut. Use a comb or boar bristle brush to comb your hair rapidly downwards towards your scalp. Do this about three times before combing it back, and moving onto the next section.
 You can also combine this with backcombing and







, The 80s were all about the big, bold, and colorful, and hair was no exception. If you have bangs, try to get them as big as possible. You can do this by crimping them, curling them, or putting them into large, barrel rollers the night before., The 80s were all about big hair, so if you are blessed with textured or ethnic hair, you are lucky and don't have to do much. Follow your usual hair care routine, and wrap a thick, cloth headband around your hair to give your hair a pop of color.


If you like to wear your hair in braids or cornrows, try adding some plastic pony beads to the end for a pop of color and fun., Items such as scrunchies, thick fabric headbands, plastic barrettes, and big bows were popular in the 80s. Choose items with bold patterns and bright colors for a standard 80s look. For something more punk or gothic, stick with black.

