 Once you have assumed your posture in a chair or a traditional meditation pose, you should align your back and find a comfortable position. Your lower back should be slightly curved in and your upper back should be slightly curved out. You should have an open chest. Your neck should be very slightly curved in and your head should be level. Your body should be slightly relaxed while remaining upright.


Remember to relax your shoulders. Your arms and hands should feel loose. If you feel tension, you can do a shoulder shrug and then return to meditating.You should be relaxed but not so relaxed that you are falling asleep in your chair. Likewise, you want to be sitting with a straight back but avoid tensing up your back., Put your tongue just behind your front teeth on the roof of your mouth. This helps prevent your mouth from getting dry during meditation., With your eyes half open, look at the ground five or six feet in front of you. Your gaze should be at around a 45 degree angle.Settle your gaze on the floor or ground. You should have your eyes open but should avoid staring at whatever is on the ground. Simply leave your eyes open and leave them in one place, directed to the ground or floor in front of you.


You should not be looking at anything in front of you. If you find yourself directing your attention to something in front of you, remind yourself of the feeling of your breath.
To avoid distraction during your meditation session, settle your gaze someplace that is not too stimulating. If there are people moving or electronic lights in front of you, it might be too distracting. If this is the case, find someplace different to meditate.
 Once you have relaxed in a comfortable position, you may notice that your body is breathing. Place your attention on the movement of your breath in and out of your body.


In some meditation traditions, you have to breathe through your nose. If you are a mouth breather or have a hard time with this, it is fine to breathe through your mouth., You may notice that your mind is wandering. If you notice that you are thinking or feeling something, you can label each thought or feeling a “thought bus.” You can think of every thought or feeling that comes into your mind as a “bus.” Just like the buses in the city, you can choose whether to get on the “thought bus” that enters your mind or to let it pass. As the buses come and go, you may feel more aware or mindful of yourself., As the thought buses come and go, keep coming back to the feeling of the breath as it enters and leaves your body. You should focus your attention on the feeling of your breath and let the thought buses come and go.It is good to observe where your mind goes during meditation, but avoid following it. You should notice which “thought buses” come and go during meditation, but avoid getting on the buses. Just observe them coming and going as you keep returning your attention to the breath.