 A titration is a technique used by chemists to calculate the amount of solute present in a solution. To perform a titration, you create a chemical reaction between your solute and another reactant (usually also dissolved in a liquid solution.) Because you know the precise amount of your second reactant and you know the chemical equation for the reaction between it and your solute, you can calculate the amount of your solute by measuring how much reactant you need to add before the reaction with your solute completes.


Thus, titrations can be very useful for calculating the concentration of a solution when you don't know how much solute was initially added.

If you already know how much solute is in the solution, you don't need to titrate - simply measure the volume of your solution and calculate concentration as in Part One.
 Accurate titrations require clean, precise, professional-grade chemical equipment. Set up a titration area with an Erlenmeyer flask or beaker underneath a calibrated burette affixed to a burette stand. The tip of the burette should be in the neck of the flask or beaker without touching any sides.


Make sure all equipment has been previously cleaned, rinsed with deionized water, and allowed to dry.
 Precisely measure a small quantity of your unknown-concentration solution. When your solute dissolves, it spreads evenly throughout the solution, so the concentration of this small sample will be the same as the original solution. Fill your burette with a solution of known concentration that will react with your solution. Record the exact volume of the solution in the burette - you will subtract the final volume to find the total solution used in the reaction.



Note: if the reaction between the solution in the burette and the solute of unknown concentration in the flask doesn't show any visual signs of reaction, you'll need to add an indicator to your flask. In chemistry, indicators are chemicals that give a visual a solution when a reaction reaches its equivalence point or end point. Indicators are commonly used for titrations involving acid-base and redox reactions, but a wide variety of other indicators exist. Consult a chemistry textbook or an online guide to find an appropriate indicator for your reaction.
 Gradually add solution from the burette (called "titrant") to the flask. Use a magnetic stirrer or a glass rod to gently mix the solutions as they react. If your solutions react visibly, you should see signs of their reaction - color change, bubbles, products formed, etc. If you're using an indicator, you may still see flashes of color as each drop from the burette enters the flask.


If your reaction results in a change in pH or potential, you can insert pH readers or potentiometers into the flask to monitor the reaction's progress.
For a more precise titration, monitor the pH or potential as above, recording the reading after adding small set amounts of titrant. Graph your solution's pH or potential against the volume of titrant added. You'll get sharp changes in the slope of the curve at the reaction's equivalence points.
 As your reaction approaches its endpoint, slow your titration to a drop-by-drop pace. If you're using an indicator, you may notice the flashes of color it gives are persisting for longer. Proceed as slowly as possible until you reach the exact drop that causes your reaction to reach its endpoint. For indicators, you will generally look for the earliest possible persistent color change in your reaction.


Record the final volume in your burette. By subtracting this from your initial burette volume, you can find the precise volume of titrant you used.
 Use the chemical equation for the reactant between your titrant and your solution to find the moles of solute in your flask. Once you've found the moles of solute, you can simply divide by the volume of solution in the flask to find the molarity of the solution, or convert moles to grams and divide by the volume of the solution to find the concentration in g/L. This will require a basic understanding of Stoichiometry.


For example, let's say that we used 25 mL of .5 M NaOH to titrate a solution of HCl and water to its equivalence point. The HCl solution had a volume of 60 mL before titration. How many moles of HCl are in our solution?
To start, let's look at the chemical equation for the reaction of NaOH and HCl: NaOH + HCl > H2O + NaCl

In this case, one molecule of NaOH reacts with one molecule of HCl to create the products (water and NaCl.) So, since you added just enough NaOH to neutralize all of the HCl, the number of moles of NaOH consumed in the reaction will equal the number of moles of HCl in the flask.
So, let's find the amount of NaOH in moles. 25 mL NaOH = .025 L NaOH x (.5 moles NaOH/1 L) = .0125 moles NaOH.

Since we deduced from the reaction equation that the moles of NaOH consumed = the moles of HCl in the solution, we know that we have .0125 moles HCl in solution.
 Now that you know the amount of solute in your solution, it's easy to find your concentration in terms of molarity. Simply divide the moles of solute in your solution by the volume of your solution sample (not the volume of the larger source you took your sample from.) The result is the molarity of your solution!


To find molarity for our example above, simply divide the moles of HCl by the volume in the flask. .0125 moles HCl x (1/.060 L) = .208 M HCl.

To convert molarity to g/L, ppm, or percent composition, you'll need to convert the moles of your solute to a mass (using the molar mass of your solute compound.) For ppm and percent composition, you'll also need to convert the volume of your solution to a mass (using a conversion factor such as density or by simply weighing it.), then multiply the result by 106 or 102, respectively.

