


Use a knob lock with a doorknob cover.After you have installed a standard knob lock, you should install a doorknob cover so that your children cannot open it.This is a nice solution for the door between the interior of the house and the garage.;
, A Dutch door has two independent sections, so you can open the top part while keeping the bottom closed.You can open the top part to pass groceries from the garage to the house, while keeping the bottom locked so that your child doesn’t sneak out during this activity.If you are working in your garage and want to leave the door open to allow for some fresh air in the house, you can open the top part of the Dutch door and still keep toddlers and pets safely in the house.


You might also consider installing a Dutch door at the front of your house. This will allow you to let in some sun and air while keeping your toddler off the street and out of the driveway and garage area., Place a two by four under the garage door, press close and see if the garage door senses the block of wood. If the garage door senses the wood and reverses direction, it is working fine. If it closes on the block of wood, it will not be safe for children. In this case, you should replace your garage door opener.It is mandatory for garage doors to be equipped with an auto-reverse function and photoelectric sensors for safety reasons. The auto-reverse mechanism was introduced in 1982 and the photoelectric sensors were introduced in 1993.If your garage door was installed prior to 1993 or not updated, you may want to replace it.
Keep your garage door controls out of reach of children. Install the garage door opener switch high enough so that small hands cannot reach it. If you have a mobile garage door opener, you should keep this away from your children.Exercise caution, and make sure that your garage door is in working order if you have a manual garage door.
Keep children away from the moving parts of a garage door in order to avoid any crushing or pinching of hands.
 It is tempting to drive away from your home without watching the garage door fully close. However, sometimes a small object gets in the way and the auto-reverse mechanism is engaged. In this case, you will be leaving the house with the door open and the garage accessible to your children.Avoid storing things too closely to the garage door. If you store things too closely to the door, they may fall onto the door and interrupt its operation., Once a month, you should take a quick look at your garage door to make sure it is operating smoothly. Open and close it a couple of times to see if it is opening slower than usual or if there are any unusual creaks. Look at the cables, springs, and pulleys to see if they look worn down.If there is something wrong with the door, you should contact a garage door serviceman. You can schedule a repair service through major department, home repair stores, or specialized services.