 There are several types of infections that a nursing dog can get that can affect nursing. One of the most common is mastitis, which is an infection of the milk ducts. This occurs due to blocked milk ducts or swelling in the teat.Signs that the mother dog has mastitis include:


Lethargy
Fever
Lack of appetite
Firm and swollen teats
Puss coming from nipples
Refusal to let puppies nurse
Failure of puppies to grow

, Don't assume that the infection will go away on its own. If you leave even a slight a nipple infection to clear up on its own it can become a very serious infection.The veterinarian will ask you about the dog's symptoms and he or she will do a physical exam to assess the mother dog's health.Remember that getting veterinary care is important for the health of the mother dog and the health of the puppies.
 It is likely that the veterinarian will suggest putting the mother dog on antibiotics to clear up the infection. Additionally, the infected area may need to be opened and drained if the infection is severe.In the case of a mild case of mastitis, the vet may suggest applying warm compresses to the teats four to six times a day.
A mother dog with a serious infection will go on antibiotics but may need additional care at the veterinary office. If the infection has spread to other places in her body or is causing her system to shut down she may need to be put on an I.V. and watched by veterinary professionals.
Discuss the fact that the antibiotics will be passed on to the puppies when discussing the treatment with your veterinarian. This may affect the type and quantity of antibiotics used.
 If the mother dog cannot nurse her puppies, then you will need to provide them with food. There are formulas made specifically for new born puppies that can be bought at most pet stores or online. You will also need to keep the puppies warm, as the mother gives them a lot of body heat.


New born puppies need to be fed every two to three hours around the clock. This means that nursing them will be a big job for you to take on.

