 Find a nice set of shelves or a bookcase and then paint it off white. Sand it a bit to make it look rustic. Your off-white shelf or bookcase will look great against your white walls and with a few decorations.Try adding a few farmhouse style accessories to your shelf or bookcase such as an old clock or a farmer’s almanac.
You could decorate your shelves with old baskets, a few flower pots, an old cutting board and a wreath., Find some barn boards or planks of refurbished wood. You could look around your local antique store, or ask the owner whether they have any old barn boards on hand. Then, find some L brackets for shelving and secure the barn board shelves on top., Find a deep, white, rectangular sink for your Farmhouse style kitchen. Old farm sinks are typically quite deep, which allows you to wash a lot of dishes at once. You should be able to find one of these relics at an antique store or at a garage sale in the country., A sliding barn door will help give visitors the sense that they are entering a warm and comfortable, farmhouse style home. You can purchase sliding barn doors from many larger home and hardware stores or talk to your contractor about sourcing one.Sliding barn doors cost in the range of $500 to $850., Hardwood flooring is one of the distinguishing features of farmhouse style.Wood flooring is warm, sturdy and beautiful. There are many choices regarding they type of wood, ranging from oak or maple to acacia and other exotic varieties.Some companies offer collections of wood flooring specifically for the Farmhouse style.To figure out the price of hardwood flooring, you will need to know the square footage of your home. Add between five and ten percent to this number, to account for cut offs. Multiply the square footage plus five percent number by the square foot price to get your estimate.
Varieties of hardwood flooring include white pine, black cherry, black walnut, yellow birch, heart pin, red oak, white ash, maple, hickory and Australian cypress.
 To get the light, breezy feel of the Farmhouse style you will need to lighten up your walls. Paint your walls white, ivory, cream or an off white color. Generally, you should avoid accent walls and darker colors.If you don’t want to repaint your whole house, you could choose one room in the house to do Farmhouse style. Paint that room an off white or other light, soft color.
If you can’t afford to repaint your whole home, you could install beadboard, painted white, in part of your home. Painted beadboard has great texture and really gives the impression of a farmhouse.