 When you blow-dry your hair, hydrogen bonds are created. These bonds hold your hair in place. Blow-drying your hair upside down lifts your roots; hydrogen bonds hold the lifted roots in place.After applying the styling products of your choice, blow-dry your sopping wet hair upside down until it is approximately 60% dry.Work your way from the nape of your neck to the ends of your hair.Flip your head and hair upright. As you aim the blow-dryer at your roots, use a round brush to lift small sections of hair at the roots., Setting your hair in hot rollers may be old fashioned, but it will transform your lifeless mane into voluminous tresses.After blow-drying your hair, plug in your hot roller set and allow them to heat up.As the rollers heat up, divide your hair into four sections and secure each one with a clip. Create one section on the crown of your head, one section on the back of your head, and one section on each side of your head.Unclip the top section and divide it into three horizontal sub-sections. Pull the sub-section closest to your hairline straight up. Place a roller on the backside of the section two to three inches from the ends.Leave the ends out and your hair pulled taunt as you complete two full rotations of the roller (rolling away from your face). Tuck in the loose ends and continue rolling away from your face until the roller is tight against your scalp. Put on the clip to secure the roller.Repeat this process on the two remaining top subsections.Unclip one of the side sections and divide in half horizontally. Roll the top and the bottom subsections in the same manner as before.
Unclip the back section and divide it into three even side-by-side sub-sections. Roll the three subsections in the same manner as before.
Unclip the remaining side section. Divide it in half horizontally. Roll the top and the bottom subsections in the same manner as before.Allow the rollers to cool for twenty minutes.
Remove the rollers one at a time starting in the back and working your way forwards.
Comb through your locks with your fingers and mist lightly with hairspray., While flat irons are typically used to straighten or bend locks, you can use the heated tool at your roots to add extra umph to your limp locks.

Part your hair horizontally from ear to ear at your eye level. Secure the hair above the part in a clip.
Divide the hair into sections as wide as your straightener. Clamp each section at the roots, twist your wrist to create a bump, hold for a few sections, and release.
Unclip your hair. Part your hair horizontally from ear to ear a half an inch to one inch above the original part. Secure the hair above the part with a clip.
Divide the hair into sections as wide as your straightener. Clamp each section at the roots, twist your wrist to create a bump, hold for a few sections, and release.
Repeat this process until you have attended to each layer of hair.