 Pulling back to reveal the larger context can be useful for a complex topic.If you are critiquing a book, mention changes in society or writing that the book reflects. If you are discussing an issue, tell people why the issue is important.


Example: "Without a detailed understanding of Tolstoy's personal ideology, the reader can only guess at the meaning behind his work."
Example: "At a time of record stray populations, these questions of house cat care have never been more urgent."

, If you're out of ideas on how to continue your topic, ask yourself, "So what?" Why should the reader care about your conclusion? What's the next step your argument could lead to? Answer this question in the final sentences of your paper.
 For an essay that lays out and examines a controversial topic, the conclusion may be the best place to include your own opinion. Write your own "editorial" on the topic, but make sure to stay grounded in the evidence.For an especially dramatic ending, warn the reader, or make a "call to action."


Example: "If no work is done to prevent these concussions, the sport does not deserve a place in our schools."

, Visual description can be more memorable than analysis or further arguments. Try describing a person or scene related to the paper's topic, especially if the topic provokes emotional reaction., The final sentence usually provides a sense of closure or completion, but it often includes a small twist as well to set the reader thinking, or to provoke an emotional reaction. A joke or an ironic statement can be a great way to include that twist. This is not suitable for all paper topics and styles, though, so don't force this if you tend to write with a more serious or straightforward tone.
 A sentence composed of short words, especially words one syllable long, often feels dramatic and final. This tactic isn't mandatory, but it works especially well for a call to action or a warning.Similarly, a direct, simple sentence will often feel "punchier" than one with many sub-clauses and commas.
 Ending in a similar place to your introduction is one of the most common ways to create an appealing, "symmetric" essay. The key here is not to reiterate a point you already made, but to reference your earlier writing as part of a new point.Try using the title of your paper, a short phrase from a quote in your introduction, or an important term you define in the introduction.
 A short, memorable phrase can help your essay stick in the reader's mind.Try working a common idiom into your final sentence, or a short quotation.


Try to keep quotations to no more than a few words in your final sentence. It's difficult to end the paper gracefully and on-topic when you're not using your own words.
 Writers and orators often build up to a major point using a set of three parallel phrases. Your audience is conditioned to hear this, and will associate it with a sense of completion. Here are some examples of possible final sentences using parallel structure:


"For the settlers who founded these farms, the people who work there, and the animals who are raised there, it's time to fight."
"We shall celebrate Janet Smith's novels for years to come, for their unique characters, inimitable poetry, and inspiring messages."

, Your reader will have already noticed that this is the last sentence. There's no need to mention it using "in conclusion," "in summary," or similar phrases.Remove these from the entire last paragraph for a more straightforward, punchy conclusion.
 If your essay is five pages or shorter, try to avoid summarizing or repeating your main points in the conclusion paragraph.Your reader doesn't need to be reminded of what she just read, and this dry lead-in makes it difficult to write an inspiring or interesting final sentence.
 The last paragraph is no place to bring up a new topic, right before you jump ship and leave your reader to figure it out himself.If your last sentence mentions a topic you haven't already discussed, delete it and try again. You can make an exception if your conclusion paragraph ties your paper's topic into the broader world around it, but be careful to keep your writing relevant to your thesis.


Ending in a question can be tough for this reason, since questions often introduce new ideas. A rhetorical question can serve as a final sentence, but it's best to rephrase it as a statement if you have any doubts.
 You might find the perfect statistic to support your point, but it still belongs earlier on in the paper. Similarly, don't end with a quotation that you're only including to back up your argument. If you do use a quotation, select one that produces inspiration or dramatic effect on its own.
 Emotional, dramatic endings are fun to write, but that doesn't mean they're always correct. An analytic paper that carefully examines evidence and argues a logical point has no reason for a final sentence full of emotional outburst, praise, or condemnation.This often turns up in the form of praising a country, "overcoming injustice," or other appeals to broad phenomena not specifically related to the paper topic.
 Keep your last sentence, and your entire essay, strong and direct. Remove apologies, self-doubts, and other phrases that undermine your authority.If you didn't have time to cover a topic, don't mention it and don't apologize for it; your essay is what it is, and it's up to your readers to decide whether they like it.
 It also helps a little in covering the mistakes you might have made in the last paragraph or maybe even throughout your whole essay.