 The first step in diagnosing your Labrador's cataracts is to look for symptoms. The main symptom of cataracts in Labradors is cloudy eyes. When you look into your dog's eyes, they will have a bluish, milky or cloudy appearance.Minor cataracts will often not impair your Labrador's vision. However, if the cataract has progressed, your dog will start to show signs of vision impairment. This may mean your Labrador walks more cautiously or slower than usual, or runs into objects more frequently.Your dog may also have trouble walking in dimly lit rooms or in the dark.
If your dog has cataracts due to diabetes, they may drink or urinate more often.;
, If you think your dog has either juvenile or senile cataracts, take them to the vet. The vet can run tests on your dog to determine the severity of the condition and advise you on treatment options., When you take your dog to the vet, the vet will use an ophthalmoscope to shine a light onto the lens and see if it casts a shadow on the retina. In addition, the vet will look for the presence of reflexes that cause the iris to contract to indicate the retina is healthy.In addition, the vet also will use magnification to check the lens itself and use their judgment as to whether the problem is a true cataract or a problem that mimics it.
Your vet may also do a tear test by placing a fluorescent dye into the eye to check for abnormalities., If the vet suspects that the pet has an underlying problem, they will run blood tests to check. This is important because the underlying disease also needs correction and treatment, not just the lens of the eye. Underlying conditions that may lead to cataracts include diabetes, infection, trauma, and even malnutrition., If a juvenile cataract is found in your dog, no treatment may be necessary. However, the vet may advise a preventative treatment, such as Ocu-Glo, to reduce the rate of deterioration.You can also give your dog Vitamin E or C to help slow the deterioration.You may consider limiting the amount of time your Labrador spends out in the bright sunshine because that can lead to eye damage.
Ocu-Glo contains antioxidants which protect and condition the lens from further oxidative damage, which could speed up the deterioration of the eye due to the cataract.
 For cataracts, there is not a medical treatment that will reverse the process. The vet may assess the dog to see if they are fit and well enough to be a suitable candidate for surgical removal of the lens. This is a specialist procedure and requires referral to a veterinary ophthalmologist.Removing the lens requires specialist equipment, including an operating loop microscope and a high frequency ultrasound device. The latter is inserted into the lens and is used to break down the lens material so that it can be sucked out and removed. This is done via a small incision in the cornea. Fluid is also pumped in at the same time to stop the globe from collapsing. The lens capsule is preserved and once all the debris is removed, an artificial replacement lens is positioned within the lens capsule.
In the right dog, this procedure is extremely successful. However, when complications occur, they can be very serious and even lead to loss of the eye. This is usually only suggested for young dogs or dogs born blind.Once the lens has become hard or if the dog's retina is damaged, then corrective surgery is no longer an option.
In general, the sooner a cataract is identified, then the better the outlook for phacoemulsion surgery.
 For Labradors with hypermature cataracts, especially if the cataracts have caused secondary problems such as glaucoma, then removing the eye may be the most humane option.Talk to your vet to see if leaving the eye alone and helping your Labrador adjust to impaired vision is a better option.
 If you have a dog with cataracts, you may decide against surgery. Your Labrador can live a full and healthy life with impaired vision due to cataracts. If you don't want your dog to undergo surgery, your dog can adjust to the loss of vision. You can help your dog by sticking to familiar walks so the dog can get their bearings.


You can also avoid moving furniture around in the house so that your dog knows where everything is.
 Cataracts, or cloudiness of the lens, affect the lens within the eye. The lens has the job of focusing light on the retina for pin sharp vision. Cataracts can develop for a number of reasons, but the most relevant types of cataracts for Labradors are juvenile cataracts and senile cataracts.Labradors are often afflicted by hereditary cataracts, which can present as juvenile or senile cataracts. Often, hereditary cataracts in Labradors will not cause blindness.The lens in the eye can be thought of in the same way as a lens in a camera. If the camera lens becomes dirty, light cannot pass through and no photograph is produced. A similar effect occurs within the eye.
 Juvenile cataracts develop in young dogs, around the age of one to three years old. However, they can occur in a range anywhere between eight weeks to eight years of age. There is no specific reason why juvenile cataracts develop, though most believe it is an inherited condition.Juvenile cataracts only affect part of the lens and there is a good chance they won't interfere too badly with your pet's vision. Your vet can examine the dog with an ophthalmoscope to look for the reaction of the pupil to light and check visual reflexes to assess if vision is adversely affected or not. It many cases, no further action other than monitoring is necessary.
 Senile cataracts develop in older dogs, and again there is no one reason for their development. Sometimes cataracts develop as part of the aging process distinct from nucleus sclerosis, which is a different condition affecting the lens of older dogs. Sometimes, cataracts can be secondary to a health problem such as diabetes or trauma to the eye.Senile cataracts can become dense and stop light passing to the retina, resulting in blindness. In some cases, the cataract becomes hypermature and causes the eye to change shape. This can cause the lens to shift out of position, which can create other problems such as glaucoma.

