 One of the most widely-used supplements, fish oil is used to keep the heart healthy; however, fish oil supplements can lead to excessive bleeding if combined with heart medications like anticoagulants. One type of anticoagulant in particular, warfarin (commercially available under the names Coumadin or Jantoven), can make fish oil supplements risky., Black cohosh is an herbal supplement derived from the North American plant of the same name. You might use it to cope with menopausal disorders, vaginitis, uterine spasms, or painful menstruation. But when paired with atorvastatin (more commonly known by the brand name Lipitor) or other statins, black cohosh might lead to liver toxicity.Even if it isn’t mixed with another supplement or medication, there is some concern that black cohosh could be toxic to the liver.
 St. John’s wort is intended to treat mild depression. But if it’s mixed with other antidepressants — especially selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) — you can develop serotonin syndrome. Serotonin syndrome is a condition that can cause shivering and diarrhea. More serious symptoms include confusion, fever, seizures, and even death., Gingko biloba is a supplement designed to improve memory and mental function. But like fish oil, it can interfere with a warfarin prescription and cause internal bleeding., Coenzyme Q10 — also known as CoQ10 — is a naturally occurring enzyme used to heal the heart when it suffers damage, especially after cancer treatment. But one of its side effects is that it decreases the efficacy of Warfarin and similar blood thinners.


Your doctor might be able to adjust your warfarin dosage in order to allow you to take CoQ10. Talk to them about this possibility.
 Garlic supplements may interfere with a variety of medications, making them less effective. HIV/AIDS medications (like saquinavir) and tuberculosis-fighting medications (like isoniazid) are broken down faster in the presence of garlic supplements, meaning they will be less effective.But don’t worry about eating garlic. Garlic supplements contain far higher concentrations of garlic than a regular slice of garlic toast or other garlicky edible.
 Erectile dysfunction (ED) is a condition common in aging men in which they are unable to achieve or maintain an erection. There are a host of plant-based supplements thought to treat ED, including tribulus, yohimbine, and horny goat weed. If mixed with nitrates, these supplements could lead to low blood pressure.Many heart disease medications are nitrates, including isosorbide mononitrate and dinitrate, and multiple drugs whose generic names begin with nitroglycerin (such as nitroglycerin sublingual tablets, nitroglycerin lingual aerosol, and nitroglycerin pump spray).

