 Internet sites can help you plug in a phone number and find a potential address match for the person that you seek. Both Yellow Pages and White Pages offer this service.


When looking up people's personal information on the internet, you run into privacy issues. Locating someone's address and showing up uninvited can be considered stalking or a breach in privacy.;
, White Pages allows you to search if you know the person's name and the town or state in which the person lives. Using this tool, you can also find their phone number. By obtaining their phone number, you can contact them and ask them for their address.


If you are trying to find someone internationally, try using White Pages International or Numberway. It offers details on look-up information in 6 continents and more than 33 countries.
When searching for someone online, you might need to try searching for their names in different ways. Try searching for them by nicknames, maiden names, and birth names.
 Social networking sites generally list the city where people are living. Many sites, such as Facebook, Twitter, and Instagram, use GPS to post the location of a person when they make a post. While these social media sites might not give you the direct address, they can provide you with a way to get in touch with the person to ask them yourself. Try sites such as Facebook, Reunion.com, Batchmates, Classmates.com, Pipl.com, and Linkedin.


Many of the social media websites require users to create accounts and log in to view other member information. Some of the sites, such as Facebook, require friend requests to be accepted by the person before you can view their personal information.
Searching for people on social media websites can be considered cyberstalking. Cyberstalking is "defined as using the Internet or other electronic means as a way to harass, intimidate, threaten, monitor or make unwanted advances towards another." This includes e-mail and interaction via social media sites, like Facebook; furthermore, secretly watching or gathering information about a person can also be considered cyberstalking.Many cyberstalkers begin by tracking their victims via the internet, many times through social media.When you are searching for people through social media, be careful to not cross any boundaries.
 Sites like Lostfriends.org are specifically tailored to help people find people they have lost touch with. You can post a message on the website, or peruse the website to see if anyone is looking for you.
 If these free ways are not giving you any results, there are multiple sites that can give you a more detailed report on a person for a small fee. These sites include Public Libraries' Public Records, Intelius, People Finders, and Instant Checkmate.


Use caution when using these websites. These websites state that they access public records, but this level of investigation into someone's personal information can be considered a serious invasion of privacy.

