 Stage makeup and latex is designed to give you a realistic look that you could use on stage. But, you can also use it for a costume, party, or simply for fun. You will need:


Liquid latex. Ben Nye makes a good liquid latex that is often used in the theatre.
Brushes.
Fake blood.
Tissue paper. Try to use plain tissue paper without etching or designs.
Dark eyeshadow.
It’s also a good idea to lay some newspaper down as liquid latex and the fake blood can get messy.
 Shake the bottle of liquid latex before opening. Then begin brushing it onto your skin where you wish to create your wound.


Liquid latex can be messy and kind of tricky to use. Try to paint it on evenly and don't rush. Though liquid latex dries fairly quickly, you want to make sure you apply it as smoothly as possible.
 Liquid latex dries pretty quickly so you want to work in smaller sections rather than one large area. Press the tissue paper down on the latex.


The tissue paper will stick pretty well to the latex. You can then pull and tear away the edges of the tissue paper which aren’t attached.
 Repeat the process by brushing more liquid latex over the tissue paper and then adding another layer of paper.


Two layers of paper are usually sufficient, but if you want to create the look of a deeper wound you should add three to five layers.
 Once your layers are dry you can rip open a hole or make a cut in the tissue and latex.


You can use a toothpick or tweezers to tear a hole or cut a line.






The paper and latex will peel back giving the effect of an open wound with your skin peeling away.
 With the fake wound opened up you now want to apply liquid foundation to the tissue and latex. Make sure that you apply the foundation in a way so that it blends out from the latex and tissue onto your actual skin.






Rub the surrounding area with your finger to further blend.
 Using your eyeshadow and any red powders, you can use your brush to add these to your wound.


Paint around the wound and on your actual skin with darker colors in the center of your wound. Use lighter colors as you progress outward.






Add a few drops of blood and mix. Then add a few more in and around the wound and let the blood drip.







