 There are many sites and video games these days that allow you to create virtual worlds. Some are free, and some cost money. Some are online, and others are available through video gaming consoles.


Some are role playing games like World of Warcraft. Others are 2D or 3D social networking and virtual worlds like Kaneva and Twinity.Second Life is a popular virtual world with hundreds of thousands of users.There are also virtual worlds that are specifically marketed for tweens and teens. Some examples include OurWorld and WoozWorld, which allow you to create an avatar and explore virtual worlds. Online games offer many different virtual world environments, from fantasy worlds to horror and historical environments.
In some virtual worlds, you get to choose a virtual family. In others, you are able to create your own home and customize it. Some virtual world games have already created worlds that you then get to explore and chat with people inside.;
, If you’re using an online virtual world, like Second Life, you will need to sign up to explore the virtual world. Some of these virtual worlds are free.


You will be asked to create a username in order to sign in. You will need to login with this name after checking its availability. You may be asked to download the game to your computer before you can use it. Some sites, like Smeet, are browser based and don’t require downloads.You don’t always need to use your real name as your username, although it depends on the game. Many people don’t do so because they are trying to explore being a character other than themselves.
Write down your username so you don’t forget it because you will need to use it to log back in. You will likely be asked to create an account using a real email and will perhaps be asked your date of birth and other information.
 An avatar is the character that you will use to represent yourself as you move through the virtual world.Many sites allow you to customize your avatar, changing things like hairstyle, eye color, skin color, and gender, as well as clothing. Some sites, like Second Life, allow you to choose vampires as well as people!Some people choose avatars that are very similar to themselves. Others decide it would be more interesting to change genders, races, or other attributes.
It’s really up to you (and the site you choose) when it comes to how far you want to make your avatar deviate from yourself. Some avatars are more cartoonish, such as WeeWorld, and others are more sophisticated looking., Once you have an avatar, it’s time to explore the virtual world that you have chosen. Figure out what the virtual world allows you or requires you to do. You will need to figure out the specific controls to move your avatar.


Learn the rules of the specific game by reading the materials provided before you enter the virtual world. For example, many virtual world games provide frequently asked questions and other instructional materials. In some games, you simply use keys on your computer keyboard to move the avatar and can choose functions that enable your avatar to run, walk, fly or teleport into a new world.
Spend some time getting to know the virtual world before you change anything in it. Figure out how it works, and go on a journey to see what’s in it! Some virtual worlds, like those in WeeWorld, allow you to play games. Some virtual worlds even have a space within the simulated environment where you can go and ask questions about using the virtual world.
In real life, you would want to scope out and acclimate to your environment before changing anything in it. The same is true in a virtual world. Virtual World.com is an example of an online game that allows you to visit a main street, beach, saloon, and skatepark, among other environments., Some virtual worlds allow you to interact with other users. Some sites, like Second Life, allow voice as well as text chatting with other users.


You will see a text chat box pop up with the usernames of other people currently in the world. People have made virtual friends through such worlds. Some people feel more confident in virtual worlds because they are shy in real life. Some virtual worlds also provide maps that show you who else is in the world and where to find them.
Follow the rules set by the virtual world game for interaction with others. Always be respectful. Just because it’s a virtual world doesn’t mean you can do anything you want. Sometimes circles of friends will chat with other friends in virtual worlds but they know who each other is outside of the simulated environment.
Be aware that some people who have taken such interactions off line have found themselves in danger or meeting someone who was not what they imagined. Always be cautious when meeting people online.
 Different virtual worlds will have different rules for navigation. You may be able to approach other avatars and interact with them.


Figure out how you are supposed to move the avatar and where you are allowed to go.
You may need to perform tasks or pay money to access different levels of the virtual world. You are usually able to travel through different virtual worlds.
Some virtual worlds will show you a map to help you figure out where you are going inside the virtual world and will offer you multiple world options.
 It depends on the game you’ve chosen, but some virtual worlds will allow you to change aspects of the virtual world.


You might be able to create and design your own house, pick a job, or even choose the members of a virtual family. Some sites, like Kaneva and SimCity, allow you to create your own virtual worlds and even manage your own cities, whereas other sites allow you to visit and customize preexisting virtual worlds, or both.In some virtual worlds, you get to choose a virtual pet or virtual boyfriend or girlfriend. The possibilities are endless! Some virtual worlds allow you to perform some activities for free but make you pay to do extra things, like design a private 3D home to entertain in.
The power of many virtual worlds is that they allow the user – you! – to both build and to create things. So you are able to unleash the powers of your imagination., The most common of these is the Oculus Rift DK2. Some simulation sites allow you to use hardware that creates more of an immerse experience. Other such headsets are in the works or available, such as Vive.You put the project viewer over your face like you are wearing goggles. This will allow you to feel like you are actually in the virtual world environment.Simply staring at your computer or television screen won’t fully immerse you in the virtual world. The Oculus Rift project viewer is designed to make you feel like you are actually inside the virtual world.
Not all virtual world sites allow or work with such viewers. Second Life is one that does. Viewers are being developed that will mimic your real facial expressions and place them on your avatar., There’s a lot of research into virtual worlds that shows they can have both positive and negative effects on people’s lives.Some researchers believe that spending too much time in virtual worlds can lead to isolation in real life for some people.
At the same time, some people replace their unhappy realities with a happier virtual world they are more able to control.
Some people have become addicted to virtual worlds to the degree that it has caused them to neglect their real lives. Make sure that you use virtual reality in moderation and in a way that does not cause negative effects in your actual life.

