 In this project, you will be combining baking soda and vinegar to create a foaming, frothy lava. This lava does not last very long, but it is fun and exciting to watch as it foams out of your volcano. Here is what you will need:

A homemade volcano, plastic bottle, bowl, cup, or jar
½ cup (64 grams) baking soda
½ cup (112.50 milliliters) of vinegar
Food coloring, glow-in-the-dark paint, or fluorescent paint
Dish soap
Water;
, Find a plastic bottle and take the cap off. Set the bottle down on a flat surface and wrap clay around it until you get a cone shape. You can do this by putting more clay on the base of the bottle and less clay at the top. Do not cover the top of the bottle; leave it open so that you can pour the ingredients inside. You can then decorate your volcano with fake plants, rocks, paint, and plastic animals. Let the clay dry before making the lava.

You can use any type of clay you want. You can also use plasticine or paper mache.
You can also make a simple "volcano" by using a tall glass or an empty bottle.
 This volcano can get messy. Find a large, shallow bin or tray, and place your bottle or volcano inside it. The bin or tray will catch any lava that flows out of your "volcano.", This will make it easier to pour in all of your ingredients. If you are using something with a wide mouth, such as a bowl, cup, or jar, then you probably will not need the funnel., If the baking soda has clumped up, then place a sieve over the funnel first. The tight netting of the sieve will help break up any clumps of baking soda., You will need at least ½ cup (112.50 milliliters) of vinegar, a few drops of liquid dish soap, and a few drops of water. The more vinegar you use, the more dish soap you will need. The dish soap will not only make the lava fuller, but also make it last longer., You can make your lava look like real lava by adding a few drops of food coloring to the vinegar. You can also make glowing lava by adding 1 teaspoon of glow-in-the-dark paint or fluorescent paint to the vinegar. Be sure to stir the vinegar well to make sure that the food coloring or paint is completely mixed.If you are using glow-in-the-dark paint, you will need to "charge" it by setting it in the sun or under a bright lamp for a few minutes. Once the paint is charged, you will need to turn off the lights in order to make it glow.
If you are using fluorescent paint, you will need a black light. Once you have the paint and vinegar all mixed, you will need to turn off the regular lights and turn on the black light. You can purchase a black light online or in an arts and crafts store, and switch out one of the light bulbs at home with the black light. If you are a child, please ask an adult to help you with this step.
You can make your lava any color you want, but red, orange, and yellow will give you the most realistic-looking lava.
You can make the lava even more exciting by adding in some sparkly glitter!

, You do not need to pour it all in all at once. Even a little bit of vinegar is enough to make the baking soda fizz. Take the funnel off the volcano quickly, or it will stop the lava from coming out!

If you are using glow-in-the-dark lava, turn off the lights first
If you are using fluorescent lava, turn off the lights and switch on the black light.
 You can keep adding more vinegar to make the volcano continue "exploding." When the volcano stops exploding, that means you have run out of baking soda.