 In order to get your dog’s teeth professionally cleaned, you will need to make an appointment with your vet. Call your vet’s office and ask to schedule an appointment for a professional cleaning of your dog’s teeth.;
, Since your dog will be undergoing anesthesia, you should not feed your dog for at least eight hours before visiting the vet. This is an important precaution you must take before your dog gets its teeth cleaned professionally.If your dog needs food or medication due to a health issue, please consult with your vet about these concerns well in advance of the appointment.
 Prior to the cleaning, your vet will first check your dog’s mouth for odor, which can be a sign of gum disease. The vet will also check for gum abnormalities such as swollen, red, or bleeding gums. This part of the exam will happen while your dog is awake., Be aware that the full oral exam will be completed while your dog is under anesthesia. The vet will administer general anesthesia so that your dog’s mouth can be examined for periodontal pockets. While your dog is under anesthesia, the vet will also check the surfaces of your dog’s teeth and conduct X-rays. These procedures are necessary for the vet to diagnose gum disease and are mostly safe for dogs. If you have specific concerns about your dog going under anesthesia, ask your vet to explain the procedure to you in detail.Ask your vet questions about how long your dog will be under anesthesia, how long it will take your dog to wake up, and if there are any risks specific to your dog’s health or breed.
 While your dog is under anesthesia, the vet will manually remove plaque and tartar, polish your dog’s teeth, rinse the dog’s mouth, and then apply fluoride to prevent tooth decay., While dental care for dogs is necessary, it can also be expensive. A cleaning usually costs several hundred dollars. X-rays can cost anywhere from several hundred to one thousand dollars or more. Extractions and dental surgery can run anywhere from two to three thousand dollars. Consult your vet’s office about specific pricing in your region, as it can vary significantly from location to location.Inquire with your pet insurance, if you have one, about whether they cover dental cleanings.

