 It’s easy to get wrapped up in daily life at school. Since you won’t see your guy everyday, make sure to schedule time for each other after school or on weekends. Work out your other commitments so that you get to see him at least once a week, if not more. Having a plan to see each other will give you something to look forward to and make the relationship exciting.


Try setting aside a specific time to see each other. For example you can plan to meet up on Saturday afternoons. If this doesn’t work for your busy schedule, you can make fun plans as time allows.
If your relationship is long distance, consider booking bus or plane tickets far in advance. Ideally, you will see each other as often as possible, but that can be challenging if your schools are many miles apart. Reserve seats in advance to lower the cost of transportation.
Make your dates special. Since you might not see each other often, do something special. Bring a him a present or dress up for date night.;
, If his school is close to yours, try meeting him on a day you are both free after school. Text him to see if he is available (or surprise him!), and meet for an after school snack.Consider meeting up after school regularly. You could take turns going to see each other a couple of times per week.
 You probably don’t need to bring him with you for a normal day of class, but find out if he can attend a school event. Dances, fairs, and shows are great opportunities for you to get to know each other’s friends and school environment.
 If you live in the same area, join a club or take a class together. Not only will you learn something new, you'll be spending time with him. This is a good way to explore common interests and develop a stronger relationship.Find a new hobby. You don’t have to join an organized group. Try going on hikes or playing a game of tennis.
Volunteer. Volunteering is nice way to give back while spending time together. Check out a local animal shelter or community garden., Learn about his family, friends, and school life. Cultivate genuine interest in what he does when you are not together. Remember to volunteer information of your own as well. Allow him to get to know you by introducing him to important people in your life.Attend important events together. Invite him to family gatherings and birthday parties.
Ask each other interesting questions that let you learn more about the other person. For example, “What is the scariest thing you’ve ever done?”, As long as you don’t get distracted, studying together is a nice way to get schoolwork done and spend time together. Go to the library during final exams or try having homework sessions during the week. You might be able to help each other with homework if you take the same subjects.