 Guinea pigs are social herd animals who are happier in the presence of other guinea pigs.Consider getting a second guinea pig (or more!) and you'll see the benefits, including higher levels of activity and increased exercise.


In some countries, it is even illegal to buy single guinea pigs; you have to buy them in pairs.
If you do get another guinea pig, make sure it is of the same sex as the guinea pig you currently have OR that it is neutered or spayed if it is of the opposite sex. This is important because if a male guinea pig and a female guinea pig are housed together, they will likely mate and the female pig will become pregnant, which is quite dangerous., Guinea pigs love to interact with humans as well as other pigs. Socializing with your guinea pig is one way to keep him happy and healthy. Talk to your guinea pig, cuddle him, carry him in your hands, and pet his fur as often as you can. Show him that you love him!It's important that you give your guinea pig special attention on a daily basis, handling, cuddling, and touching him as often as you can manage.
 Always make sure to support the entire body since guinea pigs are small animals with delicate bones. Some pigs also tend to jump, especially when they are being returned to their cages. Such falls can result in broken bones, serious injuries, and even death. To handle your pig properly, wrap one hand around his chest and use the other to support his hind feet and bottom. Hold him against your chest for extra security.Talk to your guinea pig gently as you pick him up and handle him and make sure to approach him from the front so as not to frighten him.If you have a jumpy guinea pig that likes to squirm around, you can train your pig to not struggle when being held or put back in his cage. Hold your guinea pig firmly but gently, when you move to put him back in the cage, hold him a few inches above the floor. Do not put him down as long as he continues to squirm while in your hands. Be careful not to squeeze him too tight or you could damage his back and cause paralysis. Only place your guinea pig onto the cage floor once your he stops squirming and struggling against you but don't let go since he will probably try to run away. Hold him yet again until he stops moving. After several training sessions, your guinea pig will learn that he can be free once he stops squirming.
Young children should not be permitted to carry a guinea pig in their hands because they may inadvertently squeeze the pig too hard or drop him., Guinea pigs are very smart. You can teach them to stand on their hind legs, spin, run in a circle, stand on a pedestal, jump, and respond to his own name. In general, guinea pigs aren't as easy to train as other rodents, but you can be successful with a bit of patience!Younger guinea pigs tend to be more receptive to training and learning tricks than older ones.To teach your guinea pig tricks, you'll need to rely on a method known as operant conditioning, which means that you have to reward your guinea pig each time he successfully completes a task. You start off rewarding small movements and then put the whole trick together.
For example, if you want your pig to run in a circle on command, you'll need a pocket full of treats (such as little bits of carrot) and something that makes noise, like a clicker. Issue the command "turn" and if your guinea pig even turns his head the littlest bit, click the clicker and give him a reward. This will help him learn that when he hears the clicking sound he has done something right and that there will be a reward. Repeat the signal until he has it mastered and then make it more difficult to earn the reward (e.g., only give him the carrot bit if he does a quarter-turn and then a half-turn and then so on, until he does the full action). You should train with your guinea everyday for results.