 Tap the App Store on your iPad to launch it.;
, Type in “Star Alliance” on the search field.
 Locate the correct app and download it. Tap the “Install” button beside the app to do so.


This app is free.
 Locate the app on your iPad. Its icon has a black background with the Star Alliance text and logo on it. Tap on it to launch it. You will be welcomed with a beautiful interface of a rotating earth.
 On the home screen, there’s a left panel menu. Tap on “Flight Search” to open a small window in the top middle of the screen for the search parameters.



The main difference between “One way” and “Round-trip” is the return date.
 In the search form, locate the From field and type in your source location. This is the place where you are departing from. This can either be the airport name or its 3-letter code.
 In the search form, locate the To field and type in your destination. This is the place where you are going to. This can either be the airport name or its 3-letter code.
 In the search form, locate the Departure Date field and set your preferred departure date. This is a date field and a calendar menu would appear.


Navigate through the calendar to set your chosen date.
Tap on the date to populate the field.
 In the search form, locate the Return Date field and set your preferred return date. This is a date field and a calendar menu would appear.


Navigate through the calendar to set your chosen date.
Tap on the date to populate the field.
This is only applicable if you chose “Round-trip” from step 2. Otherwise, skip this step.
 In the search form, locate the Sort by field and chose the sorting method from the list. This field sets in which order your results would be displayed.


You can set it by Stops, Duration, Departure, or Arrival.
 Start your search by tapping on the blue “Search” button. This is the only button found on the Search form at the bottom part.
 The resulting flights that match your search parameters will be shown. Scroll up and down to select a flight you like.


The carriers’ logos will be displayed on the left part of the results for easy identification.
The departure times, arrival times, total flight duration, number of stops, and connecting airports will be displayed per flight result.
 When you’ve selected a flight, tap on it. More flight details will be displayed right under the selected flight. Details per flight leg will be displayed by groups.


Aside from the data shown from step 9, you will also be able to see the carriers, flight numbers, total flight distance, and aircraft models and types.
 If you want to explore other flight parameters, tap on the “Start new search” button found at the bottom of the window. You will be brought back to the flight search screen in step 3.
 Continuing from step 10 from part 2, if you’ve decided to add this to your trip, there’s a button titled “Add to My Trip” right after the flight details. Tap on this, and you will be brought to another small window to proceed.
 If you want to add another flight to the trip, tap on the first button titled “Add another flight.” You will be brought to a search form. Populate the source, destination, and date fields accordingly, and initiate the search by tapping the blue “Search flight” button.
 The resulting flights that match your search parameters will be shown. Scroll up and down to select a flight you like.


The carriers’ logos would be displayed on the left part of the results for easy identification.
The departure times, arrival times, total flight duration, number of stops, and connecting airports would be displayed per flight result

, When you’ve selected a flight, tap on it. More flight details will be displayed right under the selected flight. Details per flight leg would be displayed by groups.


Aside from the data shown from step 9 (part 2), you will also be able to see the carriers, flight numbers, total flight distance, and aircraft models and types.
 If you’ve decided to add this to your trip, there’s a button titled “Add to My Trip” right after the flight details. Tap on this, and you will be brought to another small window to proceed.
 Go back to step 2 and repeat until step 5 for all the flights you’d like to add.
 If you’re done building your trip, tap “Save this trip” to save it. Enter a title or name for the trip and tap on “Save.” You will see the confirmation message “Your trip has been saved successfully.”

, On the home screen, there’s a left panel menu. Tap on “Flight status” to open a small window in the top middle of the screen for the different status check options.


You can check status by Flight, Route, or Airport.
 If you know the flight number and the departure date of the flight you want to check, tap “Flight” on the header menu. You can use the data you have to check the flight’s status.


Start by selecting the member airline from the drop-down list.
Input the flight number on the next field.
Set the departure date. The departure date only allows for four dates, namely yesterday, today, and the next 2 days.
Tap “Check Flight Status” when you’re done.
 If you know the source and destination airports and the departure date of the flight you want to check, tap “Route” on the header menu. You can use the data you have to check the flight’s status.


Set the source and destination in the From and To fields respectively.
Set the departure date. The departure date only allows for four dates, namely yesterday, today, and the next 2 days.
Tap “Check Flight Status” when you’re done.
 If you know the source airport, the departure date, and an estimate time range of the flight you want to check, tap “Airport” on the header menu. You can use the data you have to check the flight’s status.


Enter the source airport in the first field for location.
Set the Departure Date. The Departure Date only allows for four dates, namely yesterday, today, and the next 2 days.
Set the time range by adjusting the vertical scroll bars. You can set this as wide or as narrow as you want.
Tap “Check Flight Status” when you’re done.
 Whatever option for searching the flight status you used, the results will be displayed the same way. The results will be displayed with the departure and arrival times, carrier logo, and flight number.


Tap on a flight to view more details, which will include the source and destination airports and the travel legs.
The latest flight status will also be displayed.
 On the home screen, there’s a left panel menu. Tap on “Lounge Finder” to open a small window in the top middle of the screen. Enter the airport whose lounges you want to find.


You can use the airport’s or city’s name or its corresponding 3-letter code.
Tap the “Show Lounges” button to initiate the search.
 The results of your search will be displayed with the airline’s logo on the left side and the name of the lounge on the right. Tap on a lounge to view its location and the facilities available in it.
 On the home screen, there’s a left panel menu. Tap on “Airport Info” to open a small window in the top middle of the screen. Enter the airport you want to know about.


You can use the airport’s or city’s name or its corresponding 3-letter code.
Tap the “Show Airport” button to initiate the search.
 The information for the airport will include a map, a four-day weather forecast, and the member airlines using this airport.
 On the home screen, there’s a left panel menu. On the bottom part of it, there’s a Members section where the member airline logos scroll. Tap on “Our Members” to display all the member airlines.
 Tap on an airline logo to bring up its write-up and data sheet. You can use this to know more about the member airlines.