 You cannot purchase flood insurance on your own. You must work with an agent. Visit the NFIP website to find an agent in your area. Once you enter your zip code, you will receive a list of agents in your area. Your agent will help you purchase a policy that meets all of your needs.All of the agents listed have agreed to participate in the federal FloodSmart Referral Program.
You may want to check with the agency handling your homeowner's insurance, because you may get a discount for having more than one policy with the company.
You may also call 1-888-379-9531 to find an agent., You and your agent are a team. Take an active role in the process by asking the right questions. Here are some questions that you need to ask before you buy (you can download this list here):Will the federal government back my policy?
How do I pay for my policy?
What is my flood risk?
Does my community participate in the NFIP?
What is and is not covered by my policy?
Is flood insurance mandatory for my property?
How much coverage should I get?
Am I required to pay any other fees?
Am I eligible for any discounts on my premium?
How do I renew my policy?
Does my community participate in the Community Rating System (CRS)?
Will my policy offer Replacement Cost Value or Actual Cost Value? What is the difference between these two values?

, Your agent may ask you for an elevation certificate. The certificate confirms the elevation of the lowest floor of your house in relation to the ground. This certificate is particularly important if you live in a high risk area.


Ask your agent if your home was built before or after your community’s initial Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM). If your home was built before the FIRM, you do not need to purchase the elevation certificate.If your community participates in the CRS, your elevation certificate should already be on file with your local officials. You will not need to purchase one in this case.
Having an elevation certificate could lower the cost of your premium. Talk to your agent and see if you need to purchase the certificate. If you need to purchase it, your agent can help with the process.
The cost of purchasing an elevation certificate depends on the location of your home and the difficulty of doing the measurement. It can range from $500 to over $2,000.Be sure you need the certificate before you spend the money.
 Flood insurance is different than other types of insurance. Your payment is due when you sign the application with agent. You can pay with a credit card, cash, check, or money order.


If you have an escrow account with your mortgage lender, your lender may allow you to pay through that account.
If your lender already escrows your other taxes and insurances and flood insurance is mandatory, your premium will automatically be escrowed as well.
Talk to your agent about how you will pay before you complete the application.
 If your community is not a part of the NFIP, you can get insurance through a private company. Because many private companies do not offer flood insurance, you may have to pay a higher premium. Check with your current homeowner’s insurance agent to see if they offer non-federal flood insurance. If they do not, the Flood Insurance Agency is a company that provides flood insurance in 20 states.
Check with your mortgage lender to make sure they accept non-federal flood insurance policies.

