 College students, in particular, tend to have chaotic sleep schedules. This can really come back to bite you the night before an exam. One of the best ways to ensure you fall asleep easily is to go to bed and wake up at about the same time every day. Establishing a schedule early can really help on exam day., Naps confuse your body’s circadian rhythms and make it harder to sleep at night. Instead of napping, try going for a walk or exercising., Research shows that cramming all your studying into a one day session is much less effective and results in lower exam scores. Your brain needs time and sleep to consolidate information. So as soon as you know your exam schedule, spend some time planning out when you will study. Scheduling 2 or 3 hours a day for a week before the exam is the most effective way to prepare., You want your bed to be associated with one thing only: sleep. If you get in the habit of studying in bed, it will make it harder to sleep there., Try to do most of your studying between 6pm and 8pm, when your mind is most alert and when you are least likely to need stimulants like coffee or cigarettes that will make it harder to sleep later. Avoid studying in the early afternoon, when the mind is most sluggish., Because your mind is sluggish in the early afternoon, this is the perfect time to exercise or take a long walk. This will help you feel more alert when you return to studying, and by fatiguing your body, help you to sleep better that night.Spending time outside in the late afternoon sunlight helps stimulate your body to release melatonin, which will help you sleep later., Don’t try to go straight from studying to sleep. Instead, give yourself time to prepare yourself and your room. Don’t look at your computer, phone, or television for 45 minutes before bedtime. Make your room as dark as possible and keep it cool. If you cannot keep your room quiet, try introducing calming white noise., Rather than studying that extra hour at night, try going to sleep and waking up early to study. So instead of staying up until midnight, go to bed at 11pm and wake up at 7am. Your mind will be refreshed, and you will study more effectively.