 Don't stay cooped up crying over him/her. This will just make matters worse by thinking about it over and over again. Maybe hang out with some old friends that you haven't seen for a while, because you've been too busy spending time with him/her. Or maybe watch a film at the movies. Just don't torture yourself.;
, Get rid of those old valentines gifts. Lock them away in a box, under the bed, behind the closet or even dump them in the trash. Don't spend time looking and admiring the old times, forget all the things he/she gave you for you're birthday and move on.
 It's mingle time again. Go hunting for that special someone again, it's not the end of a relationship, it's the beginning of a new one. Don't think you're never going to find love again, because you will! Maybe there has always been someone who liked you secretly while you were not available.
 Don't try to call him or text him anymore. And don't say you 'accidentally' pressed send to the wrong person. Delete his number off your phone, take his/her picture off you're wallpaper and put a fancy picture of you and you're mates, delete him/her as a friend off Facebook or MSN. Don't return their calls or pick up the phone if they try to contact you. They dumped you, remember? It was his/her loss. So forget.
 Write down all the reasons you weren't meant to be.
 Don't keep it locked away for too long. Have a good, long cry and let it all out! Talk to friends and see if they've had this problem before which I'm sure you will find they have. Talk to you're older siblings, ask for advice and support. Remember boyfriends and girlfriends will come and go, but friends and family will never disappear.
 Don't keep listening to those sad Taylor Swift songs, 'Tear Drops On My Guitar', and put some funky new music on you're iPod, and maybe get into a new band. This always helps to forget him/her.
 if you just can't let him/her go, try to make up for it and get them back. Look Beautiful or Handsome for a change. Do something that will make them feel guilty about leaving you.

