 Give yourself plenty of time to set up the booth and scope out the facilities before the crowds descend. Being fully set up as soon as the doors open means that you will not waste event time fumbling with displays or boxes instead of communicating your message., Once you've set up, walk outside and see your booth from the point of view of your visitors. Are your signs clearly visible from the different directions where people will approach? Is your booth inviting? Do you have any distracting loose ends showing?, Do you want to be behind a table with your audience in front, or do you want the table at the back of your booth so that you can approach people and invite them in?
, Talk to your customers. When they walk up to your booth, give them a few seconds, then say, "Hello." They will most likely say hello also. Then smile, and tell them about your booth. Sometimes if you start to talk about something else, like how nice the day is, or how cute the child they have along with them will distract them from your crafts. When you are ringing everything up, you can talk about these things. Remember to smile and say "Thank you, come again!" Also hand them a business card if you have one and inform them of where you'll be next., However you draw people in, make sure that they leave your booth with some basic understanding of why you are there., It involves them in the conversation and it tells you which direction to go with your pitch, be it informational, commercial, or somewhere in between., These items will remind people of your organization, your contact information, and your message after the excitement and activity of an event has ended.
 Tell interested visitors how they can follow up and how you will follow up. Then, be sure that somebody in your organization does follow up promptly. Keep track of the source of leads so that you can compare the relative effectiveness of one event with another., Put yourself in the shoes of the staff for a large-scale event or venue. Then, dismantle your own booth at the end of the event and make sure any leftover litter or debris makes it into the trash. It's good manners and it will help to keep the event organizers and venue staff on your side for next time.
 If you will ever have a booth again, make some notes about your experiences this time. Write down what you brought, what you should bring next time, what you could have done without. Write down what was effective and what was not, and anything else you learned from this event. Next time, you can use your notes to help run things more smoothly. If somebody else runs the next booth, you can easily advise them on what you have learned.