 For example: Would you rather give up food or give up sleep? For maximum fun, make the choices outlandish or silly.;
, That person then passes on the message until it travels all the way down the line. The last person says what they heard aloud and the person who started the message reveals what was actually said.For this game to work, you’ll need no less than five people.
 Start singing a popular song and have your friends join in. If you know several songs by the same artist, perform a medley of their music. Have people try to sing the harmonies and trade the melodies off between singers.


If you’re feeling really inspired, choreograph a dance to match. Practice the dance and see if there’s somewhere you can perform it, like a talent show or in front of your classmates.
You can also improvise a song. To do this, just start singing any made up melody that comes to your head. Have your friends improvise harmonies to go along with your melody. The trick to improvisational music is not to judge yourself., Sit across from your friend. Pick a comfortable position that you can remain in for a while. Stare into each other’s eyes without blinking or looking away. Whoever blinks, looks away or laughs first loses.


You are allowed to make funny faces at your partner in order to try to break them. Be careful that you don’t accidentally make yourself laugh instead.
 If your friend has long hair, play with it. Braid it or put it up in a ponytail. Experiment with different styles or looks. Having your hair played with is extremely relaxing for most people and is a great way to bond and pass the time., There are many games that only require four hands and some concentration. Ninja Slaps is a great example of this. To play Ninja Slaps, position your hands on top of your friend’s hands, palms facing down. While making eye contact, wait for your friend to try to hit your hands, and when that happens, try to pull them away before contact is made. If your friend hits your hands, switch positions. If not, your friend will try again.


Be careful not to hit the hands too hard as this can cause soreness and redness.
 To-do lists are great because they help keep you organized and allow you to prioritize.In your mind, make a list of everything you need to do that day and figure out in what order you want to complete the tasks.


When creating a to-do list, prioritize quality over quantity. Don’t just add something to your list because it’s easy to cross off., Being able to hold your breath for long periods of time is beneficial for certain sports, like swimming or surfing.It’s also a great way to keep yourself occupied when you have nothing else to do. Try looking at the clock and timing yourself to see how long you can currently hold your breath. Keep practicing and see if you are able to increase that amount over time.


Be mindful that holding your breath for too long can lead to health risks, including fatal blackouts., Whatever your fantasy is, live it out in your brain for a few minutes. Imagination is important because it helps you reignite your passions and stimulates your creativity.Let your mind drift off wherever it wants to go. Chances are, you’ll go somewhere fun and the time will pass quickly.


If you’re fantasizing while in class, make an effort to at least look like you’re paying attention.
 Think about a fun trip you took recently or a cool party you went to. Remember all the things that made the experience positive and try to recreate them in your brain. Play a mental slideshow of all the memories you have from those experiences. The walk down memory lane will keep your mind occupied and will help you remember a happier time.
 Time flies when sleeping. Napping for just 20 minutes can help refresh the mind, improve overall alertness, boost mood and increase productivity., Lots of exercises can be done without equipment, using only your body weight. If you’re bored, exercising can be a great way to not only exhaust your body, but also to stimulate your brain.Try doing one of the following exercises that require no objects:


Pushups
Sit ups
Jumping Jacks
Lunges
Squats

, Stretching is not only good for your flexibility, it also helps your memory and mood.For stretches that will keep you loose and entertained, try touching your toes or extending your arms overhead for a full body stretch.For maximum stretch benefits, try stretching at least once a day., Between your phone keyboard and your computer keyboard, your hands get quite the workout. To relax them, rub your fingers across the heel of your hand in a circular motion.Also try rubbing the muscle between your forefinger and your thumb.

