 Add or change everything as you go! A great way to brainstorm, is to sketch and color your villain. You may be drawing them, only to realize they'd look great with scaly purple skin. Or, maybe you decide to add a magical cloak on them. Just have fun with it.;
, You can pick up traits and ideas from seeing other depictions.
 That may sound strange, but soon enough ideas will reel in. Think about villains in your head and suddenly you'll be thinking about a tall guy with blue hair and a scheme to take over Australia!

, You can express your villain's cruelty through what they say. Have them say really threatening things or something that normal people would think is rude and ignorant. If one nice word slips, it may seem he is merciful. Unless that's what you want to convey, you must keep everything either straight-out rude, or sarcastic.






T: "Think". You can portray that you're villain is wicked by showing what they think. Now remember, this is easiest to exhibit if you are writing in first person or very detailed third person. Have them think about their next evil plan or invention. Make them pleased when others fear their schemes.
E: "Effect on Others". This is something people use in everyday life. If a big tough guy comes down the hall, and everyone cowers in fear, you can tell that he's a jerk or someone you should avoid. If a rosy-cheeked girl gets waves and smiles from everyone around her, you can tell she's kind and someone you might want to meet. It's the same with the villain. Have others shriek and run when your villain's name is mentioned. If your villain is taking a stroll, have the people who surround him or her turn wide-eyed and scared. If your villain is only feared by certain people, have others just casually walk by.
A: "Actions". This one is easy. Your villain shouldn't be giving candy away to toddlers--unless it's mind-controlling candy. They should be trying to take over the Earth, or be trying to prevent good from happening. They should also have a master plan at hand which they should carry out throughout the story.
L: "Looks". If you see someone who has pigtails and a huge smile on their face, you immediately think of a sweet little girl. If you see a girl with a black eye who looks at people and smirks, you know she's a bully who likes to fight! So, make your villain someone who when you walk by, you stare at them and immediately rush away. Dark cloaks, capes, or strange colored skin is the usual appearance of a villain. But personalize them and customize the look to ensure uniqueness.

