 Read the promises, commandments and urgings in the Bible.
 Let God change you to be more like Jesus Christ. Be an example of getting the point of Christ.
 Jesus said "You must be born again." so that means to:


Pray, repent, be baptized and filled with the Holy Spirit, and proclaim the point of life in Christ.
 Seek to accept these parts of the point:

"He that would be great must serve."
"Without faith it is impossible to please God."

, That is not just because God is "all" and "in all" -- and so it impacts Him -- but it is because of what Jesus said about doing good to the least of these my children.
 Do good to those that hate you and use you spitefully.' "
"Whatever you do to one of the least of these my children you do to me."

,

, Apathy and depression are right there with complacency, and the Lord can break those off of your life. God will accelerate the power of the Holy Spirit in your life and those that you affect. You can have a greater affect on strangers, your friends, family and acquaintances than you may think.
 When you don't feel like praying: Pray! Pray with your children.
 Spend time in quiet fellowship or in fervent, effective prayer., Then you can seek to avoid many weaknesses such as envy, jealousy, hatred,.
 But not to even ask for payment if a poor man owes you money. Give grace as if the borrower is a close family member that you can carry indefinitely.
 That is not easy, but it is his command. He said: "If you love me you will keep my commandments. This commandment I give to you: 'Love one another.' " So, be concerned, not calloused, but be tender of heart, preferring the others good over yourself. Thinking better for the other, like: "You can go first." and "Have mine. It's good food" and so go beyond common courtesy.
 God knows the potential of evil, but He will not look upon evil or speak evil.


"Cleanse your mind ye double minded.";
, God will meet you there when you seek Him with a whole heart (core of being). God will take you, as one of His wayfaring children, and fill them with the spirit of the prophets -- like the spirit that was in Elijah -- The Holy Spirit.



"We have this treasure in this earthen vessels..." -- and Christ can unlock the vessel to release your blessing.
 Not lust or greed, but "The Truth" who is renowned as Jesus Christ (called The Way, The Life, and The Truth).
 Can you handle it?

, 

