 Low-glycemic foods release sugars into your blood at a slower pace, which can allow your body to process the sugars more easily. Lower GI foods include:Brain cereals, muesli, and rolled oats.
Whole wheat, pumpernickel, and whole grain breads. Whole grains are also good, as the lowest GIs can be found in whole grain pasta, barley, and brown rice.
Most vegetables, with the exception of beetroots, pumpkin, and parsnips
Most fruit, with the exception of watermelon and dates. Fruits like mango, banana, papaya, pineapple, raisins, and figs have a medium GI index.
Nuts
Legumes
Yogurt

, This vitamin will help to keep your skin healthy and prevent acne. Look for Vitamin A high foods such as:Vegetables like sweet potato, spinach, carrots, pumpkin, broccoli, red peppers, summer squash.
Fruit like cantaloupe, mangoes, and apricots.
Legumes like black eyed peas.
Meat and fish, particularly beef liver, herring, and salmon.
 Look for Vitamin D high foods such as:Fish like cod liver, salmon, and tuna.
Dairy in the form of milk, yogurt, and cheese.
You can also get Vitamin D through exposure to the sun at least 10-15 minutes a week. Make sure you wear sunscreen to protect your skin from UV rays.
 Omega-3 fatty acids can help give you a natural glow and prevent the development of acne. Look for foods high in omega-3 fatty acid such as:


Seeds and nuts like flaxseeds and flaxseed oil, chia seeds, butternuts, walnuts.
Fish like salmon, sardines, mackerel, and whitefish.
Vegetables like spinach, sprouted radish seeds, and Chinese broccoli
Cook with herbs like basil, oregano, cloves, and marjoram.
 Foods with added sugars can actually trigger acne, as bacteria loves sugar and feeds off of it. Check the labels of food at the grocery store before buying it to ensure it does not contain any processed or artificial sugars.
 In recent studies, dairy products like milk and cheese have been shown to increase acne in certain individuals. There is lactose and sugar in milk that can lead to higher insulin levels, which can then lead to acne. As well, there are over 60 hormones in milk that occur naturally, and that can lead to higher levels of acne.