 Anything that can catch on fire risks serving as fuel for a wildfire. Most often, wild fires spread by burning plants. Reduce the ability of wildfire to put you and your belongings at risk by removing any flammable plants that is within 30ft of the exterior of your home and any outlying buildings. Remove dry grass, brush piles, and any bushes next to your home. Cut down any vines that grow on any structures on your property.Keep your roof, gutters, and decks free of debris. Remove and do not use mulch next to any structures on your property.
Remove pine, eucalyptus, juniper, and fir in particular, as these are especially flammable types of trees.
If you live in on a hill, extend this protected zone to 100ft on the downhill side of your home.
Keep any remaining vegetation within 200ft of your home thin and dispersed. Remove underbrush beneath any trees or bushes.;
, Cut tree limbs that are 10ft from the ground or lower on any trees within 100ft of your home. Further, trim trees that have touching canopies. Ideally, tree canopies will be at least 15ft from one another. Have the power company come and cut down any branches that are near powerlines., Do not leave out flammable materials, such as furniture cushions, when not in use. Store propane tanks at least 10ft from any vegetation. Store woodpiles at least 30ft away from any structures. Keep trash cans at least 10ft from any structure, with the lid on at all times., If your home features open pockets of space on the exterior – such as eaves, soffits, and decks – enclose them. Even vents, entrances to crawl spaces, and areas beneath your porch should be enclosed with a tightly woven metal screen., If you plan on building a new structure or remodeling, plan to use materials that will resist fire. Class A roofing material – including tile, slate, or asphalt – or Class B pressure-treated lumber should be used when roofing structures in areas of wildfire risk. Further, any lumber used in framing a new structure should be treated with fire-retardants.Use multi-pane or tempered glass windows, and install fireproof shutters to help protect them during a wildfire.
If you are unfamiliar with these materials, speak with an architect in your area about the best materials to use. Your local home improvement stores will likely have the materials you need, or will be able to order them for you.
 Install a heat and smoke detecting alarm on every level of your home. The best locations are inside each bedroom or in the hallway outside of bedrooms, as well as the kitchen and living room. Install spark arrestors in chimneys or other fire vents, and have chimney’s inspected for debris twice a year.Consider installing a sprinkler system if your home is in an area where wildfires are common.
Test alarms once a month and change the batteries annually.

