 This is done by pressing the circle with a line going through it at the top left corner of your Wii console. Don't just press it for half a second and let go. This will only put it in sleep mode. You need to hold it down until the green light turns red. If you put it into sleep mode, the green light will turn yellow. You can't hold down the circle with a line on your Wii Remote to turn the Wii off. This will only put it in sleep mode, no matter how long you hold it down. And don't just do this step for your Wii, do it to save energy for your bills and for the world.;
, On the front of the Wii, there is a disk chamber to slide in your game. This doesn't need to be cleaned too often because there is an anti-dust curtain. But you should still slide a tissue over this to get rid of dust every month or so.


On the back of your Wii, there are a few openings for things like USB cords and other wires that connect to your television. These don't have an anti-dust cover, so make sure you wipe these down with a tissue or cloth every three weeks. Consider unplugging all of the wires and cleaning all of the openings. You can never be too clean.
 This is for the Wii's sake, and for organization. Don't try to stick things into the disk chamber to try to get your game out. Simply press the up arrow with a line under it that's to the left of the chamber. This will eject your disk, and won't cause any harm to your Wii. The same goes for any Game Cube disks you have in the slot. These are easily forgotten because they have a plastic cover over the opening. If you consistently forget to eject these, write yourself a note so you'll remember where you put it. You don't want to lose your game disks.
 This could range from one of your disks not starting up to the console randomly catching on fire. Although it could be a bug everyone's Wii has, in some cases it could just be yours. Report your bugs to Nintendo.
 You don't want to accidentally drop your Wii into a volcano just to hear you didn't secure your warranty. The warranty can be found in the owner's manual, but if you're having trouble finding it, email someone for help at Nintendo, or ask a fellow Wii owner in their neighbourhood where they found theirs. It's worth the trouble.
 Use the Wii Remote jacket as well. This is extremely important. People have broken their television screens because they "followed-through" with their baseball swing. Nintendo does not cover any of these accidents with their warranty because they provide cautions at the beginning of every game to put on and secure your wrist strap.


When the Wii was first released, the wrist straps were too thin, and they received many complaints of broken straps. Now they had made a new style of wrist strap that is more secure. Make sure that if you bought your Wii early that you go to a Nintendo store near you and update your wrist strap. It's much better than constantly flailing your Wii Remote across the room.
 If you just can't seem to get a strike in Wii Sports, take a break. Don't unleash your anger on the Wii or Wii Remote. The warranty doesn't cover anger attacks.

