 If you act anxious, then your dog will respond in kind. Instead, try to go about your normal business as if a storm is not taking place. Keep your voice level and steady; do not whisper or shout. Try not to maintain too much eye contact with the dog, as that can be interpreted as another sign of stress., Do not pressure your dog into cuddling or hugs, if this isn’t your normal way of interacting. However, if your dog approaches, then it is a good idea to offer them general comfort in the way of a few gentle pats. You can also toss a few of their favorite treats into their hiding area., The use of this canine garment has been the cause of some debate as to its effectiveness. A ThunderShirt is a heavier, jacket-like garment that you place on your dog. The idea is that the force of the garment exerts enough pressure to calm your dog and make it feel secure. If you think your dog would do well with this option, you can buy one online and test it out.Just be careful placing the garment on your dog, especially if they are panicked. They could end up scratching or biting you by accident. Try to place the shirt on your dog before the storm hits.
 Distraction is one way to help your dog cope with their thunder fears. Before your dog starts to act openly fearful, initiate a game of fetch or some other fun activity. Keep the tennis ball out and the game going until the storm passes by. It is possible that your dog will not even notice the storm in the midst of having fun., If you find that your dog enjoys training and working on commands, you might run through a training set during the storm. This will place your dog’s concentration on something productive. However, be extra patient when working through commands as the storm may lessen your dog’s responsiveness.
 If your dog is willing to sit or lay down beside you, it is possible for you go give them a light massage. Start by applying pressure to the pads of your dog’s feet. Then, move upwards rubbing lightly on each area. Your dog may be distracted by your touch and may temporarily forget to be afraid.