 The quickest way to find a village is to start a new game with a seed that guarantees a nearby village. "Seeds" are bits of text that are used to generate a Minecraft world. Entering a specific seed will always generate the same world. This means that you can use seeds that are known to have villages near the starting point. Seeds are different for Minecraft for PC, the console editions, and Minecraft PE, but they work under the same principles for all versions.


Find your version of Minecraft on the main menu screen in the lower-left corner. Seeds change depending on the version, so you'll need to know your version before searching for seeds.
Search online for "Version number village seed." This should return a lot of results with different seeds that start near villages. You may find seeds in forum posts, YouTube videos, blogs, and other Minecraft fan sites. Seeds are different for computer, pocket, and console editions.
You can enter a seed by opening the "More Options" or "Advanced" menu when creating a new world.;
, If you're creating a new survival or creative world, enabling "Large Biomes" will give villages more space to appear in supported biomes. You'll also want to ensure that "Generate Structures" is enabled in the options for the new world, or else villages will not appear at all.
 These are the only three areas of the world that villages will spawn in. In version 1.10, you'll be able to find villages in taigas as well.Plains biomes are mainly flat and grassy. These are the most common biomes for villages.
Savanna biomes can be identified by the dry grass and acacia trees.
Desert biomes are sandy and have cacti growing throughout.
Taiga biomes have spruce trees and ferns. You may find wolves here.
 The Oak Forest biome in Minecraft PE may rarely have a village in it. These villages are not common, so you may have better luck trying the other biomes., Villages are random, and there is no sure-fire way to find one in the game without using third-party tools. For the best chance at finding a village, take the time to explore each compatible biome you come across.


You can make the exploration process a bit quicker by using a different mode of transportation, such as a saddled horse or pig.

