 Give yourself plenty of time to pack and don’t try to do it all at the last minute. If you save everything to the last minute, you are more likely to forget something. It is a good idea to start planning and packing around two weeks in advance of your trip. This will allow you to make sure that you have all of the clothes you want to pack and that they are clean.


This will also give you time to purchase any items you may need prior to the trip.
 They also come in a wide variety of designs, and are more shape shifting to fit into tight spaces. You can choose a soft suitcase with straps, extendable handles, and wheels to make make transportation easier.Soft suitcases come in a variety of sizes, so choose one that can fit everything you will be packing.
 Hard shell suitcases are extremely light and easy to transport. They come in a variety of sizes and styles. Also, their hard sides work well to protect breakable items from being crushed during travel and they are easier to clean than fabric suitcases.


Research possible restrictions, such as baggage weight and size, as well as the number of bags allowed to help you determine the type of suitcase to pack., Items like shoes or books should go at the bottom to avoid squishing other items. If it is a stand up suitcase try to also put them on the side that will be at the bottom when the bag is vertical., Lay clothing on a flat surface and smooth out any wrinkles. Then roll clothes from one end to the other, creating a tube like shape. When clothes are rolled like this they take up less space in your luggage and it reduces wrinkles in some fabrics.


Larger clothing, like dresses or pants can be laid out flat, to keep them from wrinkling.
Socks and underwear can be placed in a separate bag to keep them all together, or they can be tucked inside other items, like shoes, to conserve space.
 This will protect your clothes from any potential leaks and keep these items organized in a central location., When travelling by airplane you will want to pack a bag to take on the plane with you. This is where you should put important items that you don’t want in your checked luggage. You should also put any items you want to use during the flight in this bag. Items to put in your carry-on bag include, passport and ID, important travel documents, credit cards and cash, expensive electronics (camera, tablet, laptop, etc.), other valuables, like jewelry, a book or magazine, and snacks for on the plane.When picking a carry-on be aware of the airline’s size requirements and any restrictions on what can be brought on the plane.
Consider using a backpack that can also be used on your trip for different activities.

