 There are a number of ways to start off a session of analytical therapy (also known as imagination therapy), but getting the subject into a receptive state is essential.Try having them lay on a comfortable couch/sofa and close their eyes. They are not to go to sleep at any point.
Use a soft, relaxing tone at all times when speaking to the subject.
You can attempt to have them count down slowly from 100.
For more tense patients, you can have them intentionally and systematically tense, hold, and then release each of their muscles.
Controlled breathing also can work. The subject places their hands on their chest and belly--sometimes the hypnotist can do this part--while the subject breathes slowly in through the nose and out through the mouth.;
, Once your subject is in a receptive state, you need to narrow the sets of imagery you focus on.You can try some interesting experiments as long as you are careful. Select positive images like a holiday party, a graduation, a wedding, or a combination of multiple images in sequence to draw a correspondingly positive response out of the subject.
If they need to relax, you may help them "construct" the images out of features the subject associates with positive emotions and memories.
If you are helping a case of trauma, you may have them search for pleasant images to supplant horrific ones.
 There is a great deal of flexibility here, so this needs to be tailored to your subject's needs and perhaps discussed before the session.With so much range, you can make the mode of expression part of the experiment. Maybe having your subject drive their images around in a vehicle, or make a movie of their happiest memories would be something you can attempt. Perhaps having the subject going on an adventure within their own images could be quite an experience to try.
Find a creative way to discard negative images in a symbolic way that allows the positive images to remain in place.
Consider something literal like tossing the bad images in a trash can or projecting them on a screen so there is room in the mind for the pleasant imagery.
 Your subject is in a receptive state, but not asleep. You are guiding them.


Steer the subject's images in a positive direction, but observe their responses carefully in case they are resisting.
Maintain the calm steady tone of voice throughout the session.
Suggest imagery that mixes positively with their existing responses.
Be prepared to bring them out of the hypnotic state in the case of an adverse physical reaction.
 For experimental situations, you may take some time to find what techniques and images work best with the subject. And neither hypnotist nor subject should expect an instant cure, especially in trauma cases or when dealing with prolonged pain suffering.Establish from the outset that the hypnotic technique can take many sessions.
Schedule a regular time/interval for the sessions.
Both parties should bring up issues if they feel the sessions are not working as they expect.

