 This is a person who will guide you through the purchase process by talking with you about what you want in a horse. They will then seek out suitable horses that fit your needs and help you to make the final purchase. They usually charge a fee of somewhere around 5% of the horse’s purchase price for their services. Working with an agent is an especially good option for someone relatively new to horse ownership.Find a bloodstock agent by attending local horse auctions and talking with other owners. Or, look for contact information via industry magazines or websites.
 The majority of sellers go with yearlings, otherwise known as one-year-old horses. They are generally cheaper to buy and still have a great deal of room to grow. However, this can also mean that your investment is even more of a gamble. Others try “pinhooking” where they buy yearlings and intend to sell them for more money in a year’s time., These types of transactions are often the result of networking between a potential buyer and willing sellers. So, keep your eyes open if you are in the market for a horse and spread the word via local horse barns and breeding farms. With a one-on-one purchase, there may be some room for negotiation on the price and it is possible to learn a great deal about the horse’s background. But you must make sure that you trust the seller and the information provided.Don’t walk away from the purchase without getting a final and formal “Bill of Sale.” This document should specify all of the conditions of the sale, including any guarantees of health. Local laws often require that sellers give a document of this type to buyers.
As you complete the purchase, feel free to ask the seller as many questions as you like. For example, “Why are you selling this particular horse at this particular time?”

, This is one of the most common ways to purchase a racehorse. You attend a race in which the horses entered have prices established beforehand. If you agree to pay that horse’s set price, then you get to walk away owning it. Working with a trainer or agent is particularly important for these types of buys as they can get you inside information about each animal.There is an element of chance involved in claiming races as well. If more than one person decides to make a purchase offer, then the winning claim is chosen at random at the end of the race.
You also have to hope that your newly purchased horse makes it through the post-race period in sound health, which is usually the case.
 Horse auctions take place around the world and it is possible to bid for an animal in person, via an agent, or even through online channels. Sales are often organized around categories of horses, including yearlings and tried racehorses. Most auctions circulate a catalogue well in advance of the auction date listing the horses available and their details. Doing your research in advance can let you know which ones are of interest to you.Prior to the auction, either you or your agent will be able to take a closer look at the horse. In many cases, a vet inspection is allowed as well.
 Your mind may instantly go to thoroughbred racing, but there are other types of equine races that may be equally interesting from an investment standpoint. Standardbred (or harness) racing involves a horse pulling a two-wheeled cart steered by a jockey. It is often cheaper to get into harness racing and with more frequent races you’ll get to see your horse in action more.For more information, contact the Standardbreds Owners Association near you.

