 Make a chart of each server's station, and what tables are in it (also learn the table layout by heart). Review all reservations for your shift, and assign suitable tables for each. Keep note of how many people are in a party, what time they arrived, and what table they are at. Also keep note of who is still there so that servers do not become overwhelmed.;
, If you are busy with another guest, acknowledge the guest by saying, "I will be right with you," make eye contact, or a simple hand gesture also works.
 Remember, you are the first and last chance for the restaurant to make a good impression, and set them at ease.
 If there is a wait make sure to get everyone's name in right away so they do not feel ignored. Guests will normally ask for a time frame. Never try to give a specific time. Tell them an 'estimated' time. Look at the wait list and add 5 minutes for each party of the same size. If 6 parties of 2 are on the list, the estimated wait time would be 30 minutes for another party of 2. Guests are generally impatient, and will find somewhere else to dine.
 DON'T put them in a small booth! Also, a guest that has trouble walking should be given a seat as close to the hostess station as possible.
 Distribute the tables evenly among the servers. But also keep in mind how many large parties they have or have had. Try not to seat any two parties too close together when it is not necessary.
 Don't just throw menus on the table and leave without saying anything.
 If we are running low on any forms, highlighters, etc. ask the manager for the supplies you will need. (This should be done before the lunch or dinner rush.)

, If not, get the napkins/silverware, or give the table a quick wipe down with a damp rag. If it is beyond that, seat them somewhere else and make sure the mess is dealt with.
 If a guest does ask for something else, inform the guest that you will let their server know .
 The only way to know the progression of tables is to see how many tables are on dessert, if they have paid their check, etc. If you need tables, let the servers know and see if they can expedite their meal. You are on the same team.
 If there are customers waiting for tables, the more hands helping to make that happen, the better.

