 Tampons can be worn safely for up to 8 hours and then must be changed. Leaving a tampon in any longer puts you at a higher risk for infection for Toxic Shock Syndrome (TSS), a rare but potentially deadly infection.If you try to change your tampon after 8 hours and it still has a lot of absorbency or only has a little blood on it, try switching to a lower absorbency tampon. Always wear the tampon with the lowest possible absorbency for your flow.;
, This means your tampon is no longer absorbing the blood and it is leaking.Wear a thin panty-liner if you are worried about your tampon leaking.
 If your tampon is inserted correctly, you should not be able to tell it is there. If you can feel something, it means the tampon is too low. With clean hands, use one finger to push the tampon further up into your vagina.If the tampon won't move or it is painful to push, your vagina is too dry and you should remove the tampon and start over. You may want to try a tampon with a lower absorbency. , You should give the string a little experimental pull every time you go to the bathroom. If the tampon comes right out, then it's time to change., Even if the tampon itself isn't fully saturated or doesn't slide out easily, if the string is bloody it means the tampon was about to leak., Remove your tampon and seek medical help if you have: a sudden, high fever (usually 102°F or more); a red rash that looks like a sunburn anywhere on your body; feel dizzy or faint when standing up; or if you experience vomiting or diarrhea. These are symptoms of TSS. While it is rare, TSS can be deadly and these symptoms should be taken seriously.,, Removing a tampon should not be painful. If you are nervous, take a deep breath and distract yourself by reading a magazine. Do not clench your vaginal muscles.


If you can't relax, try to pee a little. This may relax the muscles enough to allow you to remove the tampon easily., The tampon should slide out easily, with little or no resistance.


If the tampon does not come out easily or it is painful to remove, it may not need to be changed. Unless it's been 8 hours (in which case you should try the peeing trick to ease its removal), leave the tampon in another hour or two and then check it.If you remove the tampon after 4-8 hours and there is very little blood, you may want to switch to a lower absorbency tampon or use panty liners instead., Some companies claim their tampons are safe to flush, but it's generally not a good idea.Tampons will eventually break down, but not quickly enough that they won't expand and clog your pipes, destroy your septic tank, and cause a lot of (expensive!) plumbing problems.
 It is impossible for a tampon to get "lost" in your body if the string breaks or you can't find it.,, Take a deep breath and try to relax., Make circular and back and forth movements until you feel the tampon. It may be turned to the side or pushed up to the top of the vaginal canal, near the cervix and behind your bladder.,