 Everyone in the group has to be willing to be a spy that won't run off to expose important information and valuable evidences. Make sure your group member are reliable people that will act smartly on the spot. The group also needs to stay small because if it gets too big, you will not be able to keep track of people, what's going on, who's where, etc. Also, don't have people with the same name, or else it will get confusing.;
, It's good to have a place to keep your gear when not in use, hold meetings, and just talk in private without worrying about the nosiness of certain people in public places. Your hideout should be somewhere that's easy to access for all group members, and can be:


An old shed
A group member's bedroom
The woods
A group member's backyard
A tree house
A closet
A room that isn't used often by a lot of people
Anywhere suitable for the job and private

, You may decide looking into getting the following will help with your spying career:


ID Cards (You can make them, or have them printed. These will come in handy with identifying members during meetings or missions)
Backpacks (Nobody wants to lug around all their stuff, especially when you have to keep quiet!)
Notebooks (Sometimes a notebook is just what you need when you're hiding behind a bush, trying to remember what the person being spied on is saying)
Tape recorder (It may be a better choice than the notebook if you have one lying around, as it will be much easier to record conversations.)
Binoculars (Always good when the action is happening far away)
Walkie-Talkies or Earpieces (Very convenient for communication)
Disguises: dresses, wigs, glasses (Good for being someone you're not!)
Clothing : Camouflage or dark blue clothes if in the night. (never wear black at night, your silhouette will be outlined.)
Anything else you think your spy group would benefit from having.
 This person can be a random family member or friend if you're being spies just for the fun of it, or a suspicious person that you think may need a bit of watching. Just make sure, you and your friends are spying at your own risk. It's important to be very careful and stay away from anyone potentially dangerous. If you believe that your "victim" is actually may be a bad person that will harm you, stay away and call the police.Make sure that when your spying you have all your gear ready, and usable. Never try anything dangerous like trying to climb a roof, spying on someone who could seriously hurt you, etc

