 During a heated argument, it can be tempting to say some hurtful things. Instead of attacking with your words, carefully select what you want to say and make it a constructive message. You can still speak your mind and express yourself honestly, so long as you aren't using your message to hurt your partner.Use “I” statements such as “I feel....” or “I would like...”
Ask for input. Say something like “What do you think about...”
Listen carefully and openly to anything your spouse might say.
Be honest and speak your mind in a calm and fair manner.
 When things get too emotional, a discussion might turn into a shouting competition. Yelling at one another will do another but cause harm to the relationship. Loud outbursts should be avoided at all costs when trying to improve your marriage.Yelling will not convey any useful message you may have hoped to get across.
You are allowed to have and feel emotions. However, they cannot become angry outbursts during a discussion.
 If one person tries to make all the choices in a relationship, it can lead to the other party feeling dis-empowered or undervalued. Choices that can involve both people, should. Try to keep both your own and your spouse's needs in mind when discussing any plans.Work towards options that are best for both partners.
Don't try to force a choice to get your way. Decisions should be cooperative, not competitive.
 Whenever your spouse is talking to you, practicing active listening can help her feel like she is being heard. You will be able to more fully engage in a conversation with your spouse by carefully listening to what she is saying and giving cues that you are paying attention.Restate things your spouse has said. "I just want to make sure I understood..."
Summarize what you heard. "It sounds like..."
Use encouragers like "oh", "I see", or "mmhmm"
Validate what is being said. "I'm glad you brought this up."
Allow for silences. Don't jump in the moment your spouse is done talking.
 Passive-aggressive behavior is when you may act nicely to a person, while feeling resentful and working in secret to undermine her. Often times, being afraid of direct conflict or expressing one's feelings can result in passive-aggressive behavior. By avoiding engaging in passive-aggressive behavior, you can help reduce the harm that it can cause to your marriage.Watch your behavior and try to find what causes you to act passive-aggressively.
Practice being assertive and honest with your negative feelings.
Realize that being passive-aggressive is a form of lying.
Keep in mind that it's perfectly normal and healthy to have disagreements.

