 To start, try using only 2-3 different scents, then adding more as you get more comfortable. While making incense is not hard, there is some trial and error with the mixing, as different scents require more or less water and makko (your combustible binding agent) later on. You can buy the following scents whole or powdered, but know that pre-powdered scents are far easier to work with:


Herbs and Spices: Cassia, juniper leaves, lemongrass, lavender, sage, thyme, rosemary, orange powder, patchouli


Resins and Tree Gums: Balsam, acacia, amber, copal, hibiscus, myrrh, burgundy pitch, 


Dried Woods: Juniper, pine, pinyon, cedar, sandalwood, agarwood, The amount of water and the binding agent you use depends on the amount of powdered ingredients you use, so make sure you keep track of everything now. In general, 1-2 tablespoons for each ingredient is fine, but you can always scale up if need be.Incense recipes are usually described in "parts," like a mixed drink. So, if the recipe calls for "2 parts sandalwood, 1 part rosemary," you could do 2 tablespoons sandalwood, 1 tb rosemary, 2 cups sandalwood, 1 cup rosemary, etc.
 If you're using fresh ingredients, instead of pre-powdered, you want to get everything into as into as fine a powder as you can. Herb grinders can help, but avoid electric coffee grinders -- the heat they produce can release some of the scent compounds from your ingredients. When grinding up, remember to:Grind up the wood first, as it is hardest and most difficult to get fine. If you're really struggling, break the "no electric grinder rule," as the wood is robust enough it won't loose much scent.

Freeze and gums or resins for 30 minutes before grinding. When frozen, resins get hard and much easier to smash into pieces., Once the individual ingredients are combined, mix together and everything together one last time. Then let it all sit. While this isn't strictly necessary, it will lead to a more cohesive, even smell to your incense.
 Makko, a combustible, gummy substance, needs to be a certain percentage of the total mixture in order to burn well. Unfortunately, this is where some trial and error comes in, as different scents require different amounts of makko to burn well:

If you only use herbs and spices, you will only need 10-25% makko.

If you use resins, you will need significantly more makko -- anywhere from 40-80% depending on how many parts resin were added. All resin mixes need 80%.
 So, if you have 10 tablespoons of powder, with a little resin in it, you would add 4 tablespoons of makko (10∗40%=4tablespoons{\displaystyle 10*40\%=4tablespoons}). You can make this simple calculation with any amount of powder and makko.

You can always add more makko, but it is hard to take it out. Start on the lower end of the estimated if you are unsure., Take out roughly 10% of your mixture and set it aside. This will be to re-thicken the incense if you accidentally add too much water in the next step, helping you prevent a ruined batch.
 You want a Play-doh sort of texture, as the makko absorbs the water and forms a clay. It should hold its shape, but still be malleable. Add 3-5 drops of water, mix it in, and then add more until to forms a wet, but not slimy, ball.  When you have the perfect texture, the mixture will be squeezed and still hold its form, without dry-looking cracks.

If you add too much water, pour what you can out of the bowl and use your remaining powder to dry things out a bit., Kneading just requires constant pressure. Use the heel of your hand to press the "dough" into the counter, flattening the disc lightly. Then fold the disk over, forming another thicker ball of dough, and press it again. Keep doing this, rotating the dough every now and then to mix up the area you are kneading, for several minutes.For professional incense, let the dough sit under a damp towel overnight after you're done kneading. The next morning, spritz a bit more water on, knead again, then proceed., Use your palms to roll the chunk into a long rope, like you were making a clay snake, about the size of 3/4 of your incense sticks. Then use your fingers to flatten the dough "snake" down. It should be thin, only a few millimeters thick, when done.

If you aren't using incense sticks, you can leave the rolled up incense as the "snakes." Use a knife to cut the edges and let them dry as they are, without a stick to hold them together.
 You'll need completely blank bamboo sticks, which can be bought for cheap online. Then you simply use your fingers to roll the incense dough around the stick, letting it completely coat the outside bamboo stick.It should be a little less thick than a standard pencil.
 To speed things up even more, place the whole board in a paper bag and tie it shut. Make sure you rotate the incense to ensure it all dries out evenly.
 Once the incense doesn't droop and is no longer malleable, you're ready to use it! If you live in a more humid environment, it will take closer to five days. However, it might take only 1-2 days in a drier climate.

The more makko and water you needed to use, the longer they will likely take to dry.