 Although sugar is fairly gentle, it is still an abrasive exfoliant. This means it tears away the dead skin, and can irritate sensitive areas such as the face. Most people rarely have issues, but overuse or improper use can leave your face raw or painful.Abrasive scrubs are not recommended for people with acne or broken blood vessels on their face., Brown sugar is the softest type of sugar, making it the best choice for the sensitive skin of your face. Granulated white sugar contains less liquid and tends to feel a little grittier. It can work, but it's not recommended if you have sensitive skin.
 Mix 2 tbsp (30mL) sugar with 2 tbsp (30mL) vegetable oil. Alternatively, use honey instead of oil. Honey is mostly sugar, so it provides additional exfoliation.


Safflower oil and olive oil are common options. For more advice on which oil to pick, refer to the body scrub section above.
 If your face is dirty, clean it with mild soap and warm water. Otherwise, just make sure that your skin is completely wet, so the sugar scrub will not feel too abrasive.


Wash your hands as well to avoid introducing contaminants onto your face.
 If necessary, tie back your hair to keep it away from your face. The sugar scrub will rinse off in the shower, but avoiding sticky hair in the first place is the way to go.
 Scoop out 1-2 tablespoons (15–30mL) of your sugar exfoliant onto your fingertips. Place this on the location you want to remove dead skin, and being scrubbing in a circular motion. Do this gently for 2-3 minutes to remove the dead skin. While you’re scrubbing, you should feel no pain or discomfort. If you experience pain or tenderness, you are rubbing too hard with the sugar.
 Wet the softest washcloth you have under warm water, then wring it out. Lay it over your face and gently rub off the sugar. Repeat until clean., Use a clean cloth to pat your skin dry. If you are looking to soften your skin, you can finish up the process by massaging a moisturising lotion into your skin. Do this for 1-2 minutes, and your skin should be silky smooth and soft.

