 Saltwater can reduce swelling in your throat by drawing the water out of the tissues of your throat. Salt also acts as a basic antibacterial agent, which is why salt is used to cure some foods from spoiling by preventing the growth of bacteria., To gargle, take a deep breath and pour two or three ounces of the solution into your mouth without swallowing. Tilt your head back (roughly 30°), keep the back of your throat closed, and gargle for a full thirty seconds before spitting out the solution.For children, try having them gargle with regular warm water first. The only age restriction to this treatment method is a child’s ability to gargle without swallowing, which is usually around three or four years of age. To make them do it for the entire thirty seconds, you can turn it into a game where the child tries to sing something like “Twinkle, Twinkle Little Star” as he or she gargles.
 Depending on how much of the solution you pour in your mouth, you should be able to repeat the process three or four times with the eight ounces of solution. Take a deep breath and gargle for thirty seconds each time.
 Some people may have a difficult time gargling saltwater simply because of the intense taste of the salt at the back of their throats. You can try gargling with other solutions or simply adding essential oils to the salt to mask the taste. Options include:


Adding apple cider vinegar. The acid in apple cider vinegar can kill bacteria the same as saltwater. You can add one tablespoon of apple cider vinegar to the saltwater to add additional antibacterial properties and to mask the flavor of the salt—though, you might not like the vinegar taste much better.
Adding one or two drops of garlic. This essential oil has some antibacterial and antiviral properties.Adding one or two drops of burdock. Traditional Chinese medicine commonly uses burdock to treat sore throats.However, scientific studies on burdock are minimal.
Adding peppermint. You can also add one or two drops of peppermint, which has traditionally been used to soothe sore throats.Adding one or two drops of marshmallow. This herb (not the fluff) contains mucilage, which are gel-like substances that can coat the throat to help relieve sore throat pain., You can use all of these gargles once every hour (or more often) as needed. The important step is simply not to swallow the saltwater since it can dehydrate you the same way it dehydrates the tissue in your throat.