 When you're a kid, you love to have fun-but you always do the right thing, and never have "too much" fun. Kids just love to be silly, happy, and goofy. They live a good life-which means getting good grades, doing well in school, and surrounding themselves with the people who love them-like their friends and family.;
, In order to embrace being a kid, you must ditch the drama! Be and act happy, carefree, silly, funny, and just be yourself. Don't care what others think-because your opinion is the only one that counts. Have a positive attitude and always think good thoughts-this will always help you through your life!

, Listen to good country and pop music: songs with uplifting, spiritual, happy, and peaceful lyrics, and pick artists that have stayed true to their "good girl" image. Artists like: Taylor Swift, Selena Gomez, The Rubyz, and Jasmine are all good options for us kids!

, The average kid of this day is now switching from watching innocent shows to darker shows that portray kids badly. It's best to stick to the image of the kid who is worry-free and innocent for this reason. Watch shows with only a TV-G or TV-PG rating. Pick programs with good storylines and plots, and ones that have good characters and that have a lesson or moral value tied into it. Shows like: Wizards of Waverly Place, Hannah Montana, Sonny With A Chance, iCarly, Full House, and MONK are all great options for kids! Regular Show, a Cartoon Network TV show, is a great option for younger and older teenage kids! (For both boys and girls!)

Five Regular Show episodes were rated TV-14, which were meant for older audiences and were sometimes inappropriate for younger audiences. Regular Show episodes now have a PG rating and are appropriate for everyone to watch!, Only watch movies with a G or PG rating. Stay away from PG-13 and R-rated movies (even if your at the age where your allowed to see them). Pick out movies with good storylines, happy endings, and that involve fun, silly characters. Movies like: Raise Your Voice, Another Cinderella Story, Princess Protection Program, Ice Princess and A Walk To Remember are awesome choices for kids!

, Makeup can actually damage your skin, rather than improve it. Stay away from it. The only thing to use is lip balm (daily) and lip gloss (on special occasions). Also, take special care of your skin-which means that if you have acne, get a couple different treatments: a gel treatment (for night) and a tinted acne medication (for daytime).
 Hair care for kids is simple and easy. Most kids wear their hair in a ponytail or bun. For special occasions, sometimes wear your hair down (in its natural state). We don't spend hours straightening or curling it- because that's dumb and not practical.
 Being a kid can be tough. You have to stay strong, and stay true to your heart, mind, body, soul, faith and to your family. You have to believe in yourself and always trust that things will be okay.
 Children don't like complicated things. They prefer to think about things in the simplest form possible. Dwell on trying to put things into their simplest form as a thinking process.

