 Air fresheners can be used to combat many troublesome odors, including the smell of marijuana. Consider plugging in an air freshener, or placing a new air freshener in a room, shortly after smoking. If you do not smoke yourself, you can use an air freshener if you notice a fresh scent in the air.You can buy gel-based air fresheners that come encased in a plastic case. To use, you would simply open the case to allow the smell to escape.
However, gel-based air fresheners may not provide as strong odor cover up. Many air fresheners plug into a wall and pump out a fresh scent all day. If the smell is strong, considering investing in a plug-in air freshener for an added effect.;
, Scented candles can also mask the unwanted smell of marijuana smoke. You can buy a variety of scented candles at most supermarkets. Many malls have stores dedicated to selling scented candles. Air freshener companies often sell separate candles specifically designed to neutralize and remove odor. Experiment with a variety of scented candles until you find one that works for you.


Consider choosing something with a natural scent, like pine. Using a strong scented candle can seem suspicious, as if you're trying to cover something up., Spray odor removers can be a great means to remove unwanted odor. In addition to spritzing the air with odor removers, you can spray them over your carpeting and furniture to remove set-in smells.


Look for products that advertise themselves as "odor removers" or "odor neutralizers." These products seek to remove unwanted smells rather than just masking them. Febreeze is a popular variety that can work well, particularly on carpeting and furniture.Always read the manufacturer's instructions before using any product. Some products may come with warnings or should not be used on a particular type of fabric or carpeting.
It's a good idea to spray a small corner of carpeting or fabric first to test out the product. Make sure the spray does not cause any discoloration or other problems before spritzing it all over your carpeting or furniture.
 After smoking, you may still have a faint scent of marijuana on your breath. You can get rid of this smell by chewing a mint-flavored gum.You can also try brushing your teeth and then rinsing with mouthwash. If you have any breath strips, consider using these to cover up the smell.
 Scented body spray or perfume can help cover the smell of marijuana on your clothes. After smoking, spritz a small amount of perfume or body spray over your outfit to try to cover the smell.Before spraying down an entire outfit, test out the product first. Spray a small amount on a tiny portion of your outfit. Let dry and make sure the perfume or body spray does not cause discoloration or damage to your clothing.
Do not use too much spray or perfume. A little bit goes a long way. If you smell strongly, the odor can irritate others and look suspicious. If possible, choose mild, natural scents like sandalwood., Ventilation is also a great way to remove marijuana smell after smoking. Open up a window and smoke nearby. If the wind is blowing the smoke back in, turn a fan towards the window and then switch it on. This will help blow the smoke outdoors.Be careful when blowing smoke outdoors. The scent can be irritating to your neighbors.
Marijuana is still illegal in most US states. Unless you're legally allowed to smoke pot in your home, avoid blowing the smoke out the window. You could get in legal trouble for doing so. You should not smoke marijuana at all if it's not legally permitted in your state.
 Cooking can actually cover the smell of marijuana if you use the right ingredients. If it's close to mealtime, consider cooking foods with onion, garlic, or other strong-smelling substances. This can help cover smell caused by marijuana.


Choose ingredients that produce a smell you do not mind. If you loathe the smell of garlic, you do not want to cover one bothersome odor with another.

