 They still need guidance and direction to a good future. Sometimes your teenage daughter may not want to engage in conversations with you, but you can get along with her if you let her know that you are there for her if and when she needs someone to talk to.


For example, you might say, “I know that we may not always see eye-to-eye, but I’m always here if you need someone to talk to.”
Or you could try, “I just want you to know that I’m always available if you ever need to talk about anything.”;
, It can be easy to get lost in the slang and moodiness of a conversation with a teenage girl.But one of the best things you can do to get along with your teenage daughter is to listen to her. So, remove any distractions, give her your attention, and allow her to talk while you listen.


Turn down the radio if you’re in the car, set your electronic device aside, or cut the TV off at home.
Look at her so that she knows that you’re paying attention to what she has to say. You might say, “What you have to say is important to me. I’m listening.”
Don’t think about how to respond while she is talking. For instance, if she’s talking to you about a friend that skipped school, don’t interrupt and start telling her all the reasons it’s wrong.
Instead, focus on the message she’s trying to give you. For example, she could be trying to let you know that she has already decided not to skip school.
 Don’t simply enforce a new rule that you haven’t discussed with your daughter. This will only lead to frustration on both of your parts. Instead, you can get along with your teenage daughter if you talk with her about the rules, why each one exists, and what the consequences will be for disobeying.For instance, you could say, “Until you are 17, you can’t drive after dark. This is because it’s the law, but it’s also for your safety. If you break this rule, you’ll lose driving privileges for a month.”
Or, you might try, “You can drive to and from school, but you can’t have any passengers with you. This is because you are a new driver and don’t need distractions while driving.”
Be willing to relax the rules if your daughter has been doing a great job of following them.
For example, you might let her best friend ride to school with her if your daughter has done a good job of not having passengers and has shown that she is a careful, responsible driver.
 You will get along with your teenage daughter better if you treat her the way you want her to treat you. If you want her to listen to you and your rules, then you should listen to her feelings and respect her as an individual, as well as your daughter.Talk to her the way you want her to talk to you. Avoid yelling or calling her names. Instead, talk to her in calm, mature manner.
Give her a chance to explain herself and express her opinion (in a respectful way).
Ask her opinion and listen when she gives it. For example, you might say, “What do you think about the driving rules?”

