 You may not like to think about it, but your bathroom towel is one of the most bacteria-ridden items in your home. Bacteria grows on organic material and in damp places, making your bathroom towel a perfect breeding ground for the bacteria it collects from your skin. Spreading this bacteria can lead to skin infections and illness. Follow these steps to take care of your towels:Never share towels with other members of the household.
Wash towels at least once per week or every 3-4 uses. If you are showering after athletics or a physically demanding job, wash them more often.
Wash towels at high heat.
Use bleach when possible to kill bacteria.
Replace towels as soon as they begin to fade or smell musty.;
, Squeeze the water out of your hair before stepping out of the shower. Avoid rubbing a towel on your hair, which could damage it and cause frizziness. Consider a separate towel for your hair. It is best to use a microfiber towel, or even a t-shirt. For long hair you can roll it into a turban.


Hold your head upside down.
Place the long side of the towel along the base of your head at the hairline.
Close the towel around your hair and gather it at the top of your forehead.
Twist the towel until it has gathered all of your hair and shortened the length of the towel, usually two or three turns.
Take this tail you have created over the top of your head and tuck the tail into the edge of the towel at the base of your head.
 Aggressively rubbing your body with a towel can cause friction and irritation to your skin. Dry skin can flake off and patches of dry skin can spread. Instead, pat or blot your skin gently.Start at the top of your body and work your way down to your toes.
 Harsh tap water can be damaging to the skin. The metals in the water attach to free radicals, which attack the collagen in our skin. This can be the cause of lines in your face and clogged pores.Make sure that you absorb as much as possible before you hang your towel up to dry. If you are concerned about hard water, you my also consider installing a filtration system in your shower.
 Ointments and creams are superior to moisturizer and less likely to cause irritation. Just after showering is the best time to optimize this solution to dry skin.

