 Veal osso buco is a braised dish, meaning it is cooked over direct heat (stovetop) and then slowly finished by cooking in a liquid bath (oven), keeping the meat tender. While you'll start the dish on the stovetop, you want the oven to be ready for you., Rub salt and ground black pepper on all sides of the veal shanks. Place a small amount of flour on a plate and then dip the veal shanks into it, brushing off any excess. You simply want a thin dusting of flour., Dutch ovens are the thick, heavy pots with an enamel coating over them. The come with big heavy lids and are safe for the both the stovetop and the stove. The oil should sizzle as soon as the meat hits it, otherwise it was not hot enough yet., You'll likely have to cook them veal in two batches. Once the oil is hot, put the veal in and let it cook for 4-5 minutes before turning. When each piece is evenly browned on the outside, return it to a clean plate to wait.

Remember -- this is only browning the outsides. The meat is not finished cooking yet, and you don't want to overcook it on the stove.
 With the veal finished, it is time to make your vegetable braising sauce. The butter will provide some fat and creaminess to cook the veggies in., Add a pinch of salt as the veggies hit the pan, then stir and cook for 5-6 minutes, or until everything is soft and translucent. Depending on your stove, this could take up to 10 minutes, so don't rush it.

If you're a fan of garlic, 2-3 whole peeled cloves as well, cooking with everything else.
Some recipes also call for 1 chopped leak, if you desire it., You want to let the wine cook until about half of it is gone. As soon as it hits the pan, use your wooden spoon to scrape up the browned, cooked bits on the bottom of the pot. This process is called "deglazing."

While red wine is more traditional, white makes a slightly different, but equally delicious, dish.
 Start with the rest of your ingredients, then tuck the veal in so that they are almost completely surrounded and covered with liquid. The pot will be packed, but that is a good thing. Make sure the liquid covered at least three-quarters of each shank., Bring your liquid around the veal to a boil, then cut the heat to the stove. Cover the pot and slide it into the oven for an hour., Use this time to look at the liquid as well. If it is getting low (lower than three-quarters down the veal), add another half cup or so of stock to bring the levels back up., Place it on a platter and cover it loosely with tin foil. The meat should be unbelievably tender, with the veal falling off the bone and the meat pulling away without resistance. Once it's done, turn off the oven and pull the veal shanks out, setting aside.

Meat should always "stand" after cooking. As it cools, liquid inside the meat reabsorbs into the protein fibers, leading to a more tender and flavorful dish., This usually only takes 4-5 minutes, depending on how thick you like your osso buco, so don't worry about the veal getting cold. Since the sauce pours right on top of the meat, you don't want it to be watery-thin. Furthermore, the longer sauce cooks, the richer and more flavorful it becomes.

If you've overcooked it a bit, never fear! A quarter-cup of water stirred in over low heat will bring it back to life., Simply ladle up a heap of your braising vegetables and liquid and pour it over the meat to serve it. Alternatively, place the veal shanks back in the liquid and serve the whole thing family style, letting the meat fall off the bone and into the delicious serving sauce.