 If they're dirty or wet, clean and dry them before playing on the iPad. And be sure to remove anything that might be stuck in the paws, such as a tiny stone or piece of bark, as these could damage the screen (besides which, such grooming ensures that your cat is in good health).;
, Allow her to watch the screen to familiarize herself with the movements, colors and action on the screen.


If you have more than one cat, don't hesitate to show them all at once. It's possible they'll be equally interested.
 Be sure to do this somewhere safe so that the iPad doesn't drop anywhere. Sitting on the floor with your cat or on a sofa or bed are just some safe, flat spots that are also comfortable. Be aware that once she starts playing with the iPad, she is likely to try to push her paws under the iPad to try to find any item that runs off screen, so some flipping or movement of the iPad should be expected. And don't play at the top of the stairs or one iPad in pieces might be found at the bottom of the stairs later.


It's recommended that you're not charging or using the cord for the iPad when your cat plays with it.
 Better still, play a human game on the iPad to see how she reacts. Indeed, some human games are lapped up by cats, such as Magic Piano and Koi Pond.


Show her a photo of herself or of another cat. She might find this really amusing or even try to "attack" the other cat.
 There are plenty to choose from and kitty will probably be the best ultimate judge of which work, so it's a good idea to start with the free ones before choosing paid ones. Some choices include:


Game for cats - chase a mouse or a laser dot (free but with a later in-app level purchase)






Purina Friskies' Games for Cats - obviously made to promote their cat products but the games are free






Cat piano Jr. - this creates meow sounds on the piano keyboard at the pitch of each key; the cat walks on it to produce noise (free)






Dog translator (free)






App for cats (free)






Cat toy (free)






Paint for cats - creates a picture from paws that can be shared on Facebook if you wish (paid)






Catch the mouse (paid)







, The interaction time is good for both of you and you should monitor her interaction at all times anyway. After all, should she accidentally log herself into your Facebook account, the results could be meow-o-rific for her but incomprehensible for your friends.


You may be forced to hide from your cat when you want to use the iPad undisturbed. This is a small price to pay for kitty contentment.
 It's probable that your cat won't even notice, as she'll be so engrossed in the iPad game. This will confirm for you that she's really enjoying the iPad game.
 This is a great photo or video opportunity, so have the camera ready at all times. There are plenty of cats playing iPad videos uploaded by proud owners and there are even competitions on occasion, so you might want to share your offerings too.
 Even if it's not switched on, you've now just indicated clearly that this is a cat toy and she'll be curious any time of the day or night, whether or not you're present.

