 This method will preserve the frozen mushrooms' flavor and texture for a shorter time than steaming and blanching. Various sources report a preservation time ranging from 1 month to 9 months, most likely varying with the type of oil or butter you use.However, this method will keep mushrooms firmer than other methods, and saves time compared to sautéing the frozen mushrooms each time you use them., Remove any dirt or moss from the mushrooms by running them under running water. Pat them dry afterward with a paper towel or clean cloth to prevent the water droplets from spattering the hot oil.
 You will be sautéing the mushrooms over high heat, so thick, whole mushrooms will cook on the outside but remain undercooked on the inside. Prevent this by cutting them into pieces of roughly equal size.
 You'll only be partially cooking the mushrooms and finishing the process when you use them frozen in recipes. Because of this, you don't have to be too exact in your measurements. Approximately 1–2 tablespoons of oil (15–30 mL) should be enough for a medium skillet.If you would like to add more flavor, add chopped garlic, onions, or spices to the oil.
 Fry the mushrooms in the oil until almost fully cooked. This should only take 3 or 4 minutes, and result in darker, more tender mushrooms.
 The mushrooms should cool to room temperature before you pack them for storage. The fats in the oil or butter will degrade in the freezer faster than the mushrooms, so you may wish to store or dispose of excess oil at this time as well.
 Press the mushrooms down into the container so there is no space between them to help prevent freezer burn.Mushrooms with surfaces exposed to air may change color and lose some flavor, but you should still leave a little space in the container before sealing. The mushrooms may expand during freezing, and the space allows them to do so without the risk of breaking the jar or bag.


Add frozen mushrooms to recipes as-is, or thaw in a frying pan or microwave if you are using a large quantity. Take care not to cook them in the microwave, or they could become rubbery.
