 If you have some assets and you are interested in how best to invest to both protect and increase your assets during a recession, a good place to start is government bonds. Bonds are very safe and reliable in a recession, when other investment options may be more volatile. There is also a good chance that the value of the bonds will increase during a recession. The most common high quality bond is the United States Treasury Bond.You buy can Treasury Securities, including bonds, directly from the Treasury website: http://www.treasurydirect.gov/indiv/myaccount/myaccount.htm


, If you are still in stable employment and your income has not suffered during the recession, some smart investments can help you make money and take advantage of the depressed stock market. If you can comfortably put more money into your portfolio when the prices are low, you could see excellent returns when the economy moves out of recession., The prices of precious metals, especially gold, may move inversely to other assets during recessions. Like other investments, however, there is no guarantee that these investments will hold their value, especially during a global recession.


The price of gold tends to rise during a recession as investors look for safe options, so if you can invest in gold early you may see excellent returns., A great way to make the most of lower stock prices in a recession is to maximize your contributions to your 401(k). During a recession, the money you put into your 401(k), or other retirement savings account, may have more purchasing power in the financial markets than it would outside of a recession when asset prices will generally be higher.


Once the recession ends and the value of the assets in your portfolio increases, the value of the contributions you made during the recession will increase accordingly., If you have cash assets and you are looking for a good investment opportunity but don’t want to play the stock market, you could consider becoming a money lender as an individual. The peer-to-peer lending model has grown in recent years, and there are a number of websites that act as interchanges for lenders and borrowers.


This can be risky, but it is up to you how much money you commit and how risky a borrower you are prepared to take on.
You can lend to individuals or businesses.
Average returns tend to be between 6% and 8%., A recession provides a good opportunity to purchase properties at depressed prices. These properties can then be sold at a higher price, without any modification, when the economy recovers. However, a buyer must be careful to properly analyze the housing market to determine a fair price for the property. This will ensure that they are getting a good deal and will be able to flip the property for a profit later.


Real estate investing also requires you to be prepared to jump on a house when needed with a pre-approved mortgage and dedicated home inspector. Otherwise, you may miss your opportunity.
Look for sellers who are desperately looking to sell by locating empty houses or houses with frequently-reduced offer prices. This situation gives you the upper hand in negotiations.
When buying homes in a recession, have a lawyer do a title search on the property to make sure that they are not any liens on the title. If you don't, you may buy the property only to find out that you now owe money to a contractor or the previous homeowner's lender.