 Sometimes friends and family members offer to watch the kids for you. If they do, take them up on it. It’s okay to place your kids in the loving hands of someone you trust so that you can spend time with your partner. If you feel guilty, remember that your children can benefit from you and your partner’s happy and healthy relationship.If there are not people close to you willing to watch your kids, find a babysitter in your community. Ask other parents for a recommendation.
 Instead of going to the same restaurant again for dinner, find a dance class or go to a hockey game together. Engaging in novel experiences can help you and your partner feel more connected.Have fun together and remember that this is someone you enjoy being with. Keep the focus on you and your partner and don’t bring up topics like finances, plans, or maybe even the kids.


Try painting, frisbee golf, or going on a boat ride to try something new.
 Reestablish yourselves as a couple by making time for each other and the relationship. If you and your partner used to go out to the movies, set aside time to go to the movies together. If you used to go hiking together, visit those special places again.Think about what activities you did when you were dating or newly in love. This can help bring up old, happy memories of you and your partner.
 Consider having some time every week to yourself. This can be relaxing alone time or time with friends. Having children means a lot of your time is devoted to them and your family, yet having time for yourself is important to your own health and well-being and can help you relieve stress that builds up at home.Start a relaxation practice by engaging in daily yoga and meditation.
Keep up with your own friends and hobbies.
 Have a weekly meeting to discuss the details of family, kids, and expenses. Having time set aside for these issues means that these discussions don’t overtake your other conversations or get carried through over days. When the discussion is over, do a fun activity such as eating ice cream or going on a walk so that you walk away feeling good.Write down kids’ schedules, work engagements, bills, and other items throughout the week so that you can tackle items quickly and efficiently.
 Save important conversations and other discussions for when you are together. While cell phones make communication much easier and faster, make sure you and your partner are not doing the majority of your conversing on your cell phones. When you do spend quality time together, consider making it technology-free time.Show your partner that you are committed to giving your attention fully to them and not engaging in distractions, like glancing at your phone or watching TV.
A face-to-face conversation allows you to pick up on the subtle cues communicated through body language. A person's body language, eye movements, tone of voice — these can all help you understand the other person better. When you are reading an email, or a text message things can often be misunderstood, which can ultimately cause greater issues.

