 You’ll have to file your income tax return with the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) in order to buy paper bonds. You can only purchase paper bonds by requesting for them once you’ve submitted your taxes and qualify for a return.You can get savings bonds as tax refunds by using any IRS tax return form, including streamlined tax refund methods., When you file your tax return with the IRS, you can designate how you want your refund. By filling out IRS Form 8888, you can tell the IRS the amount of your refund you want as savings bonds.Form 8888 is also called “Allocation of Refund.” You have the option of an IRA, US savings bonds, or a direct deposit to a checking or savings account. Make sure to choose “US savings bonds.”

, You may not want or be able to get your entire tax refund to be in the form of savings bonds. Fill in the amount of savings bonds you want in IRS Form 8888.Remember that you can only get $5000 in I paper bonds per calendar year.The amount you designate as savings bonds must be in increments of $50.You can designate the owner of the savings bond on Form 8888., Make sure to submit your tax return to the IRS in order to collect your Type I savings bonds as a refund. The general submission date for taxes is April 15 of any calendar year, unless you have filed for an extension.Remember to include Form 8888 with your return.
 If you choose to receive Type I bonds as a tax return, you will receive physical paper bonds in the mail once you’ve submitted your taxes. It can take up to three weeks to receive paper bonds once the IRS completes processing your tax return.The IRS will send the paper bonds to the address on your tax return or Form 8888.If you do not receive your bonds, you can check their status by using the IRS’s online system “Where’s My Refund” at http://www.irs.gov/Refunds. You can also call the IRS hotline at 1-800-829-1954.If you do not receive your bonds or they are lost or destroyed, you can also file a claim with the Bureau of Public Debt. You’ll submit BPD Form PD F1048 to Bureau of Public Debt; Parkersburg, WV 26106-7012.