 This is the first and most important step, but it's generally easy and free.

You may need identification or proof of residence. If you're not sure, call the library or visit the library website ahead of time.



 


While you're inquiring, be sure to check on library hours, too.
If you live too far outside an area, you may not be eligible for a library card, but in most cases, you can still visit public libraries without one, and use materials and resources while on-site.
Many libraries offer kids their very own library cards, with a parent's permission. It's a great way to encourage kids to read.;
, Libraries have books, of course, but many have other media, including magazines and newspapers, CDs, DVDs, audio books, and e-books. Some even lend such things as art prints, tools, and seeds.
 Librarians are professionals trained at finding information. They can help you find resources, online and off, on just about any topic.
 You'll find news, information, and announcements. Many library websites let you check for books in the catalog, and even request or reserve them.
 Many libraries subscribe to research databases, online repositories of magazine and journal articles, online lessons and classes, e-books, music services, and much more. A librarian can suggest resources for you and help get you started using any technology that is not familiar.
 Many public libraries have places to sit and read, as well as group study or conference rooms.
, Some public libraries even circulate laptops or e-readers. Or, use your own device with a public connection.
 Find out if your library has classes, workshops, talks, author readings, concerts, story time for kids, or other events. Pick out some that sound fun or useful, and show up. Most cost nothing.
 Research prospective companies, use library computers, attend library programs, find help writing resumes and cover letters and don't forget to network. Librarians can help you find great resources.
 It's not required, but you'll learn more about your library. It's also a great opportunity to meet other library users and supporters in your community.

