 The main requirement for a therapy dog is that they must be incredibly calm, emotionally secure, and comfortable around all types of people. If your dog is nervous, shy, aggressive, or has any other qualities that cause him to behave in standoffish or threatening ways around people, then he would not be a good fit for therapy work. A therapy dog needs to be calm and comfortable when:He is approached by or surrounded by many people (children or adults).
He is roughly touched or hugged by someone.
He hears a loud noise or is in a loud environment.
He is around medical equipment, such as wheelchairs, hydraulic lifts, and beeping machines.;
, Even if your dog seems calm in various environments, he may be stressed and this is not good for him. Start paying attention to your dog’s body language to determine if he enjoys being around various types of people, or if he merely tolerates it. Some signs that your dog may be uncomfortable include:A stiff posture.
Shaking or trembling.
Looking down or away from people.
Wrinkling his brow.
Growling or baring his teeth.
Not approaching people and remaining by your side or somewhere isolated.
 If you believe that your dog has the demeanor for therapy work, then try meeting with a representative from a local animal therapy organization in your area. They can help you to further evaluate whether or not therapy work would be a good match for your dog., A volunteer dog should be fully housetrained. You cannot bring collection devices with you. It is a hazard for your dog to use the bathroom around those who are ill., Your dog will need to be able to respond reliably to commands like “sit,” “down,” “stay,” “come,” and “leave.” These will be important to control your dog in an unfamiliar environment., When on a leash, your dog should not try to rush ahead and pull you. It should be trained to walk politely by your side.


When training your dog for loose leash walking, you must discourage it whenever it runs ahead of you. If it begins to run out ahead and pull on the leash, stop. It will slowly learn that there is nothing to be gained by this sort of behavior.
If this technique does not work, you can even turn around and begin walking in the opposite direction when your dog runs out ahead. Use commands to get your dog to stop and come toward you., Your dog should enjoy interacting with new people and should never grow angry or aggressive in the company of others. Any history of attacking other dogs or people will automatically disqualify your dog from volunteering.The best way to socialize your dog is to expose it to new experiences and people on a regular basis. Take your dog out to the park, to friends’ homes, and on car trips.
Your dog will get tired if it has been out too long. Bad experiences can make your dog less social. Instead of keeping your dog out all day, try to go out for frequent, but short, trips.
 Formal programs often provide excellent training and even certification. Passing the A.K.C Canine Good Citizenship training program, in particular, will tell Pet Partner’s that your dog is ready to volunteer.You can find local clubs that offer the A.K.C course through the organization’s website.
The price of an exam varies from location to location, but is usually very affordable, costing as little as $10., Some organizations do not permit dogs on a raw meat diet to participate in their programs. Feeding your dog raw food can result in illness. This can subject surrounding humans to the risk of infection, making it a liability for patients., Particularly, you will be required to vaccinate your dog against rabies. A dog infected with rabies can be a threat to the patients., Your dog is more likely to get sick if it left out in the elements, exposed to environmental threats. While you can keep your dog outside, there are steps you should make to keep it safe while outside.Provide a dog house. Some sort of shelter will help keep your dog dry and warm in bad weather.
Build a fence. Without a fence, strangers and others animals will be more likely to enter your dog’s territory and, possibly, spread disease to it.
If your dog is in a kennel, clean it regularly to prevent the development of disease.
 Dirty water encourages infections that can be spread to humans, especially patients with a compromised immune system. Replace your dog’s water daily., Your dog is liable to get sicker if sent to a therapy visit and might pass diseases on to patients with compromised immune systems. If your dog is currently on medication for an illness, wait until it has finished its program before registering.


Your dog will be asked to wait before volunteering if it is currently on antibiotics, antifungals, or immunosuppressant., Volunteer organizations want to work with owners who will protect their dogs. When controlling your dog, do not raise your voice or jerk on the leash. You should not need to reward your dog with food or toys to obtain obedience., You should be able to tell when your dog is uncomfortable and be prepared to remove it from threatening situations. You should always advocate for your dog’s safety and comfort.


If your dog is uncomfortable interacting with a patient it could strike out. Thus, it is important to recognize when your dog is uncomfortable and put its needs first., You should be able to talk to patients while controlling your dog. You should be friendly with them but you should also be willing to politely correct them if they are upsetting your dog.The patients will probably be more interested in your dog than you. But you should be ready for small talk. Ask “how are you doing?”
Some patients might not want to talk about their conditions. Unless they mention it, discuss subjects that will distract them. Ask what type of pets they like or if they have a favorite breed of dog. What is their favorite television show? What do they like to do in their free time?
If your dog looks uncomfortable, say something politely like “I think you are petting him too hard” or “It takes a second for him to warm up to new people. Give him a little bit of time to rest and he should come to you.”

, You can’t volunteer a dog that you just met, because you can’t vouch for its training. You need to have owned your dog for at least 6 months before volunteering it. The dog must be at least a one year old., Go online and search for local volunteering options. Consider calling local retirement homes or hospitals to see if they work with any established organizations.


Established organizations are the best way to find volunteering opportunities. Pet Partners’ website has a list of local events and programs. Do a zip code search to verify that there are programs in your area for which you can volunteer your dog. You will need to go the Volunteer Center and create an account to register., Any organization that allows you to volunteer your pet will require that you perform training. Some training programs might include supervised visits. Other times you might even be able to take an online course., You will need to prove that your dog is healthy enough to participate. Most organizations will give a form that you can pass along to your veterinarian. Take the form to a veterinarian who will check your dog’s health and sign off on the form, saying that your dog meets the health requirements for the program., After you have finished these steps you can schedule an evaluation with a licensed professional. The evaluation will be a mock patient visit. You will need to demonstrate that you can perform all the previously mentioned skills, including handling your dog and interacting positively with a patient.


You will need to be able to politely command your dog.
Your dog will need to be controlled and friendly.
You will need to prove that you are attentive to your dog’s needs.
 Most volunteering organizations rely upon their members to support them financially. After you have been accepted into the program, you will likely need to pay a fee. The fee might be as much as $100. 