 Cultivate a positive self-worth by figuring out your best qualities. Your personal strengths are the abilities, talents, and skills you have that make you an asset to the world around you. When you know what your strengths are you have a higher self-esteem and you feel more capable of managing life’s problems.Make a list of personal strengths that you think may be used to describe you. These may include “loyal,” “intelligent,” or “compassionate.”
If you have trouble coming up with ideas, ask a parent, teacher or close friend to give you some suggestions of strengths they see you demonstrate on a daily basis.
 Goal attainment is another route to developing a stronger sense of self-worth. When you feel like you are moving towards something meaningful in your future, you are less likely to sabotage your progress with destructive habits. Plus, accomplishing goals creates a domino effect that will improve your mood and relationships, too.



Set S.M.A.R.T. goals that are specific, measurable, attainable, realistic, and time-bound. For example, if you plan to learn a new language, you might say “I want to learn to speak intermediate Spanish within the next 6 months.” Then, you will devise a plan to reach that goal like listening to Spanish tapes, taking a course, and interacting with native Spanish-speakers., Doing what you love can go a long way towards encouraging self-worthiness and a brighter mood overall. Think about activities you enjoy and build your days and weeks around doing them. Over time, you will notice that you are starting to live a more purposeful, happier life.


Do you like building things? Start a new DIY project to build a piece of furniture for your home. Other hobbies may include writing, archery, gardening, bowling, or graphic design. A hobby can be virtually anything, and you can increase your love of the activity by joining a group of others who do it, too. This creates a sense of belonging and worthiness to help improve your outlook on life., You can enhance your self-worth through self-care. Of course, you already know that you should be consuming a balanced diet and getting regular physical activity. But, you may not know how these factors play into your perception of yourself and the world around you. When you nourish your body with healthy foods and stay active, you will feel more positive about your life and your relationships.


When you feel bad about yourself, you may eat unhealthy foods and skip the gym. Show support for your body by eating plenty of fruits and vegetables, whole grains, lean protein, and low-fat dairy. Drink lots of water throughout the day. Go for a walk around your local park. Throw a ball to your dog. Or, ask a friend to join you on a cycling adventure. 