 Most stuck songs, or "earworms," are actually parts of a song, such as a catchy chorus or even just a line or two. Your brain might be replaying this because it's "stuck" on where to go next. Listen to the complete song from beginning to end. This may be the most effective solution, although there are still plenty of times it doesn't work.Engaging with the song doesn't work for everyone. If you hate the idea of listening to the song again, read the section above on distraction techniques.;
, Unclear or forgotten lyrics can also "frustrate" your brain. Look the lyrics up online. Sing them aloud or "sing" silently to yourself to help your brain process the song.


If you can memorize all the lyrics, this might make the song too long to hold in your head.
 If you can play an instrument, try to recreate the song. Grappling with the music and working out how to play it solves the problem for many musicians.


Try out different tweaks and variations to break the repetitive cycle.
 Even if you find this difficult, a sense of control can make you less anxious about the situation. For a few minutes, or until you start feeling frustrated, try to change the song in the following ways:


Imagine turn down the volume knob of the song, until it "sounds" like a whisper.
Imagine your mind as a room with many rooms. Build barriers in front of the song, slowly caging it into a smaller and smaller area. Each time you add a barrier, the song becomes quieter and more muffled.
'Play' the song in your head at a different tempo, imagining it as (very) slow or fast.
 Once the song is quiet, it's time to end it. Use more visualization techniques to kick it out of your head once and for all:


Visualize a sword or sharp object within your head, severing the link between your mind and the song.
Imagine a record player in as much detail as possible. Look closely at the needle moving through the groove as the song plays. Lift the needle and listen to the sudden silence.When you get to the end of the song, sing the last note (aloud or in your head), then let the pitch drop steadily until it's much lower than any note in the song. This can sometimes prevent it starting again.

