 You should have your doctor investigate and treat the underlying cause of the cyst. Causes can include knee trauma, rheumatoid arthritis, osteoarthritis, and cartilage or tendon trauma to name a few., Even if you’ve already consulted your doctor for a treatment plan, you should return if you suspect the cyst has ruptured or encountered other complications. If your Baker’s cyst ruptures, the fluid will leak into the calf area in your leg, which can lead to:The sensation of water running down your calf
Redness and swelling
Sharp pain due to the leaked fluid and subsequent inflammation, which can lead to blood clots.
Since these symptoms can resemble those of a blood clot, it important that you see a doctor immediately in the event that you need to be treated for a clot. Dislodged blood clots can lead to life-threatening conditions.If your doctor determines that you’re not at risk for complications due to the rupture, then your leg will reabsorb the fluid in anywhere from one to four weeks, and your doctor will recommend or prescribe a pain medication., A clinical study has shown that swelling, pain, and range of motion all improve after direct injection of corticosteroids into the cyst for patients who suffer from osteoarthritis-induced Baker's cysts.Your physician will inject a needle with corticosteroids directly in the cyst cavity. The steroids help reduce the inflammation and swelling at the site.


Your doctor may also use an ultrasound machine to visualize the cyst and help guide the needle.
 Your doctor may also remove the fluid within the cyst itself. If you have secondary cysts (fluid accumulation from front and back of the knee), your doctor may also remove fluid from the front or side of the knee as well. This will allow greater comfort by reducing pain and swelling and allowing you to move your knee more freely. Your doctor will use an ultrasound to correctly inject a needle into the fluid and will pull back on the plunger to suck it out.Your doctor will use an 18- or 20-gauge needle due to the thick fluid within the cyst(s).
Your doctor may also need to perform the procedure more than once depending on the amount of fluid present or because the fluid has accumulated as multiple sites.
It is common for your doctor to perform both an aspiration (drainage) followed by a steroid injection. Multiple studies have shown reduction of symptoms and better function of the knee after both procedures., This is a last resort if symptoms persist, other treatments have failed, or the cyst has become very large. While you are under anesthesia, your surgeon will make small (three- to four-millimeter) incisions around the cyst to drain the fluid. The surgeon may not remove the entire cyst because it can typically resolve on its own. The surgeon will stitch the incisions once the cyst has been drained.The procedure typically takes an hour (or maybe less based on the size of the cyst). A larger cyst will take longer because the swelling may have wrapped it around nerves and blood vessels.
You can expect to be given pain medication as needed.
Once home, follow the RICE therapy method (rest, ice, compression, and elevation).
Your surgeon may suggest crutches or a cane to keep weight off the area for several days.

