 If you have never trained a dog before, you should research how to train a dog before you begin. There are many different techniques and ways to train dogs. You can read websites, check out books from your local library, or contact pet organizations for help.


Understanding how the training techniques work and how long they will take can help prevent frustration for you and your Dalmatian. Know that training takes awhile, so you won’t be able to train your dog overnight.
You may discover you need to use different techniques for different trainings. You may want to crate train your dog, use the clicker method, and use treat rewards for various things.
 If you have never trained a dog before, you may want to seek the assistance of a dog trainer experienced in the use of reward-based training. A trainer can give you support and guidance for training your dog. You may also consider enrolling your dog in obedience school or classes.You may be able to find a dog training school, or you can visit a pet store. Many pet stores offer training classes for puppies.
 One key to happy training for a Dalmatian is being firm but fair. To do this, decide on the ground rules for your dog and stick to them. Voice disapproval if the dog disobeys the rules and distract him onto more appropriate behavior which you can reward. Dalmatians are headstrong dogs, so you need to make sure your are firm and consistent with your rules and training.Changing your mind about what is appropriate or only reinforcing the rules sometimes will confuse your dog.
For example, if he chews your shoe, firmly tell him "No!" Then, distract him and offer an appropriate chew toy with a happy "Good."

, One good way to reinforce good behavior in your Dalmatian is to use treats to reward him. When you are teaching your dog a command, like “Sit” or “Stop,” or trying to house train him, you should follow good behavior with a food treat. You can try rewarding your dog with pieces of his dog food, or you can buy treats you use to reward the behavior.Only use treats as a reward when you are starting the training process. As your dog undergoes training and starts to learn the correct behavior, food treats should be replaced with verbal praise. Too many food treats can lead to obesity.
When your Dalmatian starts to learn the commands, start mixing up when you give him the treat rewards. Giving your dog treats every time he completes an action can make him complacent and expect treat. Not giving him a treat every time will make him work harder for a treat since he realizes it’s not guaranteed anymore.
 Yelling at your dog and getting frustrated won’t be an effective way to train your dog. Dogs can pick up on your frustration and anger, and it may upset your dog. Dalmatians are excitable, so you getting upset and yelling may cause your dog to start getting excited, start barking, and start running around.Instead, use a firm, calm tone when you correct your dog. Remember, your dog will not learn how to act overnight. Use positive reinforcement and firm, direct commands to replace bad behavior with good behavior.
 Understand that punishing your Dalmatian will more than likely backfire. He is liable not to link the punishment to the action, like chewing the shoe. Instead, he will link the punishment to you, as the punisher. This will harm his trust in you and will make him frustrated, and possibly defensive, which could end in aggressive behavior.Don’t hit your dog with your hand, a rolled up newspaper, or another object. Never kick a dog.
 Work on basic commands, such as “Stop,” "Sit", "Drop", and "Come." These commands can be used to control your dog in most situations. Be consistent with the words you use. Don’t switch the command and expect your dog to give you a response.Make sure to limit your commands to one words. Dogs aren’t human. They don’t understand language, so don’t talk to your dog. For example, don’t say, “Please stop biting at my leg.” Instead, simply say, “Stop!”

, You may want to consider clicker training your dog. This method trains the dog to associate the clicking sound of a clicker with a reward. The click designates the good behavior, which leads to a treat. This helps build a link for your dog between the good behavior and the reward.By using clicker training, your Dalmatian will be trained to know that clicks are followed by treats. Eventually, your dog will learn that doing an action when commanded gets him rewards.

