 All but the most hardened cynics like someone who can make them smile and laugh. That's why being funny is a huge part of using your personality to be awesome. The good and the bad part about comedy is that there's no one way to do it. That means that you can develop your own sense of what's funny by being totally original, but it also means that there's not really a "how-to" manual for being funny.


Be funny with words. Puns and wordplay are a great way to be awesomely funny because we use words all the time. Consider these examples of great wordplay:

"Some cause happiness wherever they go; others whenever they go." - Oscar Wilde.

"Men seldom make passes at girls who wear glasses." - Dorothy Parker.


Use physical comedy to get laughter. Physical comedy can include impressions of other people, learning how to mime, or slapstick comedy. Pick one, experiment with it, and try incorporating it into your funny routine.
Tell great stories. We think people who tell great, comedic stories are funny because we live for stories. Stories make us feel human, and so someone who can tell a great yarn delights us. Learn the basics of storytelling to feel even more awesome than you already are.
 Being adventurous means turning everyday opportunities into excuses to find adventure. Remember, you don't need to be Indiana Jones to be adventurous; you just need to be willing to take the road less traveled every once in a while.


Travel to new, interesting places. Traveling doesn't need to mean dropping lots of money or taking lots of time. Try going someplace close you've never been. You'll learn about new places, have a new notch under your belt, and will get a chance to convince the locals there how awesome you can be.
Learn about unexpected things. Being adventurous can also mean taking a journey of the mind. Now, that sounds cheesy, but it's absolutely true. The most awesome people in the world travel to novel, exciting, distant places in their minds as well as on their feet.
Don't be afraid to break away from the pack if it's what you want to do. Sometimes, an awesome person will be adventurous by following his/her heart and set out on their own, against the advice of other people. Be adventurous by doing what you want to do, not what other people want you to do.
 The most awesome people aren't even aware of their awesomeness. They just are, without thinking about it too much. The awesomeness must come from a place within you. You can never force it out.


Try not to focus on "being awesome." Instead, focus on the things that will make you awesome, like developing a way to convert certain recyclables into bio-diesel, or learning how to play pool with hockey pucks on ice. That way, people will be overwhelmed by your awesomeness before they have time to question it.
 Develop a style that is entirely your own. Don't mimic a style that you think is hip; make your own style hip by believing completely in it and never questioning what other people say about it.


Perhaps have a trade-mark accessory by which everyone will recognize you as soon as they see it. Use it, but don't abuse it. Shake off any criticism you may get from other people (they're probably jealous or insecure) and wear it with confidence.
Sometimes, having no style is as much of a statement. Some people genuinely don't care about fashion, clothes, or accessories. Lots of people celebrate that because those people are usually absorbed in other things. If you're this kind of person, be comfortable with your lack of style. Don't judge others for spending more time on clothing.
 Realize that your personality says more about you as a person that your looks or appearance, although those can be important. Be nice, understanding, friendly, giving, and charming (both inside and out). People don't like a mean, selfish, unfriendly, boring person.


Some traits that people generally think of as "awesome":
Dedication/faithfulness. You are supremely dedicated to whatever you start, and are faithful to a fault.
Reliability. You are someone who can always be depended on when people need you, for whatever reason.
Kindness/generosity. You are willing to literally give the shirt off your back if you can afford to, and if it means that it will make someone else happy.
Ambition. Although your goals are lofty, you would never step over someone to achieve them.
Perspective. You can tell the forest from the trees; you know that the simple things in life — friends, family, love, health — are too often the most overlooked.
Principle. You know what you believe in, and you have good reasons for holding those beliefs.



