 The back of the tachometer is encompassed in a housing that is sometimes referred to as a “cup.” This cup can be removed by either twisting it off the tachometer or by removing a single screw on the bottom or top, depending on the brand of tachometer.Make sure you don’t lose the screw if your tachometer comes equipped with one, as you’ll need it to put the tach back together.
Refer to the instructions that came with your tachometer if you are having trouble determining how to remove the housing.
 There are a series of switches on the back of the tachometer once the housing is removed. These switches set how many cylinders there are in the engine so the tachometer can understand the signal from the ignition coil. Set the switches to match your vehicle’s engine.Most tachometers have the switches labeled, so it’s easy to determine which to turn on for four, six and eight cylinder applications.
If the switches are not labeled, refer to the instructions that came with the tachometer to set the switches properly.
Put the housing back on the tachometer once you have the engine setting set.
 The wires coming out of the back of the tachometer are color coded to make it easy to determine where each wire should go. Run the black wire from the tachometer to a ground. You may choose to run it through the firewall on the vehicle to the negative terminal on the battery. You can also wire it to any bare metal portion of the body of the vehicle.The ground wire is one of two required in order to complete the electrical circuit.
You may choose to wrap the wire around a bolt and tighten it or solder it in place.
 The red wire provides the tachometer with power when the vehicle is running. Use an “add-a-fuse” or fuse pigtail to connect this wire to a fuse that powers something that only operates when the vehicle is running, such as the interior lights or radio.Locate the fuse box on the driver’s side of the interior of the vehicle.
Remove the fuse and insert the fuse pigtail in a similar fashion to when replacing a blown out fuse.
 The white wire coming from the back of the tachometer must be connected to a constant power source. Run it through the hole in the firewall separating the engine from the cabin of the vehicle. The easiest place to do so may be in the holes the gas, brake and clutch pedal pass through the firewall. Once through, connect this wire to the positive terminal on the battery.It may be difficult to run the wire through the hole in the firewall. Use a flashlight to help locate the hole below the dashboard.
Insert the wire into the pigtail that attaches to the positive terminal on the battery so it is easy to disconnect with the battery.
 The green wire will also need to run through a hole in the firewall and to one of the ignition coils in your engine. Locate the ignition coil by following the spark plug wires backward from the spark plugs. The coil will have three wires coming from it. Splice the green wire from the tachometer into the green wire on the ignition coil.This wire transmits the RPM information to the tachometer when the engine is running.
Be sure the wire is not run over any moving parts that may snag it when the engine is running.
 Use the screws that came with the tachometer to mount it someplace visible to you, but that won’t impede your vision while driving. A common location is on the side of the dash board near the A-pillar.Special gauge pods can be purchased to help mount the gauge in a visually pleasing way.
Tuck all of the wires so they are no longer visible.

