 If you begin to feel feel faint, remove yourself from the area where the dissection is taking place. If just the sight of the specimen is making you feel faint, then turn away from it. If the smell of the specimen is making you feel faint, then remove yourself from the classroom. You may even be able to ask to visit your school nurse or health center to lie down.


Signs that you may feel as though you are about to faint include: pale, cool, and sweaty skin; lightheadedness or dizziness; nausea; frequent yawning; tightness of the chest; and palpitations.Specimens used for dissection are often preserved in chemicals that give off a powerful smell. The specimen may also have its own natural odors that can be too strong for your nostrils to handle.Wearing a surgical mask during the dissection is not only a safety precaution to practice while performing the dissection; it could also prevent you from smelling the powerful chemical smells which could contribute to your feeling of wanting to faint.;
, If you begin to feel unsteady or lightheaded, lie down.While lying down, try to place your head low and your legs raised in an upward position.If you are unable to lie down, sit down. While seated, place your head between your knees, Once you have taken a moment to lie down or sit down, go outside to get some fresh air.Take the time outside to do some deep and heavy breathing to help your body calm down and return to its normal state.
 After you’ve had your near faint episode, take a moment and calm down. Understandably, you may be experiencing feelings of embarrassment and shame about nearly fainting in class. Don’t be. Everyone has his or her own sensitivities to particular things. It’s a natural response that you are not in control of and should not be ashamed of. Take several breaths to calm yourself down and ease the anxiousness that your are currently experiencing.For example, some people get queasy and want to faint at the sight of blood. This too is a natural response that their bodies have. Again, no need to get embarrassed.
 Oftentimes, we may want to avoid our awkward moments but the best way to handle the situation is to confront it. After you have calmed your body down, head back to class to either finish up the dissection project or ask to do an alternative assignment.One of the best ways to confront an embarrassing situation is to do so with humor. When you return to class, just saying something like, “Well, that was awkward” has the potential to ease the awkwardness and tension in the room., Once you’ve returned to the classroom and had a time to collect yourself, don’t dwell on what happened. Instead, focus on tackling that dissection with all your might (not too much strength, those specimens can be fragile). Arm yourself with a new attitude that you can and will do it.If you absolutely cannot do the dissection because it is making you too ill, don’t attempt to do the dissection. There are other assignments you could do to make up for not being able to dissect the specimen.
 When you return to your class, speak with your teacher about your episode. Let them know you felt uneasy about dissecting the specimen, but you are back and willing to participate in the activity.


If the teacher observed your episode in class, you probably won’t need to go into an elaborate detailed explanation of what you’re feeling. You could say, “Mrs. Jones, I felt a little weird when I first encountered the specimen, but after lying down and getting some fresh air, I feel much better. I am ready to get back to the assignment if you allow me to finish working.”
If you feel like you will not be able to recover or are unable to get past the feeling of uneasiness to the point of fainting, inform your teacher. You are most likely not the first nor will you be the last person to not be able to handle a dissection. They should have alternative assignments or activities that will allow you to experience and learn the lesson of dissection without having to go through the physical act of doing so., If you are comfortable, let your classmates know that weren’t feeling well and felt like you wanted to faint from the activity. Let them know you are okay as many of them would probably be worried and excited from all the commotion. Just let them know you had a minor episode but that you are feeling much better.


Try saying, “Hey guys, thanks so much for asking about it. The dissection just caused me to feel a little faint, but I got some fresh air and I am feeling much better.”
If you do not feel comfortable with announcing to your classmates about what happened, you don’t have to. You may still feel embarrassed about the situation and that’s okay. It’s okay to not want to share that information with others, and letting your teacher know is the more important thing to do.
 If you are working in a pair with another student, ask your partner if they would be willing to do the dissection while you take on the note-taking role. Most of your classmates will understand your issue and would be more than willing to help you as you try to make the experience as comfortable as possible.


If you are not working in a pair, ask your teacher if they would allow you to just look on as an observer as another student does the dissection. Offer to get that student their necessary supplies and to take notes for them as they handle the activity.
You could say something like, “Hey Susan, this dissection is causing me to feel a bit dizzy, like I want to faint. Would you mind if I just watched you do the dissection while I take notes for us? Ok, great. Thanks so much for understanding.”

