 Tapeworms attach onto the intestinal wall, and when the tapeworm matures, it develops body segments that contain eggs. The segments break off from the main body of the tapeworm and pass out of the body in the stool. After the segments pass out of the cat’s body in the stool, they will frequently stick to the hair around the anus. These small white, flat egg segments will dry out and look like little pieces of rice stuck to the hair.Occasionally, you will also see the segments and possibly an adult body on the actual bowel movement. These will be white, glistening, and ribbon like pieces on the surface of the stool.
 The most common way to find out your cat has tapeworms is through evidence in the feces because cats have very few symptoms from tapeworms. Because the tapeworm attaches itself to the intestine and may end up in the stomach, your cat may vomit the tapeworm. Your cat may also lose weight because the tapeworm is taking nutrients from the intestines.Your cat may also have a lackluster coat.
Your cats may have anal irritation because of the tapeworms, so he may lick at it or scoot its behind across the floor.
 If you think that your cat has tapeworms, take him to the vet. Your vet will generally rely on you to inform him about the tapeworms because fecal exams won’t show the eggs.Your vet will recommend medications that kill the adult worm and cause it to eventually pass out of the body. The medication that is effective at killing tapeworm is called praziquantel. This drug is frequently combined with other deworming medication to kill other intestinal parasites.Trade names for this medication include Droncit, Drontal Plus, and Tradewinds Tapeworm Tabs.
These medications can be found at vet clinics or other stores which sell pet products.
 Cats can contract tapeworms a few different ways. Tapeworms are carried by fleas, so your cat can get tapeworms if he has fleas. Tapeworms pass to the cat when he ingests the flea. Tapeworms need to have an intermediate host, the flea, to complete its life-cycle and infest the next cat that comes along. The cat becomes infected with tapeworms by swallowing a flea infected with tapeworm larvae, or by eating a small mammal, usually a rodent, that contains the worm in its body.Cats that hunt vermin like rodents and eat their kill can frequently catch tapeworms from their prey.

