 This is often the hardest, but most important, way to show you care. Even if they are just telling you a story about something silly that happened at the supermarket, it's important that you respond appropriately so that the other person senses you are genuinely interested. If you dismiss or ignore them when it comes to simple things, they won't feel that you care about them, therefore they are much less likely to share anything deeper with you in the future.


Remember when someone tells you their likes or dislikes.
Ask specifics, like "How's your boss treating your these days," as opposed to "How's work?";
, Showing you care means paying attention to your friend’s mood and asking if they are okay when they seem blue. Ask if everything is okay, if you can do anything for them, or what the problem may be. Signs that someone is unhappy include:


Moodiness
Unnaturally quiet
Bouts of anger

, Showing someone you care is a continual exercise, not something you only do once. Take time every week to talk about how things are going, new developments in life, and anything stressful.


Make sure you’re listening to your friend’s response. You should care about them and their opinions, not what you want to say.
 Feeling like someone trusts you is a great way to feel cared for. Most people only share their hopes, secrets, and ideas with someone they care about, and building up trust with someone shows that you value their friendship.
 When you buy someone a small gift, send a letter, or call someone you haven’t seen in a while, you prove that you care for someone even when they aren’t in a position to receive your heartfelt love. This kind of surprise is a wonderful reminder that someone is cared for, even if they don’t always realize it.


Buy a small gift when it reminds you of someone.
Send a letter or postcard when you are out of town.
Reconnect with long-lost friends from time to time to catch up.
 Basic respect for someone is paramount to showing your affection. If you make an appointment, show up on time. If you promise to finish and errand, get the job done. If you agree to keep a secret, don’t tell anyone.
 Make time in your schedule to make plans with someone, which shows them that you are willing to prioritize them above other things in your life. Make dinner plans, agree to see a movie, or go for a walk together before work. Making a friend a priority means that you value their time.
 Sometimes the best feeling in the world is hearing someone say they care about you. Telling someone you love them, value their friendship, and like being around them is a great, simple way to show you care. Just be genuine and they will know you care.


Note the specific things that your like to be more sincere. Say you think they listen really well, always have something nice to say, or value their opinions.

