 A horizontal timeline moves from left to right, so you will add the events above and below the line demarcating your timeline. A vertical timeline moves from top to bottom, so you will add your timeline events to the left and right of the line demarcating your timeline., A circle timeline is used to show a process that starts and ends in the same place. For example, it could be used to show the passage of the seasons or the life cycle of a plant., A parallel timeline is really two timelines that chart the events for two different topics during the same period of time. This allows you to relate the two topics.For example, you could chart your favorite author’s career and compare it to the career of one of their contemporaries.
 If you prefer to use technology over paper and pen, you can create your timeline digitally. You can find a timeline generator online, or you can simply create slides in PowerPoint or Prezi.There are many options for creating a digital timeline:

Excel - https://www.officetimeline.com/excel-timeline

Office - https://support.office.com/en-us/article/Create-a-timeline-9c4448a9-99c7-4b0e-8eff-0dcf535f223c

Timeline Generator - http://www.teach-nology.com/web_tools/materials/timeline/

Timeglider - https://timeglider.com/

Prezi - https://prezi.com/

Google Docs - https://www.smartsheet.com/free-google-docs-templates-google-timeline-templates




, Learn about your topic. As you read and collect information, begin making notes about possible events to include.You need to provide a well-rounded history of your topic, so make sure you use several sources.Conduct internet research, check out books from the library, or visit the museum.
Try to use multiple websites, books, articles, and maybe even a documentary. Aim to have at least three different sources.
 You will want to include the important events for your topic, but also add in relevant interesting events. While your timeline should maintain focus, you want it to be fun for the viewer and show that you understand the topic.Include events like:

Personal details such as births, deaths, and other important dates
Historical events that impacted the topic of the timeline
Important events that shaped the topic
Intriguing facts about your topic

, Keep your events narrowed to a manageable number. You want enough details to show something about your topic, but don’t include so many that the important facts become buried., Create the type of timeline that you chose to use by drawing out the line or circle. Sketch out the line using a pencil, then trace over it with a dark pen or marker. Label the timeline with the project title and the boundary years.Use a ruler if you are making your timeline by hand.
If you are creating a digital timeline, choose a template or create your presentation in PowerPoint or Prezi.
 You need to set boundaries for your timeline. Your boundaries need to allow you to explore your topic, so start and end your timeline with enough space to cover all of the events.Create a larger narrative by presenting smaller events.You don’t have to start with someone’s birth or end with the person’s death.
Consider your topic and narrow it to select the right start and stop point.
Narrow it based on the number of events on your timeline.
 Depending on the span of time you're working with, you might choose increments in decades, years, months, or even days. Figure out what makes sense for your subject and the number of events you're including. Make the appropriate number of evenly-spaced lines perpendicular to the main timeline between your start and end dates., Go along the line and mark the spots where the events will go. Draw a line that is perpendicular to your main timeline to show the years in which the events occurred, and write down a short description of each one.Organize the dates sequentially. The events need to be on the timeline in chronological order, not in order of importance or interest. For example, events listed throughout a year should start in January and end in December., Choose an engaging title that tells the viewer what your timeline is about. Make sure that your title encompasses all that you’ve included in your project, rather than just the topic. For example, don’t title your project “NASA;” instead, choose a title like “NASA: The Quest for the Moon.” Example titles include:

The Life and Times of Nelson Mandela
Beverly Hills, 90210: A Recent History
JD Salinger's Storied Career
California's Ancient Redwoods
NASA: to the Moon and Beyond
A Day in the Life of a Praying Mantis

, There are many ways to display your events, depending on your preferences. You will need to create an entry for each event, and they will all need to fit on the timeline.Try to include fewer than 20 events.Write the events.
Print out events and glue them to the timeline.
Draw or use images.
Create a slide if you’re using a digital method.
 For each entry, write a short explanation about what happened, including facts such as who was involved, the impact of the event, and any numbers related to the event, such as the number of people killed in a war. Add the details that help you tell the overall narrative of your timeline., Your words need to be easy to read, so write clearly. Alternatively, type up your entries, cut them out, and glue them onto the timeline. Use as few words as possible to explain the events to avoid taking up too much space with one event.If you’re creating a digital timeline, type up your entries.
Don’t elaborate or be too wordy.
 You can add visual interest to your timeline with some pictures to go along with the events you're including. Find images online, copy them from books, or get creative and draw them yourself.