 Lemon juice works well as a bleaching agent, and just like it works to bleach your hair, you can also bleach your freckles with it. Lemon juice won't completely remove your freckles, but over time it should fade them as it bleaches your skin. Apply lemon juice by squeezing the juice out of fresh lemons, and then using a cotton ball to dab it on your freckles.Continue this process, applying lemon juice every few days for several months. Overtime you should see that your freckles have faded. However, because it is only a temporary solution, you will have to continue applying lemon juice to keep your freckles a lighter shade.
Any exposure to the sun during this time can erase any progress you've made, so make sure you apply sunscreen when going outside and wear protective clothing. If your freckles are exposed to the sun, even if you have been treating them with lemon juice, they will likely reappear.;
, All of these dairy products contain lactic acid, which may help to bleach your skin, thus fading your freckles. Use sour milk as a facial cleanser, applying it to your skin and then washing it off with water. Sour cream or buttermilk should be applied as a face mask, once a day for about 15 minutes. Then, wash your face with water.When treating your face with sour cream, begin by applying the sour cream once a day, and as fading begins, reduce treatment to once or twice a week.
Buttermilk not only has lactic acid, but also has a peeling effect which may allow you to remove layers of skin with sun damage. It may be better to soak a cheesecloth in buttermilk and lay it across your face, at five minute increments, re-soaking after each five minute mark.
 You can often find these at your local drug store in the cosmetics department, and they help reduce melanin in your skin. Look for a bleaching or fading cream that has kojic acid and arbutus, if you want a more organic product. Make sure you buy a cream that won't irritate your skin. Some popular products are Meladerm, Revitol, and SkinBright., These peels will dry on your skin, and once peeled off will peel off the top layer of your skin, thus removing the skin affected by the sun. You can use many types of fruits, but some of the best to create a dry mask are strawberries, papaya, cucumber, and pineapple blended together. Once applied, let it dry and then peel or wipe the mask off with a damp rag.To create a fruit peel blend two strawberries, a small piece of papaya, and a few pieces of cucumber and pineapple. When these fruits are blended together they create a gummy mask, which will glue to your skin as it dries. So, when you wipe away the mask the layer of skin underneath it will be wiped away also.
 One way to fade freckles is to help them blend in with the rest of your skin. You can use a sunless tanner to help darken skin and achieve a natural glow without damaging your skin. Choose a shade that is somewhat close to your natural skin color, so that as your skin gradually gets darker it will look natural.