 You will be adding fruit to a base beer recipe, so you'll need to decide what style of raspberry beer to brew. In general, berries pair well with light, mild beers or rich, dark beers.

Mild styles of beer such as blonde ales, Hefeweizens, and pilsners pair well with raspberries, making for a fruity, refreshing, and summer-friendly beer.
Rich, malty styles of beer like stout and porter also work well with raspberries, where the fruit's tartness contrasts nicely with the smoky, chocolate overtones of the roasted malt.;
, On brew day, you will do everything as you normally would, because you won't be adding the fruit until secondary fermentation. If you brew using the all-grain method, you will also mash and sparge the grain as usual., After boiling and cooling the wort, rack it into your primary fermenting vessel as usual. It is possible to add the raspberries during primary fermentation, but there are several major reasons why you should avoid doing this.

Because the yeast have not had time to proliferate at this point, adding the raspberries poses a significant risk of bacterial infection, which will produce unpleasant flavors in your beer.
Adding raspberries during primary fermentation will also lead to the nearly complete fermentation of the fruit's sugars, which will cause the raspberry flavor to dissipate significantly.
 Once the vigorous fermentation is complete, you are ready to begin secondary fermentation and add the raspberries. You have several options for adding the fruit to the fermenting beer.

A popular option is to pour raspberry puree into the fermenter. This puree is readily available from brewing supply stores; it will provide intense flavor but will cloud your beer's appearance.
Another option is to steep dried raspberries in the beer. This tends to produce a more nuanced flavor and preserves the beer's visual clarity.
A third option is to add fresh raspberries to the fermenter. Because fresh raspberries have a high water content, however, you will need to add a lot to achieve noticeable flavor.
 When secondary fermentation is complete, you will bottle or keg the beer as usual. You may need to strain the beer when transferring it to your bottling bucket to remove any raspberry seeds or skins, but you can usually keep these impurities out by stopping your siphon before they are sucked up., The addition of fruit does not change the time needed for bottle conditioning. When the beer has been fully conditioned, crack one open and enjoy. You can garnish the beer with fresh fruit to augment the fruit flavors.