 Many candles are made from toxic chemicals, such as paraffin. These release harmful vapours while the candle is lit and should not be used for candle meditation. Instead, select a candle made from a non-toxic or natural substance, such as beeswax or soy wax.;
, While meditating you will be looking at and focusing on the candle. Some people believe that certain colours can have symbolic meaning and can enhance your meditation experience. If you want to meditate for protection, purification, inner peace, spirituality, or intuition, you should use a white blue, or purple candle., If you want to focus your meditation session on love, romance, passion, power, or happiness, you should use a red or pink candle., Perhaps you want to use your meditation session to focus on prosperity and wealth. If this is the case then you should use a green candle. Green candles can also be used for fertility., Some people find that scents help them reach a deeper level of relaxation. Others; however, may be allergic or sensitive to certain scents and prefer to use a non-scented candle. Experiment with both options and choose the one that helps you focus and relax.Some scents to consider for meditation include lavender, vanilla, pine, peppermint, cinnamon, or jasmine.
 Meditation is a relaxing experience, and you want your location to match your inner state. Find a place where you won't be disturbed for the duration of the session, typically 15 to 30 minutes. Pick a room that is free of household traffic and loud noises., Before you begin meditating, dim the lights in the room and pull down the window shades. It will be much easier to focus on the candle in a dimly lit room. If the room is too bright you may experience eye strain., When you meditate, you want to clear your mind and focus solely on the candle. Turn off your phone and/or other technology that may disturb your meditation and relaxation., You should try and be completely comfortable while you are meditating. If you are wearing uncomfortable clothing, your mind may stray and focus on your discomfort. Instead, wear flowing clothes that are loose around the waist, chest, and hips., When using candles for meditation, you are supposed to keep your eyes open and look at the candle. For maximum comfort the candle should be positioned at eye level, or just below eye level. This way you will not have to strain your neck to look up or down at the candle., Place the candle approximately 20 inches (50 cm) in front of where you will be sitting. If the candle is closer to you it will appear too bright and may distract you from your meditation., It is important that you sit in a comfortable position. You can either sit in a chair with your feet firmly planted on the ground and your back straight, or cross-legged on the ground with a straight back. Your hands should be placed in a relaxed position on your lap., Some people enjoy meditating with multiple candles lit. Candles can help to create a relaxing environment for all types of meditation and prayer. Along with candle gazing meditation, you could light candles while practicing other forms of meditation, such as mindfulness meditation, guided visualization, and transcendental meditation., Once the candle is lit, gaze at the candle and let the flame occupy your mind. In the beginning your eyes may water slightly from the candle light, but this should fade throughout the session. Some people find that focusing on an object while meditating is much easier than focusing on a mantra.
 Begin your meditation by steadily breathing and staring at the flame. Let yourself become absorbed by the beauty, clarity, and purity of the light. You will find that it is actually quite easy to get lost in the flame. You will also notice that your thoughts will naturally begin to wander. Each time you catch your mind drifting, bring your thoughts back to the flame.This will help improve your focus and relaxation.
 Once you are finished meditating make sure you blow out the candle and extinguish the flame. Candles can be fire hazards and should not be left unattended. Always make sure you extinguish any candles before leaving the room.