 You don’t want to seem overly sensitive, or the dog may assume there’s something to be afraid of; however, you also don’t want to seem angry or aggressive, or the dog will have negative associations with this process.Even if you get frustrated with your dog, work to keep your voice even and assertive. This lets your dog know that you are in charge.
 There are a variety of restraints available for dog grooming. The best ones place a comfortable loop around the dog’s neck holding it up while she stands on a grooming platform. These restraints are safe for dogs and are specifically designed to make grooming easier.Some dogs may require a muzzle to prevent biting or baring their teeth.
Handle your dog carefully while putting her in the restraint. Be firm but gentle. You don’t want him to associate the restraint with pain.
Make sure the restraint works with the location you've chosen. For example, if being in the shower causes the dog's restraint to be uncomfortable, you may need to use it elsewhere.
 Good grooming equipment makes things easier on you and on your dog. Have everything laid out before you begin. You don’t want to leave your dog restrained for a long time while you go off in search of a specific tool.Have water for washing him ready before you’ve restrained the dog.
Make sure the blades on your clippers are sharp.
 You can firmly speak to the dog and tell her that everything is okay; however, don’t coddle her or give treats at this point. It will confuse the dog — she will think this behavior is being rewarded and encouraged.Remember: You can be kind and gentle without giving up control. Dogs respond well when they see you as the “alpha.” It’s okay to show them they need to be able to tolerate some safe, temporary discomfort.
 You can do this while he is still in the restraint, if that’s physically possible. This may help increase positive associations with the restraint.Never reward a dog when he’s exhibiting unwanted behavior such as growling or resisting. This sends a confusing message and will not help him unlearn the behavior.

