 It’s hard to peel yourself away from electronics, but a good way to find more time in your day is to limit screen time to two hours a day.


Have a favorite TV show that you must watch? Incorporate exercise by doing quick bursts of push ups or sit ups during commercial breaks or by standing up while you watch.;
, Finding 60 minutes a day for exercise is difficult when teens spend most of their day at school. So take advantage of your time at school and move your body during and between classes.


Instead of driving to school, hop on your bike or walk to and from your classes.
Sign up for gym class at school and kill two birds with one stone.Ask your teacher to let you get up and move during classroom activities or jump rope while studying for school at home., Time spent outside of school is precious, so why waste it? Choose jobs or chores that will have you up and moving around.


Double down on your chores by getting your heart pumping while you’re cleaning or raking the lawn for an hour.Choose a job that will help you stay active and pad your bank account, such as becoming a camp counselor.Limit time sitting, too. Teens spend most of their days sitting at school, so it’s important to move around during the rest of the time. Use a standing desk when doing homework, for example, or take a walk with your family after dinner.
 Are the 60 minutes of your exercise hour slowly ticking by? Is it difficult to find an entire hour not taken up by other activities? Break your exercise hour up into three chunks of 20 minutes each and you’ll have no excuse for not staying active.Devote 20 minutes before school, 20 minutes after school, and 20 minutes before bed.
 If you prefer some down time with your own thoughts you should join a gym, take up running, or stream workout videos from the internet. If you are new to exercising, working out in your own home also removes the stress of worrying what other people might think., Turn exercise into a catch up session by signing up to take classes, such as cycling or yoga, with your friends to motivate yourself. Your body and mind will thank you for joining a sports team, such as gymnastics or soccer, where you can move and make new friends. If you’re in it regardless of win or loss, try out an intramural or club team.Some fitness centers offer teen only classes where you can workout and make new friends.
 Weight training is a good activity to begin with if you are new to exercise to gain and tone muscle. Make sure you consult with a qualified adult before undertaking a weight regime.


You don’t need a gym membership or fancy equipment to begin weight training. You can use resistance bands, hand weights, or your own body for activities like sit ups., Exercising doesn’t have to be a bore! Mix it up by participating in physical activities that are more unusual, such as trampoline classes or Bollywood dancing. Trying something new and exciting will give you something to look forward to., Don’t think of playing outside as something only kids do – many teens and adults “play” by doing outdoor activities and exercise. Pick things you find enjoyable outside, get active, and enjoy the fresh air!

Do you like nature? Why not take a walk through the woods, park, or a local trail? Try some hiking or rock climbing if you’re really keen on seeing nature up close.
Like sports? Get a game going with friends or family. Start a pick-up soccer or flag football game. If you like the winter, find a rink for skating or a game of shinny.
Bike riding is a great outdoor activity, too. You can ride alone or in a group and can go at your own pace – slow and leisurely, or fast. Just remember to wear a helmet.
 Can’t bear to put down your video games? Choose to play ones that will get you up on your feet and moving around, such as dancing or sport games. , Make exercise something to look forward to by planning a trip with friends to an amusement park, zoo, or national park. You’ll have a great time and stay active., Winning a competition or even beating your own expectations will get that heart pumping. Embrace getting dirty by running in a fun mud race and set a goal time or mileage. Be sure to gradually increase distance and intensity to avoid injury.


Share your fitness goals on social media to hold yourself accountable.
 Get those feel good vibes going and do your body a favor when you volunteer to help coach a team for smaller children or to help pick up trash in a local park. Choose volunteer activities where you will be on your feet and moving around.

