 Your piercer should give you specific instruction for how to clean your new piercing, including suggesting what products to use for cleaning. Different piercings have somewhat different cleaning requirements, so get clear, written instructions. In general, follow some simple guidelines:Clean skin piercings with warm water and non-scented antibacterial soap, like Dial.
Don’t use rubbing alcohol or hydrogen peroxide on the new piercing. These are too harsh and can damage or irritate the skin.
Avoid using antibiotic creams or ointments. They trap dirt and debris and do not allow the piercing to breathe.
Don’t use table salt to clean your piercing. Use non-iodized sea salt dissolved in warm water.
Clean your piercing as often as your piercer recommends – not more or less. Under-cleaning can cause buildup of dirt, crust, and dead skin. Over-cleaning can irritate and dry skin out. Both are detrimental to healing.
Gently move or twist the jewelry while cleaning it to get the solution inside the piercing and coat the jewelry. This isn’t true for some types of piercings, so always ask your piercer first.
 Other than proper cleaning techniques, taking care of your piercing can help prevent unnecessary pain and infection. Some guidelines to follow for general piercing care are:Don’t sleep on your new piercing. Your jewelry can rub on your blankets, sheets, or pillows, causing irritation and getting the area dirty. Sleep on your back if you got a navel piercing; if your new piercing is facial, try using an airplane support pillow and aligning your piercing with the middle "hole.”
Wash your hands before you touch the piercing or surrounding area.Do NOT remove the jewelry before you piercing is healed.Doing so will probably let the piercing close up. If the area is infected, the infection will be trapped in your skin.
Try not to let clothes rub directly onto new piercings. Also, do not twist your jewelry unless you’re cleaning it.Stay out of pools, lakes, rivers, hot tubs, and submerging in other water under your piercing heals., About 1 in 5 piercings get infected, usually because of unsterile piercing procedures or improper aftercare.Only ever get pierced by a trained professional and in a reputable, clean piercing studio. Before getting pierced, insist that your piercer show you how and where their equipment is sterilized – they should have an autoclave, and clean all surfaces with bleach and disinfectant.


Piercers should only ever pierce you with a new needle out of a sterile package, NEVER a reused needle, and they should always wear fresh, sterile gloves while piercing.A piercing gun is NEVER appropriate. Walk out if you see a piercing gun. Go to a professional to ensure a sterile procedure.
Check with your State legislation about what licensing and training someone needs to have in order to pierce you.
Do NOT pierce yourself or ask an untrained friend to pierce you.
 Though having an allergic reaction to jewelry is not the same thing as getting an infection, anything that irritates your new piercing also increases the risk for infection. A severe allergy could also force you to remove your new jewelry. Always get pierced with hypoallergenic jewelry for the best chance for good healing.


Request stainless steel, titanium, niobium, or 14- or 18-karat gold., There are lots of places you can get pierced, through different types of tissue in areas that get more or less blood-flow. Thus, healing time varies a lot. Know the specifics of your piercing so you know how long you have to take extra care of it (for a specific piercing not listed, consult your professional piercer):Ear cartilage: 6-12 months
Nostril: 6-12 months
Cheek: 6-12 months
Nipples: 6-12 months
Navel: 6-12 months
Dermals/anchors/surface piercings: 6-12 months
Earlobe: 6-8 weeks
Eyebrow: 6-8 weeks
Septum: 6-8 weeks
Lip, labret, or beauty mark: 6-8 weeks
Prince Albert: 6-8 weeks
Clitoral hood: 4-6 weeks
Tongue: 4 weeks

