 In many cases, you are required by law to file a complaint with the agency responsible for enforcing a law before you can file a lawsuit.You also want to make sure you’ve exhausted all internal options. Before you file a lawsuit, confirm that you’ve talked to your boss or to the human resources department and you’ve followed all company policies regarding the complaint or dispute.
If you’re represented by a union, talk to your union representative before you file a lawsuit.
 If your claim arises under federal law, you must file suit in federal court. Otherwise you’ll probably file suit in state court.


You may be able to file a simple breach of contract suit in small claims court, provided the amount of money you’re claiming your employer owes you falls under the threshold for small claims – typically under $10,000, depending on the state.
Keep in mind that if you are an at-will employee, your ability to file a lawsuit may be limited, especially if you intend to file for breach of contract. At-will employment means your employer can fire you for any reason or no reason at all.
However, if your employer has any written policies you are entitled to rely on them.For example, if the employee handbook given out at your company states that employees cannot be terminated unless they’ve been written up three times, you possibly could sue for breach of contract if you were fired and had only been written up once.
If you have to file suit in federal court to enforce your rights, you probably want to consider hiring an attorney experienced in employment law. Federal court procedures are complicated and the standards of evidence can be difficult.
 You need to tell the court what happened, how it was against the law, and the money or other remedies you believe you deserve as a result.


An employment law attorney is highly recommended at this stage unless you’re filing in small claims court. The clerk’s office won’t have forms available for employment law cases as they do for many other matters, and an attorney can make sure you’ve included all the facts that you need to prove your case.
If you cannot afford an attorney, check with your local legal aid office or at the nearest law school, which may have clinics with free or reduced-rate services.
 Once you’ve finished drafting your complaint, you must file it with the clerk of court at the court where you’ve decided you need to file your suit.


When you file your suit, the clerk will stamp it and possibly schedule your initial hearing. You pay filing fees ranging from $50 to several hundred dollars, depending on the state and whether you’re filing in small claims, state, or federal civil court.
After your suit is filed, your employer must be served so he knows what you’re asking a judge or jury to decide and when he has to appear in court to present his side. You cannot serve your employer yourself, but the clerk’s office will have a list of law enforcement and private process serving companies you can use. They will charge you a fee for their service.

