 To be extra safe, send a Snapchat to yourself. Try this method on this Snapchat first, so you're sure it's working before you try it with someone else's photo.


This method should work on Stories as well, but test it on your own private Story first. Some people can get this to work on Snapchats but not Stories.
 Airplane mode will disable your internet connection. This prevents Snapchat from sending a notification to the other person involved.


Apple device: Swipe up from the bottom and press the airplane symbol, or see these instructions.Android device: On most devices, go to Settings, scroll down to "Wireless and Networks," touch More, and check the box or switch next to "Airplane Mode."If this doesn't work, see these instructions.
 Once you turn on Airplane mode, Snapchat should display a red bar at the top of your screen: "Could not refresh. Please try again." If you do not see this red bar, you are not offline. Make sure Airplane mode is on, and WiFi is turned off.
 Open the Snapchat you'd like to screenshot. Remember, trying this with your own Snapchat first is recommended.
 On most devices, press the Power and Home buttons at the same time to take a screenshot.


If this doesn't work, see these iPhone instructions or these Android instructions.
As of July 2, 2015, you no longer need to hold a finger down on the image while you screenshot., Tap the cog icon in the upper right corner to open Snapchat's Settings menu. Scroll down to the bottom, and select Log out.
 Even after returning to your Home screen, Snapchat will be running in the background. You must close it completely to avoid having a notification sent:


Apple device: Double-tap the Home button, swipe left or right to the Snapchat preview, and swipe up to close it.Android device: Press the Recent Apps button at the bottom of your screen and swipe Snapchat to the right. If you don't have this button, or if Snapchat still sends a notification, try one of the other methods described here.
 Wait at least a few seconds before you continue. If you go back online before Snapchat finishes closing, this will not work.
 Go back to your Settings menu and turn off Airplane mode.
 The Snapchat you screenshot should not say "Screenshot" next to it. In fact, the other person usually won't even know that you've opened it. You can now open it as usual.

