 Choose a wooden window frame that is the size you want your table to be. Inspect the frame. If the frame has grooved sides with rubber stoppers, it would be a good idea to cut these off using a table saw. This will give you a smoother finish.


You can have a plain window or a window with a grid on it.;
, Choose some boards that are 1 inch (2.54 centimeters) thick and about 6 inches (15.24 centimeters) wide. Cut them down to the length and width of your window frame. Make sure that they match up with the outside edges of your frame.


If you want a shallower memory box, choose boards that are 4 inches (10.16 centimeters) wide.If you want a deeper memory box, choose boards that are 8 inches (20.32 centimeters) wide., The board needs to fit the inside dimensions of your box. You can get these by subtracting 2 inches (5.08 centimeters) from the length and width of your side boards. Use a table saw or circular saw to cut the board.
 Take two side boards, and line them up along the outer edge of the base board. Nail them together that the corner, then nail them to the board itself.
 Take the third board, and nail it to the base board and one of the side boards. Take the last board, and nail it down as well. When you are done, you should have a box. Don't worry about the top (window) part just yet.
 The legs should have screws set into the top for attaching to brackets. When buying the legs, make sure that you buy the matching metal brackets.


If the legs are too long, cut them down with a saw.
 Flip the box over so that the bottom is facing you. Place a metal bracket in each corner, aligning the edges with the base board's edges; exclude the side boards. Use a pen or pencil to make a dot in each screw hole., Remove the metal brackets. Drill a hole over each dot. Make sure that the holes will fit the screws that you will be using., Place the brackets back over the corners. Match up the screw holes. Insert the screws, then drill them into place. Make sure that it is a tight fit., Take a table leg, and place it over the metal bracket. Fit the screw into the hole, then twist it until it tightens., Flip the frame over so that the underside is facing you. Place the hinges on the frame, with the hinge parts lined up with the outside edge. Use a pen or pencil to make a dot in each screw hole.


Make sure that the hinges are on the same side of the frame.
The hinges will be on the back of the table.
 Use a drill to make a hole over each dot. Blow the sawdust away when you are done. Make sure that the holes will fit the screws that you will be using.
 Place the hinges back over the frame. Line up the screw holes on the hinge with the holes on the frame. Insert the screws, then drill them into place., Set the frame down on top of the box. Flip the hinges down so that they rest against the side board. Use a pen or pencil to make a dot in each screw hole.
 Use the same method as you did for the frame. Flip the hinges up first, then use a drill to make a hole over each dot. Blow off any sawdust.
 Flip the hinges back down. Insert a screw into each screw hole. Drill the screws into place.
 You do not have to do this, but it will give your table a nicer finish. Mask off the glass using painter's tape first, then paint or stain the table using your choice of paint or stain.Consider painting the inside of the box as well.
 This would be a good idea, even if you did not paint or stain the table. It will give your table a nicer finish, protect it against stains, and make it easier to clean. You can use a matte, satin, or glossy top coat.If you did not paint or stain the table, be sure to mask off the glass with painter's tape.
If you did paint or stain the table, make sure that you use a top coat suitable for the type of paint or stain you used.
 This is not completely necessary, but it could give your box a nicer finish. Cut down some velvet-textured mat board to fit the bottom of your box and set it inside. Secure the board with some wood glue, if desired.


If you like to travel, consider pasting down a map into the bottom of the table instead. Paint Mod Podge or decoupage over it to seal it in., The beauty of memory box tables is that they are essentially memory or shadow boxes. Open up the table, and set down some treasured items. Include some large, medium, and small items. Group them together. Try to match the theme (such as all baseball-related).


If you'd like some additional texture, set down a piece of fabric in the bottom of the box so that it creates mountain-like folds.
If you choose a beach theme, consider filling the bottom of you box with sand.