;
, The existence of black holes in the universe is a theory now supported both theoretically and by observations of distant, astronomical phenomena that seem to indicate that a black hole may "swallow" stars, planetary systems and grow until it may collapse a galaxy, disappearing into the hole. Mathematics may model (describe/show) how to theoretically calculate physical properties of remote/distant stellar bodies (of or pertaining to the stars, or consisting of stars)in the universe such as the temperature of the surface of the stars and their atomic contents. Such information is usually obtained by interpreting the detected light spectrum (diffracted colors) emitted by the specific star and analyzing wavelengths for distance and temperature -- and status of a star in stages of stellar existence, such as quasar, supernova, red giant, white dwarf, collapsing to neutron star, such as pulsar, and finally to become a black hole.
 Light energy had always previously been assumed to travel through space in straight lines. Discoveries and related measurements were not available (since no one had made observations) when the classical physics, including Newtonian, had been written to describe laws of physics by "philosophy". This issue was not resolved until the 20th century, using quantum (new) mechanical concepts of quantifying the energy of light" in the form of discrete (quantifiable) photons.
Photons - subatomic light particles, with no electrical charge, but having momentum and carrying electromagnetic force as the quantum measurable force of electromagnetic radiation. They are explained by specific equations (including Schroedinger's, Einstein's and Planck's) shown below in a basic form. Also, various experiments in physics at the atomic level led to similar problems when the black body radiation was discovered and described. These were also settled by using similar concepts of quantifying energy and other physical observable phenomena, such as the momentum of an atomic particle, which were totally unknown in Newton's times.
 The quantum theory was further explained by the development of the Schroedinger equation (see the image) which relies on the assumption of "waves as particles" in the duality of matter in nature:Ψ is the wave function and i the imaginary unit. The "Hbar" is the reduced Planck constant. The "hhat" is the Hamiltonian operator. The d/dt lowercase "delta/delta t" indicates calculus differentiation for t (time).
His equation in its various forms is very fundamental for the development of many areas of physics and chemistry. Schrödinger equation of motion can be examined and read about including Wikipedia: Schrödinger equation.
 This explains the name wave function, and gives rise to "wave-particle duality". The wave function is a probability amplitude in quantum mechanics describing the quantum state of a particle and how it behaves, typically for space and time. And, its values are complex numbers. The laws of quantum mechanics (the Schrödinger equation) describe how the wave function evolves over time. The wave function behaves qualitatively like other waves, like water waves or waves on a string., It is named after Max Planck, who received the 1918 Nobel Prize in Physics "in recognition of the services he rendered to the advancement of Physics by his discovery of energy quanta". He was one of the founders of quantum theory, who described it in 1899.Planck's constant - was first described as proportionality constant between the energy (E) of a photon and the frequency of its associated electromagnetic wave (ν) nu . The relation between energy and frequency is called the Planck relation or the Planck–Einstein equation:E = hν

Since the frequency ν, wavelength λ (Lambda), and speed of light c are related by λν = c, the Planck relation can also be expressed as:

E = hc/λ



constant - certain numeric value for example π (pi) is a well known constant




Hilbert's space - uses methods of vector-algebra and of calculus from two-dimensional Euclidean plane and beyond the three-dimensional space to theoretical spaces with any finite or arguably infinite number of dimensions. A Hilbert space is "abstract vector space" with the structure of an inner product that allows length and angle to be measured. Furthermore, Hilbert spaces are required to be complete, a property that stipulates the existence of enough limits (parameters) in the space to allow the techniques of calculus to be used in a region.
 Also, this theory should be examined against any possible defect in its mathematical applications and physical structures. Theories that depict natural/physical phenomena are not to be taken for granted and search must always be continued for alternative, better more complete theories.
,, This should also include for example Newton's theory of motion of massive bodies which have already showed failure of accuracy, as on the atomic scale, involving knowledge that was not yet uncovered in Newton's era. The gravitational law area in the classical theory of motion needs to be studied further and to provide more adequate theory for its physical explanation as a unique phenomenon that is characteristic of every star and particle in the universe. The failure to formulate a theory of quantum gravity should give an alert signal as to whether these theories are precisely correct or not (as new data is recorded and analyzed).

