 All good relationships are built on communication, openness, and honesty. Hiding your dreams and passions from her is only going to create a divide between you, making it harder to connect as you drift apart. Bridge this gap by talking openly and often. Share your hopes, fears, and wacky ideas, and she'll feel free to share hers.


This includes ideas that are difficult to talk about. You may think you should "protect her," but she is a smart, capable person just like you. She'll feel more touched that you trusted her than hurt by what you have to say.;
, Eye contact breeds trust, closeness, and love. It shows that you're talking honestly and respectfully, whereas looking away may make you seem untrustworthy. Just as importantly, keep you eyes up and away from her body. You don't want a girl to think you only like her for her body.


If you have trouble making eye-contact, look between her eyes or at her earlobe. If you're a few feet away, most people won't notice that you're not looking at their eyes., 50% of conversation is listening, but people often forget how important it is to shut up from time to time. Ask her questions and listen thoughtfully, nodding along and asking relevant questions when possible. If you've been talking for 2-3 minutes straight, it is time to slow down and ask her a question.Make eye-contact as you listen.
Ask her simple questions like, "how was your day?" and "what do you think of that?"

, If you really like this girl, try unique compliments, such as "I love your laugh, it brightens up the whole room," instead of "you have beautiful eyes". Avoid cheesy pick-up lines that she's probably heard before. A compliment only means something if you really mean the compliment.


The more genuine and specific your compliment, the better it will be. Think about what you really love about her and let her know. Don't just spit the lines you've heard in movies., Sometimes she doesn't expect you to offer a solution, but instead wants you to listen to her vent. Treat her with care and compassion when she shares her feelings with you. If she needs time and space, give it to her.


Being supportive is about being there when she needs you. Even if something seems small to you, you need to show her that you care when she's upset.
If she seems upset, but won't talk, don't push her. Just listen. Ask her if there "is anything on your mind?" or simply "how is everything going." Asking her "if something is wrong" implies that there is something bad happening, which can cause her to close up.