 Before you can truly trust someone new, you have to let go of and move on from your past relationship. Remind yourself that the person you are currently with is not your past partner, but a new person. This means they are not going to do the same thing to you that your past partner did. Work on separating the two people.You may not be completely healed, but you can’t dwell on what happened to you in the past. Let go of it and move forward.
Keep in mind that many people need professional help after a violation of trust in their relationship.;
, After your partner cheats on you, you may start to question yourself. You may not trust yourself to judge whether your current partner is someone who can be trusted or cares about you. Trust yourself and your judgment. Remember that it is not your fault that your previous partner was unfaithful. You probably would not have been able to prevent it, notice signs, or change anything. Let go of any guilt or blame you feel that will keep you from trusting again.Trust your instincts. Going through what you have can give you new insights, but remember to trust your intuition and gut feelings.
 Sometimes, you have to decide to trust someone. You may be scared of getting hurt, but your past shouldn’t keep your from future fulfilling relationships.This means you believe the person is a good person worthy of your trust. You believe they don’t mean to hurt you intentionally. However, it also means you know they will make mistakes and you both will probably unintentionally hurt one another. This is inevitable in all relationships.
 Sometimes, it can be hard to move on. Getting over being hurt and having someone you trust break that trust can be difficult to deal with. If you can’t move on from your past relationship, get help from a therapist or counselor. A counselor can help your work through the pain and move forward with your life.

A therapist can talk with you about your experience and help you face your pain and any issues that have arisen because of it.
You might have had trust issues within your family have carried over into your relationships.

