 To become pilates instructor does not take a day or two. It is an ongoing process that requires time and determination. You must be committed enough to get your Pilates instructor certification. To become pilates instructor it is not enough to merely be able to perform all the pilates poses. You need to be passionate about Pilates and have the need to pass your knowledge and expertise to others. If this sounds like you, getting the Pilates certification will be just the right thing for you!;
, This certification is divided into 2 categories - the mat certification and the comprehensive certification. The latter covers the usage of all the Pilates equipment in addition to the mat exercises. There are also other types of pilates certifications for instructors who can focus on Pilates exercises specifically for certain types of sports or rehab.
 Taking classes for some time before applying for your certification is certainly highly recommended, although this is not required in all certification requirements. Your exam coach can check all the basics of mat work during the exam. The exam typically consists of both a demonstration and written exam. This Pilates certification is likely to cost between $100 and $300.
 In order to qualify for this type of certificate, you need to be regularly attending Pilates class for at least a year. In addition to what you learn during mat certification training, you will need to learn the basics of physiology and anatomy. You will also have to learn the history and evolution of Pilates as a discipline and have in-depth knowledge about of all the equipment. Furthermore you must get 900 apprentice hours in one year. You can always take it a step further and become a pilates teacher who giving lessons to people applying for pilates certification. This can take a lot of time and the price of these lessons can be over $3,000. If Pilates is your passion, you will discover that all the troubles to get your Pilates certification are well worth it!

