 Research online and download a template or create your own. You may use a design program like Adobe Illustrator to enlarge your design. Print your design on stencil decal vinyl either using a Cricut vinyl plotter or Graphtect Vinyl plotter. If you do not have these tools, you may also simply print out your design on paper., Clean your metal with a rag and solvent to remove any grease or debris. Whether using stencil decal vinyl or paper, place your design on your 16 gauge metal. Use a soapstone pencil or a sharpie marker to trace your design onto the metal., Use a plasma cutter and keep the tip around ⅛ of an inch from the metal. Be careful to create a nice clean and smooth cut. Make sure the work area is well lit and well ventilated. Wear the proper safety gear including goggles, gloves, and protective eye gear.If you are using a normal 110v outlet, you may use a Hobart 250ci Plasma Cutter.
 Slag will be produced on the bottom and top of the metal when using the plasma cutter. Use your angle grinder to remove any slag. Clamp down your tree and use a 60 to 80 grit flap disc to clean the edges.Use the 80 grit flap disc to create the illusion of bark by grinding the surface of the tree. Remove blotches of film from the metal with the grinder for a bark like look.
 Using a ¼ inch drill bit on the leaves, create holes so that you are able to dangle earings. You may experiment with slightly larger drill bits to hang special bracelets.
 Bend your tree using a pry bar or a chisel so that it is able to stand vertically. Create a flap at the bottom of the trunk by clamping down your tree to your workbench and allowing a bit of the trunk to hang over your table. Then use the chisel or pry bar to bend the overhang towards the ground., Use the plasma cutter to cut a 6 x 4 inch shape from your 10 gauge steel. Create a heavy base. The shape you choose is completely to your preference., Use a clear quick setting epoxy on the flap of your tree to attach it to the base. Clamp the base of your tree down to the base for an hour or two to let the glue dry.
 Create dimension and character by bending leaves and branches. Clamp your tree down and use a chisel or pry bar to bend your leaves. When done shaping your piece, use a few thin coats of solvent based metal sealer to seal the entire jewelry tree.Purchase solvent based metal sealer at your local hardware store.
 Avoid scratching surfaces by adding some felt pads to the bottom of your piece. Add earrings, necklaces, and other jewelry to your finished tree.