 Glorify God by living as hopefully as possible, during the "stormy" difficulties, anxious or boring routine. Now, there remains faith, hope and charity", loving your neighbor. Don't give in to hate, in/through days of weathering life's wind and rain, lashing you; be kind; get some rest; sleep; relax more, if possible; don't fear every unknown ebb and flow of life. We may wonder, Lord, will I ever reach my destination. We may say as Job: "Though He slay me, yet will I trust Him".;
, Love your enemy (so, don't be cruel or hateful)" -- and so, keep your hopes alive. Ever feel you would never make it? Wait on the Lord as Mary and Martha who endured difficult days as their brother Lazarus sickened, grew worse and died, all while Jesus didn't show up. But, then He came when hope seemed gone and raised there brother to new life. It's not too late for new life, in faith, hope and living out your charity/love.
 We prove God's word in adversity--not in calm "waters", in work or school. We prove it when the storm has lasted for two weeks or two months or two years or two decades, we need assurance that He is with us. In storms when the frail ship would be blasted to bits there stands by you in the night the angel of God, saying. "Fear not in the storms..."

, We need security in the surface storm, seeing that God never forsakes us. Our assurance must be rooted in the faithfulness of God to keep us...for better for worse, for richer or poorer, in sickness, and in health and in life and in death.
 Don't insist that He do everything the same in every occasion. We can't remain in the shallows, but maturity in faith means seeking and doing His will, acknowledging His Lordship in the deep or on the rocks. His yoke is easy and His burden is light, for he shares each step of faith and carries us in His love.
 Hate eats away inside the hater. Do not let the sun set on your anger. Forgive and forget. Maturity means you understand that it is not a bed of roses. It is very difficult to manhandle life. Don't second-guess God; believe His love is for you. We are the vessel as His creature, He is filling us as the giver of life, our Creator, God!

,, You see "storms". Some will blow up and calm down in a hurry. Some will last a while and threaten your tranquility for long periods of time. You may even see a few shipwrecks, where life is a challenge.
 Life offers cloudy days, and there have been many. All power is in the name of Jesus and not in any other name.
,, Jesus never fails us. He is the same today as He was yesterday and will be. And He loves you and me so much.
 You may be going through so much physically, spiritually, emotionally and financially. Some people are in bondage or in prison literally and also within themselves and don't know the the answer.
 You will never have been so happy in your life. Why not jump into the arms of a loving God? Though the storms rage high and the dark clouds roll, you don't need to worry. You'll be sheltered, safe within the arms of God.

