


Soak a soft, clean cloth rag in warm water.
Wring out some of the excess water to prevent the rag from dripping over unaffected areas. Scrape the paint away
Wipe away the spot of paint. You may need to rinse and re-soak the rag several times to get all of the paint up.
Wipe the wood dry with a separate, dry rag.;
,


Apply enough alcohol to a clean rag to dampen it without making it dripping wet.
Pass the alcohol-soaked rag over the paint spot to remove it. Rinse, resoak, and repeat as needed.
Dry the spot with a clean, dry rag when finished.
 Oil-based paint will continue clinging to the wood if you use plain water, so wipe it away with a soft rag dabbed in mineral spirits.


Dip a soft, clean rag into a small dish of mineral spirits. Instead of soaking the entire rag, only soak the area you plan on bringing into contact with the paint splatter.
Wipe up the paint by passing the mineral spirit over the splatter. Rinse and resoak as needed until all the paint has been removed.
Dry the area with a separate dry rag.
 Dry spots of paint can be softened by soaking and rubbing them away with boiled linseed oil.


Soak a clean rag in boiled linseed oil.
Press the linseed oil rag against the paint spot and hold in place for 30 to 60 seconds. This permits the oil to soak into the paint.
Wipe away the softened paint with your linseed oil soaked rag.
Dry the area with a separate dry rag.
 If you cannot wipe the paint away even after softening it with boiled linseed oil, carefully use a putty knife to scrape beneath the splatter and lift it off the wood.
 Any dried paint residue that remains can be removed by rubbing it with a paste made of boiled linseed oil and rottenstone.


Combine enough boiled linseed oil and rottenstone in a small disposable dish to form a thick paste. Use a disposable wooden chopstick to stir the ingredients together.
Scoop some of the paste onto a clean rag and rub the paste into the wood along the grain.
Wipe away the grain using another clean rag.

