 Only 27% of college graduates actually have a job in the same field as their degree.College is about intellectual exploration and excitement, not cementing your entire future. Choose a major that genuinely interests you and the classes will fly by with ease. Your grades will be better, you'll be happier, and your job prospects will be no worse for the wear.


If you choose to go a pre-professional route after graduation (medical school, law school, etc.) be sure to talk to your career center about fulfilling your requirements for graduate school.
 Your college's career center is an invaluable resource for you, and it is never too early to stop in for a visit. Make an appointment, even if you're unsure what you want to do or don't think you need to plan until senior year. You career center often has internships, connections with alumni, and even grant money to help you chart your path after college.


The career center is a great place for practical advice on what classes you need, where to send resumes, and potential jobs based on your interests.
You don't need to chart out every step of your career from freshman year on. Simply stop in to find out what exactly your career center has to offer you.
 Whether it is research with a professor, a fellowship to produce a book of poetry, or a campus job in IT, finding time to work while in college builds valuable experience and connections. While your career center should have some advice, don't be afraid to ask your professors if they know of any work or research opportunities as well. Many will be happy to sponsor you, or help you find a good fit in their field., Your college's alumni are going to be an incredible, supportive network for you. They will be the ones who uncover a new job position that you're perfect for, that go to bat for you in an interview, and spend an hour or two on the phone giving advice and reminiscing about your alma mater. It seems too good to be true, but the built-in connect you have with alumni will help you in the future whether you realize it or not. While asking for a job directly is generally frowned upon, try out these conversation starters:


"What do you enjoy about your work?"
"How did prepare you for what came next?"
"What advice do you have for a graduate interested in the _________ field?", You'll get the most out of college only if you're willing to push yourself. Try out a new class that you're interested in but intimidated by. Perform your first stand-up routine at an open mic. Go to parties and pretend you're not naturally shy. If you challenge yourself now, putting aside temporary discomfort for long-term happiness, you have no idea what kind of doors will open up. When you do finally graduate, you'll be able to walk through any challenge or career with your head held high.


"If you aren’t in over your head, how do you know how tall you are?" -T.S. Eliot