 To go to the Assassin's Guild, you have to travel 2 maps south and 2 maps east from Morroc Town. Go inside the building at the north of the town and talk to the NPC there to sign up to become an Assassin. He will then warp you to Assassin Kai to start the quest right away.

If you got kicked out, talk to him again to get back in.
You must be a Thief with a job level 40 or higher to start this quest.
 Once inside the room, you will find Assassin Kai. He will shift to another position the first time you click on him. After that, talk to him until he warps you to the next room. In the next room, if you take a few steps, an invisible NPC will talk to you, asking you 3 sets of 10 questions, listed below.

Quiz Question Set 1

What here is not a prerequisite of the skill Grimtooth? (Left hand mastery Lv 2)
Enchant Poison makes your weapon what element? (Poison)
What is the function of level 4 Left Hand Mastery? (Attack +70%)
What item do you need to use when you use the skill Venom Dust? (Red Gemstone)
When you increase Enchant Poison up to level 5, what new skill will appear? (Venom Dust)
What skill listed below allows you to be walk around unseen? (Cloak)
What is the requirement for Venom Dust? (Must use a red gemstone)
What monster card listed below adds to Intelligence? (Elder Willow)
How much SP do you use when you do a double hit using a dagger? (0)
What is the best type of sword to use in the Bybalan Dungeon? (Sword of Piercing Wind)


Quiz Question Set 2

Which monster drops a slotted Katar? (Desert Wolf)
What card listed below can be inserted into a Jur? (Caramel)
Which class can forge weapons? (Blacksmith)
Which weapon listed below isn't a Katar class weapon? (Gladius)
In Bybalan Dungeon a large amount of monsters are of what elemental type? (Water)
What monster listed below can't be tamed and turned into a cute pet? (Roda Frog)
Choose the monster that is weakest to fire. (Kobold )
Choose the non-elemental Katar. (Infiltrator)
Pick out the monster that doesn't belong in the group. (Creamy)
Choose a non-undead monster. (Poison Spore)


Quiz Question Set 3

What is the increased dodge rate you get when you have the Improve Dodge skill at level 10? (30)
Which monster can detect someone who is hidden/cloaked? (Whispers)
Assassins can use dual weapons. Which set of weapons below can an Assassin use? (Damascus and Stiletto)
Which town do you become a Thief in? (Morroc)
Which card has nothing to do with agility? (Whisper Card)
What makes Assassins so special? (Excellent dodging ability)
When an Assassin reaches a job level of 50, what is the added bonus he/she receives to agility? (10)
What piece of equipment cannot be used by an Assassin? (Golden helm)
When a Novice wants to become a Thief, what mushrooms does he/she need to steal? (Orange Net Mushrooms or Orange Gooey Mushrooms)
What card listed below is useless to an Assassin? (Elder Willow Card)


In order to pass this test, you must have 90/100 points.
If you fail, you will be warped out of the room to talk to Assassin Kai again.
After you pass the test, just move forward to take the next test.
 Once you find Barcardi, enter her chat room to get warped to the test room. There are two parts to this test: Kill Job Change Target monsters and sneak past large groups of aggressive monsters.

In the first part, you have to pick out monsters named Job Change Target among a group of monsters named differently.
Kill any other monsters and you will fail the the test.
The test is timed as well, giving you 3 minutes to complete this part.
If you successfully kill all the monsters with Job Change Target name, a portal will appear that will lead you to the second part of the test.
In the second part, be careful not to fall into the holes in the room. If you fall into them, you will have to start all over.
The last part of the test will require you to sneak past a large group of aggressive monsters. Use your hide skill.
You also have 3 minutes to finish the second part of the test.
To successfully finish this part, you have to reach the end of the room and enter the portal. You don't have to kill any of the monsters.
You must pass both exam before proceeding to the next room. If you fail one, you have to start the whole test all over again.
 In the third room, after the mob, you will end up in a room with invisible walls. The test requires you to find your way in the room to get to the Guild Master.

You cannot click on him from far away.
You must get to the tiles next to him to pass this test.
Once you reach him, the Guild Master will ask you a few questions, but you can answer them in any way you want.
If you're at job level 50, you get to choose one item between a Jur, a Katar, a Main Gauche, or a Gladius. Otherwise, you will get a Jur, a Stiletto, or a Katar, which are randomly determined.
The Guild Master will also give you a Necklace of Oblivion and then warp you back to the entrance to talk to the Guildsman. He will then change you to an assassin.
If you don't have the Necklace of Oblivion with you, the Guildsman won't change your class.
To reset the test, you have to talk to him and choose “Well . . . It kinda got stolen . . . Heh.”

