 You have almost no attachments on the guns you actually do have. Choose a default class that would best suit your game style.

Don't wait in lobby for game to start when there is a countdown. Exit out and try to look for a game that is about to start or already started to maximize XP gained over time.;
,, Not all of the guns are great. Using the G36c CLASS in Level 1 is best. This is also the best default class. Use G36c CLASS up to level 4.

Get a custom class. At level 4, you will only need two custom classes for now. They are the scar-l and the ump45. Don't care about which guns are good or not. Use the scar-l on bigger maps and the ump on maps like a dome. Use kick on both guns, and silencer on both for now. Perks for the scar-l class- SoH Quickdraw Marksman. For the ump- SoH, Quickdraw, Stalker. Secondary- fmg-9 akimbo.
 Up to this point, you can try any game type/class you want to achieve in.
 The Support Killstreak will maximize this experience until you unlock the Specialist Killstreak. You should select UAV; Ballistic Vest; Recon Drone from Support: Once you can create your own class the first two perks that you will need to get to PRO are Extreme Conditioning and Dead silence. Once you get those PRO you need to complete Parkour and Featherweight challenges.


There are several YouTube videos on how to complete these but basically you need to climb a ton of obstacles over and over again and jump down from stair cases and second floors to buildings over and over again.
 Now that you have more guns, you should probably have a few attachments for your scar and jump. You'll get a lot more kills, and should be getting fewer deaths., Use 3-5-7 assault package for your ks. Use red dot and heartbeat with your scar-l and rapid fire on your ump with a kick.,,

In Drop Zone, there is no 20 XP per sec, that +20 you see is towards your team's score for the game, not XP.
 The type-95. This is a highly OP weapon, and it is awesome help for ranking up. Use only Red Dot on it for now.

If you managed to get extended mags on your scar and ump, put those on both those guns. and switch SoH on your Ump to Extreme conditioning as soon as you get it, and change SoH on your scar-l class to scavenger also.
Also, use the PP90M1 or the P90 with rapid fire and silencer.
 It does not matter which specialist streak you select because it is all based on your game style.
 Also, make a new class, the G36c.

Use red dot and kick when you get it, switching it from red dot to red dot and silencer.
Use SoH, Assassin, and Sitrep or Steady Aim.
 Use a silencer and impact, as this proves to be an amazing combo. Perks use Scavenger, Hardline, and Dead Silence when you get it. From these levels on, it is recommended that you play Kill Confirmed or Search., Once you get to level 80, you can get your gold guns and (what games are for), just have fun., Once you hit level 80 you can prestige and earn a Prestige Shop token. Use it on double XP to maximize your XP gained to the next prestige level. But, if you think it is a waste, then use it on whatever you like, either opening a new class slot or unlocking weapons/perks that can be used after level 5.
 If you do use Attack Killstreak, do not use it on Kill Confirmed, unless you are playing with a good team. The object of Kill Confirmed is to kill others and collect their dog tags. You will not win or maximize game points by just killing people, unless you're one of those that gets a Massive Ordinance Air Blast (MOAB) in every game you play or getting 45 kills and one death.
 Once unlocked, try using with SMG: Extreme Conditioning, Assassin or Hard line, and Dead silence.

For Assault Rifles, try using Sleight of Hand, Assassin or Hard line, Dead silence or Marksmen. Do not use Blind Eye unless you're taking out enemy aircraft. The only other time that you would use any other perks is when you use the Specialist Killstreak. When using that killstreak, do not use Scavenger Perk at all.






Watch a YouTube an in depth explanation of Specialist Killstreak so that you can fully understand why.

