 A reptile’s eyes are commonly affected by vitamin A deficiency. An early sign of vitamin A deficiency is swollen eyelids. Sometimes, the eyelids are so swollen that the eyes cannot open.Occasionally, the iris (colored portion) of the eye can look swollen or enlarged.;
, The conjunctiva is the inner lining of a reptile’s eyelids and is usually not visible. If your reptile is deficient in vitamin A, the conjunctiva will be red, swollen, and very visible.There may also be a buildup of a solid, whitish-yellow substance in the conjunctival area., A reptile’s eyes should be clear. Without enough vitamin A, the eyes could become cloudy.Cloudy eyes would look glazed or hazy.
 Tear ducts are located on the sides of the eyes closest to the nose. When a reptile does not get enough vitamin A, the ducts’ cellular linings can thicken (‘squamous metaplasia’) and block the normal flow of fluid through the ducts.The ducts would then become plugged and unable to function properly.If you do see tear duct secretions, they will probably look thick and gummy., Vitamin A deficiency can weaken a reptile’s immune system, increasing the likelihood of bacterial or fungal infections. The mouth is a common location for infections.Infectious stomatitis, also known as mouth rot, is a mouth infection occurring in reptiles with vitamin A deficiency.Signs of infectious stomatitis include redness in the mouth, pus and/or dead tissue in the mouth, and fluid draining from the mouth and nose., Without healthy epithelial cells, a reptile’s skin condition can worsen. If your reptile is deficient in vitamin A, its skin will become red and thin. In some places, the skin may thicken and begin to crack. In addition, the skin may start to blister and slough off.These skin conditions will likely be uncomfortable and painful for your reptile.


Your reptile’s skin could also become infected.Signs of skin infection include redness, swelling, and possible skin lesions.
 Vitamin A deficiency can cause a runny nose in reptiles.The runny nose may be due to damage or infection within the nose., Although breathing patterns can vary between reptiles, reptiles generally breathe through their lungs.Vitamin A deficiency, however, can make breathing difficult. Signs of troubled breathing include open mouth breathing and wheezing., Reptiles with vitamin A deficiency can lose their appetite and start losing weight.In addition, if your reptile cannot open his eyes, he would not be able to see the food you place in his cage, making eating difficult. This could also cause him to lose weight.Digital reptile scales are available, either online or in your local pet store.
 Vitamin A deficiency can make a reptile feel pretty miserable. As soon you recognize the symptoms of the deficiency, take your reptile to your vet. Do not try to treat your reptile on your own., To accurately diagnose a Vitamin A deficiency, your vet will need to know as much as possible about your reptile’s diet and overall care. Be very detailed when describing your reptile’s diet, including what your reptile eats (including supplements), how much it eats, and when it eats.Describe the symptoms of vitamin A deficiency that you’ve seen, and when you first started noticing them.
Tell your vet how you care for your reptile. For example, describe your reptile’s cage environment, including how you clean and maintain the cage.
Consider taking your reptile to a vet who has experience working with reptiles.
 Your vet will physically exam your reptile, paying close attention to the eyes, mouth, and abdomen.Your vet may also want to perform several diagnostic tests. Since internal organs (e.g., liver, kidneys, pancreas) can be affected by vitamin A deficiency, your vet will take a blood sample and analyze it for indications of organ damage.


A biopsy would be helpful for diagnosing an infection.However, it may be expensive and not very practical.Your vet will be able to come up with a treatment plan after examining your reptile.

