 Makeup will be no help when your eye is still swollen, and the application might even aggravate your eye further and delay healing time. Just be patient and give your injury a few days to heal.If you have cuts or lacerations around your eye, don't risk infection by trying to cover it with makeup. You'll just have to own your black eye until it heals., A primer will keep your makeup on longer and keep it from settling into wrinkles and creases around your eye.Apply the primer wherever there is discoloration and you plan to use makeup. Dab it on gently with your ring finger, which is your weakest finger and is least likely to irritate your sink., Depending on the stage of healing, your eye could be red, black, purple, brown, green, or yellow. This shade will show through your concealer and ruin the illusion, so you need to neutralize it by applying applying the opposite color, or the color that is across the color wheel.A color correcting concealer can do this while also applying concealer, or you can improvise with blush or eyeshadow.If your bruise is green, use red, and vice versa.
If your bruise is blue, use orange or salmon.
If your bruise is yellow, try purple, and vice versa.
 Use your ring finger to gently pat the concealer around your eye, covering the color-corrected areas and also blending a little bit out beyond. Allow the concealer to dry and apply another layer if necessary.Once the concealer is dry, apply your foundation and other makeup as normal, being careful to blend the edges of your concealer with the foundation.If you didn't use primer, you can use a dusting of translucent powder to set the concealer., Eyeliner or mascara should be avoided until your eye is healed, as it draws attention to the area. Plus, tugging and pressing on your eyelid could cause more swelling.


Rock a bright, attention-grabbing lipstick that will have people focusing on your lips instead of your eye.
Try a new hairstyle or take some fashion risks. To out-shine your shiner, try changing your hair color or wear something with a bold print. If you've ever wanted to do something crazy with your look, now is the time!

