 This is certainly not a venture for those who value their personal space. Benches on board fold up to maximize capacity, and platform attendants wearing white gloves push passengers through the doors. Some subway lines have women-only cars during the morning rush hours, so women and young children can ride more comfortably.;
, Even at an intense frequency of every 2-3 minutes there is a strict schedule that is followed to the second. A train late by only a minute (which is considered "on time" in any other place in the world) is a major concern here.
 Enjoying a night out? You'll have to choose between heading home early on the last train, staying out much later and catching the first, or taking a taxi. The subway operates between 5 am and 1 am, when all transportation services cease.
 It is very simple to navigate the Tokyo transportation system. Signs on subway stations include the station names in English. Each line has a letter (example: the Ginza line has a line symbol of G) and a color. You simply follow the signs indicating the line symbol + line color.
 When you arrive at the platform there are two ways of recognizing your preferred station / direction- using the station name as your guide– they appear in English, or there is a letter and number code to identify it each station. The letter stands for the line, the number reflects where on the line the station is.
 They are rechargeable "smart cards". There are two major brands of rail pass: Suica, and Pasmo. They can be used on just about every subway, train and bus line in Tokyo (with the exception of JR's Shinkansen and limited express trains). Most Tokyo Subway tickets and rail passes are sold from automated vending machines which have an English language option (see note below for more detail). Ticket machines are located at each subway station. Some of the larger stations have ticketing offices. There is an initial ¥500 deposit that you must pay when purchasing a rail pass, this fee is refundable at the subway station when you leave Japan. You choose how much money you want to put on the pass, depending on the time you plan to spend in Tokyo.
 When you place your ticket, it will display the amount of cash left on your pass.


Going out of the station without knowing the right exit number for your desired destination, can lead to extensive walking in the endless passageways of the Tokyo subway system. You can find your exit number easily on the vicinity maps which are located on the platforms, or after exiting the fare gate. Once you've identified your exit number, you follow the appropriate exit signs. Subway inspectors located on platforms and next to fare gates, are also very willing to help.
 It seems a bit scary at first but it gets easier the more you do it. If you get stuck you can always ask for help.
, The Japanese for ticket is きっぷ (kippu). If you cannot find it, there is almost always a window next to the turnstiles leading in and out of the station and you can ask for help there.
 For example, under Ueno (上野) if the number is 760, it costs 760￥ to go to Ueno from your current station.
 On the JR line this is usually green.
 The first button to push is JRきっぷ (JR Ticket). This will bring up a display with various numbers. This is where you select the number you saw under your destination (so, in the example of Ueno, 760).
 Be aware there is no Dollars option. Sticking with our example you would owe 760￥.
, It will have a hole punched in it now. You'll need it to exit the station at your destination, so don't forget it!

, This is probably the hardest part, so don't give up if you don't understand right away. Ask the station attendants or people at the information booths for help. See tips for various ways to ask in Japanese.


If at the end of your trip you find you've ridden too far or paid for a ticket to someplace farther than you actually went, use the Fare Adjustment machines located near the exits- the machines look like the ticket buying machines but are yellow. Just slip your ticket in and it will tell you the difference to be made up. Then you can go through the turnstiles with no worries.

