 Go into your basement (or crawlspace) and look at the alignment of floor joists. These are large pieces of lumber going across the house from side to side supporting the floor/roof and are generally 16" apart. Remember the alignment - they generally go from side to side on most modern homes across the width of the house.;
, This is a structural load bearing wall and can't be removed without doing major damage to your home. Inspect the floor space above it for signs that it supports the joists, or an upstairs wall. Look in the attic too, to see if any of the roof framework rests on it. If it's imperative that this wall comes down, you'll have to hire a contractor. They will call in a structural engineer to advise what has to be done to make the house structurally safe if the wall is removed. (Generally a steel beam is required to carry the load from the upper floor/roof to the side walls.)

, Even if there are none present there still might be wiring, plumbing, ventilation, etc. inside the wall. Go downstairs (or to the basement) and see where the wiring, plumbing, venting, etc. enter the main floor. If they go into the wall you want to demolish, they'll have to be relocated before the wall can be completely removed. In this case, all you can do is remove the drywall to expose the studs and the utilities in the wall. You'll have to wait until they're relocated to proceed.
 Cover any vents to prevent dust from being blown around or sucked into your furnace/air conditioner. Put drop sheets on the floor to protect them from debris.
 Take a regular hammer and smash a small hole in the wall at about shoulder height.
 Once you have an area large enough to stick in your head, grab a flashlight and look around. If there are no other obstructions in this area, you can knock the rest of the drywall out on both sides with a sledgehammer (or your foot if you're wearing work boots). Continue knocking out the remaining sheets of drywall as above, making a small exploratory hole before demolishing the rest of the wall.
 Take a reciprocating saw and saw into the 2 X 4 upright studs. Grab the ends and pull out as much as possible. Making sure the reciprocating saw is fitted with blades that can cut through nails, run the saw along floor and wall plates where the upright studs are attached to cut through the nails. Have someone hold the stud while you cut through the nails.
 Using a wrecking bar, pull the floor plate up from the subfloor. Do the same with the ceiling plate; have someone hold the plate while you detach it with the wrecking bar. Pull out any pieces of nails that remain in the subfloor and ceiling with a pair of pliers.
, Place thin strips of wood across the newly created hole at 12 to 16" intervals. (2 X 2s or 1 X 2s work fine). Holding them in place across the gap, place a screw though the existing ceiling on each side to secure them to the ceiling. This will be the new anchor to attach the drywall strip.
 Place the drywall on the ceiling and attach to the wood strips with drywall screws.
 Push paper drywall tape into the wet mud and smooth down with a trowel. Add another layer of mud on top of the tape and smooth out. You can also cover the screws with a coat of mud to cover.
, Allow to dry as above and re -sand.
 Each time, you should use a wider trowel to obtain an almost invisible joint.
 If the ceiling hasn't being painted in some time, you might need to repaint the entire ceiling so the new section doesn't highly contrast with the old section.
