 Doctors advise that middle schoolers get at least an hour of physical activity every day: that’s 60 minutes of moderate aerobic activity like walking or intense activity like running. Regular exercise will give you stronger bones and better skin, help you keep a stable weight, and give you mental and mood boosts.Do things you enjoy! Exercise doesn’t have to be a chore. Do you like to rollerblade, play basketball, dance, or ride your bike? These are all great — and fun — physical activities.
Playing is a natural part of being an adolescent, too. Get some friends and play a game outdoors, for example, like Capture the Flag.
Limit your screen time. One of the biggest culprits behind inactivity is electronic devices: TV, computers, phones, tablets, and other touch screens. Try to make your screen time less than two hours a day.;
, Consider joining an organized sport, either on a team or a school-sponsored club. Most middle schools and high schools support these activities for the health and social benefits they give.Team sports are a great way to stay fit and exercise. They are also a great place to make new friends, learn cooperation and leadership skills, and meet role models. Try a team sport like field hockey, volleyball, or soccer.
Not into team sports? That’s OK, there are plenty of non-team sports like track and field, golf, or gymnastics.
There are also less competitive chances to play team sports. Try a rec league, for example, or find pickup basketball games at the park. Live up north? Play some shinny at a rink or pond.
 Working out at a gym is not something you need to do to be fit and healthy; however, you might want to. At the very least, it will help you fit regular exercise into your busy schedule.


Consider joining an aerobic exercise class at a nearby gym, like gymnastics, dance, or indoor cycling.
What about weights? Weight and resistance exercises are usually OK if done under supervision of an adult. Strength training promotes stronger muscles and bones, can improve your skill in other sports, and increases self-confidence.However, middle schoolers should keep it light and not put too much stress on their developing tissues. Some resistance training is OK, but the focus should not be about big muscles, i.e. serious weight-lifting or body building. Talk to an adult about working with a trainer to learn proper technique and to help you develop a safe, effective strength training program based on your age, size, and skills., While in middle school, you will enter your teens (or be in your "tween" years), and your body will change a lot during this time. This is normal: girls usually enter puberty between 10 – 11 years old, while boys start a bit later at 11 – 13. You’ll get taller, bigger, stronger, and will look physically different than before.Since you’re growing, your body needs more energy and you’ll probably eat more. It’s pretty common to gain some weight during puberty.
Getting bigger doesn’t mean that you are unhealthy, unfit, or overweight. Just remember: the important thing is to eat a healthy diet and keep active.
Everyone’s body is also different. Some people are naturally tall, some skinny, some short. Everyone has their own body type, and that’s OK.
We can’t control our natural body types. But we can control our physical fitness.
 You should be eating regular meals to give your body the energy and nutrients it needs, especially since you’re growing. Usually this means three meals (plus a snack or two) a day, including vegetables, fruit, lean meat, dairy, and whole grains.Always eat breakfast. As they say, it’s the most important meal. A good breakfast will give you energy throughout the day and get your energy and metabolism going. Aim for things like muesli and yoghurt, oatmeal, or scrambled eggs and whole wheat toast.Pick healthy school lunches. Cafeteria food isn’t all bad, but some of it isn’t the healthiest. Choose fruits and vegetables, eat less high-fat food like hotdogs, burgers, and fries, and avoid packaged snacks.Packing your own lunch will let you ensure it’s healthy. Just make sure to include your favorite healthy foods. You might pack a turkey and swiss cheese sandwich, whole wheat crackers, and skim milk, for example. Or, you might pack leftover pasta and a green salad.
 Fruits and veggies are packed with vitamins and are a key part of a balanced diet. Middle schoolers should be eating at least five portions a day, whether they are fresh, frozen, cooked, or dried.


What counts as a portion? Two or more small fruits like plums, a large fruit like an apple, or five pieces of dried fruit are one portion.For vegetables, about four large spoonfuls of fresh green or three spoonfuls of cooked veggies like spinach, carrots, or broccoli count.
You can count fruit or veggies cooked in a stew, pasta, or soup towards your daily “five.” Frozen, canned, or dried fruit like raisins, dates, and figs are also OK.Try to limit the amount of vegetables and fruit you eat in juice and smoothies. These drinks tend to be high in sugar and calories and are not so good for your teeth.
 Adolescents and teens need more of some nutrients than others. This is especially true for calcium for bone growth and, for girls that are menstruating, added iron.Middle school students and those nine to 18 years old need 1,300 mg of calcium per day.This equals about four 8 oz. glasses of milk or 8 oz. of yoghurt, 1 ½ oz. of hard cheese, or 2 cups of low-fat cottage cheese.
Teenage girls need more iron than boys, about 15 mg per day as opposed to 11 mg, to make up for iron lost during menstruation. Rich iron sources are chicken, beef, oysters, clams, and eggs, but also spinach, nuts, and asparagus.
The body more easily absorbs iron from animal protein. But you can help the absorption of plant-based iron by eating it with vitamin-C rich foods. For example, if you have rice and beans (which contain iron) have it topped with sautéed peppers for vitamin C. This way, you will get the most out of your iron source.
 Sweet, fatty, or salty snacks are delicious but not the best choice for your health. They tend to have fewer (or no) nutrients and more calories, which can lead to weight gain or vitamin deficiencies. You don’t have to give them up entirely, but make them an occasional treat.Avoid soda. Soda tastes good but has few nutrients. It’s also very bad for your teeth. Ideally, drink water. Low- or zero-calorie beverages like caffeine herbal tea can be healthy, too.Choose nutritious snacks. This usually means that chips, biscuits, fruit roll-ups, and other sweets are out. Try things like whole wheat toast and peanut butter, pita chips and hummus, or baked sweet potato chips, instead.Don’t feel you need to give up your favorite sweets or snacks entirely. Treating yourself once in a while isn’t a bad thing. It’s having a healthy diet overall that counts., Adolescents and teens need more sleep than adults because their bodies are developing. Too little can mean you won’t be at your best in school, on the sports field, or at play. This can be hard, though. Make an effort to get your share.


Middle schoolers between 10 and 13 years old should get between nine and 11 hours of sleep each night. 14 and older need eight to 10 hours.What is stopping you from getting sleep? Actually, a lot. Early school days, homework, sports, TV shows, games, and electronic devices can steal hours from you each day.
Try setting up a healthy sleep schedule with your parents. For example, you might decide to go to bed at 9:30 pm every school night and get up at 6:30 am. That’s 9 hours of rest every day.
You can indulge from time to time by staying up and sleeping in on weekends. The important thing is that you stick to a regular schedule as much as possible.
 Apart from a schedule, set up an environment and rhythm that will let you power down and get needed rest. You can do this naturally, by making changes to your daily routine.


Resist the urge to stay up late. Try to avoid getting sucked into television, texting, or phone conversations after 9 pm.
You might also get ready for bed by incorporating relaxing activities into your evening ritual, like taking a shower or reading a book.
Did you know that phones, tablets, and laptops can hurt the quality of your sleep, as well? The light stops your brain from making sleep-inducing chemicals. Try to power down at least 30 minutes before bed.Cut out caffeine, too. That cola you drank at 5 pm is still in your system at 10pm, and the caffeine might be keeping you up. Try to avoid caffeinated beverages like soda, tea, or coffee 6 hours before your bedtime., Napping is OK if you feel tired or run-down. Your body is telling you that you need a bit more rest. In fact, you might find a thirty-minute nap after school is a good pick-me-up.Nap, but don’t nap too much or too long. Limit your snoozes to less than one hour. Otherwise, you might end up disrupting your sleep pattern and end up staying up late.

