 Add 1 cup (125 g) of all-purpose flour, 2 teaspoons (7 g) of cream of tartar, and ⅓ cup (100 g) of salt to a medium saucepan. Use a wooden spoon to mix the ingredients together until they’re fully combined.








You can substitute rice flour for the all-purpose flour if you prefer.
 Once all of the ingredients are mixed, pour 1 cup (250 ml) of water and 1 tablespoon (15 ml) of vegetable oil into the pan. Mix the ingredients well, so the water and oil are fully incorporated.








You can substitute any cooking oil, such as canola or olive, for the vegetable oil.
 When all of the ingredients are combined, place the pan on the stove. Set the heat to medium-low, and stir the mixture as it heats. Continue stirring until it starts to become solid, which usually takes between 2 and 3 minutes.It’s okay if the mixture is a little lumpy. You can work out the lumps later.
 Once the mixture is starting to solidify, sprinkle several drops of food coloring in your chosen shade into the pan. Stir the mixture well so the color is fully mixed in.








Start by adding a small amount of food coloring. Mix in more if it’s not as bright or dark as you’d like.
 After you’ve added the food coloring, continue heating the mixture. Stir it as it cooks, and once it begins to cling to the spoon and come together, the play dough is ready. It usually takes approximately 2 additional minutes of heating.








If you’re making multiple batches of the play dough in different colors and your stove is already warm, it may not take that long for it to come together. Pay attention to the texture and consistency to be sure that you don’t overcook it.
 When the dough is finished cooking, transfer it from the pan to a plate or piece of wax paper. Allow the play dough to cool for 5 to 10 minutes, or until you can handle it comfortably., When the play dough is cool, use your hands to knead it for 1 to 2 minutes, taking the time to work out any lumps. Once it’s smooth, the dough is ready to play with.








Store the play dough in an airtight container to keep it fresh. If it starts to dry out, sprinkle a few drops of water on it and knead it in.

