 It's one thing to tell your child that one thing is good while another is bad; it's another thing to explain to your child why some behavior is good and why another way of acting is bad. Your child should not only know what to do and what not to do, but he should have a firm understanding of the moral code and reasoning behind it.

Don't just tell your child not to steal another child's toys; tell him that this is bad because he's messing with another person's property and showing a lack of respect.
Don't just tell your child that he has to say hello to your neighbor every morning; tell him that it's important to be polite to people.
 Show your child that cheating in any shape or form, from bribery to not paying all of your taxes, is inexcusable under any circumstances. Tell your child that cheating on a test is the behavior of a coward and a person who doesn't have the confidence that he can succeed without taking a short cut; being honest is the only way to really succeed and to move forward in life.


Tell your child that anyone who cheats thinks that he is above the system; it is important to bring about change within the system, not outside of it.
 Don't just make your child follow the rules at home and the rules at school because that's the best way to avoid trouble. Though that's a great reason for following the rules, your child should have a sense that the rules are fair and just, and that he would be doing himself and everyone around him a disservice if he didn't follow them.


When your child breaks the rules or makes a point of following the rules, ask him why he did it; he shouldn't say he did what he was supposed to do just to make Mommy and Daddy or his teacher happy. He should follow the rules because he understands the impact of his positive and negative behavior.
Not all rules will seem fair to your child. If his school, or your church, or your friend's household has rules that don't make sense to your child, talk to him about why this is the case.
 Your child doesn't have to feel sorry for every single person who is less privileged than he is. This can be exhausting, and may even lead to some condescension. But your child should develop empathy, the ability to understand what another person is feeling and to look at a situation through that person's eyes. This will help your child see the world outside of his own perspective, and will help him improve his behavior toward others.


For example, let's say your child comes home feeling upset because his teacher yelled at him. Instead of saying that the teacher is a bad person, try to talk about why the teacher acted this way; maybe your child disregarded the teacher's rules several times, or maybe everyone was disregarding the teacher's rules. Talk about how frustrating this might have been for her.
 While your six-year-old may not understand that embezzling large amounts of money is wrong, he can understand that it's wrong to steal a cookie from the school cafeteria without paying or stealing a friend's toy is wrong. Teaching your child this stuff on a small scale first will help him understand that it's wrong, and in many cases even illegal, to take something that isn't yours. Teaching this lesson early on will keep your child from feeling entitled, or like stealing is no big deal as long as he's not caught.

If your child does steal something, make him give it back and explain what he did. Though this will make him ashamed, it will teach him a lesson.
 Lying is another symptom of a corrupt society, and your child should learn the importance of telling the truth as early as possible. Teach him that even a small fib can turn into a big lie that can hurt a lot of people. Say that's it's more important to tell the truth and suffer the consequences than live with a lie and to fool the people around you. Your child should see that lying is not something people can do with a clear conscience and that telling the truth is far more important than protecting yourself.


As your child gets older, you can teach him that there's a difference between telling the truth and being brutally honest.






If your child understands the negative impact of lying early on, then he'll be much less likely to lie during his professional life, and will be much more likely to stop vicious lies when he sees them.

