 For this project, you will need plastic wrap, a piece of sturdy fabric, white craft glue (Tacky glue or even Mod Podge might work), two rubber bands, hair wefts, and a hot glue gun. You'll be making a removable wig for your doll, rather than attaching the hair to the doll's head.
 The squares should be large enough to completely cover the doll’s head with a little extra to spare. Any fabric works, although you might want something on the thicker side., Wrap the plastic down around the doll's head, keeping it as smooth and flat as possible at the top. Fix it securely in place using a rubber band. The plastic wrap will protect the doll's head while you mold the wig cap to fit its size and shape.
 Wrap it over the doll's head just as you did with the plastic wrap. Use a second rubber band to secure it in place. As much as you can, try to smooth out the fabric at the crown of the head and along where the front hairline will be. It’s okay if some of it gathers in the back, since this area shouldn't be visible in the finished product.
 Smear it thickly over the area above the rubber band. Make sure that it’s thoroughly coated and try to rub it into the fabric until it is saturated. Leave the fabric to dry for several hours.


The glue will ultimately give a specific shape to the fabric, since it dries in the shape of the doll's head. It also provides some stiffness, to secure the cap in place when you're done.
 Again, smear it on thickly and make sure that you completely cover the doll's head.
 It should be thick enough that it will hold its shape even when it is removed. However, it should also be flexible enough that you can remove it from the doll's head or securely slip it back on as needed.
 The fabric should come off easily, and the glue should not crack or break. If it does, you may not have used a sufficiently flexible glue and you might need to repeat the previous step. You can remove the plastic wrap at this point and discard it.
 The side that is covered in the smooth layer of glue will be the interior of the wig cap, while the fabric will be the exterior side to which you will attach the wig hair.


At this point, you should have something that looks almost like a shuttlecock from a game of badminton. One end will be rounded and stiff, approximating the shape of the doll's head, while the excess fabric will trail out around it.
 You don’t have to get the cap perfect at this point. Just use scissors to cut off the part that doesn’t have any glue on it. You can discard the excess fabric.


The cap should look roughly like a snug-fitting sock that is molded to the shape of the doll's head.
 It should fit securely. If it is too loose, you may need to start over again, this time ensuring that the fabric is stretched as tightly as possible over the doll's head.
 If the wig cap is too large or the edges are uneven, use a pencil or marker to draw a line along where the edge should be. The cap should end a little above where you want the hairline to fall. Remove the cap and use your scissors (or an Exacto knife) to trim along the line.
 A weft is made from hair that has been woven or sewn to hold it together. Wefts usually look like hair extensions: wide, thin sections of hair, rather than large chunks. You can purchase them from some craft or hobby stores, and also from online specialty stores. The weft sections that you cut should be long enough to loop over or behind the doll's head from one ear to the other., Line the first section up along the front of the cap, so that it runs parallel to the hairline and ends on each side just above where the doll's ears are. Glue the seam line of the weft onto the cap. Line the next section of hair up next to or within less than 0.2 inches of the first section, and glue it into place. Repeat the process down the back of the head until the wig is completely covered.


Don't worry too much if the ends of the wefts look a bit unfinished. You can arrange the hair so that it falls over the ends to conceal them.
 You may need to trim the hair so that it comes to an equal length, unless you like the layered look. You should be able to part the hair down the middle or brush it back as desired. You can also trim the front row of hair so that your doll has bangs.
 You should now have a wig for your doll that looks like a miniature of a wig that a human would wear. The best part is that these wigs aren't secured to the doll, so they're interchangeable. Make a couple of these if you want to change up the doll's style or give it a new hairdo.

