 One of the defining characteristics of Ravenclaw members–if not the defining characteristic–is their love of acquiring new knowledge.Expand your understanding of the natural (and supernatural) world. Watch documentaries. Read non-fiction books and online content. Increase your vocabulary with a Word of the Day calendar. Make a point each day of learning something that you didn’t know the day before.;
, One of the best ways to fall in love with learning is by studying things that already intrigue you, whether it is school-related or not. If you like to read, go to the library every chance you get. If you love to write, carry your notebook everywhere. If you like outer space, go to space camp! Stoke your desire to learn by seizing every opportunity to increase your knowledge and know-how about topics and interests that you hold dear.


You don't necessarily have to become the top expert or practitioner in your chosen field of study. Consider Sybil Trelawney, whose inability to make more than one or two accurate prophecies did not dissuade her from pursuing a thorough knowledge of the art.
 Never be content with what has already been studied, defined, and proven. Tackle new subjects that promise to be difficult in order to expand your overall knowledge. Challenge accepted views from authoritative sources by always asking, “Why?” Aim to not only collect well established facts and concepts, but to discover brand new info so you can contribute to everyone’s understanding of the world., Although Ravenclaws love to learn, their obsession with the unknown can make researching the past boring since there is less opportunity for new discoveries. So when you study subjects like history, focus on how past events have shaped the modern world–and how they may continue to shape tomorrow–to make things more interesting and immediate. Glean those tidbits of knowledge that can be applied directly to the here and now (and beyond!).For instance, learning ancient runes may seem like a waste of time if all you ever do with that skill is read original texts that have already been translated. But if you happen to unearth a previously undiscovered text containing long forgotten spells, that skill will suddenly come in very handy!

, Even though Ravenclaws love to gain knowledge, gaining knowledge doesn’t automatically equate to getting good grades.But remember: Ravenclaws are forward-thinking, so strategize! Even if you feel a particular class is dull or pointless (like, say, phys ed), think about the future. Strive for good grades to improve your overall average. Increase your eligibility for gifted and talented programs, advanced placement, and the college of your choice, where your intellect will be challenged much more than it may be at present!

, Ravenclaws love applying knowledge as much as acquiring it.Use what you have learned to develop something that is totally new. If you devour literature, write your own stories and poems. If you are fascinated by technology, build your own gadgets. If you love solving puzzles, construct your own for others to tackle. Whatever your skills and interests are, utilize them to produce brand new works!

