 As an owner salesperson, that is, one who owns the business that is selling the product, you have the ability to affect more than just the interaction with buyers. In addition to the strategies mentioned in the rest of this article, you can also use other functions to improve your sales. Advertising, merchandising, and marketing are support functions for sales.Selling is the goal of these support functions and a good owner salesperson needs to have a decent understanding of each of these.



Read basic texts on marketing. These will inform you about many of the tactics and techniques underlying advertising, merchandising, and marketing.
 It is important to make your product information available through as many channels as possible. Today, the range of potential placements has increased a great deal thanks to the advances in communications. Give your potential buyers many possible places to find out more about your product in numerous ways, such as:


Word-of-mouth
Advertising (radio, TV, print, email, social media, online ads, etc.)
Sales representatives
Trade shows
Conferences
Cold call sales
Product placement in movies, sports, etc.
Local community events (for instance, donating a product to a local benefit auction will draw attention to your product and serve a good cause), Is the product selling well? Is stock low or high? Are you profiting? How are your competitors performing? Being able to answer these questions will help you maximize your sales, and keep growth steady.
 If you are not selling well, you will need to enter problem-solving mode. Improving your sales will involve reassessing your product, customer base, and marketing.Change your tactics periodically. If customers hear the same sales routine over and over again, or see the same display month in and month out, your product might start to seem irrelevant.
Consider deleting a product from your line if it is not selling well. Stock can be sold at discounted prices to liquidate it.
Review your target market and sharpen your sales focus. Your buyers might be changing, and you will want to keep up with them, or else find a new market.
Re-evaluate the product design, distribution, packaging, etc. Tweaking the product with your target market and sales strategy in mind can improve your sales.
Change the price of your product. By studying your sales data and competitors’ performance, you may be able to tell if you are charging too much or too little for your product.
Make the product exclusive, or available for a limited time only. Sometimes, controlling supply in this way will increase demand and sales. Make sure that this tactic works with your overall sales strategy, however. If you are marketing a product as perfect for everyday use, it may not work to also market it as exclusive.

