 Get into the habit of asking them how their day was and also making sure they ask you how yours was. Be a parent, but also be a human being and share some of your appropriate woes with your teen so they get used to the idea that they are not the only people on the planet with issues and their parents are human beings too.
 When your teen shares their problems with you, they are likely going to be things you have gone through yourself at that age. Try to connect to that time and place in your life and share your experience with your teen, but focusing on them. Let them know just enough so they understand they are not alone. That it is part of growing up.

That you can just be there for them without judging because you know what are going through first hand and then just listen and support, without judgement...even if you want to scream, "What on earth were you thinking?" or "Don't worry; every teen goes through this!" One is judgmental and will make your teen close off. The other is placating and unhelpful. You want to connect with your teen because nothing makes people feel better and learn better when they feel truly deeply connected with another human being.
 Try to find some time, even if it is one hour a month where you and your teen can go together to volunteer somewhere at a shelter, or food bank, or any other place where they can see what other's go through and have a chance to forge connections with them and observe that everyone has problems of various kinds and they are not alone. Encourage them to sit and really listen rather than try too hard to cheer people up first. Encourage them to share some tough issues they have had too with strangers even so they see that people are just people and it's good to listen and share with others., Movies that show how others around the world live and talk to them about how they feel about what they saw. Open their minds up beyond their teenage concerns. Teens are forming their personalities and images and are very protective and defensive at that age, but perhaps showing them what other people their age have to live through, or empowering them with information that can allow them to make a difference in the world with the choices they make will make them feel strong enough to shoulder another's burden as well., Choose books you can read together about the importance of empathy and self esteem and how they go together., People with low self esteem can often be in defense mode all the time and seem selfish because they are too busy protecting themselves to empathize with others. If you feel your teen has low self esteem, you need to address it. It may happen through heat to hearts, or you may need to seek counseling for your teen to help him or her develop a healthy self image. One where he or she feels empowered enough to lend an ear and a helping hand to others which will further build their self esteem and ability to be empathetic., Teach them how you can both help increase someone else's sense of self and belonging ,and your own through empathy, by just being there to listen to someone and being able to say to someone, "What I need from you right now is just to be with me and listen."

Make sure your teen knows empathy doesn't require you to solve other's problems or take over their burdens, but it means being present with that person and helping them just by listening, being there and simply asking "What can I do for you?" "How can I help you?" vs saying this like. 'Yeah man, that really sucks!" or "Well, at least....x, y or z." because that is superficial sympathy. Empathy requires giving of your self through being present and helpful.

