 The Cheshire Cat from the 1951 cartoon movie is striped in purple and pink. In a later cinematic version, the cat is striped in teal and purple. Consider what color scheme is most accessible and which you prefer.When choosing a color scheme, attempt to use the most accessible colors available.;
, Search through thrift stores, clothing stores, or online for a stripped shirt of the desired colors. It’s important to keep the color scheme in mind throughout the creation of the Cheshire Cat.


Costume stores will probably have what you are looking for. Costume stores are also good at having multiple items in the same color scheme.
 The goal is to find the exact color of stripes in pant form. This is not always realistic for some people’s funds. If you do go to a costume store, they should offer a selection in matching tops and bottoms. You could also look online for something with similar colors.


If you can’t find anything, you can wear black pants (skinny) or leggings/tights. The bulk of the costume is from the waist up, so you can still have make an effective Cheshire Cat without a matching bottom.
 You can order a custom onesuit from certain online stores and retailers. There are also onesuit options available that are marketed as a Cheshire Cat costume. Do a quick google search if you were unable to find a matching top and pants., If you're having a hard time finding the right striped colors, you can make your own. You will need a shirt or pair of tights/leggings that is plain and one of your colors. You'll also need tape and fabric paint. Create stripes out of the tape. Once you have the tape setup the way you want it, you can paint onto the shirt.Follow the directions of the fabric paint for mixing with water or any other liquid. Use a brush to paint stripes between the taped stripes.
Let the paint dry for about an hour before removing the tape.
 There are several options you can take with face makeup. You can go for a simple design that can be effective if done right, or do a full paint job with multiple layers. Depending on what style you want to take, you can either go to a costume store for a multiple color face paint set, or find something similar in a general store.


Consider the quality of the face makeup and strive for higher quality paint. It will look better and it will be better for your skin.
 There are several options for a cat tail. Any costume shop will have these pre-made and offer them at a reasonable price. You can alternatively gather the following supplies and create a tail on your own:


A pair of old black tights or fluffy fabric
Needle and thread
Wire and wire cutters (coat hanger will work)
Strip of fabric (to use as the belt), Cat ears are very common to buy premade. A simple black cat is a very popular (last minute) costume. For this reason, you can get a cat ear headband for a decent price. If you’d rather do it yourself, you’ll need the following supplies:


2 colors of fabric
Fabric wire
Pliers
Scissors
Headband

