 Binders come in different sizes, so if you desire just one binder, you have to make sure you can fit all of your notes and materials. In general, a "D" ring binder will fit more material than an "O" ring. Be sure your binder is sturdy--floppy sides will not hold up to the rigors of higher education.


In general, a 2" binder will be fine for a middle or high school aged student.
You may have the option of buying a binder with a clear plastic cover, or not. Clear plastic covers allow for you to easily insert a paper on the cover, side, and back, which is handy for labelling. While optional, this can be helpful.
You may also have the option of purchasing a binder with interior pockets. These pockets are helpful to place papers that are not 3-hole punched. However, they can be tempting to "stuff" papers in without organizing--as discussed later, this is a bad habit that can result in a disorganized binder.;
, Commercial dividers are thick paper or plastic inserts that will help you separate and label your schoolwork. These will make it easier to find your English notes when you need them. You can make your own dividers by 3-hole punching some thick paper, oak tag - heavy cardstock, or the like.
 Labels will help you find your section quickly. You may also want a section for:


Assignment calendar/ Assignment book (if kept in your binder)
Extra Paper
Any activity that you may want to keep in your folder. For example, you may want to keep your lines for the school play in your binder. Or notes on various football plays.
 Be sure your first divider is the first page of your binder, and last page is also a divider. Dividers ideally should be tougher material than your papers. This will prevent your paper from wrinkling and possibly being lost with use. The last divider does not really need a label.
 Usually, notes will be chronological: the early notes in front, the later ones in back. If this is a new marking period, you may not have anything yet.



Three-hole puncher. Most teachers have one in their classroom. However, small versions exist that can be put directly into your binder.
"Notebook" Paper. If you're taking notes, you need notebook paper. Put some pages of notebook paper in each section to ready it for note-taking.
Paper reinforcers. These are stickers in the shape of the letter "O". They fix the broken holes that occasionally happen with notebook paper.
Pencil pouch. Special pouches are made for binders where you can easily store your pens, pencils, erasers, reinforcers,and so on.
 It is one thing to get organized, but your work will come to nothing if you do not stay organized!


Keep one section for each class. Do not mix up classes.
Secure every piece of paper. Loose papers run away. Always punch papers that do not have holes and secure them. Even in a folder or pocket in your binder for papers in need of hole-punching, papers have a tendency to disappear.
Never stuff papers thoughtlessly. Every paper needs a home. Cram your papers in your binder or in your bookbag, even if in a rush. Give a little thought to where it should go. Taking 10 seconds to do so can save you 10 minutes or more later.
If it does not have a place, you need to give some thought to what sort of place you need to make.
Organize regularly. At least once a week, check that notes are in the right place, loose papers put in the right place, and throw out outdated or useless items.

Have 5 minutes while waiting for something in class? This is a good use of that time.



