 Though you would save more money if you didn't drive at all, driving to work or to an event is sometimes inevitable, so if you do use your car pretty frequently, there are a few adjustments that you can make to save money while you drive.


Carpool. Carpooling to work or to a party with friends is a great way to save money as long as everyone pays his share.
Save money on gas. Check out the gas stations in your area and see which one has the cheapest gas. You may only save 10 or 25 cents a gallon, but that will quickly add up.
If it's a nice day out, don't waste money by running your car's AC. Roll down the windows instead.
Wash your car yourself. Instead of spending a lot of money at a fancy car wash, get a few friends together with some sponges and a bucket of soap and water. You'll have fun and save money.
 Try taking the bus, subway, or train whenever you can if it's an option. This will save countless dollars and may get you to work or where you need to be faster than driving. Here's what you can do:


Get to know your local bus schedule. The bus can get you somewhere just as fast as a car, and you'll save money because you won't have to pay for parking.
If you take the train, get a monthly pass. If you use it often, this will save you a ton of money.
Try to avoid cabs as much as you can. If you know you'll be out drinking and won't be able to drive, arrange for a responsible DD to get you home in advance.
 Even if you only fly a few times a year, you can save some serious cash if you're smart about when and how to book your flight. Here's what you can do:


Don't wait until the last minute to book your flight. Your ticket will be much more expensive.
Don't book your flight too early. If you book a domestic flight over four months in advance, it may actually be more expensive because the airlines haven't started opening their big deals yet.
If you're just going on a weekend trip, try to only pack enough for a carry-on bag to avoid the pesky fee for checking your bag.
 If you live in a place where everything is relatively close by, walking or biking is a fantastic way to save some serious cash. Not only will you be saving money on the most basic tasks, but you'll also be getting some exercise as well.


You may be able to bike to places that seem far away. It can take just twenty minutes to bike one or two miles.
Switch up one of your weekly workouts for an hour of walking instead. You can spread this hour out over the course of a week.

