 First, you must purchase a Webkinz. They can be found at most children's toy stores or craft stores. Webkinz plush toys usually range from around five to twenty dollars. Each one should come with a tag, inside there should be a 'secret code'. Go to www.Webkinz.com and click 'New Member'. Mrs. Birdy will guide you through the rest of the adoption process.;
, There are hundreds of ways to earn "Kinzcash" on Webkinz. Some easy ways to earn money are:

Going to Quizzy's corner. There are tons of trivia questions for every day, level, and grade. For every question you get right, you earn five Kinzcash. Everything is multiple choice.






Working at the Employment Office. Do odd jobs around the office, such as caring for sick patients, loading the grocery cart, or painting fences. Get more money every time you succeed at the job.






Playing at the Arcade. This is one of the easiest methods of earning Kinzcash. There are over twenty-five games to play, such as solitaire or scrabble. There are also other games, such as the Wheel of Wow or the "Wishing Well" where you can easily win a ton of Kinzcash. Or, you could go to the Tournament Arena, where you battle other Webkinz at regular arcade games.
 Every two minutes, your Webkinz will become hungry, less healthy and less happy. You will need to go to the "W Shop", buy it some food and feed it. Your Webkinz's health, happiness and hunger will be on a meter that you can view at any possible time. If this meter gets too low, your pet will get sick. It is also important to buy a bed and clothes for your Webkinz, and maybe take them on vacation every so often. Keep your Webkinz happy and healthy.
 When you first adopt a Webkinz, you will get a room for it. Every time you adopt another, you will get an additional room. You can also buy more rooms, or even a backyard, treetop, or underwater room. There are many themes you can get for each room, such as a sports, candy, or pink room. You can purchase anything you need for your room, like a bed, refrigerator or television, at the "W Shop". You can also find some great deals at "Arte's Curio Shop".
 You will get a phone that is in your dock, and your friends list is located there. Make new friends in the all-new updated Clubhouse, or find your own friends' Webkinz accounts, and add them. You can have parties and invite your friends, or send your friends a card or package.
 There are tons of other places to go to in Webkinz World, and all of them will be located on the "Map of Kinzville." Remember to take good care of your Webkinz, and if you ever need help with anything else, consult the "Webkinz World Guide" that you can find in your room and on your map. Enjoy!

