 Puberty can make a simple issue into a tragedy for your child, boy or girl, and you must understand that it isn't completely your fault. When your child's emotions are as strong as they are during puberty, simple things like changing voices, growing pains, and stronger B.O. can be extremely stressful and maybe even devastating.;
, When kids starting searching for their own identities, some people get left behind, and some of the ones ahead get completely lost. Strict teachers, more homework, and stress are part of middle school. Don't call the principal to complain every time your kid does, just be there to get them through it. (After all, you can't call your boss and demand your annoying co-worker is fired!)

, But just because the problem is gone doesn't mean your child isn't wounded. Encourage them to lean on friends and family whenever anything is too tough to bear.
 Give out lots of "I love you!"s, hugs and kisses (though maybe in private from now on!), advice, and a shoulder to cry on. Every girl and boy will feel lost from time to time--this is life! Knowing they are loved and that they have someone to lean on is essential for their emotional health.
 Your son/daughter DOESN'T hate you. You're NOT ruining their life. Middle school is stressful, for the millionth time, and that can build up. Don't let them drink or smoke or do drugs.
 If they start bringing home a series of F's, that's one thing. But if they are an A/B student, don't flip out if they have a bad day and don't do so well on a single quiz.
 If your pink-everything girly girl comes home with a group of goths, sit her down and ask if that's truly who she wants to hang out with. Tell her to be honest, and remind her that there are plenty of fish in the sea, and being with the wrong ones will only do her bad. If this is her new crew for sure, accept them (unless they truly are a wretched example!)

, Trying to make your artsy son play football isn't gonna help anyone! Their passion may be the only escape from the pressures of middle school, so please don't take that away!

, Kids LOVE to know their parents care!

