 The best way to play as a team is to have set roles. This way you know that a certain number of people will be defending your flag, no matter what. You may want one more guard than attacker, someone who focuses on getting your team out of jail if anything goes wrong.



Guards: Patrol the center line and the rest of your field, ready to tag anyone who crosses or tries to find your flag. Often calls out to the rest of the team when they've found someone hiding or sneaking on their side. They also try and prevent jailbreaks.

Attackers: Try and sneak away or outrun the guards, looking for the flag. They will go to jail often while searching, so other attackers need to take turns saving them so that all the attackers don't end up in jail at once. Once they find the flag, they tell the rest of their team and try to capture it.

Scouts/Rangers/Recon (Optional): If you have a big team, you'll want a few fast players who can switch between offensive and defense, depending on the team's needs. These players usually save others from jail, help search for the flag near the border, defend when the guards are outnumbered, or slowly sneak into enemy territory while the attackers distract the guards.
 The fun of capture the flag comes from the strategy involved. Do you want to play defensively, picking off the other team's attackers and then rushing them with superior numbers? Or do you want to try and sneak into their side, hiding and moving slowly to spend as much time looking for the flag as possible? Talk with your team to work out a gameplan for the best results. Some strategies include:



The Mad Rush: A desperate move, or one used if you know where the flag is, this involves sending almost everyone in at once in the hopes that one person gets the flag back safely.

The Decoy: Risky but rewarding, this involves sending some of your fastest players all to one side of the field. Their goal is simply not to get tagged, drawing as many guards to chase them as possible, while another player on the other side of the field quietly sneaks around to look for the flag.

Blockers: If you have the flag or know where to find it, group up with 3-4 other teammates. Run together towards the flag with your fastest person in the middle and the rest of the team 4-5 feet away on either side, taking tags as "blockers." Note, however, that once a player is tagged they must stop playing and go to jail. They cannot keep blocking after they've been tagged.
 There are a lot of things to consider when hiding a flag, and the "best spot" might not be what you expect at first. Try to think about the first places you would look if you were the other team, as they will likely look their first as well. You usually want a spot that is far back in your territory, but not too near the jail.


The farther away your flag, the more ground the team has to cover without being tagged, making it easier to defend. That said, mixing in a very close location once in a while may be a risk worth taking, as the other team might not even look at the nearby hiding spots if they expect it farther back.
If the flag has to be visible, try and make it only see-able from behind so that the team needs to run all the way around to get a view of it.
Putting the flag near your jail may lead to a prisoner seeing it while they wait, so try and keep some distance.
 In order to prevent one team from feeling like they got the "worst side," you should switch sides every game. If the games are quick, play until one team wins by 2 games (3-1, 5-3, etc.). This ensures that the winning team fairly won on both sides of the field.

