 Generally speaking, everything you earn or acquire during your marriage is marital property, unless you agree otherwise. For instance, your income and money used to pay household bills are marital property. The vehicle you purchased from your joint account, is marital property., Separate property is the non-marital property that belongs only to one spouse.While the definition of separate property varies by states, some common forms of separate property include:


Property owned by one spouse prior to the marriage
Gifts one partner received before or during the marriage
Property obtained in one spouse’s name and never used for the benefit of the other spouse or the marriage
Inheritances received by one partner before or during the marriage
Property the spouse agrees in writing is separate, as long as the agreement complies with state law
Property acquired by one spouse, with separate assets, with the intent of keeping it separate
Personal injury awards for pain and suffering, although awards for lost earnings can be marital property, deed or registration) then it is your separate property. If an item does not have a title document, you own it if you bought it or received it as a gift., As of June 2015, community law states include Arizona, California, Idaho, Louisiana, Nevada, New Mexico, Texas, Washington, and Wisconsin and Alaska (by agreement).Generally speaking, spouses own equally almost all property acquired during the marriage, regardless of whose name is on it, in community law states. Also, half of each partner’s income earned during the marriage is owned by the other partner. As well, debts incurred during the marriage are debts of the couple together.Separate property, in community law states, includes inheritances to one spouse, gifts given to one partner and property owned before the marriage, that is kept separate during the marriage., Non-marital property can become marital property by co-mingling it.For instance, putting non-marital money into a joint account with marital proceeds will likely make it marital.Additionally, if non-marital proceeds are used to pay marital expenses, they can become marital., Doing so can create a partial marital interest in that asset.The value of the improvement is likely to be considered marital.Courts often distinguish between active and passive appreciation of an asset.Passive appreciation of a non-marital asset remains non-marital. Passive appreciation occurs when the non-marital asset increases in value without any action. For instance, passive appreciation occurs when an asset goes up in value without making improvements. Active appreciation of a non-marital asset can create a marital interest in the asset. Active appreciation is when the value of a non-marital asset increases because of an act by either party to the marriage., It is common for parties to refinance or make other modifications to a home loan, during marriage. It is important to understand that even if the home came into the marriage as non-marital, a refinance, second mortgage or home equity loan could totally or partially erase its non-marital status.