 Craft sticks are sturdier, but wires allow more flexibility in the stem and the leaves. If you are creating a heavier rose, such as in method two, you might want to opt for the craft stick. But if your rose is smaller with fewer petals, such as the “simple rose,” then the wire will do just fine.
 If you are using a craft stick, use the longest craft stick you can find. Or, tape two together. Put two sticks next to each other with about 2 cm (0.787 inches) overlapping. Then, put a small piece of duct tape less than two inches (5.08 cm) over it to secure it. You can cover the seam later.


To make it look more natural, cut one of the craft sticks to about 2 inches. Then, overlap them and tape them together in the method previously mentioned.
 So, if your wire is 10 inches, rip off at least that much. Placing the upper left corner of the tape at a diagonal wrap the duct tape around the wire.The seams should be diagonal as you wrap them around the stem.Use the same method for the craft stick. Rip off enough duct tape to cover your stem and wrap it.
 Fold it over on itself. Then, cut a leaf shape. The shape should be an oval shape with a point at the top and the bottom, which is a typical leaf form. If you need assistance, use a template online.
 When you do this, the sides of the leaf should curl and the point should fold over on itself. With a small piece of tape about an inch (2.54 cm) long and a centimeter (0.393 cm) wide, wrap tape vertically around the base of the leaf so that it remains curved like when you pinched it. This effect makes the leaf look more real.


Cut four more leaf shapes and fasten their bottoms with thin strips of duct tape as previously mentioned.
 Place a leaf with the folded part facing the stem of the rose against the wrapped wire or stick. Then wrap a skinny piece of tape about an inch (2.54 cm) long and a centimeter (0.393 cm) wide along the stem to secure it.


If you have used two craft sticks taped together, place a leaf over the seam where the two sticks overlap and secure it with a small piece of tape as previously mentioned.
If the sticks meet at the end of the stick, designate that end as the top of the rose stem near the flower.
Attach all the other leaves in a similar fashion.
 In other words, make your long stem first, then roll your first layer of petals on the stem. Allow the other layers to flare out slightly. Keep adding petals until you have reached your desired fullness.
 Using thin strips of duct tape approximately about an inch (2.54 cm) long and a centimeter (0.393 cm), attach the rose bud to the duct tape-covered stem. Make sure the strips are of the same color as the sepal -- the bottom part of the bud.

