 Children will quickly pick up from you that you find change exhilarating or terrifying. Make it easier on them by being positive about it. There is nothing wrong with making comparisons but do this in an educational way, not a "I wish things were like home" way. This will help the children to see the change as an adventure and something to be excited about.;
, Your new environment is not going to be your old environment and even restoring the family dynamics will take some time. Even if you get a new home and move in, it doesn't automatically bring back the lifestyle that you enjoyed in your previous country. If you can accept this, you will not be battling the feelings of nostalgia - embrace the nostalgia (for it will wash over you) but also be open to wonderful newness of all that is around you and look for all the positive elements of the new country and living arrangements. Encourage the children to look for all the good aspects as well and share your ideas together.
 This should be the last box on the removal truck and the first one out. Have each child place a favourite toy, book, bed item and wall decoration in this box. Add any other elements that you feel say "our home" the moment that you put them on the wall or in the house somewhere. The moment your goods arrive, take this box and remove all the contents immediately. Each child can put their special home items in their rooms and you can decorate the remaining areas of the house. Although it will take a while for it to be your home, these little reminders of the last place together from your home country will ease some of the strangeness of it all.
 Be open to the new customs and traditions. Help your children to learn the new customs and do your best to have them observe these customs. It is important to explain differences in behaviour that might cause problems if the children behave in ways that are frowned upon. Make sure that they learn new rules that will help them in social contexts, such as using the correct hand to eat food or bringing gifts for special occasions. Some local customs may bother them too, such as children being patted on the head a lot; help them to understand that this is an expression of love for children but if it gets intolerable for a toddler, lift her up and carry her until she gets used to it.
 If you are not in an English speaking country, it is important to immerse yourself in the new language as quickly as possible. This tends to be easier for children and there are many fun ways that they can begin to learn a new language - through reading children's books, TV, DVDs, visiting the park and making friends, attending shows and the cinema, joining hobby groups etc. Even if they attend an English-speaking school, they will still need the other language for outside school hours and to really gain an appreciation of their time in the new culture. It also broadens their employment opportunities as they grow older.
 If you all go to an activity together, like an art class, they can practise their language skills, but in an environment where you are near by and ready to help them.
 Children tend to be more accepting and more resilient than adults about differences. They learn quickly, they adapt quickly and they find their own ways to cope with new ways of doing things. And it doesn't help to try to hide the harsher side of life from your children, such as poverty and homelessness; the children will eventually see it and for many who do notice it, they become very aware of the need to give, share and be of some help, especially when they see other children in distress.
 Send postcards, letters and e-mails to friends from home. This is a good opportunity to have the children explain their new life in a positive light to someone who doesn't know it - in the process, this often helps them to realise all the wonderful experiences that they are having. If possible, arrange a visit from your child's closest friend when you are settled in. And sometimes you will need to comfort the children when the friends taper off as does happen - it takes a lot of effort to keep in touch and as time moves on, ties don't always hold.
 Often living in a new culture is something that brings a family closer together, as you all adjust and seek reassurance from those who care about you most. This is a special experience that you may not have had if you had stayed in your own country; cherish the closeness and the shared journey of learning and support. Do things together that get you out of the house and discovering your new place together; share your fears, joys and concerns together and help one another make this transition gently.

