 In order to defend yourself or mitigate on your own behalf you have to understand what it is that you are being charged with. Do your research: find out the relevant ingredients, defences and sentences. If you are already at court and unclear speak to the duty solicitor or legal clerk (see below.);
, Some courts use the dock; others will make you stand at the back of court. Only if you give evidence will you be asked to take the witness stand. You will be asked to confirm your name, DOB and address. If you have not already entered a plea you will be asked to do so. If you understand the charge enter a plea of guilty or not guilty. Stand until you are told that you can be seated.
 You won’t be expected to be an expert in court etiquette. Follow these rules you won’t go too far wrong:


Address the Bench (the judge or magistrate) as “Sir” or “Madam”. If there are 3, focus on the one in the centre.
If you have something to say politely ask “Sir, may I address you on __________”. Don’t just start talking. Never interrupt. You will get your chance to speak.
When you talk to the bench, or when they talk to you, stand up and talk as clearly as possible. It might be that they say you can remain seated but it is important to show respect.
 If you are worried about public speaking or forgetting things that you want to say it might be a good idea. Be as concise as possible. Typed is preferable. You can hand up a written document and still make oral submissions. Often the Legal Clerk will agree to read it if you would prefer.Written submissions can be memorable and effective but nothing can replace speaking to someone and looking them in the eye.
 If you think that there is a genuine reason that the proceedings should be adjourned don’t be afraid to ask for one. Tell the bench why it would be unfair to continue. How long do you need? Unless there is good reason an adjournment will be refused.
 They tell the magistrates what the law is. They should be neutral, almost a referee, between the prosecution and defence. If there is a legal argument their advice to the Bench will be vital. They should also help to explain the law to you. If their advice is wrong then you can appeal. Many of the decisions in the Magistrates’ Court are come to in a formulaic way. There is limited discretion. There are guidelines relating to sentences and penalties.
 Before your case has even been decided you will often have to complete a means form. Fines are based on your income. Regard is given to how much available income you have. The magistrates will see the form before they sentence you. Think of how much you can afford to pay per week/month. Most fines will have to be paid in less than a year.
 If pleading guilty, this is your chance to tell the Bench why they should be lenient when they sentence you. See below for a sample structure.

