 Decide where you want to place your fountain, how large you want it to be and how you want it to look. These factors will all influence what materials you will need.


Your fountain will be composed of three main elements: a water reservoir, a water pump and a design feature.
The location must have easy access to an electrical outlet or the ability to run an unobtrusive extension cord to power the pump






The style is up to you. Go for something that works well with your existing landscaping and suits your personal taste.;
,


A Reservoir. This can be any type of water-tight container, such as a plastic tub or even plastic sheeting lining your reservoir hole if building underground. If building above ground, consider making the reservoir part of the design, such as half a wine barrel, as long as it will hold water.
A Water pump. Pumps can be purchased from most home improvement or landscape supply stores. You will need a pump with enough power (measured in gallons per second) to push the water up to the fountainhead. Since this will vary based on your design, it is best to consult with someone with knowledge of pumps before purchasing.
Pipes and tubing. The pipes or tubing will deliver the water from the reservoir to the fountainhead. Many water pumps will come with tubing, but if not, or if you need something specific for your design (such as copper pipe), you will need to purchase it separately. Rubber tubing will be the easiest to work with.
Design features. These elements will depend entirely on your design, such as river stones or a sculpted fountainhead. If your fountainhead of choice does not already have a hole, you may need to drill one.


If building below ground, dig a hole that will fit the water reservoir snugly. Be sure to leave 2 inches (5 cm) of drainage gravel beneath the reservoir. If you wish to hide the power cord, you will need to dig a separate trench out from the reservoir hole.






Fit the pump in the reservoir before adding water. Ensure all tubing and power connections fit and function properly.






Add your design elements. The water pump should remain accessible for adjustment, repair and cleaning, either by leaving an opening or door, or with easy disassembly.






Fill the fountain with enough clean water to fully submerge the water pump and keep it submerged while in operation when water will be cycling through the upper part of the fountain.
 Turn on water pump (adjusting pressure if needed) and arrange the fountain's design elements to ensure the water returns to the reservoir. The look and sound of the fountain can also be adjusted this way by tweaking the angle of the fountainhead and any obstacles in the path of the water flow.
 Hide any rough spots or visible mechanisms with design features such as stones or plants.

