 Before you can settle your case, you need to figure out what it is that you want. Most of the time, your goals can be translated into a dollar figure.;
, Your lawyer can help you to value your claims.


To get a good idea of the worth of your claim, study similar cases in the county where your claim would be tried. Summaries of jury verdicts in many jurisdictions are published on a monthly basis, and many law firms and law libraries subscribe to those publications.
If you find published cases that are very similar to your case (and go in your favor!), make a photocopy of the case summary and be prepared to present it at the mediation.
 Especially if your goals include things which cannot be assigned a monetary value – for example, you want your neighbor to move his shed off your property line – make a list of such items and categorize them into two columns: “must-haves” and “negotiables.” The “must-haves” column should be a very short list of things without which you absolutely cannot live; the “negotiables” column should have a longer list of things you are willing to compromise on.


Again, be realistic and flexible. The mediator might be able to come up with “out-of-the box” solutions which neither you nor your lawyer previously considered but which, in truth, could suit you.
Be ready to accept a workable solution – usually, a reasonable compromise will be worth not having to litigate further.
 Most cases have strengths and weaknesses. Your lawyer will help you to marshal the facts and the applicable law to figure out what the strengths and weaknesses are in your particular case.


Envision your case from your opponent’s perspective. Where would you pounce? Where would you steer clear?
Be honest and do not ignore problems – it will help you to avoid a potential disaster at trial.
 Most mediators will require you to submit a “brief” a few days in advance of the mediation. A mediation brief is a summary of the facts if the case and the legal argument in support of your position.


Attach any particularly favorable evidence to the mediation brief as exhibits. For example, in a contract dispute, a copy of the contract should be submitted to the mediator as an exhibit. In a personal injury case, attach a copy of the police report and any relevant medical reports to the mediation brief.
Keep the brief short and to the point – it is called a “brief” because it is supposed to be brief.
You have the option to designate your brief “confidential,” meaning that the mediator will not share any of its contents with the other party without your express permission. If the brief is not marked “confidential,” the mediator will presume that you sent a copy of your brief to the other party and that the mediator is free to share the information.
 A mediation is usually conducted in half-day or full-day time blocks. It cannot begin unless all the parties are present. If you are late, everyone’s valuable time is wasted and the mediator will have to rush through the process, reducing your chances of a successful outcome. Tardiness is a sign of disrespect for other people’s time. Do not make everyone angry at you before the proceeding has even begun.
 Do not “yank your opponent’s chain.” If you are truly not willing to settle, do not agree to mediate.


Communicate your bottom line to the mediator at the outset – this will help him or her decide whether the mediation has a chance of succeeding.
Be open to the mediator’s suggestions.
 The mediator is an experienced professional, and likely has “seen it all.” Listen to his or her advice. It might be your only opportunity to obtain an honest and objective assessment of your case before trial.
 If you settle, abide by the terms of the settlement agreement. If the mediator feels the parties have reached an accord, he or she will write down the essential terms of the settlement on a piece of paper and ask the parties to sign it.


Many first-time participants find it odd that a binding settlement agreement can be a simple handwritten piece of paper. It can and it is.
If you do not follow the terms of the settlement agreement, you will be in breach, and the other party can bring a claim for breach of contract against you.
 The mediator has invested a lot of time and effort in reviewing the parties’ briefs and evidence, as well as attending the mediation itself. Be respectful and ensure that your portion of the mediator’s fee (usually, the mediator’s fee is split evenly among the parties) is paid on time.

