 Most of the things you'll need for this project can be bought at your local craft store or a general retailer. When choosing jars, a wide assortment can add a unique flare to your mantel display, though even mason jars should do in a pinch. You'll need:


Adhesive hooks (x3)
Assorted jars
Assorted knickknacks (like Christmas figurines, ornaments, etc.)
Christmas lights
Christmas wreath
Evergreen cuttings
Glass cleaner (optional)
String of ornamental cranberries, Your jars will be featured prominently in this mantel display, so all glue, label paper, and fingerprints should be cleaned from the jar. In some cases, you may need to leave your jars soaking in hot, soapy water overnight before the glue comes free easily. After that, wipe the jars dry with a clean dishcloth or paper towel.


If your jars remain streaky or cloudy even after washing them, you may need to use an ammonia based glass cleaner to make your jars look pristine.
 After the jars are dry, you can place them on your mantel. You might organize them starting with large jars on the outside, with jars decreasing in size toward the middle of the mantel. However you choose to arrange the jars is up to you., Take thin, light evergreen trimmings and place them in your jars. Or, you may want to alternate between evergreen sprigs, decorative pine cones, and Christmas figurines in your jars. You could even fill some jars with tinsel to add some sparkle to the scene.Avoid putting anything too top heavy into your jars, as that could result in the jar becoming unbalanced and falling from the mantel.
 Attach two adhesive hooks to either side of your mantel. You may want to hide the hooks behind the jars at the end of either side of the mantel. After the hook is attached:


Take both your lights and ornamental cranberries behind the jars, then drape both to hang slightly in front of the mantel. Use the adhesive hooks to hold the lights and cranberries in place.
 The ornamental cranberries and evergreen sprigs add a natural pop of color to your mantel, but you may want to tie the picture together by hanging a Christmas wreath. Attach an adhesive hook above the center of your mantel and hang your wreath on it to complete your mantel decorating.To continue with the red and green, Christmas themed colors, you may want to add some red to plain wreaths. You can do this easily with some red tinsel, red Christmas lights, and so on.

