 The color wheel is exactly what it sounds like: a big circle broken into different colors, which allows you to look at 12 colors at once. Each color on the wheel represents all shades of that color, so the green wedge on the color wheel represents dark, pale, and bright greens. Once you know the tricks of the color wheel, it can be super useful for figuring out which accessories in which colors will work best with the color of your dress.,
The color across from your dress color is its complementary color. A pair of complementary colors is vibrant and high-contrast, especially if you use bright shades of the colors. You should accessorize with complementary colors in small doses.
The colors next to your dress color are its analogous colors. These colors will work extremely well together and are easy to look at. To use analogous colors most effectively, choose one color to dominate (the dress) and one to support it (shoes, scarf, bag). If you want to use the third color, use it as an accent (small jewelry or details).
You may find it helpful to print out a copy of the color wheel and hang it up on the inside of your closet door. That way you can refer to it easily whenever you need to.
It’s generally a good idea to keep your outfit down to three main colors or fewer., When accessorizing, always place the colors that work best with your undertone (and eyes) nearest to your face—in accessories like your earrings, necklace, or scarf. Colors that don’t look great with your natural coloring should go further away—in accessories like your shoes or bag., You may not actually end up buying those particular accessories, but they'll give you a good idea for what kinds of accessories work and don't work with the dress. It’s a nice chance to experiment with different colors or styles without having to spend any money.
 Nothing can ruin a look faster than forgetting about a good evening bag and just grabbing your day-to-day, overstuffed handbag as you head out the door. Evening dresses are most often complemented by choosing a delicate clutch bag.
 When it comes to color, just make sure it complements your overall look. You can go simple and have the shoes match the rest of your outfit, or you can make the shoes your focal point and choose a color that stands out—try sparking red shoes with a little black dress for a unique but sleek look. And because shoes are as far from your face as you can get, they’re a great opportunity to rock a color that you love but that isn’t flattering on you.
 Hose can make your figure look smoother and thinner. Colored hose can also make your legs look longer when you match them to the color on your hem and shoes.