 Think about how you can translate information about your friend into a physical gift or experience.;
, Using the mental list of information that you noted, think of gifts that speak to who they are as a person. Buy your music-obsessed friend an album or a t-shirt from their favorite band’s merchandise. Look into fan-club memberships as well.
Get art or craft supplies for an artistic person. Think about art projects they’d like to accomplish, or about work that they haven’t finished.
Look for rare or quirky team memorabilia for a sporty friend. Check out EBay for autographed cards, bobbleheads, stickers or other sports items that others are unlikely to have.
Buy toys for the person’s pets. Pets are important to their owners, and sometimes a gift for a pet can mean as much as a gift for their owner!
Continue to think outside the box. Remember that no matter what your friend’s interests are, your gift should be thoughtful and interesting.
 If you're giving a gift to a close friend, a good gift will be one that you and a friend can both relate to, and one with a great deal of meaning. Think of a gift that symbolizes your relationship, and remember, thoughtfulness and effort can mean more than money. Make a gift that may reference things that you have done together.
Make a scrapbook with all your photos. This can be a great gift, as your friend will appreciate the time you put into it, and it will bring back memories.
Make something simple like a friendship bracelet or necklace to remind your friend of how much you care.
 Sometimes, a meaningful message or letter can be more thoughtful than a physical object. Pair your letter with a gift and you'll definitely make an impression. Don’t make it too long-winded though!

, Simply spending time with someone can show them that you care, and experiences can be even more fun than a physical item that they might not get much use out of. Take a friend out for dinner, drinks, a concert or a movie. As with physical gifts, think about your friends personality and interests and choose a gift accordingly.
Buy your friend a membership to a local museum, aquarium or zoo. They will get free entry for a year as well as special perks for joining.
Go a little crazy! Sometimes, gifts that seem impossible are more reasonably priced than you might imagine. Look into a horseback riding session if your friend loves animals, or skydiving if your friend is a daredevil. Rent a car and check out a state park with an adventurous friend.
 If they're going through rough times financially, sometimes an eased burden is just as meaningful to a friend as a nice gift.
 Make the donation in their name, and they'll get some gifts and perks in recognition of the contribution.
 Sometimes, in gift giving, we go overboard thinking about how to give the absolute perfect gift. However, it’s more important to think about how the gift will affect your friend, and whether or not it is something truly useful and meaningful to them. , But do not reveal that you are going to give or what is in it., Mentally note:


The person's gender
Their age
Whether they live at alone or with family
Whether they’re in school or have graduated

, Think about things that they like or talk about, whether it’s music, movies, art or sports. Think about any skills, talents or hobbies they may have. Try to remember anything they've mentioned wanting in the past weeks, or anything they've had their eye on.
 They may have posted things that they’ve got their eye on or gadgets that they think are cool. Social media profiles can also give a better picture of their interests.
 They may have a wishlist on a shopping site, which will make gifting easier. You can comb through their registry and find something they’ve already selected for themselves. If they do shop online, ask if you can look over their shoulder and see what they’re shopping for.
 If they’re considering buying an item but decide against it, make a mental note of it as a potential present.
 You may overhear them talking about items they'd like to have while they're around friends or coworkers.
 They may have some ideas, and be willing to help. Ask if they’ve ever given the person a gift in the past, how they reacted to it. This may give you a good idea of what to give them (and what hasn’t gone over well).
 They probably know them very well, and can give some advice. They’ll have more intuition about things that the person has been wanting lately.
 Take stock of how many years you’ve known them, how big a part of your life they are, and how important they are to your future.


Best friends are deserving of very meaningful, personal gifts that reflect your years of friendship.
Don’t give people you have just met or don’t know too well overly personal or expensive gifts. Expensive gifts may give them the idea that you’re just trying to impress them, while overly personal gifts might come off as too forward.
 Christmas and birthdays are big, important holidays for which larger gift giving is acceptable. However, there are many holidays like Easter, Wedding Anniversaries, and Valentine’s Day that require different levels and types of gift giving.
 Let your friend know how much you truly care with an extra thoughtful gift, or by throwing them a surprise party.
 Make sure that your gifts fit tradition when attending a bridal or baby shower. A mom-to-be probably won’t appreciate a cast iron skillet any more than a bride-to-be might appreciate a box of diapers!, Gift covers are very effective. You can use a gift cover of hearts if you are gifting him/her for there marriage. You can use gift cover of a baby if you are gifting on her becoming mother. If it is her/him on there birthday you can use a gift wrap of balloons design or bell designed gift wrap. Or if it is your personal occasion you can also create a gift wrap with yours and his/her's images. Just you and him/her.

