 In order to delete stock apps from your iPhone, you'll need to upgrade to iOS 10. Begin this process by opening Settings, which resembles a grey gear.


If you have an iPhone model older than the iPhone 5, you won't be able to install iOS 10.;
, This will open your General settings, from which you can alter date & time settings, storage preferences, and Siri settings.
 This should be near the top of your iPhone's screen; tapping it will take you to the iOS 10 description.
 Since iOS 10 is the largest overhaul of the iOS system in Apple history, you should take a moment to read through the release notes here.


Tap "Learn More" near the bottom of the screen to view a more comprehensive break-down of iOS 10's features and changes.
 You may be prompted to enter a passcode.
 This acknowledges that you agree to Apple's Terms and Conditions.
 Due to the size of the update, iOS 10 may take awhile to implement.
 To do this, tap the home screen or sleep/wake button, swipe right on the "slide to unlock" text, and enter your passcode if you have one.
 This will bring up the Home screen, on which your stock apps are installed by default.


You can swipe right from the Home screen to access your iPhone's other pages.
 After holding for a second, your apps should start vibrating, and an "X" should appear in the top left corner of your apps' icons. You can delete any or all of the following stock apps:Calculator
Calendar
Compass
Contacts
FaceTime
Find My Friends
Home
iBooks
iCloud Drive
iTunes Store
Mail
Maps
Music
News
Notes
Podcasts
Reminders
Stocks
Tips
Videos
Voice Memos
Watch app
Weather

, This will delete the apps. Removing a stock app will delete the app's user data and configuration files, meaning that any preferences and/or progress will be deleted. You may also experience some issues with third-party applications--for example, if you delete the "Music" app, you might have trouble syncing your iPhone with a car stereo system.Note that there are still some apps you can't delete, such as the App Store.
 You'll need to search for the name of the app(s) you deleted.
 This is in the lower right corner of the App Store interface.
 For example, if you deleted the iBooks app, you'd type in "iBooks".
 This will search for your stock app; when the results display, look for the app with a cloud icon next to it.


The cloud icon should have a blue arrow pointing downward.
 This will download the stock app back onto your iPhone.You'll need to repeat this process for each app you want to reinstate.

