 If a new, cute guy has just approached you, smile softly at him. You don't want to seem overly eager or too enthusiastic. This might scare him away. Just grin at him, batting your eyelashes a few times. He'll know that you are at least somewhat interested in him but aren't desperate for his company. This will make you seem approachable without seeming overzealous.


This works on a guy across the room as well. If you see a guy who you want to come talk to you, smile at him across the room, making eye contact. This will send out the signal that you see him and are open to him talking to you.;
, Using your eyes is a great way to attract the attention of a guy. When you first meet a guy, don't stare at him too much and look over too eager for his company. Bat your eyes at him, looking away only to sneak looks back at him. This will let him know you are interested and playful but not desperate. Give him a smoldering look as he says something nice to you. You want him to know that you like what you are seeing when you look at him.If you are on your morning train commute or in the grocery store and you see a guy you like, try making eye contact. When he looks up at you, hold his gaze for a second, but then look away. Then, look back at him and wait for him to look back at you. Once you catch his eye again, smile at him shyly and then look away again. Try to let him know your interested without looking desperate. He will eventually get that you think he's cute and come talk to you.
 Coming off as coy has a lot of do with your body language. When you interact with him, you want to let him know you are interested without telling him. Stand or sit closer to him as you talk. When you want to tell him something, lean closer to him and say it in his ear. Find a way to touch him, such as leaning on him for support while you fix your shoe or try to regain your balance. When you are thinking about an answer to a question, bite your lip or put your finger near your mouth. This will make you look alluring.Being subtle in your body movements toward him does not mean you need to hang all over him. Make subtle advances into his personal space, but make sure you read his signals. You don't want to give off desperate vibes or come on too strong.
 You don't have to wear revealing clothing to attract the guy you have your eye on. When you go out with your friends, wear something feminine that reveals just enough to peak a guy's interest. Wear a shorter skirt with a blouse that covers you or show a bit of cleavage in a modest length dress. This will be alluring without being trashy. You don't want to seem overzealous, easy, or desperate for attention, but you want to catch his eye.Pair these outfit ideas with a nice pair of high heels and a coy, innocent smile. The high heels will make you look amazing and catch his attention. This will make you seem confident but sweet, which will pull his attention to you.
 A great way to come off as coy is to play with your hair. While he is talking, twirl your hair with your fingers. You can also gently run your hands through your hair with a flirty smile on your lips. This makes you look slightly nervous, which will let him know that you are interested in him.Don't do this too much. Subtly act nervous and slightly jittery, so he thinks you are nervous. You don't want him to think that you are bored or uninterested.

