 Stir the yeast and the milk together in a bowl. Let it sit for about five minutes, until the yeast begins to foam and bubble.;
, Use a wooden spoon or a whisk to mix well.
 1 cup at a time, mix in the flour, incorporating each cup thoroughly before moving on to the next.
 Using your hands or a dough hook attachment on your mixer, knead the dough for at least 5 minutes, until it's smooth and elastic., Use plastic wrap to wrap the kneaded dough and let it chill in the refrigerator for 1/2 hour.
 Place it in a mixing bowl and whip it until it's light and fluffy. If the air in your house is warm, add 1/2 cup flour and whip it with the butter to help keep the butter stiff.
 Place it on a floured surface and roll it out using a rolling pin. The dough should be rolled so that it's about 1⁄4 inch (0.6 cm) thick.
 Dip a knife into the butter and spread it to cover the entire surface of the dough rectangle. Keep spreading until you've used up all the butter

, Do it lengthwise, like you'd fold a letter.
 It needs to chill for another 1/2 hour.
 Remove it from the refrigerator and roll it into a rectangle again. This time, with the dough rectangle facing you horizontally, fold the two ends over so that they overlap each other. This type of fold is called a turn. Wrap up the turned dough and refrigerate it for 1/2 hour., Remove it from the refrigerator, roll it into a rectangle, and fold it into thirds, like a letter. Return it to the refrigerator for 1/2 hour.
 Remove it from the refrigerator, roll it into a rectangle, and turn it so that the two ends of the rectangle overlap.
 After all that folding and turning, the dough needs time to rest. Wrap it in plastic and place it in the refrigerator. It'll be ready for frying in the morning.
 One final time, roll out the dough on a lightly floured surface. Leave it a little thicker this time - about 1⁄2 inch (1.3 cm).
 You can add holes by using a 1” hole cutter in the middle of each circle.
 Allow it to reach a temperature of 350 °F (177 °C).
 Use a slotted spoon or spatula to transfer the cronut from the pan to the oil.
 Cronuts will expand in size as they fry. When they're finished, transfer them to a wire rack or paper towel to cool.
 Whisk together the powdered sugar, milk and vanilla. The icing should be runny and smooth.
 Cover only the top of the confection. You could also drizzle the glaze over the donuts. Return them to the rack or paper towels to allow the glaze to dry.

