 Your new cat won't be happy with the new environment to begin with; everything smells different, the layout is unfamiliar and the noises, sounds and light will be different. Therefore, it is important that the cat has its own space that remains private and undisturbed, to allow the cat to slowly get used to the newness.;
, Make some strict ground rules within the house that prevent intrusions on the cat. Tell other householders that the cat needs its space and to keep out of the specified room.


Ask other householders to get you to go into the room if they need something from inside it; this will limit the amount of people the cat initially has contact with. It is best if the cat can meet everyone gradually.
 Keep other cats or dogs out if you have existing cats and dogs. Be sure that no pets can find their way in uninvited.
 It isn't at all unusual for the cat to want to stay well hidden; in the wild, this is a natural instinct whenever out in an area that is unknown to the cat, uncertain of possible pitfalls and predators. In the house, the cat's mind works just the same way––hiding is a defense mechanism that reassures the cat.


Your new cat may want to hide under the bed, under a chair, inside a cupboard or in a corner. Slowly, the cat will get used to this new home and come out. A good way to make sure this happens is to put the food on the opposite side of the room as where the hiding spot is. That way, he/she will have to come out sometimes to eat.
 It is extremely helpful if you can bring home a toy, a blanket, a basket or anything else that the cat had in its old home. This provides reassurance for the cat and also begins the new process of spreading your cat's odor in at least one little corner of your home.


It is great if you can obtain a blanket or basket that the cat used to sleep in. The cat will feel happier snuggling up in its familiar bed.
 Find out from the previous owner what the cat was used to eating. You can either do this by asking directly, or if the owner has deceased, ask if you or someone else can check the cat's feeding cupboard to find out what was the standard fare. If the food can be kept the same as before, at least something that helps the cat feel normal is provided.


If you can't work out what the cat used to eat, buy good quality cat food, such as cat biscuits recommended by your vet. The higher the quality of the food, the more enticing it is likely to be to the cat.
Provide plenty of water and replenish frequently. Being anxious is thirsty work!

, Use a soft tone of voice and very slow movements around your cat. If you're already a cat person, your cat will recognize your gentleness and way with cats but even if you've never had a cat before, just by being calm, kind and considerate, you'll help ease your new cat's fears.
 Allow your cat to initiate the length of patting and always respond to the cat's indications of whether or not it likes the patting. It will take a while of trial and error to discover which parts of the cat are off bounds and which parts cause it to purr like crazy!


A lot of cats are wary about pats on the head from strangers. Approach this slowly and gently.
Scratching and biting is a real possibility. Be careful but don't take out your upset on the cat. The cat is only reacting out of anxiety and fear of the unknown. It may take quite some time before it feels okay around you if the relationship begins with bites.
 If you sleep in the room where your cat is for a night or two, this is a nice way for the cat to investigate you while you're harmless. The cat can get used to the rhythm of your breathing, learn that you're safe to be around and can generally just "hang out" around you. When you're happy this works well, you can have everyone else in the house do this as well, so the new cat can get used to the people it will be living with.
 These are signs that the cat has at least accepted its new digs. Ask all householders to remain calm around the new cat and to be friendly but not overbearing. Introduce the cat to one new person at a time initially, to avoid being overwhelming.
 It is actually a good thing to let the new cat discover who else in the house for itself. Have children doing quiet activities, like playing seated on the floor, watching TV or reading. Adults can sit down and read, do a craft or be on the computer. Whatever it is, make the activities quiet and let the cat loose to choose for itself whom it wishes to meet.
 If you already have a cat, follow the steps in How to bring a second cat into the family and not upset your old cat.

Let the cats have time to get used to each others' scents if you already have other cats. This will happen during the time that the cat is in its own room. When you think it's time, open the door to the room your cat has been staying in. Let him/her go in and out of this room as he/she pleases.
Dogs can be dangerous for a new adult cat. You know your dog's behavior and handle accordingly. Gradual introduction is best, from a distance, with the dog under your restraint, or the restraint of another adult in the house.
Realize that the new cat may never like the existing pets, or one or more of the existing pets may never like the new cat. However, they can live under a truce with the occasional fight. This is just something you'll all need to keep a close eye on over time.

