 One really helpful thing about using the internet to flirt is that you can learn so much about the person before going into it. A Facebook profile will have a ton of potential information to start a conversation with. In all likelihood, he'll have his favourite books, films, teams and bands available to peruse on his profile. Any one of these will make for a great conversation starter. Few guys will turn away someone who expresses a genuine interest in them, so don't be shy!


For example, if he made a post about a film you recently saw, you could message him randomly saying: "I saw that movie too. I was pretty excited for it and it didn't disappoint. Did you have any favourite parts?"

, No matter what you think, there isn't a person alive who won't feel good at some level about a compliment directed at them. Much like scoping out his interests, a full-bodied online profile will lend you plenty of potential reasons to compliment him. Check his recent posts or pictures; has he been up to anything interesting in life lately? Does he have a great profile picture? Send him a private message and let him know what you think.


Adding a smiley face emoticon is a helpful way of adding warmth to your message.
 Flirtation feeds off of light, relaxed interaction. Discussing what's going on in your lives currently, as well as common interests you have are good starting points, but a truly great conversation will take a life of its own. To effectively flirt, you should work humour and compliments into the conversation.


Be patient with it. If you're pure trying to flirt as a means to an end, it won't be enjoyable or even successful!, Emoticons are a cheap substitute, sure, but they come with their own uses. If you're telling a joke that stands a chance of being taken seriously, include a wink or playful emoticon. Take heed not to use them too much however, as they'll quickly lose their effect when overused and even come off as very irritating.
 If you're interacting with your crush via Facebook, wall posting is an effective way of letting someone know you're interested in them. Keeping a post public means it will be light and fun, and it'll make your interactions openly visible to other people. Alluding to an inside joke you have, or posting some of your favourite music on his wall are both great ideas for wall posting.


If it's anything of a serious or personal nature, you should stick with personal messaging.
 Voice chat services like Skype are free and allow you to use your computer like a telephone.Once you have gotten past the initial stages of small talk and messaging back and forth, voicechat is the next recommended step. It may feel awkward at first if you haven't spoken in person before, but you'll be able to see if you have real chemistry this way.


Webcamming can be a fun way to approximate the experience of hanging out in person.

