 If you want to establish paternity while the mother is pregnant (prenatal testing), you will be able to choose from a variety of methods. Each method has its benefits and risks, so be sure you choose the method that is right for you. The three most common methods include:



Amniocentesis. This is an invasive paternity test that can be conducted as early as 13 weeks into a pregnancy or as late as 24 weeks.This test is performed by inserting a long, hollow needle into the pregnant woman's uterus where a small amount of amniotic fluid is extracted.The procedure takes about 30 minutes and is considered safe.However, there is a small chance of miscarriage and side effects may include cramping, vaginal bleeding, and amniotic fluid leakage.Chorionic Villus Sampling. This is another invasive paternity test, less popular than amniocentesis, that can be conducted between week 10 and 13 of pregnancy.This test is performed by taking a sample of cells from the vagina, cervix, or abdominal wall.Some people choose this test over amniocentesis because it can be performed earlier in the pregnancy, which may be important in legal paternity suits.The risk of miscarriage is almost twice as high as that of amniocentesis and the side effects may include vaginal bleeding.Non-Invasive Prenatal Paternity. This method is non-invasive and can be conducted after week 14 of pregnancy.This test is performed by taking a blood sample from the mother and isolating the fetal cells in that blood.While this test is non-invasive, it is relatively new and has its drawbacks.For instance, there is a chance that doctors will not be able to isolate the fetal cells and if the mother has been pregnant before, there is a chance the wrong fetal cells will be isolated.;
, Once you have decided which form of testing is right for you, you should research and test with a reputable laboratory. There are a few good ways to do this.


Talk to your doctor and ask them if they have any recommendations on where to get your prenatal paternity testing done. They may be able to do it right there at the doctor's office, but at the very least your doctor should have some idea of who to contact.
Visit the American Pregnancy Association's website, which endorses the DNA Diagnostics Center (DDC) because of their longstanding AABB accreditation. The website gives you their contact information, which you can use to ask questions and set up appointments., The fees for prenatal paternity tests will vary depending on the who is conducting the testing and which test you have chosen. In general:


Amniocentesis typically costs between $1,600 and $3,000, which includes both physician fees and the DNA testing itself.There is a chance your insurance may cover some of the cost, so be sure to check with your insurance carrier for more information.Chorionic villus sampling typically costs between $1,800 and $3,000, which includes both physician fees and the DNA testing itself.There is a chance your insurance may cover some of the cost, so be sure to check with your insurance carrier for more information.Non-invasive prenatal paternity testing typically costs between $1,000 and $1,500, which includes physician fees and the DNA testing itself., Results from any of the three prenatal tests will be compared to a DNA sample taken from the suspected father.You could potentially compare the child's DNA to any number of other DNA samples depending on how many potential fathers you believe there are. The results from amniocentesis and chorionic villus sampling usually take about five days.The results from the non-invasive prenatal paternity testing can take between 12 and 14 days.