 Make sure your rabbit's hutch is kept clean at all times. Remove soiled bedding on a daily basis and replace it with clean. If the rabbit uses a litter tray, scoop out the soiled areas daily.


A common cause of fly strike is that a rabbit has been kept in dirty conditions, with urine stained bedding and lots of pellets. The smell of urine or feces will attract flies to the area. If the rabbit has been sitting in damp bedding, smells of urine, or, worse still, the rabbit's skin is damaged because of urine scald, flies will be even more attracted to the area., Check your rabbit's fur, especially around the anus, to make sure there are no pellets stuck in the fur. This could attract flies.


If the fur is soiled, tease out the pellets or carefully use scissors to cut the fur away.
 There are some health conditions that lead to a greater risk of a rabbit being unclean around its anus. For example, a rabbit with a urinary infection, or a problem with their bladder, may need to pass urine regularly and is more likely to soil themselves. Likewise diarrhea sticks to fur and is a big risk factor.


For both conditions, always seek veterinary attention. If the rabbit has diarrhea, take it off vegetables and fruit, and feed it mainly hay. However, make sure it actually eats the hay or it may starve itself., Rabbits with overgrown teeth or dental pain, are not able to groom themselves, and again are prone to soiling around the rear end. It is imperative to seek veterinary attention to get the dental issues corrected. Once the teeth have been filed, then a mainly hay diet is key to keeping the teeth at the correct length., For example, overweight rabbits are physically unable to bend round and clean the pellets from their rear end. This makes them liable to getting pellets stuck in their fur.Key to prevention is keeping the rabbit at a healthy weight by feeding a diet of mostly hay, supplement with fresh vegetables and only a dessertspoon of pellets a day. If your rabbit is already overweight, then it's essential to perform twice daily checks as they are at greater risk of fly strike. Aim to slowly reduce their weight by cutting back on their pellets and switching them onto hay.You should also check rabbits with arthritis more often. A stiff arthritic rabbit cannot turn around so easily and is more liable to become soiled. Your vet can supply a painkiller, meloxicam, which is suitable for use in rabbits. This helps ease their discomfort but daily checks are still essential., A product called Rearguard stops eggs hatching into maggots and is effective for 8 - 10 weeks. It comes in a one dose applicator and is dabbed onto the fur until it is wet down to the skin. It is then left to dry.


Rearguard does not repel flies or kill maggots, but it stops any eggs that are laid from hatching into maggots. This product is a tool to help prevent fly strike but it should not replace good clean bedding conditions, regular checks, or attending to your rabbit's health problems.
 Invest in a fly zapper, a blue light that attracts flies and then kills them. Alternatively use sticky fly papers, and also keep the rabbit's home clear of food debris that might attract these insects.


Some herbs are said to have fly repellent properties, so consider growing them beside an outdoor hutch or in pots inside. These include chamomile, peppermint, basil, green oregano, hemp, lavender, rosemary and rue.