 Making indulgent purchases can be a special way to treat yourself, but you'll need to consult with your budget first. You'll only feel guilty later if you end up overspending with your purchase. Review your monthly spending to see if you have extra room in your budget for a treat.


Even if you only have a small budget, you can still spoil yourself. Cheap ways to do this may include renting a movie from Red Box, buying a one-day pass to a gym, or planning a "staycation" in your own city.
 Nothing says “I’m special!” like a new outfit. You know the one you’ve been eyeing at the shop each time you visit but, you refuse to buy it because of the price tag or because you don’t have anywhere to wear it. Go to the store and make the purchase. Then, instead of waiting for a special occasion, make one of your own.


Plan a candlelight dinner at home with your partner and wear your new clothes. Or, buy tickets to a concert or other local event.
 Treat yourself to an afternoon at the spa. Book your favorite treatment, such as a facial, a massage, or a body wrap. You might also make an appointment at your favorite salon. Get your hair colored or cut, or both. Or, get a manicure and pedicure., Remember that new restaurant in town that you have been dying to check out. Ask your partner or best friend to join you for a meal. Splurge on the entrée and a dessert. And, if you’re old enough, order some wine to go with your meal.


If you’re feeling especially daring, get dressed up and take yourself out for an indulgent meal alone., Travel is a wonderful way to reward yourself or just get away from it all. Save up to visit that exotic location you’ve always wanted to see. Near or far, just make plans to get away. Depending on your preferences and budget, you might want to visit a foreign country or simply sneak away to a nearby city.Add to the excitement by browsing pictures of attractions and hotels online. Map out your top choices and plan your itinerary. Even better, create a countdown on your phone so that you can build up the anticipation.

