 Owner-facilitated allogrooming, or grooming multiple cats with the same brush, can transfer scent particles between your cats. Brush each cat daily, and don’t clean or remove hair from the brush until after you’ve groomed each cat. When you brush your cat, give it calming verbal praise, and don't hold it down or force it to be brushed.Grooming with one brush could make a cat feel like the scents of the other cats are being forced on it, especially when it's not already familiar with the other cats.
If your cats seem stressed, resist being brushed, or aren't already familiar with each other, avoid using the same brush to groom them all.;
, Some cat behaviorists advise against the brushing method, especially if a group scent isn’t already established. If it gives you trouble, or if your cats aren't familiar with each other, rub a sock on one cat’s face, then place it near the bedding or food of another cat.When your cats start to ignore or act calmly around each other's scent objects, pet them, offer lots of verbal praise, and give them small treats. Using rewards will help create positive scent associations.
 Cats have scent glands on their mouth and head, and they rub faces in order to exchange scent particles. Get down on the same level as your cats to rub their faces and transfer scents between you and each cat.Like grooming, transferring scents between you and the group will help encourage a group scent and establish your place within the group.
Be sure to spend equal amounts of time with each cat to avoid showing favoritism.
 Sometimes, two or more sub-groups of cats can form within one home. You can encourage them to coexist by providing each group with plenty of their own food, water, and other resources. Avoid trying to establish a common scent between the groups or forcing them to interact with each other.To identify distinct social groups, look for which cats sleep and groom together. Take note if some cats stay in certain places and avoid spots that other cats frequent.In addition to providing plenty of resources, prevent competition by dividing your attention equally between the social groups.

