 Non-Steroidal Anti-Inflammatory Drugs (NSAIDs) are common, easily-available drugs sold without a prescription. These drugs, including the well-known painkillers ibuprofen and naproxen sodium, ease mild pain as well as reducing inflammation and swelling. For an inflammatory condition like trigger finger, NSAIDs are a perfect "first line of defense", providing quick relief from pain and reducing troublesome symptoms.


However, NSAIDs are relatively mild drugs and won't help especially bad cases of trigger finger. Simply increasing the dosage of NSAIDs is ill-advised, as NSAID overdose can damage the liverand kidneys. If your trigger finger is persistent, don't rely on this treatment as a permanent fix.
Long-term use of NSAIDs can also put you at risk for ulcers. Talk to your doctor before using them if you have a history of stomach ulcers., Cortisone is a natural hormone released by the body belonging to a class of molecules called steroids (note: these are not the same as the steroids that are sometimes used as illegal athletic aids). Cortisone has potent anti-inflammatory properties, making it useful for treating trigger finger and other inflammatory disorders. Talk to your doctor about a cortisone injection if your trigger finger won't subside with rest and over-the-counter medication.


Cortisone is given in the form of an injection directly into the affected area - in this case, the tendon sheath. Though this can be done in the doctor's office in a matter of minutes, you may need to return for a second injection if the first provides only partial relief.Finally, cortisone injections aren't as effective for people who have certain medical conditions (like diabetes)., If your trigger finger still persists after lengthy rest, NSAID treatment, and multiple cortisone injections, surgery may be necessary. The surgical procedure that fixes trigger finger involves cutting the tendon sheath. When the sheath heals, it's looser and better-able to accommodate the nodule on the tendon.


This surgery is usually done on an outpatient basis - in other words, you won't need to spend the night at the hospital.
Usually, local, rather than general anesthesia is used for this surgery. This means that your hand will be numbed so that you don't feel any pain, but you'll stay awake.

