 Do the people in your life bring out the best in you, or are you a sponge for their negativity? Are there people who just make you feel bad, or that make you feel great when you leave? It's hard to put friendship aside. But don't let the worst people in your life pose as your best friends.
 Toxic personalities are only toxic if they affect you negatively. You can be friends with angry people. You can be friends with negative people. Accept people for who they are and what they are like, and don't let them affect you.


Not everyone is going to be friends! It's just the way of the world. Some people just aren't fun.
Negative emotions have a time limit. But if someone is holding on to anger and negativity, just throw out the clock and move on.
 Ask yourself if there is a reason someone is such a bummer. Are they going through something? Do they have a tough job or home life? Remember that you can't change another person, only yourself, so don't bog yourself down with excuses. Just try and get where they are coming from -- it'll make dealing with their crap a lot easier down the road., If you don't like what someone is saying, stop paying attention to it. Tune into the positive and constructive parts of the conversation, and start daydreaming when this person goes into negative territory. Imagine them in your underwear. Imagine yourself as a knight and them a dragon. Whatever you do, don't engage with them.


Battle away negativity with positivity -- they won't know what hit them. When they say, "school sucks and this place is terrible," remind them "at least there is lunch and recess!" They'll move on to someone more on their toxic level.
Change the topic of conversation. Every time the person tries to steer the conversation negative, pull something else out to talk about. If your buddy wants to say "Work sucks and my boss is a jerk," then change it up. Say, "Yeah. At least football is good. What games did you watch on Sunday?"Stick to the facts with hot-tempered types. Point out what needs to be done to fix a problem. Avoid talking about opinions or guesses and they'll have nothing to try and shove back down your throat.
 If you're struggling to deal with the negativity that people bring into your life, it may be time to start limiting those interactions. You can't change the way that people behave, but you can remove yourself from the equation.


If you regularly initiate your interactions with this person, stop. If this person stops getting in touch, you're in luck!
If someone asks you if something is wrong, be honest. "I have trouble dealing with your negativity. You bring down my mood when you __________. I like you, but I think we need to see less of each other."

, If someone is really affecting your mental health and well-being with their negativity, end the relationship. It will hurt a bit -- no doubt about it -- but it will hurt a lot less than a lifetime with a person who makes you feel terrible.


Telling someone, "We can hang out, but only if you're not negative" would be like telling them you could only hang out if they were a different person. If it's not possible, come to terms with it. Cut them loose.

