 It's natural for people to have some memory difficulties, and need a little extra help, as they get older. Gradual changes are expected, and nothing to worry about.

Forgetting a few things, like the rules of your favorite game or how to drive somewhere, is normal.
Forgetting which day it is is normal.
Making more errors while balancing the checkbook is normal.
Making a few bad choices is normal.;
, Forgetting a few things is normal, but if your memory is bad enough that it disrupts your everyday life, you may have Alzheimer's. Signs of serious memory loss include:Forgetting names, events, important dates
Forgetting big events that happened
Relying heavily on memory aids like sticky notes, apps, or notebooks

, People with Alzheimer's may struggle to concentrate, make plans, and do procedural tasks like following a familiar recipe or balancing a checkbook.Needing occasional help working the stove or TV is normal. Not being able to use them at all, or not being able to drive to a familiar spot, suggests a problem., A person with Alzheimer's might forget the season or year. They might get lost easily, and forget where they are or how they got there., While declining vision or cataracts are normal in aging, severe difficulties can mean Alzheimer's. People with Alzheimer's might struggle to read, judge distance, recognize their own reflection, and tell colors apart., While word-finding problems are typical of older people, someone with Alzheimer's may struggle to have conversations at all.Lots of difficulty finding words
Getting lost in a conversation
Forgetting what you were going to say often
Repeating yourself a lot

, Everyone loses items from time to time. But someone with Alzheimer's has a very hard time. They might put things in weird places, like putting their wallet in the washing machine. Or they might think other people took their things., People with Alzheimer's make more than small mistakes. They might stop showering, give away too much money, dress for the wrong weather, and make other mistakes., Someone with Alzheimer's might get less involved with their loved ones and hobbies, and spend more time sleeping or watching TV. They might have trouble staying motivated., Someone with Alzheimer's might get upset more easily, and struggle with depression or anxiety. They might be suspicious of other people., While you can make observations, only a doctor can make a real diagnosis.

It could be that the person's memory loss and/or other cognitive changes are completely normal for their age.
Or there is another explanation. Stress, depression, alcohol abuse, illness, low vitamin B12 or thyroid, or medication side effects can also cause memory loss.