 By the time you are in your fourth year of your undergraduate degree, you should be able to determine whether this is truly the right field for you. If you plan to move directly into a graduate program, you will want to start researching programs near the beginning of your final undergraduate year. Applications will usually be due near the beginning of the Spring semester (around January through March) of your final undergraduate year.


Some programs may require you to take the GRE before applying. (This is similar to the SAT or ACT, but for graduate school.)

, Some programs offer what’s known as a “fifth year Master’s,” meaning that after you complete your undergraduate degree (BS), you simply stay on for one more year to earn your MS. If your undergraduate university does not offer such an option, begin looking for ASEP accredited MS programs that suit your needs.When you find the right program, apply right away,
Once you are accepted, spend 1-3 years completing your degree.
Depending on your program, you may need to write a research report or thesis to finish.
 A PhD in exercise physiology (kinesiology) will be a research-heavy program. Like an MS program, you will continue to study the science of exercise and nutrition. However, as a PhD student, you will be expected to conduct research and contribute new knowledge to the field. In order to complete your degree, you will need to research and write a doctoral dissertation. If you know you would like to complete a Ph.D., look for an MS program that will prepare you for a Ph.D., or better yet, an MS program that leads directly into a PhD program.Begin applying to PhD programs during your final year of your MS.
Once you are accepted, spent 3-5 years (or more) pursuing your PhD.
Make sure that any program you choose is ASEP certified.
 Many MS and PhD programs in exercise physiology will offer assistantships to students. This means that graduate students may complete teaching, research, or other types of work in exchange for a tuition waver. Beyond simply making graduate school more affordable for students, this hands-on professional training is excellent for students of exercise physiology at any level.