 You can do this by unscrewing real scissors and attaching them to black gloves. Special effects artist Stan Winston and director Tim Burton used real, but custom made scissors in the film. They were not as sharp or dangerous as they appeared to be and it might be a good idea an alternative material. Consider using plastic blades, cut out cardboard painted silver, covered in tinfoil or silver duct tape. As long as the blades are lustrous silver, they should appear real enough.


Find yourself a pair of black gloves or dye an existing pair of gloves. They should be black to match Edward Scissorhands’ color scheme.
Thread resilient, black string into the glove and around the scissors so when you move your fingers, the blades move as well, giving the impression that your fingers are actually made of blades.;
, Although most of his clothing are leather-made, you can get away with other material such as jeans or a t-shirt as long as they are black and cover your entire. Turtlenecks work especially well since they are long-sleeved and cover the neck.
 Edward Scissorhands wears a vest that looks like it is made from sparingly studded belts. Fashion a vest out of three or four such belts and use another two or strips of leather to fashion the straps that go over his shoulders to hold it all in place. If the belts do not have any already, attach studs and hoops or chains in sporadic patterns on his belt and the rest of his clothing.
 While you can get away with using running shoes as long as they are all black, your costume would look more authentic with a pair of boots, if the boots have buckles on them. If you have boots of a different color, you can always paint them. Spray paint should be easiest, and although the boots’ color will fade over time, for a one time (or week long) use such as Halloween, they will be fine.
 Edward has dark black hair about six inches (15 cm) long, and if you decide you would rather not dye or cut your natural hair, you can always buy an Edward Scissorhands wig.
 This is accomplished by taking a combing your hair towards your scalp instead of away from it. This will give it the volume that Scissorhands sports.
 Use regular makeup instead of the Halloween/costume makeup. Use foundation to lighten your skin, not white, but a lighter color. Some dark eye shadow is also important underneath the eyes to give that sad, Edward Scissorhands look.
 The scars are remnants of accidental self-infliction, and they are mostly concentrated in the lower half of the face.

