 Diet can significantly affect your health as you get older. A poor diet can lead to diabetes, high blood pressure, and heart disease, while a healthy diet can help lower your risk of chronic illnesses. Your diet should be varied, full of fresh ingredients, and limited in processed, prepackaged foods.Increase your intake of vegetables. Dark leafy greens, like spinach, collards, kale, and Swiss chard, are filled with vital vitamins and minerals. Carrots, green peas, broccoli, tomatoes, and peppers are other good vegetables. Also include beans, like black, kidney, or navy beans.
Eat fruit, like berries, citrus, and melons.
Lean meat, poultry, fish, and eggs are great ways to increase protein and omega-3 fatty acids. Make sure to get low-fat cuts of meat and remove the skin from poultry.
Dairy products provide calcium and other nutrients. Try low-fat milk, yogurt, and cheese. You can also try Greek yogurt, goat cheese, and kefir.
Whole grains are healthy carbohydrates that are needed for a well-rounded diet. Try quinoa, oatmeal, barley, millet, amaranth, or whole grain breads.
 To help control your weight, try to cut out as many high calorie and high fat foods you can. One easy way to do this is to avoid prepackaged foods, like bakery items, candy, salty snacks, and meals.Limit high fat dairy products like ice cream, full fat cheese, and butter, along with high fat meats, like fried cuts of meat, ground beef with high percentages of fat, and bacon.
 Blood pressure is a common problem for people as they age. Salt contributes to high blood pressure, so you should significantly limit how much salt you eat. Try to eat less than 1500 mg of sodium each day. You can try replacing salt with herbs, like oregano, basic, thyme, and rosemary, which have many health benefits. You can also try eating more spices.One way to cut out sodium is to stop eating processed, prepackaged food. This is where most people get their daily sodium.
High blood pressure can lead to other complications, like stroke, heart attack, heart failure, and kidney disease.
 Getting enough of the right vitamins and minerals is important as you age. You can talk to your doctor about specific supplements you may need, or you can take a multivitamin. There are many vitamins designed for the specific needs of older men and women.Vitamin B12 is important for healthy aging. It helps with blood cells and your nervous system. B12 is found in fish and meat, but a supplement can also help increase your intake. Vitamin D and calcium are also vital to staying healthy after 50.
Make sure that if you take a multivitamin that it doesn’t have added iron in it, especially if you are a woman. Too much iron can lead to liver and heart damage.
 This type of diet can be a healthy way to eat as you age. They have been found to protect against cancer, heart disease, and other major diseases. On this diet, you eat a lot of healthy foods, cut out certain unhealthy foods, and don’t restrict calories.The Mediterranean diet is easy to follow. The basic idea is that you eat mostly fruits, vegetables, and whole grains, with moderate amounts of olive oil and wine.

