 Divide the total length of the dowel by five. Then mark each fifth along the dowel. Use a folding saw to saw off one fifth for each of the two shorter pieces, leaving the longest piece at three-fifths of the dowel’s original length.


Measurements do not need to be perfect, as long as the two shorter pieces are roughly equal and the third is considerably longer.
A dowel that is roughly a foot long before cutting is an ideal length.
 First, tear a short strip of packing tape from your roll. Lay it on your worktable horizontally, with the sticky-side up. Set the dowel pieces on the tape, in the middle, with the longest piece in the center and the tops of all three lined up. Fold the excess tape over the dowel pieces to secure them together.The shorter pieces should pinch together when you tape all three together.
 First, fix a pen to your stele’s body.Lay another short strip of packing tape on your worktable, sticky-side up. Lay a pen or thin marker on top of it. Then lay the longest dowel piece alongside it, so that the pen’s tip extends a little bit past the bottom of the dowel. Fold the excess tape over the pen and dowel to secure them. Then wrap more packing tape around your stele’s body, excluding the pen’s tip.Secure the end of the tape to either the top or bottom the dowel. Wrap the body with tape in an over-under action until the body is roughly of a uniform thickness.


If you plan on actually drawing runes on your skin or someone else’s, consider using a henna pen so avoid ink poisoning.
 Use strips of duct tape to shape runes on the stele’s body. Search online for specific Shadowhunter rune designs. Sculpt the duct tape into your favorite designs and stick them to the stele’s body. Then tear off enough strips of packing tape to cover the rune sculptures. Use your fingers to gently mold the packing tape to the shape of the duct tape underneath.If you prefer having a smooth stele, skip this step and simply ink your runes onto the body later.
 For quickest results, spray the packing tape with silver, gray, or white spray-paint. Allow it to dry for the amount of time indicated in the direction (usually anywhere from five minutes to one hour, depending on the product). Then use markers to color the raised sculpted runes with darker shades, such as black or dark gray. Or, if you chose to keep your stele smooth, use a fine-tipped marker to design your runes.You can also use oil based paints to detail your stele, but these will likely take a very long time to dry. Watercolors will most likely be too thin to effectively coat the packing tape.

