 Locate the app icon on your home screen or app drawer. Like its name, the app’s icon are lily pads in front of a talk bubble. Tap to launch.;
, A window will be present in the foreground with “Welcome to LilyPad HD” in the header, signifying that you are using the free version of the app. If you wish to purchase the app, tap the “Get Full Version” button below the window. It will then launch the billing process on Google Play and ask you to enter your credit card details, if you haven’t yet set up your payment method for buying apps on the Play Store. After purchasing, you will be taken to the Account Registration window.


If you just want to keep using the free version, close the welcome window by tapping the three dots at the upper right of the window and choose “Close.”
It is recommended to use the full version of the app so you can access many of its features, like multiple accounts. The full version costs US$1.49.
If you want to continue using the free version, but decide to get the full version later on, you can access the link in the menu (3-dot icon) on the top right of the main (Options) screen.
 You will then be taken to a list of social media accounts that you can use with the app. Choose from Facebook, Hangouts, MSN/Live Messenger, Yahoo!, XMPP/Jabber, and AOL by tapping on the respective account.


When using the free version of the app, you will only be able to use Hangouts/Google Talk with LilyPad.
 Log into the chosen account in the login screen that appears in the window. Simply enter your username/email and password you use with that particular account.
 If you have the full version, you can link more accounts to LilyPad. To do so, tap the Accounts tab in the Options window and then tap “Add Account” at the bottom.


The list of social media accounts you can connect to will come up again. Tap the account you wish to add, and log into that account to link it with LilyPad.
 Once you’re finished adding accounts, you will be directed to the Options window. There are three tabs at the top: Account, Settings, and About. Tap “Settings” to open the options for notification.
 The first two sections of the Settings menu is on notifications. Each section has options with check boxes that you can tap to enable or disable. You can set notifications for when the chat window is visible or minimized.


When a chat window is visible, you can set the notification alert to Sound and Vibrate. Tap on the checkbox of the option you want to set.
When a chat window is minimized, you can set notification alerts to Sound, Vibrate, and LED. Tap on the checkbox of the option you want to set.
 The Pro Features become available when you purchase the full version of the application, which include additional options allowing you to auto-start on boot, hide profile images, adjust the background opacity, and adjust the chat message and buddy list font sizes.


To set the first two options (Auto-start and Hide profile images), tap on the checkbox beside your selection.
The last three options can be adjusted by a slider. These all help to customize the application to your liking.
 Tap the black top bar where the word “Options” is on to minimize the Options window. Once minimized, you can tap and drag the bar to move it around your screen.


You can also close the Options window by tapping the three dots in the upper right corner and then tapping “Close.”

, By default the Buddy List is minimized, but if you close the Options window, it should open automatically. If not, tap the black Buddy List bar, which has “Buddy List” on it. It should be near the Options bar.


The Buddy List will let you see your friends list across the accounts you logged into with LilyPad. Under a buddy’s name is the app account they are using to go online, which LilyPad will then use to chat with them.
 Find friends to chat with in your Buddy List by scrolling down. Friends are categorized as either Online or Offline. Collapsing the list is possible by tapping the Online Friends header at the top of the Buddy List or the Offline Friends header at the bottom of the Buddy List.


You can easily search for friends too by tapping the magnifying glass icon at the top of the Buddy List. Enter your friend’s name, and tap on the result that appears in the bottom. The search encompasses all the friends in the accounts you have registered.
 Tap the name of a buddy you wish to chat with, and a chat window will appear. Enter your message in the text field, and tap “Send” when you’re done. When your friend replies, you will receive a notification based on your settings, and his/her message will be displayed under your message. Reply by typing on the same text field.


All buddies chatted with using a particular instant messaging app will be grouped into one window, separated by tabs similar to what you find in a web browser. For instance, when chatting with three friends using a Facebook account, all three friends will be grouped into one window. You can then tap the tabs (located just under the top bar of the chat window) with their names to switch to each of them when replying.
 Each accounts (Facebook, AOL, etc.) will have their own chat window. To better organize your screen, you can minimize chat windows by tapping on the window’s black bar at the top.


Once minimized, you can move the bar around your screen. Tap the bar again to open the window. This is especially useful when chatting with multiple friends across different accounts.

