 As with the method for sewing by hand, the first thing to do is to clean up the hole or rip by trimming away any loose or dangling threads. Take care as you do this and try to be as precise as possible.
 Threading the needle on a sewing machine can be a bit tricky as they use two sources of thread, one from the bobbin and one from the spool. The first thing to do is wind the bobbin so that it is wrapped with thread. Once the spool and bobbin are in place on the top of your machine, unravel a few inches of thread towards the far left side of the spool and wrap it around the nubbin on the left hand side of your machine.Then pull this thread to the bobbin, thread it through the small hole, and wrap it around the bobbin a few times to secure it.
Fix the bobbin in place by pushing it to the right and then gentle press down on your peddle to wind the thread from the spool to the bobbin until you have as much thread as you need on the bobbin.
Cut the thread to separate the spool and bobbin, then remove the bobbin and switch off your machine.
 Take the end of the thread from the spool and pull it out to the left as before. This time you are taking it down to the needle itself. You will have to take the thread through a hook on the top of the machine and down along a channel on the right hand side of the needle, before bringing it back up to the top of the machine through another channel on the left, round the hook on the top and back down the left channel.Thread the needle through the hooks on the front and side of the needle itself before finally threading it through the needle itself.
They will most likely be arrows or directions marked on your machine to make this easier.Most machine follow the same basic pattern for threading., You have threaded the needle from the spool above, and now it's time to thread it from the bobbin below. Open up your machine to reveal the bobbin holder beneath the needle, and remove the small metal bobbin holder. Place your threaded bobbin in the holder and pull a few inches of thread out through the slit in the side, before returning the holder to the machine and closing it.To get the thread from the bobbin up to the sewing surface, gently lower the needle with the hand wheel while holding the spool thread in your other hand.
Bring the needle back up, carefully pull on the spool thread and the bobbin thread should appear., Centre a zig-zag stitch over the edge of the fabric (so that half of each stitch goes through the fabric the other half goes on the outside to tie it shut). Sew along each side of the hole to seal the edges and stop further fraying. Some sewing machines have a “buttonhole” setting or pedal that will work well for this purpose.
 Push together the two sides of the hole with your hands to close it. Once it is securely in position, hold it there and position it beneath the needle on your sewing machine. Then, sew vertically across the hole to bind it and close it. As with the sewing by hand method, be sure to start and finish your stitches ½ inch on either side of the hole.


If you sealed the edges of the tear first, make sure you start these new stitches ½ inch further back to avoid pulling out the earlier stitches.
If the hole is in an especially tight or inconvenient spot, moving your jeans through the machine may present a challenge and sewing by hand could be easier.

