 Since you'll be erasing your iPhone's contents and then retrieving the most recent record of your iPhone's data, backing it up before erasing will ensure that your data is as up to date as possible when you restore it. After you complete this process, you can proceed with erasing your iPhone.You'll need to remove your iPhone from "Find My iPhone" before you can restore from an iCloud backup.;
, You won't be able to restore from iCloud if you aren't running the latest version of iOS. To check for an update:


Tap your Settings app to open it.
Tap the "General" tab.
Tap the "Software Update" option.
Tap "Download and Install" if there is an update available.
 If you had to update, you'll need to tap the Settings app again to re-open Settings., This will be at the bottom of the General menu.
 If your iPhone has a passcode, you'll need to enter it to continue.
 This is at the bottom of the screen; tapping it will begin the erase process.
 This may take several minute; once it's done, you can begin restoring your iPhone.
 This will begin the setup process.
 This will set your phone's default language.
 This will be on the "Select Your Country or Region" screen; doing so sets your phone's default location.
 You can also skip this step.
 These credentials must be the same ones you used to set up your iPhone.


You'll have to tap "Next" to continue.
If you've changed your Apple ID password since setting up your iPhone, use that password instead.
 If you aren't sure of which one to choose, tap "Disable location services" at the bottom of your screen., You can also do this later if you wish.
 This will begin the restoration process.
 This is to check for iCloud backup files.
 This is in the lower right corner of your screen; tapping "Agree" will prompt you to select an iCloud backup date.
 Please note that a restoration from iCloud will take several minutes.
 This may take several minutes.
 This will restore your phone and its data. Please note that you will need to wait an additional amount of time to let your phone's apps update and resume their pre-erase status.

