 If there is a particular foreign or faraway beach that strikes your fancy, you can plan a destination wedding. Be aware, however, that attending this type of wedding may be inconvenient and expensive for your guests.If you live near the beach, consider having your wedding close to home. Your guests will appreciate the convenience and lower cost, and you will probably have a bigger turnout for your event.Local beach wedding. If you live near a coast, this is the simplest type of beach wedding. You can plan the wedding on your own, or hire a wedding planner.
Resort destination wedding. Resorts like Sandals or Dreams will usually help you plan a simple or an elaborate wedding.
Professional destination wedding. These can be held in the U.S. or in your favorite vacation destination. You will need to hire a professional wedding planner. It's usually a good idea to find a planner who is local to the area you plan to hold your wedding.
Public U.S. beach. You can usually hold a wedding ceremony on any American beach, as long as you check with the local authorities and procure any necessary permits.
Private U.S. beach. For a smaller wedding of 50 or fewer guests, you may be able to find a private homeowner who will let you use their personal beach. Try checking Airbnb to see if there are any hosts in your chosen area who will rent you their beach.;
, If you hold your wedding during the day, the water will make a beautiful backdrop for the couple. If you plan an evening wedding, you probably won't be able to see much of the sea.Some beaches can get very hot during the middle of the day, which won't be comfortable for you or your guests. Try planning your ceremony at a cooler time of day, like the morning or late afternoon.
 Any time you plan an outdoor event, you should come up with a contingency plan in the event of rain or high winds.If you choose a resort hotel, try to reserve a meeting room in advance, in case you need to use it.
If you had planned to have the wedding on the beach and the reception at home, you may need to hold the ceremony in your house, as well.
Rent a tent. If the weather is windy, but not dangerous, you could set up the altar, walkway, and guest seating under a large temporary tent. Many companies rent tents for this purpose.
 If you are holding your wedding at a beach resort, ask the manager if the beach will be reserved for you alone. If not, you may be able to pay extra to have the beach all to yourself for the length of the ceremony.Lack of privacy is one of the downsides to having your wedding in a public venue.
If you are only able to rent a portion of the beach, try creating privacy by erecting screens on both sides of the ceremony site. Stick tall bamboo poles in the sand and string fine wire or clothesline between them. Drape sheer white fabric over the clothesline or wire.
If you will be renting a large tent, this will create some privacy as well. Arrange the outdoor altar and guest chairs so that the tent is between the ceremony area and the public area.
 If you don't already have a favorite color scheme in mind, consider a color palette that is currently in style. Pale colors often work best for beach weddings, but you can choose any color scheme you like.Stark black and white can be very dramatic, but dark colors will be uncomfortable in the heat.
Currently, the most popular colors for bridesmaids dresses (in general) are: mint green, coral, emerald green, bright purple, pale pink, pale beige, dark blue, black, white, and grey.
Teal, purple, and green works well for an evening wedding by the sea.
Silver, ivory, and beige create an elegant effect.
Coral, fuchsia, and navy are great for a nautical theme.
Sea glass blue with ivory and green can work for a formal or an informal beach wedding.
Marigold (orange), gold and white is a great color scheme for late summer beach weddings.
Canary yellow with tangerine and peach creates a vivid, colorful look for an outdoor wedding.
 A unity candle is a traditional approach, but outdoor weddings can cause breezes that blow out the candle flame before the ceremony is complete. There are many options for a beach wedding.A unity candle is a large candle with multiple wicks, that is lit by the bride and groom (and sometimes by the couple's children, as well).
A sand ceremony is appropriate for a beach wedding. Find a beautiful vase or canister, and have the bride and groom contribute a handful of sand as a symbol of their commitment. It's best to avoid glass containers at a beach wedding, as unexpected gusts of wind can topple and break them.
A handfasting ceremony is a romantic way to symbolically join together husband and wife. The ceremony officiant or an older relative can give a short speech while the bride and groom hold hands. They will then loosely wrap a beautiful silk cloth or ribbon around the couple's wrists.
 Certain types of flowers are more likely to wilt and droop, and won't hold up for the length of your wedding ceremony. Be sure to tell your florist or wedding planner that you will be having a beach wedding, so you can select flowers appropriate to the occasion.Flowers that wilt easily include: freesia, bour varia, and poppies.
Flowers that do well in the sun include: plumeria, chrysanthemums, and orchids.
 If you can't imagine your wedding without a stunning gown and impractical high heels, consider creating a simple walkway that leads to the altar.Buy sections of plywood at a hardware store, and arrange them to make a path down the aisle.
Cover the walkway with sand, so the guests won't be able to see it.
 When arranging the seating, be sure to include some kind of shade for your guests. You could rent a tarp for this purpose. You could also poke bamboo poles into the sand and drape a light-weight white fabric over them to create a beautiful canopy.