 Flies are more than just a nuisance for pets. They can inflict painful bites and transmit serious diseases. Flies tend to bite areas of thin and sensitive skin, such as the ears; this is commonly called ‘fly strike.’Although flies seem to be everywhere during the summer, you can reduce the number of flies around your home. For example, secure your garbage in a tightly-sealed container.Rotten or spoiled food can attract flies. Blocking a fly’s access to garbage and throwing away the garbage regularly will help keep flies away from your home.
A type of fly called the blow fly is especially attracted to trash. Consider cleaning your outdoor trash cans with soap and water on a regular basis to remove garbage residue., As with mosquitoes, standing water can attract flies. If there is any standing water around your home or your horse’s barn, pour it out., Feces also attracts flies. To reduce the number of flies outside your home, pick up your pet’s feces every day.A horse can produce as much as 40‒50 pounds (18‒22 kilograms) of manure per day. Figuring out how to manage that much manure can challenging. Store it in a large holding area, such as a covered dumpster, and then decide whether to compost it, spread it with a tractor in a pasture, or discard it.Spreading manure is an ideal solution for managing horse manure. Spreading will break up and dry out a fly’s environment in the manure. Contact your local agriculture extension agent for guidance on how to spread the manure., Trapping the flies is another good strategy to protect your pets from these pests. Put up fly paper in areas where you have noticed a lot of flies, or where flies could be a potential problem.The paper has an adhesive that would trap the flies once they land on the paper.


Visit your local home improvement store or hardware store to purchase fly paper.
Discard the fly paper as dead flies start to accumulate.
You could also trap flies by filling a jar with a natural or chemical fly attractant (available at home improvement stores). The flies would enter the jar, but would not be able to fly back out.Dump out the jar and replace the fly attractant as needed.
 As with mosquitoes, an automatic spray system in your horse’s barn can keep flies out of the barn. Contact a pest management company to install the spray system in the barn., Fly repellents are very effective at preventing fly bites. Most of the pet repellents that repel mosquitoes also repel flies.In addition, for dogs and cats, flea and tick preventatives may also contain ingredients that repel flies.Talk with your vet to determine which fly repellent will work best for your pet.


Fly sprays and fly repellents are available for horses. Some of the sprays also contain sunscreen, which would be good if your horse spends a lot of time in the sun during the summer.Follow product label instructions carefully to ensure your pet is fully protected from flies.
 Flies can congregate around a horse’s eyes, leading not only to irritation but also skin damage. To protect your horse’s face, put a face mask on your horse when it is outside during the summer.Face masks are available where horse supplies are sold.
 A buildup of urine or feces on your pet’s backend could attract flies to your pet. These flies could lay eggs, which would produce maggots. These maggots could cause major skin damage on your pet. To prevent a maggot infestation on your pet, groom it regularly.Open wounds can also lead to maggot infestation if flies lay their eggs in the wound. While grooming your pet, inspect its skin for any open wounds. If you see any open wounds, take your pet to your vet for treatment., When your pets are indoors, having screens on your windows and doors will be very effective at keeping flies away from your pets.Periodically check the screens for holes. If there are holes, you can patch the hole with a section of replacement screen material, such as fiberglass.If the screen is badly damaged, it may be best to replace the entire screen.


Replacement screen material is available at your local home improvement store. The staff at the store can provide you with guidance on how to repair your damaged screen.

