 Carefully use sharp fabric scissors to cut it from the center rear of your jeans. Set it aside and hang on to it. You’ll need to replace it when you’ve finished with the alterations., Draw a vertical line in the spot where the belt loop used to cover. Make the mark as straight as you can. Use a ruler or other straight edge if you like., Button or zip them up so they fall as they would when you'd wear them. Stand in front of a mirror. Make a note of how much fabric you need to remove., Make sure you’ve left enough room to breathe. Use the chalk or pencil to mark the edges you've gathered on the waistband. At this point, your marks don't have to be straight. Make sure they're visible enough for you to see and long enough to complete the process after you've taken the jeans off., Unbutton or unzip them. Keep them inside-out. This will allow the outside to look professional after you're finished with the alterations. Measure half the width of the area to be removed from the mid-mark. Use the chalk/pencil to mark that location. Do the same on the other side. For example, if you need to remove 2 inches (5.1 cm), you’ll place a mark at 1 inch (2.5 cm) to either side of the middle., Trace a wedge- (triangle-) shaped form starting at the top rear of the waistband. Its length should measure about 3 to 4 inches (7.6 to 10.2 cm). Connect it to the marks on either side of the mid-mark. Do this with either your tailor’s chalk or pencil.The length of the wedge can be longer or shorter, depending on how much you need to alter., This will be the area where the waistband meets the yoke (the area just below the waistband). Rip only about 1 to 2 inches (2.5 to 5.1 cm) to either side of the wedge. This makes the sewing process run more smoothly., Place your scissors at the mid-mark and snip the entire band in half. You’ll probably cut through the label. Feel free to remove it if it’ll get in your way., Use your seam ripper for this step. Carefully remove the center stitches from the waist to the bottom of the wedge. When you reach the bottom of the wedge, tie off the remaining threads to prevent any more unraveling., Hold the ripped areas horizontally. Line up the wedge lines you made with the chalk. Use either safety pins or straight pins. Insert your pins horizontally so that you can easily remove them as you sew. As you pin, make sure the wedge lines and ripped edges continue to match up., Keep the jeans as flat as possible and completely together. Try an easy-to-remove basting stitch to test the fit first. Press the reverse sewing lever for just a moment when you start to secure your stitch. Continue stitching. Use the slowest setting on the machine, since you're working with a small area. Move the jeans from the crotch to the yoke. Remove the pins as you reach them. Fasten off the thread when you reach the yoke., Use fabric scissors to cut any excess from the edges. Give yourself an allowance of at least 0.5 to 0.75 inches (1.3 to 1.9 cm). If you have a serger, secure the seam with that to prevent the denim from fraying. If you don't have a serger, use a zigzag stitch on your sewing machine., Turn the seamed are right-side out. Make a note of which pocket is farther away from the center seam. Turn the jeans inside-out again. Go in the direction of the pocket that's farther away from the center. Pin it in place, if necessary. Iron the seam in this direction. Remove the pin(s)., Turn the newly seamed area right-side out again. Feel the inside for the new seam. Place the edge of the seam under the needle of the sewing machine. This should be about 0.25 to 0.5 inches (0.64 to 1.27 cm). Start at the area just below the (still separated) waistband. Move toward the crotch. Fasten off the thread., Twist each side of the waistband so that the right sides are facing each other. Pin them on the marks you made to either side of the center. This will be where your new stitch will be. Place the waistband beneath the needle of the sewing machine. Start at the bottom of the waistband. Continue to the top. Remove the pins as you sew.


Make sure the pinned area lines up with the center seam. If it doesn't, readjust your pins. If it does, pin the bottom of the waistband to the yoke., Line up the top seam on the belt loop with the top seam of the waistband. Pin them together. Do the same with the bottom. Place the top of the belt loop under the needle of the sewing machine. Stitch horizontally across the top. Do the same with the bottom. Remove the pins.