 If someone you know is going through a difficult time in her life, offer words of encouragement. Encouragement is positive feedback focused toward effort or progress rather than results.Telling a friend that you can see her positive change or progress could make all the difference. You could say things like:


“You are strong.”
“You can get through this.”
“It’s only temporary.”
“You gave it your best shot!”;
, Sometimes, the best thing you can do is just be there to listen. Some friends may not want or need to hear you say possibly cliché things, and instead just want to listen while she vents. A good way to approach this is to ask your friend, “What do you need from me?” and reassure her that you are there for support.


Listening is just as important as talking. To be a good listener, be fully present in the conversation (put your phone away), be empathetic, and pose significant and appropriate follow-up questions to draw out more information. Actively listening involves paraphrasing or asking clarifying questions, such as “If I’m hearing you right, you’re saying…” or “So, you’re feeling…?”Don’t be too pushy while offering help. Ask once or twice, and then don’t probe any further. Every friend is different in how she deals with situations or unhappiness, and some may become frustrated when constantly asked, “What can I do?” or “Are you okay?”

, Telling your unhappy friend how great she looked in that shirt or how well she handled a certain situation will help boost her self-confidence and make her feel better about herself. She may even be happily surprised that you noticed.


Compliments also build trust, so complimenting your friend might help her open up to you about the real cause of her unhappiness. Just make sure that the compliment is genuinely felt on your behalf.
 When a friend is unhappy, one of the easiest ways to bring a smile and begin the transition to happiness is to crack a joke and make her smile. Humor has psychological benefits including coping with stress and grief.In fact, people who experienced laughter when discussing their deceased spouse adjusted more readily and fully in the years following the death.You can tell a corny joke, share a funny personal story, or just be silly. Humor has the added bonus of getting your friend’s mind off the situation causing her distress.
Be cautious with your humor. Know your audience and the kind of humor she appreciates. You might not want to make a joke at the expense of someone else, or joke about a situation too soon. Judge each situation independently. A good rule of thumb is to tell a funny story or joke totally unrelated to the event causing the unhappiness.

