 Confucianism is similar to western Humanism. You should therefore not have a pessimistic view of people, but should always be optimistic. It also means you must never chastise people for their mistakes or their ignorance, but rather show them the way and guide, not force.;
, You should not worry about making mistakes, for mistakes help us by showing us what not to do. Confucius said, "Be not ashamed of mistakes and thus make them crimes."

, Like enlightenment in Buddhism, Confucius teaches how man can become a Chun-Tzu or the perfect gentlemen. That man will follow and cultivate virtue and moral perfection, they are best described as six commandments or rules of life, similar to the eightfold path or the ten commandments. However, different sects have varying numbers of commandments, usually 5,6,7,8. Most Confucian teachings have these basic precepts or tenets (all Confucians must follow these precepts):



Li - Ritual propriety and etiquette

Hsiao - Love within the family, love of parents and love of children

Yi - Righteousness

Xin - Honesty and trustworthiness

Jen or Ren - Benevolence, humaneness towards others (this is the highest Confucian virtue)

Chung - Loyalty to the state.
 Li is better referred to as politeness and social etiquette rather than religious ritual. Confucius tried to revive past etiquette. People must therefore act consistent, being polite at all times with no deviation or lowering of standards for the sake of fitting in or out of laxity. Confucianism does have some rituals, though people can be both Confucian and of another religion like Buddhism or Taoism, they usually follow the other religion's rituals.
 Every Confucian should love their parents and their parents should love them, unconditionally, no matter what happens. There are five bonds of Hsiao which every Confucian must follow:


Ruler to Ruled
Father to Son
Husband to Wife
Elder Brother to Younger Brother
Friend to Friend.
 Righteousness should be practiced by every Confucian, it is the moral disposition to do good, people should always do what is right, which is why bravery and wisdom are often associated with Yi as it takes a wise man to know good from evil and a brave man to carry it out despite fear of death, imprisonment or humiliation.
 All people should be honest and trustworthy, however Confucian Xin goes further, primarily it is integrity, one should be someone who is respectable. Xin is a major feature of the Chun-Tzu and the ruler should also have Xin, if he has Xin you must be loyal to him as part of Chung and Hsiao, though Confucius allows Citizens to overthrow rulers without Xin. Confucians are never allowed to lie, though there is a grey area when it come to white lies, so Xin and Jen to conflict in some respects.
 This is the highest Confucian virtue and forms the golden rule of Confucius, 'do for others what you would like to be done to you'. This is not the same as treat others as you would wish to be treated, though similar. If you want your neighbour to cut your grass are you willing to cut his grass for him? Jen is closely associated with the precepts of Li and Yi.
 The citizen should be humble, productive and obedient, the ruler should therefore be humane, just and kind to his people, though still maintaining order (similar to Plato's Philosopher kings in The Republic). Confucius allowed Citizens to overthrow rulers who were incompetent or evil, this could be considered the first avocation of a form of democracy. Therefore you have a duty to be loyal and the ruler a duty to be just.
 Meritocracy is the principle that the best, most hardworking and able people should be rewarded and the worst, laziest and least able should be overlooked.
 Confucius once said, "Ignorance is the night of the mind, but a night without moon or stars." Ignorance is the greatest evil there is, so knowledge and wisdom are often placed among the six virtues above. Confucius also said, "Ignorance is the night of the mind, but a night without moon and star." Broker no superstition and search for truth, there are parallels with Socrates here.
 Paper money and incense are burnt on special holidays.
 Tien is roughly the equivalent to Western notion of Providence.
 Do not be afraid to be both Buddhist, Taoist or Christian and a Confucian at the same time. Confucianism is a way of life and can easily accompany other religious beliefs. Confucianism goes well with Buddhism and sometimes Taoism. In fact, it is quite difficult for Buddhist and Confucian numbers to be calculated due to the large amount of overlap between the two.

