 You can use either fresh or frozen strawberries. If using frozen strawberries, you may not need as much ice. If using fresh strawberries, make sure to wash your strawberries and remove the crown (the green leafy stem at the top) before adding your strawberries.
 You can use fat-free milk, 2% milk, or give your smoothie an extra creaminess by adding whole milk.
 Strawberry yogurt will give your smoothie a stronger strawberry taste. If you prefer to have more of a vanilla tasting smoothie, use vanilla flavored yogurt.
 Blend for about 5 seconds, pause, then blend again. Repeat until mixed. You may need to stir your smoothie with a spoon between mixes to ensure that no strawberries, blackberries, or ice cubes get stuck.
 You can play around a little bit with the flavor of your smoothie. If you prefer more of a strawberry taste, use strawberry ice-cream. Blend until smooth.


You can also use an equal amount of both strawberries and vanilla ice-cream.
 If you prefer, you can use pulp-free orange juice, or orange juice with pulp for additional thickness. Orange juice will add a little bit of tartness to your smoothie, contrasting well with the sweetness of the strawberries.
 Adding the hard ice after the strawberries will allow the blender blades to grind more effectively. If using frozen strawberries, you may prefer to reduce the amount of ice to 1/2 cup. Because the strawberries are frozen, they will already help make your smoothie cold and icy.
 Start by blending for about 5 seconds, pause, then blend again. Repeat until mixed. You may need to stir your smoothie with a spoon between mixes to ensure that no strawberries or ice cubes get stuck.


Listen to the sound of the blender. If the blender is making a lot of noise, keep blending until the sound is smooth. Stir one last time with a spoon to ensure that your smoothie is completely blended.
If your smoothie is still very slushy when you have finished blending, add additional cubes of ice until your smoothie reaches your desired consistency.
 Pour your smoothie into a chilled glass or cups to share. Top your smoothie off with a straw.

