 An excellent way to flirt with your partner and send a clear signal that you’d like to be kissed is to whisper in their ear. Get very close to them and say something simple like, “Thanks for a wonderful date.” Your body close to them, your face by their face, and your breath on their ear are sure to ramp up the kissing desire!You can also try giving them a simple compliment, such as, "I like your shirt," or, "You smell nice."

, Making your partner feel confident helps give them the courage to kiss you. Tell them some of the things you like about them. If you are feeling very bold, be sure to mention that you like their lips.You can say, “You have really nice eyes.”
You can say, “You’re always so kind to strangers on the street. I really like that about you.”
If you are feeling saucy, say, “You have really nice lips. I really like the shape of them.”

, It is possible that your partner may not be thinking about kissing. You can bring kissing to their mind (and encourage them to kiss you) by bringing up the topic of kissing in conversation.For example, if you see other people kissing (in a movie or on the street) you can point it out. You can say, “It looks like they are having fun.”
Or you could say something like, “Did you know that the human mouth is packed with nerve endings? That is why kissing feels so good.”
You can also say outright to your partner, "If it's okay with you, I would love to kiss you."

, If all else fails, just do the kissing yourself! Sometimes you’ve got to be the one to make the first move. You can boost your confidence and find the gusto to go in for a kiss by looking for positive signals. Has your partner been making eye contact, standing very close, and paying you compliments? Then chance are, they are waiting for you to kiss them.Ask the person before you kiss them! It will diffuse your nervousness about whether or not they want to kiss you because you'll have a clear answer.
If you get nervous, you can excuse yourself for a moment and go take some deep breaths.
Focus on how you will feel after the kiss (relaxed, relieved, romantic) and any nervousness should fade into the background.

