 Omega 3s are helpful in increasing fertility by regulating reproductive hormones, increasing the cervical mucus of egg white which is vital to help the sperm reach the egg, reduces the body’s sensitivity to the hormone prolactin, which can suppress ovulation, and boosts blood flow to the uterus which can aid with the development of uterine lining.Also, omega 3 has an anti-inflammatory effect which can be helpful in ulcerative colitis. It lowers the production of one of the body’s inflammatory chemicals known as cytokines. If inflammation is reduced, then abdominal pain associated with ulcerative colitis can also be reduced.
Foods rich in omega 3 are cod liver oil, canola oil, walnuts, pumpkin seeds, cashews, avocado, sunflower seeds, almonds, sesame seeds, olive oil, corn oil and safflower oil. You can include at least one of the foods mentioned in each major meal.;
, Calcitriol has the ability to control the genes involved in the production of estrogen and embryo implantation. The uterine lining is able to produce calcitriol in response to the embryo as it passes through the uterine cavity before implantation.Also, vitamin D is helpful in ulcerative colitis. As we all know, in this disease, the harmless bacteria in the intestines are mistaken to be dangerous in the body so the immune system triggers a response causing an inflammation of the intestines. Vitamin D balances the immune system response and prevents overreaction in the form of inflammation.
Foods rich in vitamin D are cod liver oil, fish, fortified cereals, oysters, caviar, tofu, soy milk, salami, ham, sausages, dairy products, eggs and mushrooms.
The recommended daily intake of vitamin D is 35 (international units) IUs per pound of body weight (articles.mercola.com). 1 IU is equal to 0.025 micrograms and 1 milligram is equal to 1000 micrograms. So, 1 IU is equal to 0.000025 mg (that’s 0.025 divided by 1000 micrograms).
 This vitamin aids in restoring the luteal phase defects in women experiencing problems with ovulation. The luteal phase which is the time from ovulation to menstruation, should be more than 10 days long (the average is 11 to 16 days) in order for ovulation to occur. If it is lesser than 10 days, then it is called as luteal phase defect.Also, vitamin b6 has been proven to lower the levels of prolactin in the body. Prolactin can disrupt the ovulation process and cause a woman's monthly cycle to become irregular.
Also, vitamin B6 is helpful in ulcerative colitis. This vitamin is a muscle relaxant. This can help relieve abdominal cramping in ulcerative colitis by relaxing the tight intestinal muscles.
The recommended daily intake of this vitamin is 100 mg.Whole grains, walnuts, lean red meat, seafood, bananas, potatoes, beans, spinach and fortified cereals are foods rich in vitamin B6.
 Vitamin C is a water-soluble vitamin that is responsible for collagen formation in the cartilage, bones, muscle and blood vessels. It supports ovulation by stabilizing the hormone levels in the body needed for the process and causes the body to create more water needed to increase the cervical mucus . Cervical mucus of egg white is vital to help the sperm reach the egg.


Vitamin C is also helpful in ulcerative colitis because it stimulates the production of collagen, which is the framework where new tissues are built in case of wounds such as ulceration in the intestinal linings.
Fruits and vegetables rich in vitamin C are blackberries, broccoli, cabbage, cauliflower, grapefruit, lemon, mango, orange, melon, papaya, pineapple, potato, spinach, strawberries, tangerine and tomato.
Eat at least one of vitamin C-rich foods in each major meal. The recommended daily intake of this vitamin is 65mg., Zinc is a mineral that signals the pituitary gland to release follicle stimulating hormones that promote ovulation and production of adequate levels of estrogen and progesterone.In ulcerative colitis, if its cause is infection, vitamin D can help combat the infection by maintaining the normal function of neutrophils and lymphocytes which helps fight foreign bodies by ingesting them.
The daily recommended intake of zinc should not exceed 25 mg. Foods rich in zinc are shellfish, crabs, veal liver, dark chocolate, wheat germ, watermelon, lean red meats, chickpeas, pumpkin and squash seeds. Include at least one of these zinc-rich foods in each major meal.
 Cigarette smoking specifically affects the intraovarian processes and control mechanism which are responsible for the normal luteal function.The nicotine in cigarettes inhibit the production of progesterone which is necessary for the thickening of the endometrial lining of the uterus in preparation for receiving and nourishing the fertilized egg.
Also, nicotine is a potent vasoconstrictor (constricts blood vessels) which can aggravate the pain associated with ulcerative colitis. So, it is best stop smoking for the rest of your life.

