 Navigate to https://www.otterbox.com/en-us/case-instructions.html. Select the brand of your device. Find the instructions for your model.


Specific model instructions are available via video and PDF files.
Case removal instructions may vary slightly by model number.;
, Pinch the silicone by one of the bottom corners of the case. Pull the corner towards you. Continue to separate the case from the device, moving towards the top of the device., Look for grooves to release the snaps. Place your fingernail inside of any snaps. Pull them apart one at a time to release the case.The grooves are small indentations that are opening points for the hard case.
The snaps may be located at the top right side of the case.Separate the hard case carefully; don’t force it. If it is catching in a certain place, there may be another snap for you to release.
 Put a squirt or two of liquid soap in the bottom of a large bowl. Fill the bowl halfway with warm water.


Use a mild soap, such as liquid hand soap or dish detergent., Sponge or brush the parts of the case in the bowl of soapy water. Give extra attention to any stains on the surface of the case., Remove the case from the bowl. Rinse the case the remove any soap residue. Shake off any excess water before using the sanitizing wipe., Set your case on a paper towel. Allow it to air dry for a few hours or overnight.You can wipe down the case with a paper towel if you’re in a hurry. Make sure the case is completely dry before placing your device back into its case.Air drying your case will give the water time to evaporate from the softer, more absorbent areas.
 Clean your case at least one time per month. Clean it once a week if you are outdoors with it often, and/or keep it in a bag with many other items. Try setting a reminder in your device, or cleaning your case every time you do another monthly chore.Debris stuck in between your case and device can cause damage.
If your case was exposed to sand, dirt, dust or water, it’s a good idea to clean it.

