 In 1 or 2 sentences, explain how you can help people. Insert this message in articles, on your website, in emails and in conversation.
 It is important to provide good value and quality work to encourage referrals. Client referrals are the best type of marketing, because your happy clients are doing your marketing work for you.
 Decide what advertising seems to be successful for them, and consider using the same methods.
 Add friends, family and former clients or client prospects from your personal address book, business cards and email exchanges. You can do several things to market and add to the database.


Send monthly expert emails about your profession. Offer useful tips and include a coupon for a free consultation. Becoming a community expert and providing high-quality content on your website and email list can increase your new clients.
Send business cards and referral program info to former clients, friends and family. Offer them several hours of professional services or a gift card if they recommend someone new to your business.
Send reminder cards to clients who need to have a check up, analyze a campaign or review their contract with you.
 Become part of a community organization or sponsor a sports team. You should aim to network every week and introduce yourself to business people.


For many professional services, networking is lead generation. Everyone you meet and have a good conversation with is a potential client. If you have problems being social or speaking in public, join a toastmasters group to gain experience.
 Many online directories offer free listings. Consider paying extra to put your name in bold or place an ad in the printed yellow pages.
 Instead of taking out advertisements in expensive newspapers and magazines, put an advertisement in your church bulletin, organization newsletter or email newsletter.
 Work with a local non-profit to increase awareness about a health or safety issue that affects your community. Become the face of a community awareness campaign.
 Ask each client to bring a colleague or a friend. Instead of a holiday party, choose a time of the year where people's schedules might be open to a mixer.
 Services are not manufactured, so the public can perceive a discount as a lower-quality product. Add a free consultation, a test, a free template or reduced rate for loyalty, rather than taking 25 percent off your hourly rate.

