 It is shown in the movie that Zoey wore pink lip gloss on her mom's wedding and on her "date" with Jackson. On regular days, just wear all-natural lip balm or Chapstick to keep your lips healthy.;
, Zoey has a very unique sense of style, even when she's just simply at dance practice. Try wearing jumper pants, small jackets, knee-length skirts, and colourful tops. For shoes, wear girly sneakers and ankle boots.
 Try wearing gold chain necklaces, gold or silver hoop earrings, silver rings, and metallic bracelets. If you want to wear a watch, make it a gold, silver, or white watch.
 Wash it 3 days a week (more or less, depending on your hair type) with a good quality shampoo and conditioner. Let your hair air dry naturally, and then comb and brush your hair once it dried. Put in any hair styling products needed.
 In the movie, Zoey's nails are about 2 inches (5.1 cm) long and are painted white. Drink 3 glasses of milk a day to keep your nails strong, and paint them one plain colour instead of a bunch of different colors. One main, simple colour will really help with your outfits.
 Zoey loves to dance, especially hip hop. Try going to a dance school or join your school's dance team. If you don't want to, simply just freestyle dance to whatever song you hear on the radio!

, Simply just brush your teeth two times a day and rinse your mouth with mouthwash for 30 to 45 seconds. It will really help.
 Say "please" and "thank you" to people, help them out of situations, don't curse or swear to people. The basics of manners, really.
 In the movie, Zoey's best friend is Rachel. Making friends is actually easy. Just walk up to the person you want to be friends with, say "Hi, my name is (whatever your name is), chat for a while, and then ask that person to be your friend.
 This is kinda optional, but if you want one, go for it!

, Wash your face two times a day with a cleanser and use a toner and moisturizer. Get 8 hours of sleep at night. You may wonder how that could possibly help your skin, but having no dark circles under your eyes can actually help your skin. So can eating healthy foods, and drinking 6-8 glasses of water a day. You can try natural masks and scrubs on your face once a month, if you want.
 Pick up your trash, pick up your dirty laundry, make your bed, keep your desk organized, and make sure there are no sticky substances in your room. If you have posters in your room, make sure they're straight, and are framed.
 After going back to school shopping, try making homemade covers on your binders, folders, and/or notebooks. There are many videos on YouTube on DIY School Supplies, so you can check those out. If you're not allowed on YouTube, you can just be original and do whatever comes to your mind.
