 Make a fist. Keep your thumb across your fingers and not tucked. Hold this pose for thirty seconds to a minute. Release it and spread the fingers out widely.Begin with four reps of this if possible.









If you cannot do four reps of any of these exercises at first, don’t worry. Do what you can without straining your muscles. You will find that you naturally build up to more reps with time.
Be sure to consult with a physician or physical therapist before adding more than the recommended amount of reps to avoid the possibility of straining your hands.
 Place your hand palm-down on a table. Flatten the hand against the table’s surface as much as possible. Hold that pose for thirty second to a minute,then release. Begin with four reps of this if possible.
 For a grip-strengthening exercise, hold a soft ball in your palm and squeeze it hard for five seconds before releasing your grip. Work your way up to 10–15 repetitions, performed two to three times weekly. It is important to give yourself two days’ rest between grip-strengthening sessions.









Do not perform this exercise if you have a thumb injury.
 Then bend your fingers so that the tips rest against the base of your finger joints. Your hand will resemble a cat’s paw. Hold for thirty seconds to a minute before releasing.Do four reps if possible.
 One at a time, touch the pad of your thumb to the tip of each finger. Make sure that each touch makes an “O” shape. Do four reps of this exercise if possible.









You can also do this exercise by touching your thumb to the pad of each finger. The shape made by your fingers will be more of an oval or egg shape.
 To perform this exercise, pinch a bit of silly putty or a soft ball between the tips of your fingers and your thumb. Hold the pinch for thirty seconds to a minute. Build up to 10–15 repetitions if possible. You can perform two to three times each week with a two-day rest period between sessions.








Do not perform if you have a thumb injury., Place your hands flat on a table with your palms down. Lift up one finger at a time, then lower it. At the end, lift up all four fingers and the thumb then lower them. Do four reps of this if possible.
 Wrap a rubber band around your hand at the base of the fingers. Extend the thumb and hold it before bringing it back in. If possible, work up to 10–15 reps. It is safe to do these exercises two to three times a week, but give your hands two days to rest between sets.
 Hold out your hand in front of you. Extend the thumb away from the hand as far as comfortable. Bend the thumb across the bottom of your hand to touch the base of your pinkie finger. Hold each pose for thirty seconds to a minute. Work up to four reps to begin with.
 This involves squeezing the fingers together and pulling the fingers apart from each other. Interlock your fingers and try to pull one hand away while the fingers of the other hand are squeezing towards each other trying to maintain the interlock.









For strengthening the thumb to the pad of your fingers, you can put a piece of paper between thumb and pad, squeeze, and with opposite hand try to pull the paper from between your thumb and finger.

