 This is time-tested tactic for getting what you really want. It’s simple. If you want to manipulate someone, you should first make an unreasonable request, wait for the person to reject you, and then follow it up by a more reasonable request. It will sound much more appealing to your victim in comparison to the first request as used by salesperson.For example, if you want your employee to come in early the next day, just say, “Would you mind leading the new project? You’ll just have to come in to work two hours early for the next few months.” When your employee shakes his head, just say, “Oh, all right. But would you mind coming in early tomorrow to help me wrap up this report?” He’ll be much more receptive after the first request.
 Another way to ask someone to do something for you is to make an unusual request that throws the person off guard so much that he can’t think to say no. If you ask for the usual request right away—money, a ride, help with homework—people will be more likely to say no because their minds have been conditioned to avoid these tasks. For example, if you want to ask someone on the street to sign a petition, you can first ask that person to help you tie your shoe because you sprained your back and can’t bend down. This will establish a relationship with the person and will make him less likely to turn you down when you ask him to sign the petition.
 If you want to get what you want, you can first make a person fear the worst, be relieved, and then be happy enough to grant you whatever you want. This is a mean little trick but it’ll get you results.For example, you could tell your friend, “You know, when I was driving your car, I heard the most terrible noise and was sure that your engine died. But then I realized it was just coming from the radio—isn’t that funny?” Pause and wait for your friend to recover before you say, “Which reminds me—do you mind if I borrow your car again over the weekend?”

, Guilt is another excellent tactic to getting what you want if you’re manipulating the right person. First, pick someone who is prone to feeling guilty already. Then make that person feel like he’s being a bad parent, friend, or boyfriend for not giving you what you want, no matter how ridiculous it is.


If you want your parent to feel guilty, just make him feel that your life or childhood is suffering because he’s not letting you have enough experiences.
If you want your friend to feel guilty, remind him of all the great things you’ve done for her, or casually mention all the times she’s let you down.
If you want your boyfriend to feel guilty, just say, “It’s okay—I expected this,” thus making him feel like he always lets you down.
 Bribery is another great way of getting what you want. You don’t have to blackmail someone to use this trick to achieve your goals. You can even bribe someone with a reward that isn’t so appealing, or with something that you would do anyway. For example, you can ask your friend for help studying for the math test, and offer her a ride to class in exchange, even if you’ve given her a ride before and it’s no big deal.


Figure out what the person wants and try to give it to her. If your friend has a crush on the new guy in school, promise that you’ll try to get his number if she does what you want.
Don’t make it obvious that you’re bribing. Just make it seem like you really want to do something nice for that person in return.
 Playing the victim is a great way to get what you want as long as you don’t overdo it. This is a great tactic that should be used sparingly, but which will pierce the heart of your victim when done in the right way. Just act like you’re a wonderful, altruistic person, and that all of the evil in the universe has somehow fallen upon you.


Play dumb. Say, “I just don’t know what I keep doing wrong.” Make it sound like you’re genuinely baffled by why things never work out for you.
Say, “It’s okay—I’m used to this.” Make the person feel guilty, like you’re surrounded by people who will never help you out.
Be pathetic. If your friend won’t give you a ride across town, say, “It’s okay—I’ll just walk. I could use the exercise.”

, For the rational-minded people in your life, logic is the great persuader. Come armed with at least three results-oriented reasons for why the thing you want would benefit you and even the person you’re asking. Talk calmly and rationally as you present your case and don’t lose your cool. To reach a rational person, you have to keep emotion out of it or you won’t get what you want.


Act like what you want is the only logical thing to do. Make the person feel ridiculous for not seeing it your way without saying so.
 Whatever your method, if your friend, coworker, or significant other calls you out on using a manipulative tactic or for pretending to be more upset than you actually are, don’t ever admit that it’s true. Instead, look even more hurt and say, “I can’t believe you would think that,” which will make the person feel even more guilty and sorry for you.Once you admit to using manipulative tactics, it will be very hard to manipulate the same person again.

