 These are the type that is used as domesticated pets. It is small and lighter colored than European varieties.


It is illegal in most places to own a European hedgehog. However, it may also be illegal to own an African hedgehog in your state or country.An African hedgehog is sometimes called a “pygmy hedgehog.”;
,, Chances are it will bite when it is wild and young.
 It is likely unhealthy. Missing patches of quills are a sign of mites and should be treated immediately.
 They will also bite if they feel threatened.
 Set it on a flat surface with at least two square feet of roaming space.


Ensure that the floor is not made of wire or wood. Wire is hard to crawl over and wood can be unclean and infested with mites.
Find cages at pet stores that are meant for rabbits or guinea pigs. You can use an aquarium or plastic tub as long as it has places to enter and exit and some airflow.
 Smell is key to taming a hedgehog, since it is their strongest scent. You can even put an old unwashed t-shirt in or near his cage to help him get familiar with you.
 He should be left alone to feel safe and secure in this place before you take him out or let him roam.
 Talk to him quietly and stroke him lightly to put him at ease. You may need to try this several times before he sits still and stops curling up.


Repeat for one month so that he gets used to your voice.
 If he associates you with food, he is more likely to accept you as a friend and trainer.
 As he becomes tamer he will start to use it for napping, rather than hiding. Try adding short toilet paper rolls as play things.
 Try cat toys without catnip and teach your hedgehog to play with them and you. They like to crawl and tug them, so they are an excellent way to domesticate a hedgehog further.
 Allow him to smell and taste it. If the hedgehog spits on a new toy, that is a good sign, because they are anointing it with their smell., This will make your hedgehog’s home more desirable and give him plenty of exercise. If you don’t have paper towel tubes, igloos and tunnels, the animal may hide under furniture or dig into carpets and plants.
 This will keep him tame once you have domesticated him.
 Consistency is key.
 Don’t set the wheel in the area until he is litter trained. It can be a distraction, since hedgehogs regularly defecate and urinate on their wheels.
 Pick up the droppings and place them into a litter pan. Place the litter pan in that spot, where he is likely to return to do his business.
 It should be shallow in front and back with higher sides. Fill the litter pan with shavings, such as Aspen or Carefresh.Although some people use non-clumping cat litter, other people say this can be harmful to hedgehogs.
 The time it takes to litter train a hedgehog depends upon the hedgehog. It can take a few days or a few years.


Even if your hedgehog is well trained, they don’t always use the litter tray.
 Move it if your hedgehog starts using a different spot.
 It is natural for them to do this. They may need a bigger litter pan where they can use a portion for their litter and a portion to roll around.