 You may be drinking extra beverages with caffeine due to your fatigue. However, this can increase your fatigue in the long run. Caffeine is only a temporary increase in alertness and energy, followed by a crash when it wears off.Instead of drinking extra caffeinated beverages, drink water and low-calorie juices during the day. They can help you stay hydrated without the crash.
Avoid consuming caffeine in the evening or before bed, as it can make it more difficult for you to fall asleep. It can also affect the quality of your sleep.
 Your diet may be contributing to your menopausal fatigue. A recent study found that diets high in fat, simple or processed carbs, and added sugars cause an increase in menopausal symptoms, such as fatigue, hot flashes, and night sweats. Cutting these things from your diet may help you feel better.Cut out saturated fats and replace them with healthy fats, like nuts, coconut oil, and avocado.
Reduce your added sugars by limiting junk food and candy. Try to get rid of snack cakes, pastries, sugary cereals, candy bars, and other sugary snacks. This will also help you eliminate simple carbs, which can contribute to fatigue.
A balanced diet with vegetables, fruit, lean meats, plant proteins, healthy fats, and complex carbohydrates can help alleviate menopause symptoms, including fatigue.
 Alcohol has been linked to hot flashes. Excessive hot flashes can keep you awake and increase your fatigue. If you are experiencing menopausal fatigue, reduce your alcohol intake or eliminate alcohol from your diet completely for awhile.If you choose to drink, drink in moderation. This means no more than seven alcoholic beverages per week, and no more than three drinks in one day.
One drink includes a 5-ounce glass of wine, a 12-ounce beer, or a 1.5-ounces of liquor., Some foods, like spicy food, can make menopausal symptoms worse. Isoflavones can help reduce symptoms. Isoflavones are plant estrogens that are believed to work in the body like a weak type of estrogen.Try eating soybeans, chickpeas, lentils, and ground or crushed flaxseed. Minimal traces of isoflavones can also be found grains, beans, fruits, and vegetables.

