 This may be a new experience for you, but don’t let that freak you out. If you know this boy well then just expect to have a good time hanging out and getting to know each other.;
, You don’t want to be sitting around all wondering what to do next. Your guy friend might have some ideas of his own, but you can also bring your favorite board game or movie to pop in and watch.


Be open what your friend wants to do as well. For example, if he wants to play video games and you never have, try it out. You may find a new hobby or interest.
Bake snacks for the movie you watch or just to have on hand when you get hungry.
 With a group, there’s less pressure on you and your guy friend. You won’t have to worry about being mistaken for a couple if you’re just friends. A group of friends is also more fun in general because you have more options for games and hijinks.
 You’re a guest in another person’s home and you want to leave a good impression. Practice good manners, especially if he lives with his family. Don’t go poking around in closets or bedrooms if you were not given a tour; some families are more private than others.


Don’t raid the fridge or pantry if it wasn’t offered.
Avoid drinking too much water or food before bed so that you don’t have to get up in the middle of the night.
 If you need to shave, trim your nails or pluck your eyebrows, do it beforehand so that you don’t waste time at his house., Have a discussion with your boyfriend before you sleep over as far as where you both are in your relationship physically. This will be different for everyone, but don't go through with a sleepover if you haven't set boundaries that you are both comfortable with.


Deciding on boundaries beforehand will help you be prepared to handle any situations that could arise.
Make sure you don't do anything at the boy's house that you would regret later. Be careful so that you don't get yourself in trouble or give yourself a bad reputation.
 If you’re staying over on a school or work night, you want to make sure that you have enough time to get ready for the day. Waking up early also gives you an opportunity to do something sweet like make breakfast or write a cute thank-you note. If you have to leave early, make sure you say goodbye first., In case you need to leave early in the morning or decide you don’t want to stay all night, come up with a plan. If something goes wrong, like he wants to move too quickly and physically than you’re comfortable with or you’re allergic to his pets, have a legitimate excuse. You could say that your parents need you to come home or that you’re not feeling well.


Don’t be afraid to be honest and say that you need to go home.
Honesty is still the best policy., Bring up the subject casually so that they aren’t caught off-guard if this is your first time asking. Checking to see if you can spend a night away from home is better than sneaking off or simply disappearing.


If you’re staying at a guy friend’s house, they may be more lenient. Your only discussion may be that you decide with your parents when you’ll be home and if his parents will be present.
When you want to stay at your boyfriend’s house overnight, your argument will need to be different. You may want to sit down with your parents and possibly your boyfriend and discuss boundaries and rules. Showing this kind of maturity can help your parents agree to a sleepover.
To strengthen your argument, introduce your boyfriend or guy friend and his parents to yours so that they’re not strangers.
 Your parents most likely have your best interest at heart and they could have reasons they don’t want you to go. If they ask questions, answer them clearly and honestly so that they know they can trust you. Explain why you want to go and what you will be doing to reassure them.If they’re worried about your safety, then invite other guy and girl friends to go along with you so that it’s more of a party than one-on-one event.
Discuss with them that you will have a cell phone and charger or at least a list of numbers to call in case of emergency.
 They may not say yes to you the first time you ask to sleep over. However, they may change their minds in the future if you show them that you’re mature and responsible. You don’t want to break your parents’ trust in you or start a fight with them. One day you can decide to sleep over at whoever’s house you want but try your best to keep a good relationship with your parents., Staying for just one night means you don’t need to pack your entire room into a bag. A few essentials will see you through a whole night of staying over another house. But if you’re staying for a whole weekend, you’ll need a few changes of clothes and more than just a toothbrush., Get a small to medium sized bag for your things. Don’t expect him to have everything you need. Guys can be very easy-going with their toiletries and appearance. Think about your daily routine and determine what items you will need for going to bed and waking up., Start with your basic hygiene needs and clean clothes first so that you’re sure they fit in your bag. Then, prioritize your items. You definitely need a toothbrush and toothpaste and they fit easily into a bag. A hair straightener is bulky and if it’s possible for you to go one day without it, leave it at home. Here’s a sample packing list:


Change of clothes
Clean underwear
Comfy pajamas
Toothbrush and toothpaste
Deodorant and travel-sized shower products
Hairbrush and bobby pins
Make-up and make-up remover
Cell phone and charger
Extra contacts, your eye glass case, retainer, or specific medicines you might use, Save yourself any embarrassment by thinking ahead and packing tampons and any medications you take for cramps or migraines. Even if this boy lives with his mother or sister, you may not have the chance to ask them for help. Protect yourself from discomfort and any awkward situations by stashing a few extra supplies in your overnight bag.