 In order to determine your dog’s respiration rate, make sure that it is calm. Dogs naturally increase their blood oxygen levels while at play or when anxious. This means that they breathe more in order to circulate more oxygen through their systems. Alternatively, if your dog has just finished playing and is hot, it will increase its breathing rate to exhale the heat in their bodies, in an effort to cool themselves down. Wait until your dog is sitting still or laying down to take its respiratory rate., You don’t need to hold you hand in front of your dog’s nose, nor do you need to flip it over and feel for its lungs. These activities will only make your dog more nervous, which in turn will elevate its respiratory rate. Simply sit close enough to your dog to see its sides. Watch as its chest/torso expands and contracts. One breath is made up of one inhale and one exhale.The normal respiratory rate for a dog is between 15 and 30 breaths per minute. Excited and overheated dogs may exceed this number. Just watch their condition and make sure they return to the safe range if you are concerned.
 If you don’t have a stopwatch, use the second hand on your watch. For the first couple of times that you take your dog’s respiratory rate, be sure to count for a full minute. After you’ve done it several times and feel confident in your counting ability, you can reduce the time to 30 seconds. Then simply multiply your number by two to get your dog’s breaths per minute rate., Make sure that the journal or piece of paper you use has a space for a date and time, respiratory rate number, and any other comments you might have. Record your dog’s respiratory rate every time you take it, even if you think your dog might be a little excited or hot still. Simply note your dog’s recent activity in the side bar. There are templates online for you to use as well., This app allows its users to count and record the resting respiratory rate of your dog. The application is free and easy to use. You can set reminders to take your pets breath rate. The app will record and chart how their respiratory rate changes overtime. You can even put in a veterinarian’s information and have results sent straight to him. If you have family members that are worried about your pet, you can even use the app to post the data to social media (e.g. Facebook or Twitter)., Whenever you go in for your vet visit, make sure that you share your detailed respiratory rate readings with him. It is important — for better or worse — to share this information. Your vet might notice patterns in your dog’s respiratory rate fluctuations that you may not. Sometimes, these signs can be subtle indicators of heart problems., 15 to 30 is the normal range. This could be a sign of any number of issues ranging from bacterial and viral infections to traumatic injury., Serious lung issues may present themselves in such a dramatic way. Punctured or deflated lungs can be caused by a variety of issues and will certainly affect your dog’s respiratory rate.Be sure to call your vet before you actually visit his offices, just in case your dog shouldn't be moved. If this is the case, your vet will either advise you on what to do or will come to you.
 Coughing or nasal discharge combined with an increased breathing rate often signal issues with the lungs, which can lead to pneumonia.