 Ask the abuser why they behave the way they do. You can ask for yourself or for a family member who is being abused. Even if they don’t have an answer, confronting them shows that you notice the abuse, which may embarrass them enough to stop.

Prepare yourself for a negative response. The abuser may deny what they do, laugh in your face, lash out on you, or simply walk away. Going in knowing this may prevent you from getting your feelings hurt., Talk to those around you about the abuse you’ve seen or experienced. Ask them if they agree with you. Having people on your side validates what you believe to be going on. It also gives you support when you confront the abuser. Telling them that others have witnessed the abuse—not just you—can give your accusations more credibility.

Take the opinions of those who disagree with you with a grain of salt. Family members may not want to believe that their own kin is capable of abuse. They may deny seeing it, even if they do. This doesn’t mean you are wrong in what you believe or feel; it just means that they don’t want to admit the truth. Stay strong in your convictions, even if some of your family is against it.Having an ally can help to make it easier to confront the person, and it can also make the abuser take you more seriously if they see that their behavior is unacceptable to someone else as well. The person may not even be aware that they are being abusive.
 Having a third party present can give you a chance to express yourself and for the abuser to provide their perspective as well. Ask the abuser to attend therapy with you, if you are committed to making the relationship work. Having a third party to act as a mediator may be more effective than just having a one-on-one conversation with the abuser. Having a professional there may also encourage you both to feel more comfortable and therefore more willing to share.

There’s a high probability that the abuser will refuse to go with you. Don’t take this personally. The problems they have don’t have anything to do with you. However, you may need to take this refusal as a sign that it’s time to move on from repairing the relationship. , Talk to the victim and let them know they have your support. They likely feel alone right now, and having you there for encouragement can mean the world to them. Let them know that you see what is going on and have their back.

Offer to do whatever you feel comfortable with, whether that is confronting the abuser with them, attending therapy, or finding a new place to live. You may be the only person they have right now. 