 Rules and regulations about foster care vary from state-to-state. When, where, and if you can have parental rights terminated as a foster parent depends on a number of factors.


In some states, biological parents can voluntarily terminate parental rights in the event their child finds a loving home. Such petitions are much more likely to be accepted than typical voluntarily terminations of rights as the child in question has a safe, alternative environment away from his biological parents.You can petition to get the rights of biological parents voluntarily terminated in most states. However, the process is complicated and you must make sure the child's safety is at risk. The same grounds, such as abandonment and child endangerment, must be met to terminate a co-parents rights involuntarily.Parental rights are sometimes terminated if a child is placed in foster care. However, this is up to a judge and likelihood of this occurring varies from state to state. Talk to an attorney if you're considering foster care so you can understand your rights., If you're putting a child up for adoption, you can opt to voluntarily give up your rights. While the process to do so is somewhat lengthy, if your child is in the care of responsible adoptive parents your petition will more than likely be approved by a judge. If you're giving up a child for adoption at birth, many states have a waiting period before you can voluntarily give up your rights. This is to assure you're certain of your decision and prepared for the legal consequences of giving up parental rights., In the event you're trying to adopt a child and the rights of the biological parents are in the way, you can have that parent's rights terminated involuntarily. This usually occurs when a new spouse wants to adopt a child from a previous marriage or relationship. Like any other cases of involuntary termination, you must prove the biological parent is unfit. The process is much the same as the above outlined method of involuntarily terminating parental rights.