 Take a moment to steady your hands. Reach down and grab the ring with the index finger and thumb of one hand. Use the index finger and thumb of your other hand to grab the bead. If you have difficulty manipulating the ring with your hands in this position, try placing both hands on the ring itself, positioning your fingers on the opposite sides of the bead or ball., Holding both pieces of the ring, twist slightly and apply measured force until the ball comes free. Make sure that you have your fingers on the ball as it comes free, or you might drop it on the ground or on the table. Once the ring and ball are separate, set the ball on the table.With traditional captive rings, tension is the reason that the ball stays in place in the ring. By twisting the ring, you loosen this tension just enough so that the ball can move or drop out.
If you accidently drop the ball or ring, make sure to sterilize the jewelry again before continuing.
 With both hands on opposite sides of the opening in the ring, carefully twist the two ends in opposite directions. Turn your right hand clockwise and your left hand counterclockwise. The ring should look like a slight spiral. When twisted into this shape, it should be easier to slide into your piercing., Insert one open end into your piercing. Glide the wire of the ring into the piercing until the center of your ring rests inside. The opening of the ring should lie directly across from the piercing itself. You may need to use your fingers to support the skin around the piercing as you slide the jewelry in place., Grab one side of the ring with the index finger and thumb of your right hand. Grab the other side of the ring with the index finger and thumb of your left hand. Apply pressure with both hands to twist the two ends back into place. Your right hand should move counterclockwise and your left hand should move clockwise.


When done, the ring should no longer look like a spiral. There will still be a slight gap in the center, but otherwise, it should be back in the shape of a solid ring.
If you have excess soap in the piercing area, now is a good time to gently wipe it off with a damp paper towel.
 Position the bead so that the dimples on the other side line up with the open ends of the ring. Use your hands to push the bead back into the ring, stopping once it clicks into place. You'll need to steady the ring by holding one side of it with the index finger and thumb of one hand. Use the other hand to push the ball back into place.


If properly inserted, the ball should spin with a little resistance. If it spins freely, the ring is too loose. Remove the ball, squeeze the opening in tighter, and re-insert the ball.

