 This is to sear the roast initially -- you will bring the temperature down after this blast of heat. Put the oven rack on a lower tier.
 Either ribs side down or fat side up is okay. When choosing a pan, make sure the sides are at least 3" (7.5 cm) deep.


Nonstick pans are a waste of energy. You'll get fewer tasty bits that give your au jus or gravy flavor. And the rib bones serve as a natural rack, so you won't need a metal one., Some people believe wholeheartedly that you should coat your roast in salt and pepper. Others swear that the salt just dries out the meat -- so avoid it all costs. This is, ultimately, up to you.


You may also find that smearing the cut ends of the roast with a couple tablespoons (30 g) of butter seals in the moisture and makes the ends more tender. Again, proceed at your own discretion.
 Then turn the oven to 325°F (162°C) for the rest of the cooking time. Every 1/2 hour, baste the cut ends of the roast with the fat accumulated in the roasting pan. Do not cover the roast.
 To figure out the total cooking time needed for your roast, allow about 13-15 minutes per pound for rare and 15-17 minutes per pound for medium rare.Grab your meat thermometer (an instant-read digital one makes it easy) and check the internal temperature about 45 minute before you think the prime rib will finish. If anything, start checking early; if something's going wrong, you'll be able to catch it.
Meat thermometers will only give you an accurate reading if you're inserting it into the thickest part of the beef. It should not be touching fat or bone. Cook until the temperature is 120° F (49°C) (or your desired temperature).Rare starts at 120°F (49°C) regardless of size. Medium rare is between 125° and 130°F (51° to 54° C). To make sure you're getting the doneness you desire, use a good digital meat thermometer., Cover loosely with aluminum foil, and let sit approximately 15 to 20 minutes. Cutting into the meat too early will cause a significant loss of juice. Do not skip the resting stage.



Do not cover the roast tightly; that will make the crust soggy.
Transfer fat and dark drippings from the pan into a fat separator. Set aside.

