 Antibiotics are the only way to really treat a UTI, but given that they often pass in a few days, there are things you can do to help ease the symptoms and make it less likely for the infection to recur. The most straightforward of these is just to drink plenty of water throughout the day, approximately a glass every hour.When you urinate your bladder is cleansed, and this can help flush out bacteria.Do not hold in your urine. Holding in your urine can cause the UTI to get worse, by encouraging the bacteria to breed.
 Drinking cranberry juice is often cited as a home remedy for a UTI. While there is little evidence that cranberry juice can actually fight an infection, it may help prevent one.If you have recurring UTIs try taking higher-strength cranberry capsules.As with water, drinking plenty of fluids helps you to flush out and cleanse your system.


Do not take cranberry juice if you or your family has a history of kidney infection.
You should not take cranberry juice capsules if you are taking blood-thinning medication.There is no medically specified dose of cranberry juice to take, as its effectiveness is not proven.One study found positive results for women who took either one tablet of concentrated cranberry juice a day, or drank 8oz of unsweetened cranberry juice three times a day for a year., Taking vitamin C supplements when you first start to feel the symptoms of a UTI can help to limit a developing infection. The vitamin C helps to acidify the urine, which discourages the bacteria from colonizing your bladder while strengthening your body’s immune defences.Try a 500mg dose every hour, but stop if your bowel movements become loose.You can combine vitamin C supplements with mild anti-inflammatory teas, such as goldenseal, echinacea, and nettle.
If the symptoms persist after a few days, go to the doctor regardless.
 There are certain things you consume which can be irritants, the effects of which are heightened when you have a UTI. The two biggest culprits to avoid are coffee and alcohol. Not only are they irritants, but they also dehydrate you which can make it more difficult to flush the bacteria from your urinary tract.You should also avoid soft drinks that contain citrus juices until after your UTI has cleared.Restricting caffeine and alcohol in your diet can also be used as a preventative measure against future UTIs if you are susceptible to these infections.

