 Step outside of what you may typically find inspiring--your job, money, or outward appearances. Think about what inspires your heart and soul. By examining all the things that inspire you, you can begin to see what other things matter beyond your career.Create a list of attributes that you value in yourself and in others. Avoid listing qualities that are about outward appearances, and instead focus on inner strengths such as kindness, honesty, or humor. Focus on how to strengthen these attributes.
Think about the people, past and present, that exhibit these qualities. They could be people that you see in your everyday life, your friends, or people from history.
Focus on what inspires you beyond human endeavors. Do you feel inspired when walking in a forest or along a beach? Do you feel happy when in a garden or out in nature? These things matter beyond what your career offers.;
, Your self-worth is something beyond what is defined through job promotions or job titles. It is the part of yourself that finds peace in being a part of this world. The only person who controls your self-worth is you.


You can't control how others show their self-worth or confidence. They may only measure their worth by how much money they have. Avoid falling into their trap and relying on them to determine your worth.
Avoid others who make you feel worthless or judged. If they can't understand how or why you view self-worth based on kindness, love, and respect for others, that's their problem not yours. Consider explaining to them, if you feel comfortable, that some things are more important than what you do for a living or how much money you make.
Be sure that you accept yourself, too, of course. Sometimes we hold deeply ingrained values from our family and upbringing about what constitutes self-worth.
 Find the time and energy to do the things that make you feel happy, loved, and at peace. If you have a demanding work schedule or career, you may feel like you have lost a sense of yourself. Reconnect with the things that bring you joy.Rekindle hobbies or interests that have long been a source of comfort. For example, if you used to draw or take photographs as a kid, consider taking some time to do this again.
Spend time with those who make you feel good about yourself. Be with friends and family who appreciate you, beyond what job you have or how much money you make.
Volunteer with a non-profit. Give back in ways that make you feel connected to a bigger community.
Have an hour to yourself each day, to reflect on what really matters and what makes you happy. Write in a journal or take some time before bed to reflect on the joy in your life.
Avoid making excuses – don’t tell yourself that your job is too demanding to do things you enjoy.
 Modern culture tends to equate your job with your sense of self. Just after a few minutes of meeting someone, you or someone else might ask, "What do you do?" Such interactions may make you feel like the only thing that matters is your job. But it's not.Learn to respond to, "What do you do?" without stress by highlighting the things that make you happy. Let's say you work at a retail store, but your true passion is for martial arts. You could say, "By day I work in customer service, and by night I'm training to be a black belt in karate."
Ideally, you enjoy your work and find happiness in what you do. But either way, it's important to have different things that define and shape who you are. Having work-life balance is a healthy approach to having a healthy self-esteem.
Remind yourself that there is value and purpose in life beyond work-related things. Write down a list of activities that make you feel good and that contribute to your betterment. Prioritize things that you'd like to do more of, and make sure to set aside time to do more of those activities.

