 With kids, you're going to need to store things. Anticipate this need by adding in cabinets or bookcases to the room. Cabinets help hide clutter, but you can also use slide out boxes on bookcases to hide clutter, as well., Another way to contain the clutter is to make use of stylish baskets and boxes. If these items are large enough, they can be standalone items. The key is to make sure they are easy enough for kids to open if they have a lid., Kids want to be able to get to their stuff, so try storing it near their level. Bonus, if it's on their level, they're more likely to put it back afterwards than if it goes back somewhere they can't reach. Plus, they don't have to ask you every time they want to play with something., That is, pick pieces of furniture that are easy to move around. That way, you can move them out of the way if you need lots of floor space for a fun family project. It can also help if your kids want to do something like put on a play, as they can rearrange to make a seating area., When picking out items like side tables, try to make them as versatile as possible. For instance, small, light tables can sometimes function as extra seating, particularly if they're sturdy enough. When you have guests, just pull the tables into the circle for more seating. These chairs make particularly good seats for kids., When picking out couches and chairs, make sure that everyone will have a seat. That is, don't just get enough seats for the adults, as the kids will want to pile on the couches, too. It's even better if you can all pile one couch. If you don't have a lot of room, try a sectional with a corner piece to help save space., If your living room is big enough, you can add an area just for the kids. Use your furniture to help section off areas a bit, or put a brightly colored rug and small chairs in the kids area. You can have toys, a small desk or table for coloring, and/or a few shelves of books for your kids. It could even have something as fun as a small trampoline or a swing hung from the ceiling.

