 Instead of reacting defensively when someone attacks your point of view, take a moment to collect your thoughts. Determine what you want to say before you say it.Remember, you don’t have to defend your point of view to anyone. Your views are equally right and important.
Use “I” statements. This will help to diffuse a potentially bad situation. For example, “I am feeling attacked right now. I would appreciate it if I could have a moment to collect my thoughts.”, Even if you are resentful because you feel like religion is often forced upon you, don’t stoop to the same level. If “bullying” tactics don’t work in convincing you that you should be religious, don’t expect the reverse to work with others.If you are resentful towards religion, consider that much of your resentment probably stems from people attempting to force their beliefs on you.
Think of how you’d like to be treated if the situation was reversed.
Allow others the opportunity to speak. Otherwise, you’ll come across as aggressive, which will likely lead to conflict.
 Don’t try to determine whose point of view is right, especially when dealing with something as deeply personal as religious belief. Attempting to resolve who is right and who is wrong will only prove futile. Focus on explaining what you believe and why in a calm, reasoned manner.If you’ve been going back and forth, put an end to the conversation, at least for the time being. You may want to say, “It seems like we’ve been going back and forth on this issue for awhile. I respect your opinion and I hope you can respect mine, but I think we should agree to disagree.” Don’t bring up the subject again unless there is new information to cover.
Remember, everyone, regardless of their beliefs, assumes they are right. You’re not going to convince someone otherwise in one conversation., Having a lively discussion with someone who hopes to convert you can help to clarify your thoughts and learn more about others' beliefs. Getting into a heated debate or outright argument with someone who is never going to budge, however, won’t achieve anything positive.Give them an opportunity to speak. Once they have finished their thought, thank them for their time. Give a measured, calm response, or none at all if you so choose.
If the person is a friend let them know you value their friendship, but feel uncomfortable by them trying to convert you. If they keep trying to convert you, you may need to reconsider the friendship.
If the person shows up at your door, don’t just slam it in their face. Let them say what they came to say, take any materials they offer you and thank them for their time.
 If things get too heated, simply walk away. There is no shame in leaving a conversation that isn’t going anywhere. You can always choose to resume the discussion at another time if you choose, but you need not do so if you see no point in trying again.Let them know you’re ending the conversation. You can say “I am feeling disrespected right now and am going to take myself out of this situation.”
Walk away and give yourself some time to cool down.
If you think of another point you’d like to make, don’t put yourself back into a bad situation. Send an email or ask if you can discuss the topic with the person at a later time.

