 For this bomb you’ll need vinegar, baking soda, toilet paper, duct tape and a bottle. The best type of bottle is a 50 cl plastic bottle because it won’t require you to use too much vinegar. You should also plan to supervise a young child if they are going to perform this experiment.


The best type of vinegar to use is white distilled vinegar. This is also one of the cheapest vinegars.;
, Open the bottle and make sure you keep the cap. Pour the vinegar into the bottle until you reach the halfway mark of the bottle. If you are using a plastic bottle that is larger than 50 cl, add about a cup of vinegar.


You can use a funnel to safely add vinegar to the bottle without wasting any.
 Take a square of toilet paper or a tissue and put a tablespoon of baking soda onto it. Fold or wrap the baking soda with the paper. You are wrapping the baking soda so that it doesn’t react to the vinegar immediately. The tissue paper acts as a timer for the bomb.
 Do not use too much toilet paper or it will not dissolve into the vinegar. Do not use too much baking soda, or it will not fit onto the cap and won't be able to close. You can either seal the paper with tape or glue depending on your preference. Mount the tissue paper onto the inside of the water bottle's cap.


Once you find a good fit for the tissue wrapped baking soda, glue it to inside of the cap.
Take care and try not to rip the paper and spill the baking soda.
 Carefully attach the cap to the water bottle. You’ll need to watch out for the grip of the cap and bottle. Try not to pierce the tissue paper and release the baking soda. If you are worried about this, you can alternatively tape the cap to the bottle.
 You need make the vinegar come into contact with the baking soda. Shake up the bottle for a few moments, or until you feel the bottle’s pressure increase. You could alternatively turn it upside down so the vinegar comes into contact with the baking soda.


Be close to the area you want to ignite your vinegar bomb. You shouldn’t do this step until you are ready for the bomb to explode., When you think the pressure is large enough, throw it at the ground. You could also set the bottle down and wait for the chemical reaction to blast the cap off the bottle. It might be more fun to throw the bottle against the ground. Take a couple steps back. You should be at least 3-4 feet away from the bomb.


Cement is a better surface than grass for an explosion.
Make sure the area where you throw the bottle is clear of people. You do not want to accidentally harm someone with this experiment.

