 As mentioned above, you will need the Comfort Access Remote to be inside the cabin to start your BMW.;
, The brake must be depressed before starting your BMW.
 This is only necessary for manual shift models, as automatic shift models do not have a clutch.
 This will start your engine.Be aware that you should not hold the Start/Stop button in as it will erase the key codes. If this happens you will have to go to the dealer to have them reset.
 If you have the park brake set, you will need to release it before you can pull out.
 Shift into either drive or reverse, whichever is appropriate for pulling out of your parking place.
 You have now started your BMW and it’s time to hit the open road.
 Find yourself an appropriate place to park your car and take it. Be sure to pay any meters or costs associated with the parking space to avoid your BMW boasting a parking ticket upon your return.
 This is especially important if you are driving a standard or have parked on a hill.
 If you are driving a manual shift, you will shift into neutral.
 This will turn off your engine., It doesn’t matter if it is in a pocket, briefcase, or purse as long as you have the remote on your person. The Comfort Access Remote is also sometimes referred to as the Key Fob, and is the key for your vehicle.
 Make sure that you remove yourself and all passengers, including pets, from the BMW before locking it. If anyone is left inside when the BMW is locked, they will trip the motion sensor and cause the alarm to go off.
 As long as you have your Comfort Access Key, this will serve the same function as hitting the lock button. You will know the car has locked when you hear it beep.If you hold your finger in place on the top of the door handle, the BMW will also automatically roll up all windows and close the moon/sun roof., Whether you are going to the park or to work, life is too short to stress. Go enjoy yourself and know that your BMW will be waiting when you get back.
 Make sure that you are carrying your Comfort Access Remote on you. Your BMW will acknowledge the signal from the Comfort Access Remote from about five feet away. This will allow you to unlock the car door., The sensor on the inside of the door handle will respond by unlocking the doors when you grasp the handle. When you hear two successive beeps, you will know that your door has been unlocked. Just pull the handle to open the door., Make sure that you bring the Comfort Access Remote with you. Your BMW will recognize when the remote is in the cab and enable the Start/Stop engine button.