 Every vinyl seat is a bit different from all the others. The care and maintenance guide provided by the manufacturer when you obtained your vinyl seating will provide special tips and tricks for cleaning that apply to your specific seat or set of seats.For instance, you might find recommendations or proscriptions for certain cleaning products and methods, or advice about how to tackle hard-to-clean areas of your vinyl seating.;
, If your vinyl seat includes removable cushions, take them off before you start cleaning. Clean them separately from the main “base” of the seat. This will allow you to better clean the back and underside of the cushions, as well as the “base” upon which they sit., Only clean your vinyl seats with soft sponges, dish cloths, and soft-bristled brushes. This will ensure your vinyl seats last for many years. Using steel wool, sharp cleaning tools, or similarly abrasive cleaning implements could cause your vinyl seating to tear., Dip a sponge or cloth into distilled water. Wipe the seats down gently as needed. Then, dry them with another cloth or sponge afterwards. This will get your vinyl seats clean and dry.Distilled water is your safest bet.
 If cleaning your vinyl seats with water didn’t do the trick, try again using soap and water. Mix a small amount of mild dish soap with warm water until the mixture is sudsy. Dip a soft-bristled brush in the water. Scrub the vinyl seats until clean. This might best be accomplished outdoors.If you can take your vinyl seats outside, use a hose to rinse them off. This will both keep your floors clean and enable you to enjoy the washing and rinsing process in the open air.
Alternately, you might want to clean your vinyl seats in your tub, if they fit.
If you cannot easily take your vinyl seats outside, rinse them with a damp cloth.
 Vinyl seats are pretty tough – that’s why they are so widely used in boats, cars, and interior furniture. But vinyl can still be damaged. Undiluted bleach, for instance, is too caustic to use on vinyl. Over time, cleaning your vinyl seats with bleach will cause them to break down.Likewise, avoid cleaning compounds containing:concentrated detergents
silicone oils
waxes
petroleum distillates
dry cleaning fluids
solvents
acid-based cleaners

