 If your friend tells you that they need time alone, listen to them. They may need time to cool down, think things over, and recover. Constantly calling, texting, emailing, and pestering them will not help. In fact, you will likely make the situation worse.


Keep your interactions civil. If you see them at school or work, acknowledge them with a smile, wave, or nod.
Don’t confuse this with giving your friend the cold shoulder. Be open and available to them.
Don’t try to get information about them from mutual friends, and don’t ask mutual friends to pick sides.
 Allow your friend to make their own decisions about where they go and who they hang out with. When you feel like you might lose your best friend, it’s tempting to smother them with attention, but this often backfires. If you act like your friend isn’t allowed to have other people in their life, they’ll push even harder to get away from you and your efforts to control them.


If your friend is busier than normal, find an activity that keeps you just as busy so that you’re less tempted to cling.
If you are jealous of your friend’s new relationship, remember that you will eventually find a partner or new friends, as well.
 Rather than sitting around thinking about how much you miss your best friend, distract yourself by having fun doing something you’ve always wanted to try. If you’re stumped for ideas, check a local events calendar for upcoming options, or visit a local hobby shop., While you don’t want to rush out and try to replace your best friend, start the process of making new friends. Don’t rush friendship or hanging out one-on-one, but open yourself up to getting to know other people.Join a club.
Hang out with other friends.
Host a party.
 Sometimes when someone asks for space, they end up wanting things to stay that way. As hard as it is to give up on a best friend, it may be necessary for you to move on. Think of this as a learning experience that will help you form better friendships in the future. Reflect on what made this friendship end, and use that lesson to choose your friends in the future.Allow yourself to cry. It’s important that you grieve the loss of your relationship as you would a death so that you can work through it. Crying is normal and important, so don’t feel bad about needing to let it out.Even though you might not get closure from your friend, say your own goodbye by writing them a goodbye letter that you never send or holding your own goodbye ritual.