 While brushing and flossing won't remove existing stains, good mouth hygiene is essential to preventing more staining and to keeping your teeth in excellent shape. The first most useful thing you can do is to brush your teeth regularly, to remove plaque, pieces of food and drink residue. Plaque will attack your teeth and gums if left in place and brushing (in conjunction with flossing) helps to disturb its ability to grow.


Brush before or after breakfast and before going to bed. This is a minimum; many people also like to brush after lunch and even after snacks, especially if they are sugary snacks.
 Floss is the most effective way for you to remove plaque build-up from in between your teeth and near the gums. With plaque removed, your teeth will appear much cleaner and therefore brighter.


Floss at least once a day. A good time is at night, after brushing and before going to bed.
Experiment with different types of floss until you find one that works best for you. Some floss types may be too rough, too slippery or too flavored for you, so keep looking for one you do like.
 Mouthwash kills bacteria and can contain elements aimed at strengthening your teeth. Used along with brushing and flossing, mouthwash can help reduce the bacteria, kill bad odors and keep your teeth healthier and cleaner. Some mouthwashes also whiten teeth, consider trying those.


As with floss, not all mouthwashes are the same. Experiment with different types until you find a mouthwash you like and that leaves your teeth and gums feeling fresh. Also, remember to dilute the mouthwash with water if you feel discomfort or a slight burning sensation.
 Have your dentist clean your teeth professionally at your regularly-scheduled appointments. This will help you maintain good dental hygiene, spot any cavities, and keep white, healthy teeth. Remember to talk to your dentist before you try any teeth whitening product to make sure that it won't hurt your teeth.


If you have very sensitive teeth and gums, or crowns or some other dental work that won't react well with a whitening product, your dentist will know.
Serious teeth darkening is usually best remedied by professionals.

