 All vegetables can be cooked on the grill, but those with lower water content will do best.


Try corn, zucchini, potatoes, peppers, squash, mushrooms, artichokes and asparagus. Use vegetables that are seasonal and can be purchased fresh at grocery stores and farmers markets.;
, Toss your vegetables with salt, pepper and oil before you grill them. You can add layers of other seasonings once you have these staples on the vegetables.


Spread out your vegetables on a plate or a baking sheet. Drizzle oil over them and sprinkle salt and pepper to taste. Mix them by hand or with a pair of tongs until they are evenly coated.
 You may have cookbooks or cooking magazines that have recipes for grilled vegetables. They will recommend seasonings such as thyme, rosemary, garlic, parsley, lemon, and cayenne pepper.


Find recipes on general food sites such as Epicurious and specialty sites for vegetarians (Savvy Vegetarian and Vegetarian Times) and grilling (Grilling.com).
 If you would rather go your own way than follow a recipe, use whatever you have in your herb garden or spice rack.


Try oregano, dill, balsamic vinegar, fresh basil and blends of southwest or Mediterranean spices.
 Soak your vegetables in a liquid marinade before putting them on the grill. Soy sauce and barbecue sauce are good to try to you could coat your vegetables in salad dressing before grilling.
 Instead of grilling vegetables directly on the grill, wrap them in foil with all the seasonings you want to include.


Take advantage of the foil pouch method if your vegetables stick to the grill, or if you would prefer to have them keep their natural shape and moisture. Some people also use grill baskets. The basket holds sliced vegetables on the heat while keeping them from sticking to the grill or falling through the grill rack.
 After tasting what you have grilled, sprinkle some parmesan cheese, and add a little salt, pepper or other herbs and spices to achieve the taste you want.


Use dipping sauces as well. Kids might enjoy dipping grilled pepper strips into ranch dressing, or you could dip grilled asparagus into sour cream and chives.

