 Jumping from a moving car is very dangerous, so if you must do it, you need to protect yourself. Grab any soft materials you can find in the car—e.g., clothing, newspaper, a stuffed animal—and stuff it into your clothes. Any little bit of padding can go a long way toward helping to break your fall., Before you leap from a moving car, you need to make sure you can survive the fall. 30-35 miles per hour should be about the maximum speed for jumping. Another way to determine the speed of the car is to watch the mile markers and count the length of time it takes to travel each mile. (If it takes 120 seconds to travel one mile, then you are going around 30 mph)., If the car is traveling faster than 30-25 mph, you need to find a way to slow the car down. Think of a way to distract the driver, such as pointing out something on the side of the road, or making a very loud noise. Any small distraction may cause the driver to remove their foot from the gas pedal., Another way to jump at a slower speed is to wait for the car to turn. In order to turn, the driver will need to slow down quite a bit, creating an opportunity for you to jump. If you are planning to jump from the left side of the car, wait until the car is making a left-hand turn. Conversely, if you plan to jump from the right, wait until the car is making a right-hand turn., Scope out the area around you and try to locate a soft place to land. A field, a patch of grass, or a pile of leaves is probably your best bet. Look for a place that is “five seconds” away from you (meaning you could count to five before you reach it).In addition to finding a soft place to land, you must find a place that is free from obstructions.
You want to jump without crashing into a road sign or fence, and you want to avoid landing on broken glass or other objects., When you swing open the door, it is crucial to make sure your open it all the way. You need space to jump with conviction, and you do not want the door to hit you on your way out., When you jump from a moving car, you want to be sure that you won’t be run over by it. So jump backwards and away from the car. Try to propel yourself at a 45 degree angle from the rear of the vehicle., As soon as you exit the vehicle, tuck your body into a tight ball. This is the safest way for you to land. Hug your arms around your body and scrunch up your legs., Position yourself so that your back is what hits the ground. It is important to land on the center of your back, not your shoulder! The center of your back is a large area, which means the force of the impact will be distributed, and you will be less likely to get hurt., Whatever you do, do not try to break the fall with your hands! Do not put your arms out! This is a very common instinct, but you must avoid it. If you put our your arms, could break your wrists., As soon as you feel the impact of the ground, allow your body to roll. You will be traveling at a high speed, and even when you land you will experience forceful inertia. Allowing yourself to roll helps to distribute the impact and prevents you from sliding.