 We all have egos, and sometimes they get over-inflated. It’s part of human nature to believe others perceive us the same way that we do and that they want to be like us. This may not be the case. Ask your other friends to see if they’ve noticed copying. If they haven’t noticed anything, drop it. If it becomes a more serious situation, they’ll bring it up.;
, Reframe the situation: instead of thinking of your friend as copying you, you could take it as your friend admiring your good judgment and taste. Maybe they simply need someone to look up to—especially if they’ve just lost one—and they’ve chosen you. While it might be annoying, it may be a temporary thing. Don’t be too quick to react on this situation because it may result in the loss of a friend., While copying can feel a bit like identity theft, there might be something else bothering you. If this other problem is being projected onto the copying problem, the copying problem seems worse than it truly is. If something else is bothering you, don’t take it out on your friend. Let them have their moment and focus on yourself. Just because they wore the same color shirt as you did to school, or said they had the same favorite meal, doesn’t make them a copier.
 Discuss it with them. They might not even realize that they’re copying you. Sit down with them and make sure they’re aware of it and divulge into potential reasons for it. Don’t attack them, make it a discussion.


”Did you notice that we’ve been matching a lot lately?”

If they say no, give them examples.


”Do you think it’s funny that we always end up doing the same thing?”
”Why do you think these things happen?”

, Ask them how they describe their style or personality. If they have trouble doing so, it’ll help them see that they’ve been copying you. Remember, it’s likely there will be similarities between you—that’s why you’re friends—but they should also have some original ideas.


”The whole point of clothes is to highlight your own unique style, how do you think you’d describe your style.”
”How do you see yourself?”

, Give them examples of things they’ve thought of on their own that you liked. Show them that they also have good, original ideas. Be vague when you do this, so that you don’t give away all of your preferences., This is going to be the turning point to make them stop copying you. Once you make them aware of the situation, you need to let them carry the conversation. This will show them that they have the ability to form their own ideas and that will carry over into whatever aspect of life they’ve been copying from you.
 If they’ve been copying your outfits, go through their closet with them. Have them create outfits without your help and point out good things about them. If they’ve been copying the way you act, leave it to them to make the first move and agree with whatever they choose. Give them confidence in their decision-making, and they’ll be less likely to copy you., If they truly seem to have difficulty understanding that they’re copying you, don’t tell them your plans. Secrets are never good for a friendship, but you may have to keep some so that they make choices for themselves. Make them decide on upcoming plans and purchases. Don’t give them an answer about where you want to go or what you want to do. Let them do it.
 Continue to point out what you like about their style or ideas. Keep in mind that people that copy chronically typical suffer from extreme insecurity. They have low self-esteem. Get your mutual friends in on it to help build their confidence. Support them in every choice they make, even if it seems over the top. This will help them become a confident, independent person., This is an easy way to build self-esteem. When you do something you enjoy doing, it’s something that gives you comfort and confidence. Help your friend do something they like to do every single day.