 One of Dr. House’s most defining characteristics is his sarcastic sense of humor. Instead of telling side-splitting jokes, be humorous in a way that is understated and subtle. Respond to situations that you are in with ironic comments and intelligent quips.For instance, at one point when another character is trying to have a serious conversation with Dr. House about his emotions, Dr. House says, "Did you come for my feelings? Because I left 'em in my other pants."Dr. House often verges on rudeness when he makes sarcastic comments about other people. This is something you may want to avoid in your own life, as he often rubs people the wrong way.;
, Dr. House is a long way from an optimist. He sees the dark in the world as well as the light. Though being a realist is a difficult thing to teach yourself, try not to be naïve about other people and the world at large.One quote that illustrates Dr. House's life philosophy is: "Welcome to the world. Everyone's different, everyone gets treated different. You try fighting that, you end up dying of TB."Learn more about psychology to understand the underlining motivations behind people and society in general.
If you ever start feeling too pessimistic, stop and remember that there are other aspects of Dr. House’s personality that you channel.
 Dr. House isn’t afraid of other people noticing him or thinking that he’s strange. He often does odd and outlandish things, not caring how others see him and sometimes even relishing their confusion. If you ever get the urge to do or say something eccentric, don’t hold yourself back!For instance, if you are standing in a very long line at the DMV, you could say loudly, “Do you think Santa will let me sit on his lap?” Smile exaggeratedly at anyone who looks around at you.
 No matter what situation you’re in, be confident and outspoken. Dr. House is tremendously confident in himself, even though he does acknowledge his flaws. He is assured of his intelligence and the fact that he often is the most learned person in the room.Try to be quietly confident as opposed to being openly boastful. Bragging about your skills and intelligence or acting like certain situations are below you can alienate others.
 As prickly as Dr. House can sometimes be, he does genuinely want his patients to get better. In your daily life, even if you are sarcastic with those around you, try your best to help others, even if your help is behind the scenes rather than out in the open.

