 You may prefer visuals, audio, colors, maps, etc. or a combination of any such things. Rely most on these approaches when breaking down the information that you need to remember and apply in the exam.;
, Ensure that you have the appropriate stationery supplies to make taking notes easier and more enjoyable. If you have the right tools, the revising is more enjoyable.
 For example, there is no need to be lengthy. Take rough notes instead of writing sentences. Use abbreviations, equations, and symbols as often as possible.
 Some people are visual learners; others prefer reading, writing and/or verbal learning. However, don't take these divisions to an extreme––most people learn best using a combination of the techniques rather than relying on a single approach.
 Hang these distilled pieces of information beside your study area, or in areas where you spend most time or carry them around with you. When you feel like testing yourself, revise the information and look to your notes to see if you memorized it correctly.
 This way you have key information staring back at you every day leading up to your exam. It’s not a proven method, but it is in your face!

, Acronyms are great when “chunking” a set of points that are related, but be sure to keep it simple.
 Stories are useful depending on what you try to memorize, but going back to basics, My Very Excellent Mother Just Sent Us Nine Pies and she is a nice mother, because her pies help me remember the order of planets in our Solar System - Mercury, Venus, Earth, Mars, Jupiter, Saturn, Uranus, Neptune, and Pluto. It may seem silly for some people, but if it works for you, then use it.
 Mind maps are used to generate, visualize, structure, and classify ideas, and as an aid in study, organization, problem-solving, decision making, and writing.


Spider diagrams work too.
It is recommended that you don't make lists as these might slow you down and you won't be able to remember information from a long list that isn't linked well.
 Use highlighters or different colored pens to make things stand out. Color is a good way of sorting information and visually recalling it.

