 The materials are listed in the Things You'll Need section.


Make sure you set yourself up somewhere appropriate! On a desk in your room is okay. On the kitchen table twenty minutes before dinner is not.;
, Bunnie's eyes, nose and mouth have similar shapes to Tails' - her eyes are basically just simple ovals, her nose is a rounded triangle, and her mouth has a lot of fluff on the edges. An important thing to take note of is that Bunnie wears eyeshadow, which can be drawn as a thick outline on her eyes. Don't forget the 'female' long eyelashes!

, The hardest parts here are the hat and the hair. It's probably good to draw the hat before the head, but leave it a bit incomplete so that you can go back and make it look like Bunnie's wearing an actual hat, rather than standing with a hat flying around in front of her head. To draw her hair, you may have to rub out a little bit of one eye to make room for the hairline.


Her ears are also a part of this step. They're just like regular rabbit ears, which aren't too hard, so you probably don't need to worry about those.
 It is recommended that you start by drawing her jacket first, or at least before her arms. Bunnie has a very basic shirt, you don't even need to draw it like it's separate from her body. Her right arm is the 'normal' one, so if you're drawing from the front (which most people would be), it's the one on her left. The other arm is a little more complex, but it shouldn't be too problematic if you handle it correctly. Draw it like her other arm, but make the fingers a bit more stiff. Then add all the complex lines.
 This step is probably the hardest one. The lower body (which is pretty much just the legs) is almost exclusively mechanical, which is more difficult to draw. Break the legs down into 3 sections - the upper leg, the lower leg, and the foot. The upper leg's outline is the same shape as it would normally be drawn, cybernetics or not, but don't complete the bottom. The lower leg overlaps the upper leg, but otherwise it's also drawn in the style most of us are familiar with. As with the arm, draw the outline first and the details later. The feet are more difficult. When you're done, remember to add the small cotton-ball tail.
 You're done with the outline! Bunnie is a yellow colour. Her hair is blonde; use a lighter shade of yellow for that. Her shirt and the insides of her ears are pink. Her jacket and hat are brown. Her eyeshadow is purple, and her actual eyes are green. The mechanical parts of her are grey, of course.
 If Bunnie is flying, draw flames coming out of her feet. If you want to put in a background, draw that. You can do a logo if you want. Anything which wasn't covered in the tutorial that you want to add, get that in. Make your fan art unique. And don't forget to sign your work!

