 Bathe your face in milk and cold water on a morning to awaken you, use a gentle wash too, use a Salicylic Acid wash nightly and use a Benzoyl Peroxide or Zinc cream. Exfoliate with sugar and a exfoliant twice weekly, and do the same with a mask.;
, Primer is not necessary, but you can powder, if you can't bear not to, but ensure it is non-comodegenic and won't look cakey.
, If they are very dark, however, fill them in with a brown eyebrow pencil, as, although Julie's brows are un-plucked, they are a beautiful beige colour. If necessary, you can shape them, but that is all you should do.
 Again, recreating Julie's flawless complexion is crucial, so invest in a good BB cream or liquid foundation. Squirt a little on the back of your hand and apply evenly around your face either with a stippling brush or a cosmetic sponge. If you feel like you need to apply powder, use is sparingly - you really don't want cakiness or cracking makeup here.
 If you have features that you want to make smaller or accentuate, contouring is a great way to make that happen. Select a bronzer or eyeshadow one to two shades darker than your natural skin tone. You'll also need a good highlighter. To make your nose smaller, like Julie's, take a small, fluffy brush and run the bronzer along the sides of your nose. Blend it in really well. Then slide a little highlighter along the bridge of your nose. She also has amazing cheekbones, so brush a little bronzer along the hollows of your cheeks. Then highlight the tops of your cheekbones to make them stand out a bit.
 Julie has very minimal eye shadow. Before applying anything, use an eye shadow base or a good concealer all over your lids. This will help the color to stay on longer without slipping. Take your highlighter and apply dots of it on the inner corners of your eyes, the middle of the eyelid, and along your brow bone to brighten your eyes. Then use a mild taupe color to accentuate your crease by brushing it along the fold on your lid. Bring the color out a bit to form a subtle shadow, and then sweep a small amount on your lower lash line. It should look subtle but make your eyes stand out, which is exactly what we want.
 Skip the heavy duty, coal-black mascara and go for something in shades of dark brown or grey, and preferably waterproof. Curl your lashes and apply mascara on the top lashes only - we don't want your eyes to be at all bottom heavy.
 Skip the blush altogether - remember, this girl hangs with zombies and you don't want to look to bright.
 Julie has full, nicely arched brows. Get hold of a wax brow pencil for blondes and fill out the front part of your brows slightly, arching them out but keeping the two sides relatively straight. If you already have full brows, gently tweeze the ends a bit.
 Dab a bright, delicious-smelling perfume on the insides of your wrist and on your neck. In the book, R can always smell Julie's "life scent", the thing that marks her as one of the living. Choose something not too sweet or flowery - preferably citrus or fruity.
 If you have naturally blue eyes, you can, of course, skip this step, but, if not, it is necessary to do if you long for this zombie lover's exact look.
 Blend it in, and be sure to have moisturised your eyelids (and the rest of your skin) before performing any of these steps. After this, use a beige mascara, brushing out any clumps with an eyelash tool.
 Research bronzer for different face shapes, and be sure to apply some, as Julie has a warm glow to her skin. Avoid blusher, even if it's just used to contour. I mean, this girl hangs with pale zombies!

, Although Julie's lips aren't chapped, they certainly aren't bright, and look beautiful in their natural state.
 Get Julie's tousled look by letting your hair air-dry, straightening it and then using the straightener creating loose curls at the bottom. Be sure to spray with hairspray afterwards, which promises to give your hair that healthy sheen Julie's has.

