 Figure skates provide specialized support and control for advanced skaters. This allows skaters to execute jumps, spins and difficult turns. These skates will be very different from those for recreational skaters.
 Figure skaters need professional advice in selecting skates, so don't shop from regular department stores. Having the right pair of skates is much too important to risk buying from anyone who isn't trained to help competitive skaters.
 High quality figure skating boots can cost $600, with the blades costing around the same. Speak to your local store or coach to determine the amount you will need to budget for your skates.


If your budget is tight, it may be better to purchase higher quality used skates as opposed to lower quality new skates. Make sure the used skates fit correctly, have sufficient support, and have blades that still have some “sharpening life” left. When in doubt, consult with your coach or another professional before buying.
 Figure skates can be quite expensive, so it is important to choose the correct ones for your size and ability. Don't assume that the first pair you try will work; you may need to try several different sizes in several different brands before you find something that works.
 There should be no extra room in the boot. Figure skates are meant to fit quite tightly to increase stability while skating. In fact, many figure skates can be heat molded to fit your feet exactly. Take advantage of this opportunity -- "baking" will mold the skates to your feet as perfectly as possible.


Measure both your feet when deciding on your shoe size in case one foot is bigger than the other.
Sizing differs between brands, so be aware that if you choose a new brand, you may also need to choose a new size.
Choose the correct width. Many figure skates come in narrow or wide sizes, so don't settle for a mediocre fit.
 While pre-assembled packages are fine for beginners and recreational skaters, it is better for intermediate and advanced skaters to choose their boots and blades separately. This allows you to customize your features according to your body and style.


Again, consulting a professional is crucial. Your coach or another professional can help make sure you get the right combination of boots and blades.
 Competitive boots are typically made of leather and come in different levels of support. Boots for those completing single jumps will be lightweight while those for doubles and triples will be stiffer to provide a better level of support and stability.


Stronger, heavier skaters should choose boots that offer additional support.
 Higher quality blades will be sharpened less often and have better flow on the ice. Blade quality will affect spin and jump quality so it is an important aspect of your skates. Blades are usually chosen based on the size and features of the toe pick.


Larger toe picks give more stability for jumps.
Smaller toe picks and shorter blades are better for dance and synchronized skating.
Parabolic blades are good for those having trouble with edge slips.
K-picks are for those who skid or slip or toe jumps.
 Advanced figure skaters may need to make minor adjustments to their skates for the perfect fit. If you find the right pair of skates, and they fit well in general but rub your feet uncomfortably in just one or two places, you can have them "punched" (pushed out a bit in particular spots).
 Properly secured laces are essential for providing stability and comfort while skating.


Make sure your foot is placed in the boot all the way and tighten up the laces in the first half of the boot. The laces in this section should be secure but not overly tight.
Lace the second half of the boot and pull hard over the top of the foot and where the ankle bends. This area is the most the important part of lacing figure skates.
Finish lacing the boots around the hooks without pulling the laces too hard. The laces should be secure but not overly tight.

