 As a self-identifying Republican, you should try to define what exactly you stand for. This will then help you better explain your beliefs to others and discuss them with confidence. You should consider your stance on hot button issues in the political world, such as military spending, abortion, immigration, and universal healthcare. These issues will likely come up in conversation with Democrats, so you should determine how you feel about them.


Though you may be Republican, you may not agree with everything your party stands for or find that you do not have a simple cut and dry stance on every issue. For example, you may support military spending but disagree with U.S. military presence in the Middle East. Or you may support private healthcare for all but disagree with the practice of abortion.
 Once you have determine where you stand on certain issues, you should do your due diligence by researching more about your stance. You may look up the issue online and read articles from several different news outlets. Try to focus on credible news sources. Though they may be bias towards Republican views, they should still use fact, objective sources, and scientific evidence to address an issue.


You may also watch several television news programs that discuss a certain issue. Try to listen to different experts on an issue and use critical thinking to dissect what the experts have to say.
You should also try to read personal essays written by individuals who have first hand experience with an issue, such as a first person narrative by a woman who had an abortion. Or, you may read a personal essay about gay marriage written by a gay person. Getting information from someone who has actually experienced the issue can help you be better informed on the issue.
 You should also be prepared to discuss your beliefs around others and consider how you would bring up key points in the discussion. You want to be able to talk about your political beliefs with confidence and skill. This requires using fact, verified information, and passion for the issue to communicate well with others.


You may try writing down your political beliefs in a journal or on a piece of paper so you have a better sense of where you stand. You may pretend that you are addressing a Democrat in your writing and consider how you might approach the discussion with them.

