 Overcoming an anxiety condition like hoarding requires continued commitment. So, before you make a plan to start clearing out your spaces, you first need to get really motivated about doing so. Getting motivated can help you stay consistent in your plans when the urge strikes to fall back into your old patterns.Make a list of strong reasons you want to stop hoarding, like “I want to be able to entertain guests in my home” or “I want to be able to easily find things in my living space.”
Review this list regularly when you start to second-guess your decision to change.;
, You may get a sporadic burst of motivation and want to do it all at once, but this won't lead to lasting change. The trick to truly getting over your hoarding is taking baby steps.For example, if you have a large, expansive goal like “clean the house” it may be hard to measure when you’re actually done. In the end, your motivation may fade and you’ll be back at square one.
Instead, set a small, clear goal like “Clear away three boxes.” With such a goal, it will be easy to know when you have completed it.
You can also set a time-based goal, such as “I will work for one hour each day to clear clutter.”

, One of the most common problems for hoarders is having difficulty organizing. Decide on how you will categorize the different items in your home, typically by item type or its desired location (e.g. kitchen, living room, etc.).In each space that you clear, decide on a few “outcome” piles, such as items to donate, sell, trash, recycle, or keep.
Work on one area at a time until it is clear. Avoid moving items from one area to another.
 As your motivation to change may wax and wane, you will need a firm system to prevent you from holding on to items you have chosen to get rid of. You can prevent this by following the OHIO principle, which means Only Handle It Once.

Each item that you touch should be immediately sorted into a location and an outcome pile. That way, you can’t change your mind about it later.Also, only allow yourself 10 to 20 seconds to look at an item before deciding how to categorize it. The longer you examine it, the greater your attachment to it will be.
 You might want to reach out to a professional organizer or community resources to prevent you from getting overwhelmed. A professional can help you pinpoint problems in your organizational plan that may cause relapse and help you learn how to get clutter under control.