 The Sleep/Wake button is located on the top right of iPod touch. Press and hold the Sleep/Wake button until you see the Apple logo. The iPod Touch will boot up and be ready to use., If iPod Touch hasn't been set up before, you'll see the Hello screen. Swipe from right to left to start the setup process. You'll be prompted to choose your language and location., Your iPod Touch needs to access the internet to be set up the first time. If you don't have access to a wireless network, plug the iPod Touch into a computer with internet access and iTunes, and perform the first-time setup using iTunes.
 Location Services permits iPod Touch to enable the Maps app and other location-based apps to work. If you choose to disable it, you can always re-enable it later in the Settings app.
 If the iPod Touch is replacing an old iPod Touch and you backed it up to iTunes or iCloud, you can restore that backup before proceeding., This is an optional step. If you have an Apple ID, touch Sign In with Your Apple ID, enter your Apple ID email address and password. If you don't have an Apple ID and you want to create one, touch Create a Free Apple ID, and then follow the instructions to create an Apple ID.Without an Apple ID, you can't use Apple's services, such as buying songs and apps on iTunes or using iCloud.
You can skip this step if you don't want to create an Apple ID. If you want to create one later, you can do that in the Settings app.
 iCloud Drive lets you backup photos, documents, and other files on Apple's servers. If something happens to your iPod touch, you'll still have access to them. If you'd like to use it, touch Upgrade to iCloud Drive. If not, touch Not Now.


You always sign up for iCloud Drive later, using the Settings app.
 iMessage is an alternative to cell phone SMS messaging that you can use on your iPod Touch. With iMessage, you can send message to any other Apple users as long as you have an internet connection.
 FaceTime only works with 4th generation iPod Touch or later. It lets you make video calls to other people using FaceTime. If you don't see this option, it means your iPod Touch does not support FaceTime.
 This is an optional step. A passcode prevents other people from easily accessing your iPod Touch. Type a four digit passcode.


If you don't want to create a passcode, touch Don't Add Passcode.
If you want to create a longer passcode, you can do that in the Settings app later.
 iCloud Keychain shares passwords and other information across all your computers and devices. If you're already using it, touch Approve from Other Device or Use iCloud Security Code. If you aren't already using it, touch Don't Restore Passwords.
 Siri is a voice activated tool that lets you send messages, search the internet, and do other things with your voice. It is available on 5th generation iPod Touch.If you'd like to use it, touch Use Siri. If not, touch Don't use Siri. You can enable Siri later using the Settings app.
 App analytics are data about how you use your iPod Touch. This information is then shared with iOS app developers without personally identifying information.To share your usage information, touch Share with App Developers. To keep your information private, touch Don't Share.


You can change this later using the Settings app.

