 Reach up and wide in a high "V," or clasp your hands straight above your shoulders. Prepare to swing your arms down for momentum. This motion should build the power that you need to jump higher.


You can also start by holding your hands together in front of your chest. If you are performing the toe touch as part of a routine, however, it'll make most sense to swing your arms up first.
 Bring your hands together in one smooth motion, straight out in front of your body. Bend your knees into a slight crouch. Rest your weight on the balls of your feet, as a springboard for the jump.Clench your fists and let them hang down before your knees – ready to swing back up., Try to "snap" sharply into shape; the motion should be tight and precise, not fluid and loose. Your arms should form a crisp angle: straight out from the shoulders, perfectly parallel to the ground, and perpendicular to your torso. Keep your fists clenched. As you form the "T," begin to rise up out of your half-crouch.You may be told to lower your arms in order to bring your legs higher. Don't bother. It will just make your form look sloppy.
 As your arms reach the level of the "T," use the momentum of the arm swing to burst up into the air. Jump off of the balls of your feet, and keep your toes pointed. Try to make the leap a fluid motion: from crouch to "T" to jump.
 As soon as you leave the ground, swing your feet out wide. Roll your hips backward to expose your inner thighs. Try to bring your feet slightly higher than your hips.The rolling motion may happen naturally, but noticing the way that it feels might help you gain more control over your technique.
 At the same time as you spread your legs, reach your arms out toward your toes. Bend forward slightly, if that helps. Don't worry about actually touching your toes – just reach down your legs as far as you can. At the "top" or zenith of the toe touch jump, you should reach perfect toe-touching form., From the top of your jump, snap your arms and legs back together as you begin to fall to the ground. Land with your feet together, your knees slightly bent, your back straight, your fists held in front of your knees, and your arms extended fully forward. Hold this position for a moment, then stand up straight. You have completed a toe touch!

