 You or your child could be suffering from a medical or mental health condition that’s contributing to bedwetting. These include urinary tract infections, diabetes, food allergies, anxiety, and ADHD. Make an appointment with your doctor to address and treat these potential underlying concernsMost children who suffer from bedwetting are “normal” physically and emotionally, but may experience a combinations of factors contributing to their bedwetting including genetics, a smaller bladder capacity, a tendency to sleep deeply, and difficulty recognizing a full bladder when asleep.Most adults who struggle with bedwetting do so because of a medical or physical cause.Some possible causes include:genetics, hormone imbalance, urinary tract infections, prostate problems, and small bladder capacity.
 Keeping a diary or log of times you or your child wet the bed will help your doctor narrow down the cause. You should include:When the accidents occur during the day and/or at night
Frequency of the accidents
When the bedwetting began
Type and quantity of fluids consumed
If bedwetting occurs just at home or in other environments, too
Other symptoms along with urination, such as pain
If constipation or stool accidents are also present

, Ask your doctor for prescription medications to help reduce or stop bedwetting. The most commonly used medication for bedwetting is desmopressin (DDAV). It is an effective and safe medication when used as directed. It's available as a nasal spray and in tablet, but it is not recommended for the children younger than 6. If the child responds well to the drug, the program is maintained for several months and then the child is weaned off the DDAVP. It may not cure the cause of bedwetting, but can control the symptoms. There are many different types of medications, some which reduce the amount of urine produced and some which relax your bladder. Consult with your physician to determine which would work best for your needs., Surgery should be the last thing you consider, as it’s a more invasive option. Consult your doctor and make sure you’ve exhausted all other options beforehand. Surgery options include:Sacral nerve stimulation, where bladder muscle activity is decreased.
Clam cytoplasty, where bladder capacity is increased.
Detrusor myectomy, where bladder contractions are strengthened and decreased.

