 If you suspect a friend or loved one is a victim of domestic violence, let them know you’re there to help. Abuse can be physical, emotional, verbal or financial. It’s common for the victim to, at first, deny what is going on, or not want to label what’s happening as domestic violence. Recognize that denial is part of the abuse cycle. Simply let them know you’re worried about them and are there for them when they’re ready to talk about it. For example, you could say,


“I notice your bruises. I’m worried about you and your kids. How can I help?”
“I’m worried about you but I see you don’t want to talk about it now. When you’re ready to talk, I’m here.”, When your friend or loved one is finally ready to talk to you, listen without judging. Abuse usually begins subtly and gets worse over time, so it can take a while before the victim recognizes the pattern. Allow your loved one to be open and honest with you by refraining from criticizing them.
 Meet the victim where they are and invite them to create a plan together with you. They might be ready to leave or not ready to label what’s going on as domestic violence. Vocalize your concerns for your loved one’s wellbeing and safety, without telling them what to do. Telling victims what to before they are ready may have the opposite effect. They may retreat from help.


For example, you might say, “You’re telling me he hit you and you’re scared. I’m scared for you too. No one deserves to be treated this way. You did nothing to deserve this. Let’s come up with a plan so you can be safe.”
Avoid blaming and demanding statements such as, “What a monster! Why would you stay with someone like that? You need to leave right now!”

, Ask your friend or loved one to start planning in case things ever spiral out of control. For example, where would they go if they needed to leave? They should have a hiding place for important documents and valuables so a quick escape can be made.


Valuables include an extra set of car keys, social security card, driver’s license, passport, cash, credit cards and children’s vaccination records.
Domestic violence can escalate to dangerous levels when the abuser knows the victim is getting ready to leave the relationship. Victims should leave when the abuser is not around or they can contact the police for an escort.
 Let your friend or loved one know that they can contact the Domestic Violence Hotline at 1.800.799.SAFE (7233) for 24/7 support. The Domestic Violence Hotline will help with finding shelters and safety planning.If they are ever in immediate danger, they need to call 911.