 Don't just tell her you'd like to "hang out sometime." Ask her directly and include specifics. Have backup ideas in case she doesn't like a certain type of food or is too busy on a certain date.


If she shoots down multiple invitations without suggesting alternatives, she is probably not interested. Many women have a hard time directly saying "no" to a date or may be trying to spare your feelings.Dinner at a not-too-fancy restaurant is a good choice for a first date.;
, While it may be tempting to ask her out via phone, text, or the Internet, doing so will block vital nonverbal communication. These indirect approaches can lead to miscommunication that may ruin your chances at a romantic relationship. Instead, simply ask her the next time you see her.

#*When you get a private moment, ask her by saying something like this: "I was wondering if you were free this Friday night? I'd like to get together just the two of us and check out . Are you interested?"

If you rarely see her, then asking her out through a call or message may be necessary. A sample message you can send would be: "Hey! This is from . You seem like a really cool person, and I'd like to get to know you better. I was wondering if you'd like to go to this Friday at around 6:00 pm?"

, If you're still struggling to ask her, try asking a mutual friend of yours for some help. Your friend may have some tips or insights about what she likes. Your friend may also be willing to help "set you up" or in some other way help you to ask her out.Even though a mutual friend may make things easier, do not expect your friend to ask her for you.


To broach the subject, try saying something like this to your friend: "Hey, you know ? I kind of want to ask her out. Has she said anything about me? Do you think she'd be interested?"
Make your intentions clear. You don't have to explicitly tell her "this is a date," but don't disguise your feelings. If she asks about it being a "date-date" or your attraction to her, be honest. Trying to "play it cool" by pretending to not be romantically interested in her will probably backfire.





