 This style of gaming needs a large level space which will be undisturbed for the duration of the game.;
, The models which are sold as toys can be quite accurate in scale, and protesting isn't going to do much good anyway. Besides, they're cheap.
 You're looking for sets of plastic figures, about an inch high, rather than much more expensive products such as Warhammer (which is otherwise a good start}. Each set will have a mix of models of a particular sort, and you need two different packs, based on the same history and from opposing sides. Yes, it helps to know a little history.
 For each side, start with two packs on Infantry (troops on foot), one of Cavalry (troops on horses), and one artillery piece (a cannon with crew). If you're lucky, the figures for the Union Army will be moulded in blue plastic and the figures for the Confederate Army will be moulded in grey. Otherwise, you can paint the figurines yourself to suit your battle., Make all the bases 2.5 inches (6.4 cm) wide. The base for the artillery should be square. Those for infantry and cavalry should be deep enough, front to back, for one figure. The bases are wide enough for 5 infantry, side by side, or 2 cavalry. An infantry unit has 30 figures and the cavalry 12, 6 bases each. It looks better if the figure on an infantry base have the same pose. You can have special figures, such as an officer and a standard bearer (the soldier carrying the flag) on a base.
 The two sides will start from opposite corners of the table. The rules for the game follow. You need a ruler and some ordinary 6-sided dice.
 All units may move OR fire every turn. If bases are in contact with enemy bases after movement, they must fight. Infantry may move up to 6 inches (15.2 cm), Cavalry up to 12 inches (30.5 cm), and Artillery up to 3 inches (7.6 cm). Infantry or Cavalry with all the bases of the unit lined up one behind the other are In Column and may move an extra 3 inches (7.6 cm) but cannot fire. Artillery may be Limbered and also move an extra 3 inches (7.6 cm), but must unlimber, taking one turn, before they can fire.
 Artillery and Infantry can fire at enemy within 24 inches (61.0 cm), while Cavalry can fire 12 inches (30.5 cm). If a base is within 6 inches (15.2 cm) of the enemy, but not In Contact, it may fire as if it were two bases. No base may fire through another base or through the hill, nor can it fire sideways or backwards. Each base which fires rolls a 6-sided dice, and a score of 6 is a kill, which removes one enemy base, if it was within range and visible.
 Each base involved rolls 1 dice. A 6 Kills an enemy base. A base attacked from the side subtracts 2 from its score, one attacked from the rear subtracts 4. A base which has a lower score than any of its opponents must Fall Back, moving 3 inches (7.6 cm) back in its next turn (which means it cannot fire). This is the only exception to the need for bases of the same unit to remain In Contact with each other.
 If a base Falls Back, or a Unit has a base Killed or Runs Away, roll one dice, and subtract the number of bases the unit has already lost. A score of 1 or less means that the base Runs Away, or if rolling for the whole unit, the unit Runs Away. Any base or unit which Runs Away is removed from the table.

