 For example, you may have to take the highway when you are used to driving on residential streets. You can relax when driving in new situations if you remain confident in your driving ability.


Remember that you know the basic rules of driving and that they are generally the same, regardless of the situation.
You might say to yourself, “This is a new situation, but I’m a safe driver and can handle this.”
For example, if you are driving in a construction zone for the first time, you might remind yourself, “I can do this. I’m confident in my driving ability.”

, At some time or another you will likely have to drive when it is raining, snowing, or very windy. You can relax when you are driving in bad weather, however, if you stay alert and drive with caution.If the weather is very bad, for example, there are high winds and hail, try to avoid driving at all.
Make sure your headlights, brake lights, and windshield wipers are working before you leave.
Reduce your speed so that you can have time to react to anything that comes up when you are driving.
Pay attention and look for road hazards like fallen tree branches or flooding roadways.
 You can relax when you are driving at night if make sure that you are focused and paying attention to what is going on around you.Look out for motorists and pedestrians that may be hard to see at night. Use your mirrors often and look around ahead of you.
Make sure your headlights are on and that your brake lights work before you start driving.
Don’t drive when you are tired or sleepy.
 There will be times when, no matter how hard you try, you end up running late. Instead of getting nervous and trying to rush to get there, notify the appropriate person you will be late and accept it. This will help you relax when driving much more than trying to beat red lights to save a few seconds on your driving time.


For instance, if an accident on the interstate is making you late for work, instead of getting frustrated, call your supervisor and let her know.
You might say, “I wanted to let you know that I am on the way, I’m just running a few minutes late because of an accident.”

, When the kids are making a ruckus in the back seat or your mom is being a backseat driver, it can be very distracting and upsetting. You can relax when you are driving if you ask them not to distract you before you begin driving. If you are already driving, calmly, but firmly tell them to stop.


For instance, you might say, “Kids, when I start driving you have to sit back and talk quietly. This will keep me calm and all of us safe.”
For example, you can say, “Mom, I appreciate your concern, but you telling me how to drive is making me nervous. Please stop.”
If you need to, pull over until the distraction stops. This will keep you calm and safe.
 Although other drivers may do things that upset, frustrate, or even scare you like cutting you off, following too close, swerving, or even showing road rage, stay calm.Allowing rude drivers to upset you will prevent you from relaxing while driving.


Avoid making rude gestures or even eye contact with other motorists. This could escalate the situation unnecessarily.
When possible, change your rate of speed slightly so you can get away from the immediate area of the other driver.
If you feel threatened, roll up your windows and lock your doors. Call 911 if you think the situation may get violent.

