 If you keep your senior cat's litter box in the basement or garage, move it into a warm room indoors during cold winter months. Older cats do not handle the cold as well as younger cats, so forcing them into a cold, damp place to relieve themselves can cause them a great deal of discomfort.To make this transition, it is best to introduce a second litter box in the new location (e.g. in the laundry room or bathroom) and leave the old litter box where it is, to avoid confusion and to let your cat get used to the new option., While it might seem like an budget-friendly choice to turn down the heat when you leave for work or go out on the weekend, the colder environment might be unpleasant for your senior cat. Leave the thermostat at a moderately warm temperature, keeping in mind that a senior cat will be far more susceptible to the cold, particularly if it is thin. Make sure that the cat has spots to warm up in if it feels a chill, such as a warm cat bed, fuzzy blanket, or a comfortable cushion placed in a sunny spot., If your senior cat has a favorite piece of furniture to sit or lie on during the day (e.g. a cat bed or favorite chair), move it to a spot that gets a lot of sunlight during the day. Your cat will likely gravitate to sunny spots for warmth during cold months, so moving its preferred resting spot will keep it happy and comfortable through winter. Avoid moving too many things around at once, however, as change can cause stress in senior cats., Look online or at your local pet store for a heated bed for your senior cat in the winter. These beds may feature inner heating elements or thermo-reflective material, which uses your cat's body heat to warm the bed. If your cat has a tendency to burrow itself under your blankets or seek closed environments (e.g. hiding under your bed), opt for an A-frame heated cat bed, which will provide warmth and an enclosed shelter for your pet., To keep your senior cat safe and healthy during the winter months (and all year round), keep it indoors. Cold weather can cause frostbite and hypothermia in cats, particularly older ones whose immune systems are not as strong as they used to be. Senior cats have a compromised ability to keep their body temperatures from falling below normal, and should be kept indoors in warm, heated temperatures to prevent illness., Heating during winter months can cause dryness in the air, which can be especially risky for senior cats who are already prone to dehydration. Get a humidifier for your home, which will raise moisture levels in the air and prevent dry skin and irritation. Make sure to leave out extra water for your cat to drink, preferably in different spots of the house so that your senior cat doesn't have to travel too much to quench its thirst., Be sure to monitor your senior cat's weight once a month to maintain an ideal balance. An underweight cat is likely to have difficulty keeping warm, while carrying extra weight might aggravate conditions like arthritis, which plagues many older cats. To get a general idea of what your cat weighs, weigh yourself on your regular scale, then weigh yourself holding your cat, and subtract the difference. If you wish to get a more precise reading, buy a digital scale for babies to weigh your cat.Most house cats should weigh about 10 pounds, but this can vary by breed. Ask your veterinarian what a target weight for your cat should be., Protein will help your senior cat keep its coat thick and healthy during the cold months, so adjust its diet accordingly. Feed your cat canned food, which contains more protein and fewer carbohydrates and additives than regular food. You can also supplement your cat's diet with oils containing healthy fatty acids (e.g. fish oil) to fortify and thicken its fur.Ask your veterinarian about the correct dosage of fish oil for your pet, available in capsules that can be given to your cat directly or pierced and squeezed into its food., Get specific recommendations from your veterinarian about how frequent and intensive your senior cat's exercise routine should be. Make sure that your cat gets a moderate level of activity every day, which will improve blood circulation to keep your cat warm. Play chasing or hunting games (e.g. throwing a toy mouse for it to catch, or having it chase the red dot from a laser pointer) or purchase puzzle toys from a pet store for your cat to play with at its leisure. If your cat demonstrates signs of fatigue, shortness of breath, or injury, stop the play immediately and contact your vet if it persists.
Make sure that your vet has checked your cat for vision and mobility problems before engaging your cat in play, which may be dangerous for an impaired pet.
 The cold can wreak havoc on the joints of senior cats during winter months, causing pain, tenderness, and stiffness. Be gentle when picking up your cat, placing your hand firmly under its body behind its front legs, and using your other arm to gently cradle its hindquarters as you raise it up. Be equally gentle when cuddling or playing with your cat.