 Many people who work with adopted children recommend casually using the word "adoption" as early as possible, so it does not sound strange. You can do this before the child knows she is adopted, or you can be open about the adoption from the beginning.
 Do not wait until the child is an adolescent, as this is more likely to cause long-term resentment and anger. Past that, there is not universal agreement on when to tell the child. These guidelines can help you make the decision:If you adopted the child after the age of two, or if his ethnicity is obviously different than yours, tell him as soon as possible. He may already suspect and worry.
Many parents and experts recommend telling the child right away, being open and honest about the adoption and how happy they are about the decision.
Whether or not the child knows from a young age, be prepared for an in-depth conversation when the child is ready, often at four or five years old. Some experts prefer to wait until six to eight, but by this time some children will already have doubts.
 Never lie to your child about the story of her adoption. You can limit the explanation to facts appropriate for the child's age, but keep the story truthful and consistent. Your child will ask questions later on, and may feel betrayed if the new information contradicts what you've said in the past., One of the most common questions an adopted child asks is "Why did my birth mother give me up?" Make sure your child knows his birth mother loved him, and was not a bad person or trying to abandon him. Describe the situation in terms appropriate to the child's age. (For example, "she wasn't married and couldn't take care of a baby on her own.")

This is one of the main worries for children between the ages of five and seven.Avoid using the phrase "she gave you up because she loved you" with young children (although you should emphasize the love part). This can give a confusing message when you say that you love your child too., This is another common concern of young children. Tell your child she is a part of the family that you will always care for, that you are very happy you adopted her, and that you love her., Your child should feel welcome to ask you more questions about his birth family, or about adoption. Give him your full attention and make an effort to answer his fears or curiosity. Many children will have a strong emotional reaction later on, even if they were calm when they heard the news.

If the answer is not appropriate for the child's age, say "That's a hard question" and give a shortened or simplified version, without lying. Do not say "You'll find out when your older," which could cause resentment.
 When your child is seven to nine years old, she is usually ready to handle more difficult information, such as that her birth mother is dead, or that she was a teenage mother. This also predates the teenage years, when communication becomes more difficult.She will likely start this herself by asking more detailed questions about what her birth family was like.

Make it clear that you were telling the truth before. For example, you may have said the birth mother was too sick to care for the child, and later you tell the child she is dead. Connect these stories by saying "Your birth mother was sick, and then she died."

, At the ages of nine to twelve, most children are worried about fitting in. Your child may become sensitive to facial features that look different from yours, and ask questions about his birth family.Making contact with the birth family is often not possible or a good idea, but you can form a connection by learning about that family's culture. On your side, it's important to remember that your child is not rejecting you when he expresses this curiosity. Support his efforts to understand his origins.

It's up to you to decide whether you can make contact with a biological parent or sibling in a way that's safe emotionally and physically. Keep in mind that your child will be able to make the decision himself as an adult. If you want to supervise this effort, you may want to allow it while he is a teenager.

