 Your Eskie will require medical checks and care throughout their life. When you first bring your puppy home, you should take them to a vet to be screened for any potential health problems. Fortunately, Eskies are known as healthy dogs with relatively few problems. Be aware that certain health issues may not become apparent until your puppy is fully grown. Some of the diseases that Eskies may be susceptible to include:Progressive Retinal Atrophy (PRA) is a hereditary disease that causes gradual vision loss in dogs. In some cases, it can appear as early as six months in a puppy.Hip dysplasia is a deformity that can cause arthritis or joint disease in dogs. Affected dogs may start limping or losing their balance.Pyruvate kinase deficiency is an enzyme deficiency that can cause anemia in dogs. Symptoms include weakness, heart murmurs, or lethargy., If your puppy does not get enough exercise, they may start to engage in destructive behaviors, such as hyperactivity or chewing furniture. To make sure that your puppy is getting plenty of physical and mental activity, you should take them on walks and play with them throughout the day.


You can play fetch, tug-of-war, or hide and seek with your puppy to help exercise them.
Give your puppy lots of toys to play with while you’re gone. Puppies love to chew toys, such as stuffed animals or rubber balls. You can also fill a toy with kibble or peanut butter, and let them lick it out
Puppies should be walked at least twice a day. Since dogs are most active at dawn and dusk, these may be the best times to walk your puppy., For the first year, your Eskie should be eating food that is specially formulated for puppies. These varieties can be found wherever you purchase normal dog food. Puppies need to be fed four meals a day. This can be reduced to three meals by the time they are twelve weeks and two meals when they are six months old.Be sure to give them plenty of water as well. Refresh the water several times a day.


For the first few days, feed them the same brand as the breeder fed them. Over the course of a week, you can slowly introduce a new brand. Start by replacing a quarter of their old food with the new food, and increase that amount by a small portion each day until they are only eating the new food.Toy Eskies should continue to be multiple fed meals throughout the day to prevent hypoglycemia. This is not a concern in miniature or standard varieties, who can be fed twice a day after they reach six months old.