 Many times it can be difficult to know if your child is latching on properly.


It is important to make sure that the baby’s mouth is covering a large portion of the nipple and not just the tip.
The baby’s head should be held firmly against the breast to ensure that the nipple is not pulled to the side in any way.
Always make sure that you gently press your breast down with one finger so that it is not covering the baby’s nose at all. If the nose is obstructed, the baby will not be able to breathe properly.
 If the baby turns her head away from the breast before you can make contact, gently stroke the baby’s cheek with your nipple or the tip of your finger. This will stimulate the baby’s rooting reflex, which will make her instinctively turn her head towards your beast.



Make sure that a large portion of the nipple is placed into the baby’s mouth.
Avoid inserting just the tip into the baby’s mouth, as this can interfere with proper latching and can result in nipple soreness or cracked nipples.



If you see that the baby is just holding the nipple in her mouth, you may need to stimulate her to nurse. If she continues to avoid sucking, she may be too tired to nurse at the moment and you may have to try again later.
If you see that she is sucking but not swallowing, she may just be using your breast as a pacifier to help ease her to sleep. If this continues, try again after a brief nap.
When baby sucks at the breast, you should notice a slight pulling sensation at the nipple. If you do not experience this sensation, she may not be sucking enough to stimulate milk let-down. However, it is possible that your baby will be nursing just fine and you will not feel the tugging sensation. For this reason, you will also have to pay close attention to her sucking and swallowing habits.
If the pulling sensation is too strong, your baby may not have enough of the nipple in her mouth. Be sure to insert more of the surface area of the nipple into the mouth to prevent improper latching

