 Being able to drink yourself into a blackout isn't a sign that you're a good bro, it's a sign that you've got a drinking problem. While it may be true that bros tend to enjoy a few brews when they get together, it's important to know your limits and stay on the right side of them. Limit your drinking, never drive after drinking, and stay responsible.


Aside from all the legal and responsibility problems over-drinking can get you into, it's also just a bad idea for your health. All those beers are full of empty calories, meaning that you'll develop an unbecoming bro-belly from all those empties and late night Taco Bell runs when you get the drunk munchies. Try to cut back.
 This is a big one, bros. If there's one thing that gives you a bad name, it'll be treating women poorly, talking down to them, objectifying them, and being rude in general. Learn to talk to women one-on-one, calmly and with courtesy.


Showing off is a turn off. You don't have to beat on your chest like an ape or an idiot to attract women. Let your natural masculinity and your charm do the work, not your goofy machismo.
Don't assign numbers to girls. It's disrespectful, crude, and will work against you.
 Bros love dude-food, it's true. Bacon, french fries, pizza. What more could a bro need? The answer is fiber, green vegetables, and vitamins. While eating a diet rich in red meats and potatoes sounds great for building muscle and throwing barbecues, it's also a shortcut to bowel and prostate cancer. Bummers for any bro.



Try and introduce cooking into your routine. Bros should be good cooks! Experiment with making your own food and eating as healthily as possible. Avoid frozen dinners, fast food, and other junk food.
 Peeling out at stoplights, cutting off cars in traffic, or honking your horn at hotties you see on the sidewalk doesn't make you cool bro, it makes you a dork. A bro shouldn't have to compensate for feelings of inadequacy by revving his car engine. Work on your self-confidence instead of messing around in your car.

