 Once the homepage has completely loaded, click on the "Write a Review" tab.
IMPORTANT - you can only submit a review if you create an account or sign in with Facebook, but this is not made clear until after you have written the review and hit Submit.;
, This can be a hotel, vacation rental, attraction, or restaurant. To do so, click on an option to select it, finding the place you're looking for by typing certain keywords in the search box, and selecting the place you'd like to review. Once you have made a selection, click on "Write a Review."


If you can't find the place you're looking for, it may be because you've misspelled it, written the incorrect city, or TripAdvisor doesn't have the place listed yet. If the problem is the latter, feel free to notify TripAdvisor about it in a review, and they'll email you when your review is accepted.
You must have an account created in order to do this.
 Do you think it was good, bad or just OK? For example, you may have stayed at the Hyatt Santa Barbara Hotel. The room you had there was good, but the service was just OK -- not terrible, but not top-notch. You should also keep in mind the rating scale on Trip Advisor.


1 star - Terrible
2 stars - Poor
3 stars - Average
4 stars - Very Good
5 stars - Excellent
You can rate the place you're reviewing by clicking on the circles under "Your overall rating of this property."


, The title should concisely describe your trip, and you may want to add information such as what you thought of the place you traveled to/visited, and the specific things that were good or bad. For example, instead of writing "Awful Trip!!!" try writing "The Trip Was Awful - Rude Service and Compromised Sleep Quality." Other travelers reading your review will understand your opinion better if you write a concise and specific title of your review, rather than just writing something such as "Awful Trip" and "Very, Very Good"' about the place you visited.
 Start by including information about who you traveled with and what you traveled for. Then you can get to the information about your actual trip and the quality of things, such as the value for money and what you thought of the service. You can also provide a little background information, such as what you thought of the rooms if you are reviewing a hotel or vacation rental, your opinion on the rides/things you got to see or do if you are reviewing an attraction, and what you ordered if you're reviewing a restaurant. You want to provide information about what you did at the place you visited, as this is one thing that travelers want to know.


Try not to provide too much background information. Your readers want to know about the actual trip as well.
 You might have traveled with family, on a business trip, or just traveled solo to get time to yourself. You can tell readers what your trip is for by choosing one of the options under "What sort of trip was this?" The options are as follows: "Business," "Couples," "Family," "Friends" and "Solo."

, One thing your readers want to know is the time and date when you took your trip. You can inform them about this by clicking the selection bar to select the recent month when you traveled.
 Rating other aspects of your trip will tell your readers what you thought of each aspect (value, cleanliness, service, etc.) You can do this by clicking on the circles for each option under "Could you say a little more about it? (optional)."

, If you want to preview your review, click on "Preview your review."


Remember to check the box that confirms that you understand that TripAdvisor has a zero-tolerance policy for fake reviews. This is very important because, if you write a fake review (a review about a place when you never visited, or a review with lies about visiting a certain place), you could get in trouble.
Note that you need to be 13 or older, and have an account for your review to be published. If you don't have an account, you can create one by clicking on "Register Now!" and following the account creation instructions.


