 One way to very quickly increase your web presence is by using pay-per-click advertising to have your business appear prominently in search engine results. This is probably the quickest way to promote your business, but is also probably the most expensive. You will need to budget carefully and ensure you make the most of any paid ads.Pay-per-click ads are sold by auction so they can get very expensive very quickly.
If you do get one, create a strong landing page for people who click through.
Ensure you have the systems in place to analyse the amount of traffic and custom you receive through your ad. You need this information to evaluate whether it was worth the investment.;
, Listing sites are essentially online databases which make large numbers of companies easily accessible and searchable.There are a number of major listing sites which are likely to appear higher up in search engine results than your own site. For this reason it's important to maximise your presence on these heavily frequented sites. Many listing sites are free to join and can direct a lot of traffic your way so you should take advantage of this.You may already have been added to listings and review sites by a customer, but by taking charge of your presence you can control how your business is presented.
See which listings sites are most prominent in your field of business simply by searching online and writing down which ones come high in the results.
 You can join up with other businesses and develop mutually beneficial relationships. Web affiliates will typically provide links to each other's stores on their web pages to help direct traffic to your affiliates. This can be particularly effective when the online stores have something in common or sell complementary goods.For example if you sell hair care products you could share links with a store that sells skin care products, and recommend each other's goods.
Only do this with a company you like and trust who share a similar ethos to you.
You can expand these relationships into shared offers and deals if they prove effective and bring in traffic.
As well as sharing links, affiliates can agree a deal to sell each other's products on their site.