


The kind of businesses you lease or sell the property to will all have their own set of demands for the property, and you must be able to cater to that market by providing the right location, trustworthy contractors, and efficient property management.
The most common types of commercial real estate you can develop are office buildings or office parks, industrial and warehouse real estate, and retail centers. Within each category there are a number of standard developments that may or may not be right for the type of commercial property you want to develop.;
,


You need to do some careful planning before you jump into any type of property dealing. Even though plans can go wrong at times, proper planning from the start will help you to ascertain success. Do some research about the area you have plans on buying a property. Ask the locals in the area about its accessibility and certain problems that you need to be aware of.
 This can be in the form of a business loan, investments by investment companies or private investors, or a combination of both.



You can find out how a lot is zoned by checking with your city's zoning and planning division.
Make sure the location allows for easy access for the traffic that will be attracted by the new development.
Find out what other development and infrastructural plans exist for the area. For example, if a new highway is planned, it will allow for more traffic, which could be beneficial for the commercial property, but if existing commercial real estate is going to be demolished to create a park or residential buildings, this could adversely affect the attraction of your commercial development.
, Also secure any permits you need to develop commercial real estate. Depending on the location, this can include construction permits, parking permits, and waste removal permits.
 Make sure to explain clearly what your needs are in terms of budget, time, and building requirements.
, Request weekly and monthly reports from both the contractors and the architect overseeing the project so you're aware of the progress.
 These are usually performed by a city agency that dispatches inspectors to investigate whether commercial real estate is in compliance with legal requirements.
,