 This part is a bit ambitious and a little messy, so clear off the table, lay down some newspaper, grab a drink and sit down to work. Here's what you'll need:

A large foil turkey pan






Lots of newspaper (in addition to what's covering your workspace)






Papier mâché supplies -- bowl, water, white glue or flour






Scissors






Brown and dark green paint (or duct tape)






A drill (or something to poke holes through the pan with)






Wide brown ribbon







, Basically, take the sides and push them out a bit and round out the inner edges, too. While you're at it, just round out the entire thing. Everything needs to be a bit more circular.
 Using 2 parts glue or 1 part flour, make a paste with water and cut 2 in (5 cm) wide strips of newspaper. The length doesn't really matter.


Cover the entire outside of your shell. Go in every direction, creating an even layer. If you'd like to add texture by bunching up your strips, you can -- but the shape of the pan should already be fairly shell-like.
Let dry for a couple of hours.
 If it's easier, paint your shell white beforehand. Grab a hexagonal template off the internet and trace it -- the shell sort of looks like a soccer ball...sort of. But ultimately the shell is up to you -- horizontal lines work, too.


You'll be painting or taping over it, so don't worry if you have dark lines. They'll get covered up.
 Use green duct tape and brown paint (or vice versa) if you'd like to go for a more textured look. Paint is much easier to work with, but duct tape makes it look sturdier.


If painting, you may have to put on several coats. Be patient. Let dry after you've finished.
 That's four in total. Straps are going to be attached through these holes, so place them like you would see them on a backpack.

It's easiest to use a drill, but anything that can pop through the foil will do. If you don't use a drill, keep the hole to drill-size.
 Don't cut it yet -- you don't know how much you need. Place the pan on your back. Once you go through the top with the ribbon, put it over your shoulder and through the bottom. Leave 3 or 4 inches (7.5 - 10 cm) extra for making knots and cut. Then, take that length and cut another piece for the other side.


Tie knots to the top and bottom. It's best if you have the pan on your back while doing this, so grab a friend to make the knots for you.

