 In the case of an adult, guardianships are meant to protect incapacitated adults’ interests. Guardians have control over the person’s financial assets and have the power to make medical decision for the person. If a previously incapacitated adult regains capacity, the adult may seek a restoration of his or her rights. While state laws regarding guardianship differ, a person seeking restoration of his or her rights may have the following rights afforded to him or her during the process of restoration:


The right to legal notice of any hearings regarding the guardianship.
The right to attend hearings.
The right to an attorney or guardian ad litem, a guardian assigned to ensure that the ward’s rights are protected during the hearing.
The right to examine witnesses.
The right to appeal., If the guardian is contesting the restoration of rights, it is in the best interest of the person seeking restoration to request that the court appoint an attorney to represent his or her interests during the hearing. Courts should appoint an attorney or another guardian to ensure that the ward’s rights are being protected., Every state has its own laws regarding guardianship that also address the restoration of rights and most state’s will have sample petition forms. Generally, a Petition for Restoration will include the following information:


The name and contact information of the person filing the petition, either the ward or someone on behalf of the ward.
A sworn affidavit by a medical professional, possibly a psychiatrist, that the ward was examined and that the ward is no longer in need of guardian. The doctor will have to present evidence to support this claim.
The petition may also include a notice that must be sent to all relevant parties including the current guardian and a certificate of service, which is a document where the petitioner shows that the petition was properly sent to all relevant parties.
To view a list of state-specific guardian laws that address restoration of rights visit: http://www.americanbar.org/content/dam/aba/administrative/law_aging/2013_CassidyRestorationofRightsChart7-13.authcheckdam.pdf.
To locate the petition forms, conduct an internet search for the county and state where the ward resides and “restoration of rights” and “adult.” This should direct you to the appropriate county court. You can also call the county court where the ward resides and request the petition form.
 If the court finds that there is sufficient evidence in the petition to support that the ward should have his or her rights restored, the court will hold a hearing on the matter. In order to restore a person’s rights and terminate guardianship, the ward will have to show the following:


That he or she has the ability to manage his or her personal care and/or property.
The person does not need to show total control of all functions but rather that they have functional ability, even with some assistance, to handle their care and property interests.
A person can show functional ability even if they still have some mental impairment., After the hearing, a court may rule that the person’s rights are restored and that the guardianship is terminated. Once a person’s rights are restored, this becomes the grounds that the court uses to terminate guardianship.


The termination of guardianship ends all rights and obligations of the guardian for the ward, except for any obligations as to financial accounting., If the court denies the petition to terminate guardianship, the ward has the right to appeal the decision. You must check with the local court to find out how long you have to final your appeal and the format of your appeal. Generally, you will need to file a notice of appeal and provide evidence and argument that shows one or the following:


The court failed to make a adequate findings of fact;
The court did not follow the law properly;
The court abused its discretion.