 Creating side swept bangs or wispy, piecey bangs will soften a severe pixie cut.


If you have longer layers on top, use a small round brush to pull your bangs over to one side as you blow-dry your hair.If you have short bangs, run a flat iron over your face framing layers. Separate the hair into wispy, piecey sections with your fingers., Create a tough, perfectly tousled pixie cut with texturizing products. Place a dime-sized amount of light weight pomade, hair wax, or beach spray in your hand. Rub the product onto your fingertips.Run the product through the ends of your hair, pulling up and out., Parting your hair differently will completely alter the look of your pixie cut! Try parting your hair on the opposite side of your head or opt for a center part. For an entirely fresh look, skip the part and slick back your hair instead!To slick back your hair, comb your wet hair away from your forehead. Run a dime sized amount of gel, pomade, or hair wax through your locks. Use a comb to slick your hair back away from your face.
 One of the many benefits of short hair is that it holds volume extremely well. Before blow-drying your hair, apply a lightweight volumizer to your wet locks. As you blow-dry your hair, lift the hair up.If you are trying to achieve extreme volume, blow dry your hair upside down!
In order to create the perfect faux hawk, you must add volume to your hair. After blowdrying your hair, use a lightweight gel, pomade, hairspray, or hair wax to shape and style your faux hawk.
 If you have naturally coarse, curly, and or thick hair, use a flat iron to achieve a sleek and shiny pixie cut. While your flat iron preheats, apply a small amount of heat protecting serum to your hair. Use the flat iron to straighten small sections of hair quickly., To create the perfectly messy do, apply a texturizing spray to your wet hair and allow your locks to air dry.As you apply a small amount of lightweight hair wax or pomade to the ends of your locks, pull and separate your hair to create a tousled, piecey look.