 The first line of your college essay can be the hardest to write, but it's also arguably the most important. Instead of starting with a generic and boring sentence like "I want to attend this college because...", write something more imaginative. Use colorful language and leave the reader so intrigued that he will want to keep reading.A great first line might be something like, "I have always felt that the world was full of questions and riddles, and that it was my job to answer them to the best of my ability." or, "I think my parents knew that I was destined to become a scientist when I began experimenting with dangerous chemicals at the age of five." Whatever you decide on, make sure you are telling your own story.
Make sure your opening line is related to the rest of your essay. You want your reader to remain engaged throughout the essay.
A little bit of humor can go a long way, if that's your personality.
Don't feel like you need to write your first sentence before the rest of the essay. It might be best to save it for last so that you will know how to properly tie it in to your main point.;
, It might be tempting to write one generic essay and then fill in a few blanks so that it works for every college you want to apply to, but this is not the way to write a great essay! Take the time to write a unique response to each individual question.It helps to show that you have thoroughly researched the college and have clear reasons for wanting to attend that specific school. Make a few references to how the school fits your educational needs.Consider discussing the specific courses you hope to take or professors you hope to work with. This will show that you are really invested in the program and have a good understanding of how it will help you reach your personal goals.
 You should always try to make your writing sound intelligent and individual, but don't take it too far by using words you don't know just because they sound fancy. You run the risk using them incorrectly and not making any sense., If you have the opportunity to choose the topic that you are writing about, choose with care. You should write about something personal and something that you care about because this will help you convey your unique voice and skills. If you have an assigned topic, but you aren't inspired by it, come up with an angle that allows you to get more personal. As long as it's clear to the administrators how your essay relates to the original question, you can take in any direction you like. If you need an idea for a personal topic, consider one of the following:Write about a moment that changed your life
Write about a time when you had to overcome a major obstacle
Write about how your passions and interests developed from an early age
Write about a person who had a significant impact on your lifeWrite about why you want to major in a particular field, College essays typically have pretty strict word limits, and you don't want to waste those words stating facts that are already included in your general application. Take the opportunity to highlight your personal attributes that the admissions officer wouldn't otherwise know about., It's crucial that your college essay be well-written, which means you must double and triple check for incomplete sentences, run-on sentences, typos, misused words, and confusing syntax.When in doubt, have someone you trust read your essay over. A second pair of eyes may catch something that you missed.
 If there are optional essay questions, always answer them. It will give you an extra opportunity to show your unique personality.You may also consider including a resume with your application if you feel that your essay and general application do not cover all of your accomplishments.In some instances, you may wish to include copies of your academic work. This is especially helpful if you mention a specific project in your essays and you feel it needs elaboration.On many applications, you may be given a small space to provide additional information. Use this opportunity to explain any negative aspects of your application, like a bad grade or test score. Focus on how you learned from your mistakes and/or overcame a major obstacle in your life. If you don't have anything negative to explain, use the opportunity to provide additional insight into your personal and academic preferences. If, for example, you want to be an English major, you could write a brief paragraph about your favorite author and how he or she has inspired you.
As enthusiastic as you may be, don't forget to follow the rules. If there is a word limit, for example, you need to stick to it. Instead of going over the limit in order to say everything you want to, go back and carefully edit out all of the unimportant words. You will end up with a much more concise and meaningful essay.

