 Always being late for meetings or appointments is not only annoying to everyone else who has to wait for you or who's attention you're disrupting, but it's disrespectful to those who managed to get there on time or early.;
, Always being the one who is late will not only cause others stress, it could cause a backlash and give you a reputation for being undependable.
 These usually default to remind you 15 minutes prior to the appointment or task scheduled on your calendar. If you have to drive more than a couple miles to an appointment or meeting, set the reminder to go off early enough for you to leave and get to the appointment or meeting on time.


The most important factor in making the reminder work is to put everything down and leave as soon as the reminder goes off. This seems pretty obvious, but if you're a habitual procrastinator, you tend to tell yourself, "I'll leave that in a minute" and the next thing you know, 15 more minutes have passed, and you're now late.
 If the appointment is just one you are attending for informational purposes and all you'll need to be prepared is a notepad and pen, then set these items out before you have to leave. However, if you are the facilitator of the meeting or an active participant and you need to prepare handouts or some type of presentation, complete all materials before leaving the office the day before the meeting or appointment. Waiting until the last minute will invariably result in something critical being forgotten.
 Sometimes procrastinating is an almost natural response to something that seems too daunting; instead of tackling it, you complete other smaller, more manageable projects first, pushing the bigger task farther and farther behind.


For instance, if you are preparing for a big meeting or important appointment, don't let the complexity of the meeting hinder your work. Instead, break down the presentation you're preparing into small portions with individual deadlines so it's completed in plenty of time to make it to the appointment or meeting fully prepared.
 This includes making sure you have everything you need to complete your task within arm's reach so you're not having to get up every few minutes to hunt for something.


If you're too easily distracted by the phone, set it to "Do Not Disturb" or turn off the ringer for an hour so you can have at least one hour of uninterrupted time.
If you work at home and the TV distracts you, turn it off.
If quiet music helps you relax and focus, program favorite music into your MP3 player or your laptop. (Avoid radios as advertisements, radio announcers and call-in contests can be too distracting.)

, If you previously were the one always running in the door just as a meeting was starting or you're always apologizing to people with whom you have appointments, set a goal of making it to the next five appointments at least 10 minutes before start time. Then when you've accomplished this goal, splurge on something you enjoy as a reward for replacing a bad habit with a good one.

