 If your brother is always pestering you when you are hanging out with your friends or chillin’ in your room, try scheduling a special time to do something with him.


You could plan a specific time each week to do something fun with your brother, such as Saturday afternoon when you have free time. Ask him what he would like to do, or come up with an idea together.
You could also set aside time during the week to do something you both enjoy. For instance, you can tell your brother that you will play video games with him on Tuesdays and Thursdays from 4:00 to 5:00 PM.
If he continues to nag you, explain that you won’t be able to do the special thing you planned if you can’t finish your homework or your basketball game with your friends.
You might even begin a weekly tradition, such as going bowling or watching a movie together on Friday nights.
Hanging out with your brother regularly will also have the added benefit of improving your relationship. He’ll be less likely to bug you if he gets to know you better.;
, Maybe your brother nags you to hang out because he doesn’t have friends. Maybe he is shy and has a hard time meeting people. If he has friends, he’ll be less likely to always pester you.


If your friend has a younger brother about the same age as yours, plan to do something together so that they can meet. The four of you could plan to hit the ball around at the park one weekend.
If you don’t know anyone with a younger sibling, take your brother places where he might meet a friend. If you have a neighborhood park where kids play basketball, ask him if he wants to go and join the game. Introduce yourself to the other kids if your brother is shy and then introduce your brother.
 Help your brother find other interests than bugging you! Hobbies that your brother can do by himself will be the best ones to suggest. Otherwise, he might begin to nag you to help him with his hobby.


Consider your brother’s interests. If he seems really interested in insects (versus being afraid of them), ask him if he would want to start a bug collection.
Maybe your brother likes to read. Lend him a book you really enjoyed or offer to take him to the library. Spending a couple hours at the local library might just result in less pestering during the week, since your brother will be engrossed in his books!
If your brother likes to create things, you could get him a model airplane to put together. If he is tech-y, you could help him gather old computer hardware so he can build his own.
 Maybe your brother really wants to hang out at the skate park, but doesn’t know how to do any tricks. If you spend some time showing him how and helping him practice, he will be more confident in going to the park by himself. He will likely also meet other kids who skate and make friends on his own.


You could also offer to help him get the equipment he needs for the sport he wants to try. If you drive, take him to the sporting goods store one weekend and help him pick out the stuff he needs.
If your brother doesn’t have money to buy a skateboard or basketball sneakers, you could help him earn some extra cash. For instance, if your parents will pay you to clean the garage, offer to help your brother do this extra chore but don’t demand any of the money. Alternately, if he has a birthday coming up, give him a gift card as a present.
 As a last resort, promise your brother something if he will stop bothering you. Loan him your ipod or let him pick the television show if he will leave you alone!


Perhaps you are trying to finish your homework, but your brother keeps interrupting you. Try loaning him something for a short period of time with the requirement that, while he is borrowing the item, he cannot bother you.

