 Your fingers are excellent and efficient blending tools. While your fingers are not as precise as other tools, they are ideal for blending colors together that cover large areas of your work. It is also quicker to blend with your fingers than it is to grab a tool. When using your fingers, remember to wash your hands frequently to remove the pigment and prevent blending the wrong colors together.You may wish to wear rubber gloves or finger clots. These will make it easier for you to keep your hands clean and will protect your fingers from being rubbed raw by the sand on the canvas or in the pastels.
Keep wet wipes near your workstation to remove the pastels from your hands.
It may be difficult to blend areas that are smaller than your fingertips., Pastel brushes and shapers are specifically designed for working with oil pastels. Pastel brushes, which come in a variety of sizes and styles, contain hairs on one end. Pastel shapers, which also come in a variety of sizes and styles, have a flat or tapered rubber end. While flat pastel shapers are ideal for blending large areas of colors together, tapered pastel shapers are perfect for blending minute areas.


You may purchase dual-purpose tools that contain a brush on one end and a shaper on the other end., Tortillions, also called stumps, are tightly wound rolls of paper with a pointed end. These inexpensive tools, which are shaped like pencils, are excellent for creating fine details and sharp edges.When the tip of a stump becomes dirty, you can unwrap the wound paper to generate a new, clean tip.These tools come in three sizes: small, medium, and large., A chamois is a soft and flexible piece of leather. This tool is extremely versatile. You may wipe or rub the majority of the chamois across your canvas to blend large areas of color, and you may also wrap a portion of the chamois around your finger to blend pastels in small areas.


To clean the chamois, you may either hand wash it or machine wash it., A kneaded rubber tool is a pliable eraser. In addition to functioning as an eraser, this multi-functional tool is also great at blending together oil pastels. You may form and reform the kneaded rubber into various shapes to meet your specific needs., Instead of purchasing traditional art tools, you may use common household items to blend your oil pastels. While these items are not always the preferred tool, they serve as an acceptable replacement when you do not have the right tools on hand. These items include:


Q-tips
Cotton balls
ClothsPaper towels