 The suit is a staple for most every classic business dress code. A well fitted and properly matching suit will help you look professional and earn the respect of your coworkers and clients. Keep some of these tips in mind when picking out your suits:Generally, cotton suits make a good choice in regards to the material.
In cold areas, suits made from wool might be a warmer fit for you.
Make sure that your suit has a jacket and pair of pants that match.
Grey and blue suits are almost always in fashion.Lighter shades can be a good fit during months with warm weather.
Darker suits can look great during months that are colder.
 You will need to find the perfect dress shirts to match your suits. These shirts can add another layer of professionalism and create an interesting color contrast with the hue of your suit. Remember some of these points when building your dress shirt collection:Generally, long sleeved shirts with a collar are the best choice.
Cotton shirts are generally your best choice.
Dress shirts will almost always be button-up.
In some cases plaid or other simple patterns may be acceptable, so long as the pattern isn't too busy or clashing with your suit.
 Although they may seem like a small detail, wearing the wrong kind of shoes with your business dress can send the wrong message. Business shoes are almost always made entirely from leather, including the sole. So long as your shoes are made from leather, you have a wide range of styles available to choose from. Take a look at some of the following qualities your business shoes should have:Should be entirely made of leather.
Can come in a variety of styles. However, brogues, wingtips or square-toed shoes should be avoided.
Loafers are acceptable to wear.
Make sure your shoes are polished and clean at all times.Never wear white socks with your shoes. Always try for something dark or that otherwise matches your suit and shoes.Your socks and shoes should match the color of your tie and both a generally dark colors.
 Having your clothes tailored to your unique measurements can help you stay comfortable and look great. Having your suit tailored is necessary if you want to achieve a professional looking fit. Look for a local tailor that can fit a suit to your exact measurements and help you dress for success.Wearing a suit without having it tailored will result in a poor fit.
A tailor can fit your clothes in a way that will make your posture, physique and overall appearance look great.
 Even if you've got all the items you need to dress business professional, you will still need to make sure your outfit matches. Wearing only one item that clashes with the rest of your outfit can ruin your entire look. Keep some of these tips in mind when considering which items will go together best:Keep everything dark for an easy way to match your outfit.
Wearing a dark suit with a white dress shirt can give a classic contrast.
Black and white will match with any other color.
Navy colors match well with oranges and golds.
Yellow can pair well with purple.
Greens or olives can match with reds.

