 Read the user's manual for the airbrush that you are using. Once you've correctly hooked up your air brush, practice at different pressure levels to get a feeling for how the airbrush works. Use a cheap paint and airbrush on large pieces of butcher paper. Airbrushes typically cost anywhere from $25 to $300 and up.Remember to wear a protective mask and to lay out a tarp on your work area when using an airbrush.
 Use a mild dish detergent and cold water to wash the surface of your car. This should remove molding agents which could react poorly with your paint. Once your car is free of dirt and dust, allow it to air dry before airbrushing it.
 Because an airbrush paints a large area at a time, it's important that you tape off decals or designs that you want to paint in later. Once you've achieved the car has dried, you can remove the painter's tape and fill in finer details with a more precise tool like a brush.
 In order to quickly airbrush your car, it will need to be suspended in the air. Use a bent wire hanger as a base and stand for your model car, attaching the stand to the car from the inside. As an alternative, you can also find a stable and flat pillar to set your car on top of as you paint. Make sure to attach the car to the stand using masking tape.,,, Connect the paint jar color that you want to use to your airbrush. Apply the first base coat with your airbrush by applying pressure to the actuator, or button on the top of the airbrush. Quickly move your hand left to right and apply mist coats at 25-30 PSI. Continue to rotate your model car as you apply more coats of paint. When you are nearing the end, lower the PSI on your airbrush to 18-20 PSI to apply the final one or two coats.Lowering the airbrush PSI will make the paint come out thicker.
Do not let the thick paint run, or it may ruin your model. Be conservative on thick coats of paint.
Remember to airbrush separate parts of your car, such as the hood, as you paint the car's body.
 Dry your car model for 24-48 hours before handling it. Keep the car in a cool area free of sunlight while it dries. Once it's totally dried, examine the car and look for areas that are not painted. Instead of airbrushing over the car again, fix small details with a brush and matching paint.

