 Good skin care is essential in the treatment of any skin condition, and keloids are no exception. Keeping your skin clean and moisturized will encourage skin rejuvenation — this means that the older, scarred skin will be sloughed away and replaced with the newer, smoother layers underneath.


Wash the scarred skin at least once a day (twice if it's on your face) with a gentle cleanser that contains no colors or fragrances. Be sure not to over wash the skin, however, as this can dry it out and cause irritation.
Moisturize the skin after cleansing to keep it hydrated. You can use a gentle store-bought moisturizer or apply a natural oil such as coconut or olive oil.;
, Scarred skin is particularly sensitive, making it prone to burning and hyperpigmentation caused by the the harmful rays of the sun. As a result, it is important to apply suntan lotion to keloid scars if you intend to spend any time outside throughout the day.


Use a high SPF of thirty or above, and remember to apply it to the skin at least thirty minutes before going outside.
The sun's rays can be damaging on the skin, even when it's not hot or sunny outside. Therefore, it's important to apply suntan lotion regardless of the weather.
 When you have a cut or small scar on the skin, it can be very tempting to pick at it. However, this is a bad idea as it often leads to infection and the formation of keloid scars.


Try to leave any cuts alone to prevent the formation of keloids and avoid touching any existing keloids, as this can simply aggravate them further.
If you leave your scars alone, there's a good chance that they will disappear on their own over time, without the need for medical intervention.
 Recent studies have shown promising data with scar creams that contain onion extract when it comes to reducing the height of scar tissue.This product will also work in helping to prevent raised scar tissue if you apply it to a healing tissue injury that you fear may develop a keloid., You can apply lemon juice to darker scars in order to lighten them. Vitamin C is important in normal wound healing, and the high concentration of vitamin C in lemon juice can help lighten scars.Use a cotton ball soaked in lemon juice and apply directly to the scar. Allow the lemon juice to air dry and rinse with warm water. Repeat once a day.


Be aware that exposing the lemon-juice treated skin to sunlight may result in bleaching.
While most steps described later in this method can be used in conjunction, do not try mixing lemon juice with other remedies. If you want to use other methods that you apply to the scar concurrently, then rinse off the lemon juice and wait two to three hours beforehand.
 Castor oil has the ability to penetrate deep into the skin and slowly break down scar tissue. In healthy skin cells, it helps to increase circulation and eliminate toxins.


To treat keloids, soak a piece of clean cloth in castor oil and press it onto the keloid for an hour or two every day. Alternatively, you can just rub castor oil directly onto the keloid everyday.
You may also use castor oil to prevent keloid formation in the first place by applying the oil directly onto cuts or scrapes. This promotes better healing.
 Aloe vera has been shown to help reduce the appearance of burn scars, and you can safely try it to reduce the appearance of a keloid as well.Aloe vera is an anti-inflammatory herb. The reduction of inflammation, especially during the early stages of scar formation may be important for increasing the elasticity of the new tissue.
 Researchers believe that green tea may reduce scarring because of its antioxidant activity.Steep a bag of organic green tea in warm water. Use the tea bag directly on the scar three to four times a day for ten or fifteen minutes.


You can also soak a cotton towel in green tea, squeeze out the excess, and place over the scar three or four times a day for ten to fifteen minutes.



For vitamin E, use a liquid caplet containing 400 IU.
For vitamin D, use a liquid caplet that contains up to 2,000 IU.
 Lavender oil has traditional uses for helping to reduce scars.Mix two to three drops of lavender oil with two tablespoons of castor oil and massage the mix into your scar. Repeat three to four times each day.
 St. John’s wort promotes wound healing and has especially been used to reduce scarring from C-sections.Mix two to three drops of the essential oil with two tablespoons of castor oil and massage the ointment into your scar. You can repeat this treatment three to four times daily.
 Apple cider vinegar (not white vinegar) is commonly recommended to help reduce redness associated with keloid scars. Consistent use may also help reduce the size of scars. Apply the vinegar directly to the scar and allow it to air dry. Rinse the area with warm water after five to ten minutes. You can repeat this process three to four times a day.
 Honey is a natural moisturizer that has shown some promise in reducing the size of keloids.Apply a thin layer of honey directly to the scar. Massage the honey into the scar for five minutes. Allow it to sit for an hour before rinsing off the honey.


Manuka honey or Tualang honey is generally recommended for medicinal use.
You can cover the honey with gauze to help prevent it from sticking to clothing.
 This herb has been used in Traditional Chinese Medicine (TCM) for centuries to reduce scarring. Recent studies have indicated that it can reduce the numbers and functions of scar-forming cells.To use the powder, mix half a teaspoon of the powder or one-quarter teaspoon of the concentrated herb with one to two tablespoons of castor oil. Massage the mixture into the scar tissue three to four times a day.


You may have to go to a local TCM practitioner in your area to find this herb.
 Many of these methods can take several months to produce a significant difference in reducing the appearance of your keloid scars. You can try using several of these methods at a time to help increase the chances of reducing your scar.


If you do prefer using the methods one at a time to determine which is most effective, then try the method for at least two to three weeks. If there is no change, move to another method or consider consulting your doctor about a medical procedure for removing your keloid.

