 Although the first season's introduction was super short and had little along the lines of a memorable introduction (as you'll see later) including that the players were greeted and then the host segued into the introductory title pane and title music that didn't capture this "trip" which led into the gameplay, season two had a more memorable opening.


During the second season, the introductory segment was expanded and had a memorable opening that most viewers enjoyed watching episode after episode. Some of the screen time was spoken and some was narrated through a girlie apparition-like narrator who flew past a river/stream surrounding the island where the game was supposedly taking place (the narrator called it "Maze Island") then dipped into this water body and through the water into the set and finally took the viewer through the complete maze describing the rooms up until the final challenge - explaining the names of the rooms of the maze along the way including the confrontation with her Mirror Man (which you will learn about later) and talked about her Ice Cave and Chamber of Knowledge and even mentioned the final journey up Lightning Mountain (all talked about later in this article).;
, This game was actually a combination of several rounds - played in several parts separated by numerous advertisements following each round and after each elimination time. There was a question round where the players would be asked questions about what they were looking at on a bunch of TV monitors and the winner of that round went into the Maze rounds to battle out for a winner to the game. The winner of those went onto play for that special trip and bonus prizes and even some bonus trophies (though the trip was the most memorable of all for the show). (This will be described momentarily.), The Question round was based on several pieces themselves. A blurred out picture was shown to the three contestant teams on several TV-like monitors and as it become unblurred the players would have a chance to identify the picture. They'd collect points for their team based on correct answers to these pictures. There was a clock set at 15 seconds to answer correctly, and this timer was prominently displayed on the TV program viewer's screen. If their guess was correct, 10 points were awarded and they would then be asked to answer a question relating to that picture that only their knowledge of the subject could solve. If they incorrectly solved the question, the host would ask them to continue to un-blur the picture until the picture wasn't blurry anymore but still within the fifteen seconds allotted for the picture round, however no points were deducted from the player's score. Several of these questions and pictures were asked to the players to identify - and each question was worth 5 points. Once a team had a total of fifty points, they were able to choose if they would like to be the first or second team to enter the Maze (the strategizing decision ensued), as the other two teams were promoted to the next round - the Speed Round.

During the second season however, things changed quite a bit. Instead of a button you pushed that would lead you to identify the picture, you pressed a button on a airplane-like yolk which "fired a laser-beam"-like line at the screen (which then exploded electronically on the TV set screen) - which then triggered the response of having you buzz in to try and identify the picture. In season two, although the time limit was still set at 15 seconds, it was not shown onscreen to the viewer. Also during season 2, came the occasional Bonus Pictures: These pictures were trickier to answer and hence why these pictures were worth 15 points instead of just ten. However, Bonus pictures only happened once per episode.
 In this round, the remaining players were asked to identify pictures (much like the Question round). However, unlike the Question round, they were not asked the additional questions and correct answers here were awarded 10 additional points tacked onto their first round totals points awarded. However, if the first player buzzed in and guessed but was wrong, the second player wouldn't have additional parts of the picture un-blurred but would be given a clue as to what the picture was referring to. Although many times this clue helped, there were times when this clue made things more confusing to the player., After being sent into a maze of various rooms, one of the players was sent into the maze while his teammate would help guide them through the maze using his/her powersuit that was wirelessly connected to the teammate at the control center that helped guide them using a joystick (airplane-like yolk)-like device. The first room where the player got sent after he/she entered the Maze was called the Mirror Maze; it was set up with hundreds of thousands of identical mirrors lining the walls that led to different areas of the room. However, at one point, the player had to bypass a special mirror who would stop the player in their path and ask them a question (this character was called the Mirror Man, and for season 1 was asked/narrated by the host himself). Generally, the Mirror Man would be positioned several yards before the "Bridge" (talked about a little later). To get past him, you'd have to answer a super-cheesy question on pretty much any subject he asked the player. You'd have two chances to answer his question correctly or he'd penalize you an additional five seconds while he moved aside. Following along the path, you'd then have to cross the Bridge. However, on the Bridge you'd have to collect at least 2 of the 3 power sticks that were located there (one was needed to enter the Chamber of Knowledge and the other was to stop the clock). After finding both power sticks, the player was instructed to put down their visor through their earphones in the helmet itself (the visor acted like a blindfold) and the player would be navigated through a Honeycomb maze solely via their partner at the control terminal. Each little cubby had it's own rather-large door that would open, but since each maze pattern was different here was different this could take longer to achieve (and some doors were even locked to prevent entry into/through them) Once the player passed through this room, they'd be instructed to put up their visor to enter a briefing room prior to entering the Chamber of Knowledge - a room where several questions were asked to get the player to the end station. However, in this briefing room, you had to drop the first of your power sticks you found into the slot (everybody in season 1 always found both power sticks). The Chamber of Knowledge's Guardians questions got a little tougher but were more varied by subject of the Guardian in question (these "Guardians" asked True/False questions relating to several areas, but were varied by season). If the first question was answered correctly, they'd have to answer at least three other questions to be given the green light to follow through to the next and final area. If they answered incorrectly, they'd have to answer one additional question from another Guardian head. If still no good, they'd have to take a five second penalty. As they exited the Chamber of Knowledge, they dropped their second power stick into the exit-point slot and their Maze run was finished. Your time spent on the Maze round would be tallied and saved.

There were several differences between the way the questions were asked and how the maze was set up for the Maze in season two. During season 2, on top of the elimination of the Honeycomb maze, the Mirror Man had a bigger face and the question was asked directly by the Mirror Man himself (his voice was very gruff). No more in season two were power sticks hidden on the Bridge (you'll see them come up later in the Maze round, however). Before the Ice Cave, you had to answer yet another picture puzzle posed on one small TV monitor (much like the picture puzzles shown in the Question round of the game). Answering correctly and before time was up would allow you to use the shortened path; however, get it wrong or answer it when the time had finished and the Lady of the Maze would send you on a slightly longer path after pushing a metal gate fence the opposite way. There was also the Ice Cave the player had to pass through - the room that the Honeycomb maze was changed into for season two where your visor had to be lowered and you were relying on your partner and host to get you through a room filled with artificial snow and smaller mirror men silhouettes and strobe lights on the floor. And if that wasn't enough, you couldn't bump into any of these obstacles or you'd lose time. In the Ice Room you were asked to find the one and only power stick you needed for the final link at the end (it was located on the wall before the second pair of icicles that tended to come down after many great players tripped over the strobe light). There was no longer a briefing room prior to the Chamber of Knowledge - players would walk down a ramp to get to the Chamber of Knowledge without stopping to check-in with the Lady of the Maze. On top of that, during the Chamber of Knowledge, the first time you answered a question correctly, you would get all the gates that led to the exit portion of the maze opened for you all at once - (However this came at an expense of hearing (towards the player) and seeing (towards the viewer) neat visual effects of the Guardian saying "Come into my world" as well as watching an animation of how the question would depicted or what this Guardian would generally was most apt to explain in their question.). Right outside of the gates, you'd find a video monitor where you'd have to shoot your laser on your right wrist at moving targets on the screen - these targets looked like the face of the Mirror Man (the player had to blast two of these faces when the face was at the direct center of the screen utilizing his laser beam with his wrist down to earn the right to proceed). Last but not least, unlike season 1(that you'll learn about later) where you had an additional prize level, towards the end of the maze you had to race up Lighting Mountain to deposit your other power stick which stopped the clock - but used the same path as the Prize round. (the cameraman would switch to watch this scene play out from the Bridge and we'd see this be depicted from behind the tall, red laser light tubes that were on top of the place where the stick would be deposited. .

If you stepped upon the Mirror Man silhouette on the floors of the foggy Cave or pushed around a strobe light in the foggy Ice Cave room, giant icicles came down from the ceiling and you'd be slowed down. You couldn't pass through the second pair of icicles until you grabbed the power stick. However, there was a small area in between two of the icicles in the first set that you could wander around to get you past the first set, but with strobes after the first set of icicles, you're chances of stepping on these were double and most often, these players would knock around these too. Most often, players - despite their team mate helping them - would often get blocked due to this.
A power-stick looked like a laboratory test-tube filled with fluorescent neon green colored light that glowed. However, this wasn't really what was in the tube itself. (TV and broadcasting can give some imperceptions to the viewer.)


Generally, times varied for contestant runs. While it was common for runs to last anywhere in the 2 minute to three minute mark (stopwatch style), there were only a handful of runs that lasted for shorter times than that (season 1 had some memorable times that lasted in the one minute mark - though very uncommon for the show).
 During the first season with the first host in place, the Guardians in the Chamber of Knowledge included the Guardian of History, Guardian of Fantasy, Guardian of the Animal Kingdom, Guardian of the Unexpected (sort of a guardian towards a miscellaneous set of questions), Guardian of Nature and the Guardian of Innovation. During the second season, some of these went missing and the players were asked questions in the Chamber of Knowledge from the Guardian of Education, Guardian of Imagination, Guardian of the Natural World, or the Guardian of Science and Industry. , The other contestant that voted to go second would have his turn. The second contestant would try to beat the time the first contestant tried to set. Whoever was then faster would ultimately win. The same maze layout would ensue for both players., This level of the Maze got interesting, though it used as a follow-up and separate maze for just the first season (the TV screens were removed and this level was later avoided and players had to race up it to place their final power stick in place). Much like when the player was shooting at miniature Mirror Men on a TV screen (if the viewer remembers the pattern from season two), the winning player would race through a smaller maze up Lightning Mountain with the host behind them. On TV screens much like before - the contestant would use their laser beam to shoot at TV screens that blinked either Prize or No Prize. To get a prize, over the course of five monitors, the player would have to shoot and get three consecutive Prize screens. It was all a matter of correct timing and "firing" when the TV screen said No Prize but was about to change to Prize to get it to give you the prize., On top of all the rewards they'd get including a shopping spree to the Beverly Hills Sharper Image and a trophy that looked like a power stick, the player wearing the power suit would have to put their visor and head down and their arms at their side while the graphics of the program would take over. And this is where viewers were amazed. The computer to the "game of the future" program graphically crumpled the player up onscreen and sent them into a ball that ended up flying around the stage and into the Question and Speed Rounds' TV screen, (for season one). The helper got consolation prizes as well, but these were at less of a cost, but the host verbally recognized them for helping which really helped the ego of this helper-player-teammate.


During the second season, the viewer would see a revised trip sequence after the player was "crumpled up" onstage. The Lady of the Maze/girly apparition-like person would lead the player out of the studio and into the galaxy and the player would fly around for a moment or two and this would lead to the credits beginning. Also, for season two, the helper ended up receiving a smaller $75 shopping spree at the same Beverly Hills Sharper Image.
 At first, you could on set the player podiums, and depending on seasons and the time of the game you could see the station that was used when the Team helper was asked to help out guide their player through the Maze's rounds. In back of this and looping around the back, you could the Bridge just in back of the Prize round area where the light ended. You could also the end place which looked like a cave entrance/exit point towards the right of what the viewer saw. With this show and with most of the Family Channel TV game shows that appeared, you could never see the audience but you could hear their clapping and such., During the first year of the show's Question and Speed rounds, players would wear either blue or purple t-shirts (depending on the player's potential to be the runner for the Maze round) with the Masters of the Maze logo in the top left corner (top right corner if looked at from the viewer's perspective). However, during the Question and Speed rounds when the second season came into place, all players wore a power-suit during the entire show. However, following the Question and Speed rounds for both seasons, both racing teammates would wear powersuits with their teammate helpers wearing smaller jet-pack like suits (during season 1) and thinner more-agile power-suits that didn't have as many featured (during season 2).
 On top of the laser beam that would be used when the players right hand would be folded down, the power suit also contained sensors that would be used during the Maze with little vibrating sensors on the player's front, right, back and left sides for the control stick player to indicate what direction they wanted their teammate-player to go. Also, the control stick player could communicate to the racing player through the helmet's earphones and microphone setup. This never changed during either of the seasons but was made more known about in season two prior to entering (when the host asked the teammate helper to push the stick forward, activated their helmet and explained their suit's many useful features).
 The apparition that appeared onscreen and took the players on a journey and the ones who talked to the players shortly before entering the Maze (as well as talked to the player in the briefing room prior to entering the Chamber of Knowledge (during the first season)) was none other than the "Lady of the Maze". However, this Lady figure changed between the seasons - being Renae Jacobs during the first season and Clea Montville in the second. Although Renae went on to become a little more popular (helping narrate at other game shows and entertainment venues), Clea had less of a popularity and ended up not starring in any other shows or movies after this narrating job., Each season had only one host, however the first host backed down from the opportunity to host the second season. The show was hosted by J.D. Roth during the first season, and Mario Lopez during the second season of this show. Both hosts went onto other TV game show and TV entertainment venue projects.
 Although the Family Channel (though now called Freeform, and this station has re-branded so as not to include any TV game shows) brought the viewer this show during an early Saturday morning block, it's episodes aired weekly between August 29, 1994 and September 22,1996.. There were about 80 episodes of this show shown to the viewer, based off of the 40 shows during the second season. Sometimes, there'd be a FamTV logo in the bottom right corner of the screen during the first season and a Fam AFTV logo in the bottom right corner during the second season, however, advertisements during the show still presented it as "The Family Channel".

