 Aquatic turtles spend the majority of their lives in the water and if their tanks are kept clean, rarely need a special bath. However, your turtle might benefit from a cleaning if it starts to develop algae on its shell, or when it is shedding to help remove dead skin cells.When your turtle is shedding skin, you may notice flaky patches of skin on its neck, tail or legs. This is normal.
If your turtle sheds a lot, however, it might mean a problem with the tank or the turtle's health, and you should consult with your vet.;
, Turtles can harbor salmonella bacteria, which can make humans very ill, so it is important that you not bathe your turtle in the sink or bathtub.Salmonella is very resistant to disinfectants, so the best course of action is to buy or find a special tub for bathing your turtle, and use it only for that purpose.A plastic bucket or wash tub makes an ideal tortoise bath; just make sure it's large enough to accommodate your turtle.
 To bathe your turtle, you just need a tub, a toothbrush, and a jug or pitcher of lukewarm water, preferably de-chlorinated beforehand . You should not use any kind of soap or shampoo on your turtle, unless it was specifically recommended by your vet., The water should be room temperature water that has preferably been dechlorinated. Add at least enough water to reach the turtle's chin, more if you'd like to let it swim around a bit., Use a toothbrush and gently scrub the turtle's entire shell, paying special attention to any areas of buildup. Remember that the turtle can feel his shell, so do not scrub too hard. Then scrub the turtle's legs, tail, and neck, but be careful with these areas as they are more sensitive. Finally, scrub the turtle's plastron (belly), and be sure to remove all algae and dirt between the scutes or scales.Do not use any kind of soap or polish on your turtle, this could injure it or make it ill!

, This is the perfect time to check your turtle all over for any sign of injury or disease. If you see anything out of the ordinary, take your turtle to the veterinarian to have it checked out right away. Common signs of turtle illness include swollen eyelids or ears, other swellings on the body, skin abnormalities, and discolored or fuzzy patches on the shell that may indicate shell rot., Once your turtle is clean, you can rinse your newly shiny pet by pouring de-chlorinated water over it from a jug or pitcher before returning it to its enclosure.
 To avoid the risk of salmonella contamination, you should not pour your turtle's bathwater down the sink. Flush it down the toilet, instead, and be sure to wash your hands thoroughly with soap and warm water when you are done.

