 Use a soft, moist washcloth to clean your baby’s gums and mouth. Begin washing gums even before the first tooth appears. Applying toothpaste isn’t necessary before your baby’s first tooth erupts.You can also use a piece of sterile gauze that has been soaked in a saline solution, such as ¼ teaspoon of salt mixed with a cup of water.;
, Even if only one tooth has grown in, you can start brushing using a very small amount of fluoride toothpaste, such as a smear on the toothbrush, preferably at 1000 parts per million (ppm). However, this can be extremely hard to do. If your child is agitated, then avoid trying to brush their tooth. The first tooth appears at about 6 months and it is the lower central incisor, which has plenty of protection from the continuous flow of saliva.


If you do decide to brush your baby's first tooth, then get an infant toothbrush, which has soft bristles and a small head, and apply a tiny smear of toothpaste. Gently brush the tooth or teeth twice daily, once in the morning and once at night.Sit your baby on your lap and rest their head on your chest in order to brush their teeth. Slightly lean their head forward, so they won't swallow any of the tiny amount of toothpaste you're using.
Encourage your baby to spit out the tooth paste. Children typically master spitting between ages 2 and 3, but begin teaching them to spit when they begin to respond to vocal instruction. Try to make the experience as fun as possible for your baby so they will laugh and enjoy it.
A tiny smear or dot of toothpaste will leave a small amount of residue that you can simply wipe away with cloth. There's no need to rinse with water, since this will just wash protective fluoride away., Begin flossing as soon as two teeth erupt close enough to risk trapping food particles. Use a few inches of unwaxed floss if only a couple teeth have grown, or a longer length if more teeth have erupted. Be very gentle, and try to avoid irritating your baby's sensitive gums as you remove any buildup between the two teeth.When you floss and brush your child's teeth, examine them for small white dots. These are the first indicators of cavities or deficiency of enamel mineralization.
 Filling a baby’s naptime or bedtime bottle with water helps prevent tooth decay. Don’t give your baby juice before they are 6 months old, and limit juice to meal times rather than before they sleep. Establish routines like only drinking water after brushing teeth at night as early as possible.Steer clear from giving your baby sticky or sugary snacks like candy or soda, especially before naps or bedtime.
 Your baby is due for their first checkup when their first tooth grows in, or before their first birthday at the latest. Remember that children are not simply small versions of adults, so don’t assume you can take your baby to your own dentist. Make an appointment with a pediatric dentist.You can find a local pediatric dentist using the American Academy of Pediatric Dentistry’s website. http://www.aapd.org/finddentist/


