 If you use rice paper, which is traditionally used in many spring rolls, then you should read the instructions on how to prepare it. You may have to place it in hot water for fifteen seconds to get it ready. Each of the four corners should be pointing out, so that it is in the shape of a diamond, not a square.









Keep in mind that, unlike the first method, you can't use egg paste to help the roll stick together because this roll is already cooked. You don't want to put raw egg on it if you don't plan on cooking it.
 Now, scoop in the filling so it lies horizontally from left to right, with at least 2 inches (5 cm) of space between the filling and the left and right corners. This will keep the filling from coming out the sides. It shouldn't be put in too high -- just an inch (2.5 cm) or so at most -- so that you have plenty of space to fold the roll over the filling.
 Now, pick up the bottom corner and fold it over the filling, so the bottom corner is now facing the same direction as the top corner. About an inch (2.5 cm) or so of the corner should be folded above the filling, so that there's still a good 2-3 inches (5 - 7.5 cm) between the bottom corner and the top corner.
 Some people like to tuck the top corner into the filling, so it disappears into the ingredients. Some like to even roll it over the ingredients one full rotation, to secure them there. Others prefer to go the traditional route and to keep the corner folded up -- it's your call.
 Fold the corner over, so it points in the opposite direction, in the middle of the roll. It should begin to resemble an envelope.
 Now, just do what you did on the right side of the roll. The left and right corners should just touch. Now, you've almost finished making your envelope. Right now, it should look like an envelope with the filling inside and the flap facing up.
 Now, just roll from the bottom upwards until you've fully folded the spring roll using the envelope method. Now, all you have to do is sit back and enjoy your delicious treat.








