 Freckles signify beauty, and are commonly found on redheads. They look beautiful with your red hair and fair skin, so keep them! Don't try to get rid of them, just because people make nasty comments - freckles are beautiful and that is that!


Only use a light powder or even a little dusting of mineral foundation to enhance your freckles and show them off to the world.;
, There are many makeup tips for redheads, and many of them are unknown. These makeup tips will make you look flawless and beautiful. Here are all the makeup tips for redheads:


Wear brown eyeliner. It depends on what shade your red hair is - if your hair is the brighter, lighter shade, wear dark brown and if you have the classic red hair, wear light brown eyeliner.
Choose peach and brown shades for your eyeshadow. Peach eyeshadow brings out your red hair and freckles - true fact! Brown looks truly flawless on blue eyes, and peach looks nice with green, but you can use any and look flawless!
Have plum shades in your eyeshadow and eyeliner collection. It looks amazing with green eyes, but still looks good with any eye colour, as it brings out your red hair! Plum is an essential colour in your makeup collection, so buy plum-coloured makeup.
Mineral foundation is a must. Make sure it matches your skin tone! Mineral foundation is awesome because it doesn't clog your pores as it doesn't contain oil and chemicals, plus it doesn't cover up your freckles and actually makes them more noticeable!
Deep blushes look great on redheads. Try a brick-red or a crimson, but don't put too much on so it covers your lovely freckles! Just a light dusting, remember! Also, don't have your tones too deep!
Only put a small amount of mascara on your lashes. Don't put lots of it on. Have two coats of mascara on your top lashes, and two coats on your bottom lashes. Anyway, caked on makeup isn't a good look on anyone!
Coral colours look amazing on redheads. Try coral coloured lipstick or blush. It looks amazing. Also, a red-coral or pink-coral lipstick looks awesome too! Don't overload the coral, though. Too much coral doesn't look good!
Earthy tones are one of your best friends. Greens, browns and deep tones suit you really good. Earthy colours highlight your red hair and freckles, and earthy tones look beautiful with green eyes! Don't make all your makeup earthy tones, unless you want to look like an eco freak!
Opt for lip glosses all the way! They make your lips look beautiful. Soft pinks and bright pinks are for you, especially with an extra-glossy sheen. Instead of lip glosses, you can also have a tinted lip balm.
Pink lipsticks are one of your best friends. Pink lips are not only in this year, they also suit redheads greatly! Any shade will look good on you - hot pink, baby pink, bright pink...even a deep pink. Hot pink looks the best on redheads, but you can pick any shade!
Light concealer under your eyes. Have a concealer one shade lighter than your real skin tone. It makes you look more awake and fresh-faced, plus it zaps the baggy, purple bits under your eyes. Never get a concealer darker than your skin tone!
Avoid heavy foundation. It looks so cakey and fake. Heavy foundation looks bad on everyone, but for some reason it looks worse on redheads...any pale skinned girls, in fact. Stick to tinted moisturizer or even just a light dusting of foundation.
Cat eyes are so for redheads! Use jet black eyeliner and jet black mascara for this look. If you dislike putting eyeliner on your waterline, put it on your top lash line and bottom lash line. Put on three coats on each lash, bottom and top. Look at a wikiHow article or YouTube video for tutorials.
Black mascara is a must for you! People say that ginger mascara looks good on you, but that's a no-no! Black mascara should be in your makeup bag. It can be used for everyday wear or to add a dramatic look to your eyes.
Red lipstick is for you! It looks good with red hair. It won't clash with your red hair! A bright red looks amazing on you, as long as you apply it properly. Don't make a lipstick mishap or it'll ruin it! Along with pink lippy, red lippy is your bestie!
Even better, don't wear any makeup at all! Let your skin breathe and show your freckles even more! The best type of beauty is natural beauty, and that's the type of beauty you show with zero makeup. Look more gorgeous without any makeup - makeup is for phonies!

, You can have any body type, but an hourglass figure particularly looks good on a redhead. The hourglass figure that looks good on redheads is actually a mixture of curvy-slim. Eat healthy, drink plenty of water and exercise 5 days a week for a good figure. Remember, you can have any body type at all, but a curvy-slim hourglass figure looks amazing on a redhead, especially if you have long hair cascading down your shoulders and back.


Having chubby cheeks looks cute and amazing on redheads. It looks cute and sweet with anyone, but particularly on redheads.
Remember, you can have any body and face type.
 Red hair, fair skin and freckles look beautiful - more beautiful than straight blonde hair and tanned skin, which looks totally fake. Be a beautiful girl with lovely red hair, an English rose complexion and a dusting of brown freckles! Don't dye your hair bleached blonde, bright pink or any colour for that matter! Don't use fake tan! Don't get rid of your freckles! Be you...and be beautiful! You're best beautiful, after all...

