 There are three major types of lures that are the best for catching bass. You can get crank baits, spinner baits, and plastic worms. They can all be used successfully no matter the location or the time of year. The main aspect of the lure you need to consider is the color you choose for them. You should have two of each lure for your tackle box, one in a natural color and one in a bright, vibrant color.


Crank bait are small lures that look like small, live fish. There are two three-point hooks on each lure, one under the belly and one at the tail. The lures also have a flat plastic area on the lip of the fish. Try the Jackall Boil Trigger and the Rapala Ultra Light Crank.
Spinner bait have two main parts. There is one arm that has large, curved pieces of metal called blades, and there can be one or multiple blades. The other arm is the same length with a hook on the end. The hook is sometimes covered in plastic wig that hides the hook or hooks. Try the Panther Martin or the Blue Fox Vibrax Spinner Minnow. The spinner arms can also be shaped like a fish, which can make it look similar to the crank fish. The difference is the crank fish has two three-pronged hooks and a lip while the spinner has one hook and blades.
Plastic worms look like large earthworms and have a hook embedded into them. The fish are hooked once they try to eat the worm, so they are effective but require a bit of patience.;
, If you don't want to use lures, you can also fish using live bait. The most prominent types of live bait for bass are worms, minnows, and crawfish. Worms are easy to keep and carry around, and you can keep them in the refrigerator in dirt if you don't use all of what you bought on your first fishing trip. Minnows and crawfish are harder to handle because you have to keep them in a bucket with water while you fish. You can also frogs, salamanders, and insects.


The best kind of minnows for bass are shiner and the creek minnow variety., There are two main types of reels used in bass fishing. You can use a spinning reel, which is also known as an open faced reel. You can also get a spin cast reel, which is also known as a closed face reel. The main difference between the two types is the level of expertise needed from the person fishing. The closed face reel is great for beginners and doesn't require any advanced moves. The spinning reel needs more dexterity to maneuver.


The spinning reel is a fixed spool with the line exposed. It is built to use 4 to 12 lb test line and can move the handle between the right and left sides. It allows easy casting but requires you to stop the line by hand. To do this, cast out your line. To stop the line, flip the metal lever over the top of the spool and hold the line with your finger.
The spin cast reel is rated for 4 to 12 lb test line but can take up to 20 lb. It is also simple to cast. You hold down the button on the front of the reel and release it as you cast your line. Once it gets to where you want the line to go, rotate the handle just a little to reengage the locking function on the reel.
The test line rating is the most weight that the line is tested for. The range of weights can be as small as a few pounds to upwards of 50 pounds.
Each reel has a rod of the same name that is used with it as well. If you are planning on catching larger bass, you need to get a rod with medium to medium light power. If you are just catching small bass, get a rod with light power. The power of a rod is its weight capacity and is usually written on the side of the rod. This measurement can be listed as a phrase such as light, medium, or medium light, or as a number between 1-10.