 According to a law that passed in 2003, every legitimate business must make the option to unsubscribe from their solicitations easy and accessible. The email will contain a link that will allow you to unsubscribe. , This is a simple feature that Gmail added so that you don’t have to go hunt to find the unsubscribe link in the email. After you unsubscribe, Google will automatically send an email notification to the sender to take you off their mailing list.


Click the “Unsubscribe” button again when you are asked to confirm that you no longer want to receive emails. Not 100% of emails you want to unsubscribe from will display this option. If your email doesn’t display the “Unsubscribe” link, you will need to manually unsubscribe.
 Type unsubscribe into the search bar to quickly find the link. Click on the link, and it will take you to the website of the sender. You may have to click “Unsubscribe” again.


You don’t necessarily have to log back into your account. Look for the “Unsubscribe” button, and click it again. However, if this is a sender that sends you multiple kinds of notifications, you will need to login to your account to change your settings. Read on to the next part about unsubscribing.
 Spam will try to get you to send money through phishing, pyramid, or get-rich-quick schemes. If someone you don’t know is trying to get you to send them money, it is spam, and mark it as such. Mark the email as spam. On the top bar above the email title, there is a stop sign symbol with an exclamation point. Click on the icon to report the spam.
 If you continue to be emailed after you have unsubscribed, call the company and request to be taken off their email list. Tell them if they persist in sending you unwanted mail that you will file a complaint to the Federal Trade Commission, the nations customer protection company. Follow the in-line citation to go to the page to file a complaint with the FTC. , Unsubscribing is something that you will have to continue to do in the future. Even after you use a website to clear your email, you will have to keep up with it. Any new emails you get, unsubscribe using the steps above.

