 Mother cats will typically lose weight while nursing their kittens. To prevent the cat from losing too much weight, you should begin feeding her more than normal in the final third of her pregnancy. Feeding her too much before the last third of a cat's pregnancy can lead to her become overweight and that can make giving birth more difficult.


A mother cat's body weight may have increased by 40 to 50% by the end of her pregnancy.;
, After your cat gives birth, you should continue to feed it more than she typically eats. She will need more calories, since she is now providing energy to her kittens by nursing them. The exact amount of food a nursing cat needs will vary in proportion to its litter size.Cats nursing more than two kittens typically need 2 to 2.5 times more calories than usual.
A 10-pound cat nursing 4 kittens needs approximately 603 calories per day. A 15-pound cat nursing 4 kittens needs approximately 851 calories per day.
 Giving your cat the opportunity to graze at will can be the easiest way of ensuring that she gets adequate nutrition. Leave her food dish full and freely available at all times. Wet food is best, since it may be higher in protein. However, if your cat is used to dry food, or if the wet food spoils too quickly, let her have free access to dry food as well., Not all cat foods are created equal. Look for a cat food that specifically provides nutritional support for lactating cats, or one formulated for cats at all stages of life. To ensure quality, you can also look for a cat food that has been certified by the Association of American Feed Control Officials (AAFCO)., A nursing cat will need lots of protein to keep herself healthy, and to provide nutrition to her kittens. Quality cat food will normally provide enough protein. However, if her kittens are especially noisy or mobile, it can be a sign that the mother is not getting enough protein.If in doubt, feed kitten-food to the mother cat while she is nursing. Kitten food is higher in calories, calcium, and protein.
 Most kittens will nurse for an average of 8 weeks. However, you or their mother can start introducing solid food at about 5 weeks. The kittens may mostly play with the food at first, but will eventually begin to eat more of it., If the kittens look or feel unusually thin, or are very vocal, it may be a sign that their mother is having trouble producing milk, or that they just aren’t getting enough. Commercial cat milk replacements are available, however, and can be fed to kittens using a bottle, dropper, or other method. Talk to your veterinarian if you are concerned about the kittens’ nutrition, and for milk replacement recommendations if necessary., A mother cat will need a place to set up a nest for its kittens, and will probably start looking for one while still pregnant. You can offer her a spare bedroom, an unused closet, or a carrier—even a box is fine. The most important thing is that the space is quiet, safe, and free from disruptions or dangers (other pets, traffic, etc.)., Lay towels or a blanket down in the cat’s nesting site. After the cat has its kittens, you will need to change the bedding regularly. You will likely need to change it daily at first, but in general, do it as often as necessary to keep the nest dry and clean.Lay several layers of towels down at a time. Remove a wet or dirty one to reveal a new, clean layer beneath it. This will make the process faster and easier.
 In the wild, mother cats may move their kittens around frequently as a way to protect them from predators. Don’t be alarmed if your cat wants to pick her kittens up and move them to a different location, as long as it is a safe one., At first, your cat will be very protective of her kittens. Gradually, however, you can start to touch, play with, and pick up the kittens. Handling the kittens will get them more used to humans, and help with transitioning them away from their mother., Kittens infested with fleas are at risk of flea anemia. However, flea treatments should be given only to the mother, and never to the kittens. Typical flea treatments are not intended for young kittens. If you want recommendations on how to deal with a flea problem, contact a veterinarian.Changing bedding frequently can help reduce potential flea problems.
If you do see fleas on the kittens, give them a bath in a solution of mild, non-antibacterial dishwashing liquid and warm water. Remove the fleas using a flea comb. Dry the kittens well after the bath.
 Feline leukemia virus (FeLV) and feline immunodeficiency virus (FIV) are diseases that can affect a variety of cats. One way that these diseases can be spread is by a mother transmitting them to her kittens via her milk. You can bring the kittens to a vet at about 1-2 weeks of age for an inspection, and for treatment if necessary. Testing the mother for FeLV and FIV beforehand can indicate how likely the kittens are to contract these diseases., Hookworms, roundworms, and tapeworms can be a problem for some cats and kittens. See your vet about the best methods and schedules for deworming yours, if necessary.