 Aqua Zumba is suitable for people at all fitness levels. Keep in mind that Zumba encourages you to follow along at your own pace — if you're not comfortable with a move or you can't give 100% during class, that's perfectly fine. Do what is safe for you.


Zumba can be as high- or low-intensity as you make it.
You will burn calories if you really get moving in Aqua Zumba, but at first, take it easy and learn the moves. That way you'll be less likely to have sprains and pulls. Then you can move up to a more vigorous workout.;
, You're not going to enjoy Aqua Zumba if you aren't comfortable in a pool. If you've never taken a Zumba class before and aren't familiar with it, you might want to watch a few videos online to decide whether Aqua Zumba is right for you.Generally, if you find yourself dancing along to your favorite songs, you probably will enjoy Zumba. This form of exercise incorporates dance moves from all over the world, performed to the energetic beats of international music.
The moves in Aqua Zumba, however, are slow and exaggerated compared to your usual dance moves. For this reason, you should be able to pick it up relatively easily, even if you're not very coordinated.
 Taking a moment to think about your fitness goals can help you figure out if Aqua Zumba is the right thing to help you achieve those goals. This is important if you plan to make Aqua Zumba a regular part of your fitness regimen.Make sure your goals are specific and measurable. If you want to do Aqua Zumba because you want to be healthier, or want to lose weight, those are fine starting points. However, making them more specific will enable you to evaluate your progress and see results.
For example, you might set the goal that you want to lose 5 pounds in 5 weeks (1 – 2 pounds of weight-loss is considered safe). Or your goal might be to go to Aqua Zumba twice a week for the next three months.
Ideally, you want to fit Aqua Zumba into a healthy lifestyle, which may require you to make other changes first. For example, if you are a smoker, you may want to work on quitting smoking before you start any intense cardio workout like Aqua Zumba.
 Before you start any new exercise program, you want to make sure that you are physically capable of performing the moves. This is particularly important if you have a chronic medical condition or if you are still recovering from a recent injury.Due to the low-impact nature of Aqua Zumba, this type of exercise is generally safe for people with arthritis or other joint problems. However, your doctor will be able to give you a more personal assessment of your capabilities.
Be sure to tell your doctor if you have any particular concerns, and ask questions to get the doctor's opinion on how this program will effect you.
 Unless you live in a small town or rural area, you'll likely have several options to choose from when it comes to taking an Aqua Zumba class. You can research online to find classes near you.Consider time and location. You want to make sure the class you choose is relatively convenient for you, and that you'll be able to get there on time for each class session.
You also want to keep your budget in mind, in terms of both time and money. Some places may allow drop-in or walk-in students so you can pay for each class as you go, while others will want you to pay for several classes up front. Some locations also may be more expensive than others, so find a class for which you have the time and money to commit.
 Once you've narrowed down your choices, try to take the time to meet with several different instructors. You want to ask questions and get to know them a little so you can choose an instructor with whom you're comfortable.Make sure the instructor is qualified, and ask if they have a current group fitness instructor certification or any other specialty certifications. Learn about their background, including how long they've been teaching Zumba and Aqua Zumba classes.
It also is important that the instructor be somebody with whom you feel comfortable and motivates you to work out. Ask them questions about their teaching and coaching style, and consider their personality. While it isn't necessary for you to want to become best friends with your fitness instructor, you're not going to get much out of your class if you find them annoying or abrasive.
 Especially if you have no experience with Zumba or Aqua Zumba, it may be beneficial for you to sit in on a class so you can become more familiar with the moves and the general atmosphere of the class.After the class, set aside time to talk to a few of the people in the class about their experience with Aqua Zumba. Observe the interaction between the people in the class and the instructor, as well as with each other.
Sitting in on a class will help you familiarize yourself with the program so you'll be more comfortable on your first day. It also gives you a chance to tour the facilities so you'll know where everything is.
 Since Aqua Zumba takes place in a pool, you'll need the proper attire. If you're uncomfortable in a swimsuit, you may want to contact the pool where your class will take place to find out what other options are available.While many pools don't allow you to wear a T-shirt or other street clothes in the pool, you may be able to wear a wetsuit, which provides more coverage.
You're going to be twisting, turning, and jumping around a lot, so make sure the swimsuit you wear will move with you comfortably. If you have to constantly adjust it or worry about it, you won't be able to get as much out of the class.
You also may want to wear a pair of water shoes. They can help you maintain your grip on the floor of the pool and keep you from slipping., For your first class, it's generally a good idea to show up for class at least 15 to 20 minutes early – especially if you've never used those facilities before. This will give you a chance to get ready and talk to the instructor before class starts.Introduce yourself to the instructor and let them know that it's your first class. They may have some tips for you or other information to get you started on the right foot.
Getting there a little early allows you to get ready for class without rushing, so you're starting from a calm, relaxed state.
 To get the most out of your Aqua Zumba workout, the water should come up to your arm pits. A higher water level may cause you to struggle, while a lower water level won't give you the resistance you need.You also want to think about the location of the instructor when you choose your spot in the pool. Will you be able to see and hear? This is especially important if you normally wear glasses or contacts but are taking them out while in the pool — you want to be where you can see the instructor clearly.
Since the instructor leads the class from the pool deck, be sure to stand back far enough so you don't have to look up the whole class, as this could hurt your neck.
For your first few classes, the best place for you to be may be front and center, so you can concentrate on the instructor and are less distracted by the other people in the class.
 In Aqua Zumba classes, the instructor is out of the water at the edge of the pool, so you can see their full body and how you're supposed to move in the water. All you have to do is follow their lead.Aqua Zumba movements are a little slower than in regular Zumba classes, as well as a little less complex, so you shouldn't have any trouble keeping up.
Keep in mind that it may take you a couple of classes to get used to working out in the water, especially if you've never done any sort of water aerobics before. Be kind to yourself and give yourself time to acclimate to the new situation.
 While it may take a few classes for you to find the right balance, ideally you want to control the water and your movements in it. Focus on pushing through the water toward the bottom of the pool, not fighting against it.Aqua Zumba classes use water for a low-impact resistance workout. Over time, you'll not only improve your cardiovascular fitness but also get better muscle tone.
One way this is done is by pushing the water. The instructor may demonstrate arm movements that should be done under water, or cup their hands to indicate that you should push the water away from you.
Keep in mind that Aqua Zumba is a total-body workout. Keep your muscles engaged and work with, not against, the water.

