 Some of the things that can encourage attacking by Africanized honey bees include hive disturbance, causing the bees to think that the hive is under threat, and a range of sensory threats such as loud noise, strong odor or artificial fragrance, shiny objects (including jewelry) and dark clothes. If you do spot a hive in your yard, camping ground, or when out for a walk, take care and consider the following precautions:


Avoid making loud noise when you discover a hive. Don't shout, don't use machinery near the hive (such as chainsaws and lawnmowers), and keep barking dogs away.
Avoid disturbing a hive. Don't poke at it. It's the bees' home and they'll do what they need to defend it. Leave it well alone and call for professional hive removal help.
Don't wear strong perfume, shiny jewelry or dark clothing when in an area known for having Africanized bees.;
, Run away quickly. Do not stop to help other people unless they are small children or they are disabled. Call out to encourage everyone in the vicinity to run to shelter. Run in a straight line - most healthy people are capable of outrunning Africanized bees as they are slow fliers.


If you see someone being attacked by bees, encourage them to run away or seek shelter. Do not attempt to rescue them yourself. Call the Emergency Services to report a serious stinging attack. The emergency response personnel in your area probably have been trained to handle bee attacks.
 Use your shirt pulled over your face or your arms but do not let this slow your running. Protect your eyes and sensitive head areas. If you are holding an infant then keep their face tucked directly into your body so that the bees cannot get at their face.


Do not swat at the bees or flail your arms. Bees are attracted to movement and crushed bees emit a smell of bananas that will attract more bees.
 This makes it harder for the bees to keep pace with you., Killer bees will wait until you come up for air., Do not stop running until you reach shelter. While some bees will follow you indoors, you should be able to shut most bees outside. Those that have followed you in will be disoriented by the lights in a well-lit room and will fly to the windows.
 Use blankets, sleeping bags, clothes, get into a tent or a bivouac, anything that can cover you up and provide shelter. Running through bushes or high weeds might also help provide some cover. If your car is close, it can serve as suitable shelter.
 Rest a moment to catch your breath, check who else has made it back with you, and attend to injuries and allergic reactions:


Remove all the stingers. When a honey bee stings, it leaves the stinger in your skin. While this kills the honey bee by tearing apart its abdomen, the venom continues to enter into the wound for a short time.
Do not pull stingers out with tweezers or your fingers. This will only squeeze more venom into the wound. Instead, scrape the stinger out sideways using your fingernail, the edge of a credit card, a dull knife blade or other straight-edged object.
If you have been stung more than 15 times, or you're feeling ill, or if you have any reason to believe you may be allergic to bee stings, seek medical attention immediately. The average person can safely tolerate 7-10 stings per pound of body weight; this means that although 500 stings can kill a child, the average adult could withstand more than 1100 stings.A person allergic to bee stings, however, is at great risk of anaphylactic shock from even a single sting, so seek immediate medical advice.

Call the police. Tell them what has happened so that they can arrange for professional beekeepers to come and contain the swarm.

