 People, especially close individuals, may feel frustrated, sad, or helpless after your suicide attempt.Understand that these are normal feelings and reactions when people attempt suicide. In terms of making friends it is important that you understand this because in order to keep friends you want to be aware of how your actions may affect the other person.


Remember that your family and friends care about you and want you to live and be happy. Consider how your suicide will affect them, and trust them to help you when you need a hand.
You can minimize the negative impact by listening and understanding their position.
Avoid the negative thought that you are a burden on others. Tell yourself, “I am worthy of love and help. My life matters. Others are trying to help.”

, After a suicide attempt, some individuals find an increased understanding of the love and support that they already have from their family and friends.Some common reactions to a suicide attempt include: sympathy, concern, compassion, and attention.


Instead of immediately jumping into making a bunch of new friends, try cultivating the friendships and relationships with family members that you already have. It is very important that you have a strong support network at this time.
 Part of why it may be difficult to make new friends after a suicide attempt is the stigma, or negative stereotypes, associated with suicide.For example, people may think that individual who attempt suicide are fragile, moody, or dangerous.


One way you can cope with being stigmatized is to educate others when they ask you about it. Many times when people attempt suicide they do not really want to die, but are going through a very difficult emotional time where they feel hopeless and that there is no other option.
Some people (especially with teenagers) may discriminate or bully you. Ignore these people; they may be troubled themselves and pick on people to feel better. Describing your situation to a trusted teacher, a principal, or a parent may help you with ending the bullying.


