 Try to send it in and have them get it before the marked date for that may get you a discount on the overall price. If you do not get the form in it is also fine to bring it to the show filled out and enter at the horse show.;
, You may want to enter a few other classes or get a soda and a hot dog at the food stand if you don't bring your own lunch.
 If your horse is white or has quite a bit of white or grey on him/her don't be afraid of giving them a second bath. Otherwise you just need to make sure they are squeaky clean with no manure stains or other noticeable things. On white horses, they sell specific products to clean their coats more and deeper, since you can see all the dirt because of their light color. It is always a good idea to give them a bath the day before the show because this can be quite time consuming.
 This is optional for schooling shows but may come in handy for the judges scores. If you horse is in a stall and will not dirty or mess up the braids, put them in the night before. Again this is very time consuming. If he might, get up a little earlier and do it in the morning of the show.
 If you plan to wear them to the show (not recommended) you might just leave them out to put them on before you leave. Remember to prepare for what events you are entering. Its no fun to walk into a western pleasure class dressed for jumping.
 DEEP CLEAN! Polish boots and wash clothes. Wipe helmets and iron coats. Lay them all in a box or bag you can put into the vehicle very quickly if time pressed. Best if put in clothes or boot bags. They even make helmet bags. You can get these at your local tack shop for a reasonable price.
 Clean your tack and polish everything to the extremes! Soak your bits and check your horse. Organizing always made everything easier, so make sure you put everything in its place and remember its there, for you will probably need it at the horse show.
 Set aside some books and games you can do while driving over there. Its better to play games and not think about the show because of experience I know how you always think of what could go wrong. If not think of what you can do with your friends. And who you will cheer on. Think of how much fun you are going to have.
 You may also want to load it all in the trailer or truck the night before so it is less time in the morning.
 It may be really hard to sleep do to anxiety. Don't worry about it. Picture yourself holding up the trophy or ribbon for 1st. Think of positive things and you will dream of positive things and have a better experience at the show.
 Go out to you horse and check him/her for manure stains and any signs of illness. It is a good idea to groom the horse before you put their hauling equipment on. Load the horse fifteen minutes to half an hour before you have to go, depending on the horse's ability to load. Check everything again. Make sure you aren't forgetting anything and check the trailer. Put in a little hint of hay for you horse and away you go.
 Go get your number from the secretary's booth. Thirty minutes to forty five minutes before you class, get dressed and do your hair. Spray some hair spray in you and your horse's mane / hair. Put on your horse's tack and let them walk around and see the environment.
 Then you can walk around and warm up your horse so his/her muscles don't tear.
 Its just a class. You ride, the judge scores, if you didn't win, there are TONS of other chances you will have. If you are disappointed at your score. Don't get mad at the judge. Tip your helmet and walk out when dismissed. If you are really mad and need to let it out, do it in the bathroom or in the empty horse trailer. If you really believe the judge scored you wrong, ask the secretary to talk to her at lunch break. It is unlikely but you could try to get the reason you scored what you did. Some judges even go up to you and tell you what you did wrong during the class before ribbons are awarded. That tells you what you did wrong and what to keep doing.

