 There is no reason to run out and go clubbing if you feel your social life is stagnating. Take small steps to build your network of friends, starting by making the most of your current acquaintances. Have a conversation with a co-worker or fellow classmate who you don't normally interact with, reach out to your neighbors, and spend time with someone you don't normally see. You'll be surprised how friendly people will be if you make the effort to talk about something other than work or school.Take advantage of nearby events, like company get-togethers or after-school events, where there is a natural social connection.
Accept invitations, even if you feel a little out of place at first. By showing you are receptive to social settings you open yourself up to future groups of friends.Things may be awkward at first, but know that this is natural until you know each other a little better.
 The best way to meet new people is to use the people you already know. If you're going out, encourage your friends to invite a "plus one." Because you already know your friend, you have a natural introduction that can help get over awkward first meetings. Moreover, your mutual friends likely have common interests and hobbies, meaning you are more likely to connect with someone who is a friend of a friend.Go to your friend's events or parties, especially if you won't know everyone there.
Introduce your own friends to get the ball rolling -- bringing an extroverted or interesting friend along signals that you want to meet new people.
 You don't have to go to a super fancy restaurant if it's not your style. This can lead to shyness and a difficulty fitting in with nearby people. You must go places where you feel good, as it will be easier to find similar people to be friends.


Love outdoor adventure? Head to your local rock wall and ask for a belay partner to make an instant connection.
Love music and concerts? Read your local newspaper for live music venues and check out a concert.
Love art and culture? Go to small art galleries or shows in your area and ask the artists about their work, or other people's opinions on the show.
 Ask around town about craft classes, book clubs, and discussion groups that fit your interests. Many newspapers and online town blogs have exhaustive schedules of common meeting places, and new websites like Yelp and Meet-up are social media sites that aggregate meetings by interest or hobby., Contact your local Parks & Rec department and ask about adult and children sports leagues. Most departments have teams made up of similar people looking to make friends, so don't worry about joining without a team of strangers -- you won't be the only one.There are also a variety of single sports, like tennis and bowling leagues, that fit any person's hobbies.
 Volunteering is a great, low-key way to meet people from all walks of life. You have a natural conversation topic in the work you're doing, and you can keep coming back to the same sites to know people better. There is no commitment, and you can show up as often as you'd like.Check out the SPCA, Red Cross, and American Cancer Society in your area, as most counties have at least one of these offices with volunteer opportunities.
 At the end of the day, friends are only going to find you if you take the time to look. Make an effort once a week to go out and meet people wherever you feel comfortable. This could be the local bar, a school football game, or the break room at work. You need to put yourself out there and see what happens -- you'll be surprised how quickly you start making new friends after you commit to making them.Bring along a close friend along to help you feel comfortable, but make sure you don't spend all your time talking to them.

