 If your poster will be among a sea of others, it should say something that will draw people in. Come up with a funny or interesting headline and make it a focal point of the poster. If your headline makes people laugh, they will want to look closer and see what the poster is all about.The headline should be large and might be a different color than the rest of the text to make it distinct.
A catchy title might be something like “What part of the chicken does the nugget come from?” It’s not a completely original question, but it’s enough to interest people.;
, List all of the information the poster needs to cover, and rank how important each piece of information is. Details about an event, the topic of a research paper, or the primary services that a business offers are vital pieces of information for a poster to include. Make these points large and easy to read.Posters serve many functions, so there’s not an exact rule for what is most important. Decide on the reason for the poster and convey that reason as the largest part of the poster.
Don’t use too many sizes of text. Two to four sizes will convey the various ranks of the content. Headlines and titles should be largest, specific event details should be second largest, and extra info should be smallest.
 Your poster needs to get across all of the important information in an organized manner. Information like a list of items to bring to an event, materials used for an experiment, or non-profit organizations that a business supports fit perfectly into a bulleted list.Use the standard round or square bullet, or make the bullet a small icon that relates to the event. For music events, use notes or guitars. For a science fair poster, use beakers or microscopes.
Put the most important information at the top of the list and less important information further down the list.
Don’t go overboard with the number of bullets. Five or less is usually a good number, depending on the information. If more than five bullets are necessary, then don’t use the bullet format.
 After people see all of the important information the poster needs to convey, direct them to an action they should take. This could be to come out to a concert, call a business, or donate to the charity described. Giving viewers a specific action to take tells them what to do after seeing the poster.A poster presenting research could offer a few questions for further investigation or direct people to other similar research if they are interested in learning more about the topic.

