 The staff is the set of 5 parallel lines on the page where notes are marked. The clef is the very first marking on the staff, at the left-hand side of the first staff line.This signifies the musical register in which you play.


Violins only play in treble clef. This is the marking that resembles an &.;
, Each note is a round circle on a line or in a space on the staff. The notes in the spaces, from bottom to top, are F, A, C and E. The notes on the lines, from bottom to top, are E, G, B, D, and F.Notes below or above the staff are marked with a round circle and a horizontal line going through the middle of the note.
If there are flats (b) or sharps (#), these may be marked next to a note. They may also be marked next to the treble clef. For example, if a sharp is placed on the F line, this means that every F played in a given musical piece will be played as an F#.
 An open string means that it is not pressed with a finger when it’s played. There are four open string notes on a violin: G, D, A and E. These strings are in order from thickest to thinnest string, or left to right when holding the violin in playing position.On sheet music, these notes are often marked with a 0.
 In order to play more notes than just G, D, A and E, you will need to press strings with your fingers. The fingers on your left hand are numbered 1 to 4. Your index finger is 1, your middle finger is 2, your ring finger is 3 and your pinky finger is 4.


When a note is displayed on beginning violin sheet music, it will be accompanied by a number, 0 to 4. The 0 is an open note, while the other numbers correspond to a particular finger that will press a string., The notes on each string will ascend in tone as you place another finger down on the string.


Start by drawing your bow across the D string without pressing it down. This will play a D note.
Place your index finger on the D string and play. You are now playing the next note up on the D scale, or C#.
Play the next three notes on the D scale by placing your middle, then ring, then pinky fingers on the string.After you have placed your pinky finger on the D string and you have played that note, move to the next string (the A string) to play the next note in this scale. Start by playing the A string open (no finger pressing the string). Subsequent notes will be played by pressing first your index finger, then your middle finger, and so on.
While you practice pressing your fingers on the string in order, memorize the fingers that match the notes in the music. So, for example, when you see a D, you know that will be the open D string. When you see an F#, you’ll know to press your middle finger on the D string.
 When playing the violin, one of your hands will wrap around the neck in order to press the strings with your fingers. The strings can be played closer to the pegbox, usually called 1st position, or closer to the bridge (3rd, 4th or even 5th position). These positions are noted on violin music with Roman numerals underneath a note.Move your hand down the fingerboard of the violin to correspond with the numbered position. 1st position, or I, means that your hand will play closer to the pegbox of the violin neck.These positions may also be marked as “1st position” or “3rd position,” instead of using Roman numerals.
Most beginner violin music is written for 1st position., Double stops are when you play two notes together. On the violin, you’ll play two strings at the same time.Double stops are represented on the musical staff with two notes stacked on top of each other at the note position to which they correspond.


The notes may not be stacked directly on top of each other. Rather, there is likely a space between each, but one is above the other note.
Advanced violin music might have triple or even quadruple stops, meaning you play three or four notes together at the same time.

