 Silk is a delicate fabric, so you need to take special care. Use a detergent that is designed for silk. Choose a gentle, cold water cycle and avoid washing silks with heavier fabrics.Dry your silk sheets on a clothes line. If you must use a dryer, choose a no heat setting.To clean your satin sheets, you should machine wash at forty degrees Celsius (104 Fahrenheit). You can use a fabric conditioner in the final cycle to help keep the sheets soft.
Avoid using bleach. Using bleach frequently will eventually damage your sheets.
Dry on a clothes line or tumble dry., Linen is a durable, but tricky fabric. With linen sheets, you should use colder temperatures. Try to use natural detergents and use less detergent than normal. For example, if you usually use one cup, try only using 3/4 of that amount. You can always wash the sheets again later if they are not clean., If you get a stain on your sheets, it is best to remove it immediately. As soon as a stain happens, quickly rinse the affected area of the sheet with cold water. After you have rinsed off the stain, you can move forward with washing your sheets.


Remove stains from your silk sheets. Use a product designed specifically for silk sheets.Remove blood stains from your sheets. If your child gets a scrape and then gets into bed, you will need to deal with a blood stain. Use cold water to clean off the blood stain as soon as possible.If the cold water does not work, try treating the blood stain with shampoo. Squirt a small amount of shampoo on the stain, and then vigorously rub it with a brush. Keep brushing the affected area until you get most of the blood removed. You can then rinse the stained area, and wash the sheets.Remove body oil stains from your sheets. Soak the sheets prior to the wash. Soak the sheets in the washing machine with three squirts of dishwashing soap, one quarter cup (59 Milliliters) of borax and one third cup (80 Milliliters) of white vinegar. Let the sheets soak in these ingredients for thirty minutes. Then, wash the sheets on a hot water cycle.