 Before you pay any fees in Tennessee, you should be ready to conduct viable business. This plan should include expenses, start-up costs, marketing, debt repayment, employment and a schedule that results in your business being profitable.;
, Inquire about acquiring a business license or registering for a business tax. In many counties or cities, the license will be called an "Application for business tax license.


As a Tennessee sole proprietor, you are not required to file any forms on the state level. However, you will be required to register for at least 1 type of tax, such as sales, excise or use tax, that will be due to your county or city. Go to tn.gov/revenue/forms/general/regbusn.pdf to research the type of tax license your business will need to apply for and the applicable fees.
If you plan to do business in more than 1 county or municipality, you will need to register for a business tax license in all of the counties. Contact the clerk in each area you plan to conduct business.
 For example, you can decide to do business under "Stephanie Taylor" or "Stephanie Taylor Cleaning Services." In Tennessee, sole proprietorships are not required to register an assumed business name, but they may need to in order to open up a bank account under the assumed name.


Since the business is conducted automatically under your personal name, and its expenses and profits are listed in your own tax return, it is not necessary to have an assumed business name.
Contact the Tennessee Secretary of State office at (615) 741-2286 to apply for an assumed business name. Since assumed business name applications are not available for sole proprietorships, that service is not offered on the website. The office can direct you how best to complete the application. The application costs $20.
 Since you are not paying taxes to an employer, you will need to personally keep track of all income received from sales or contracts throughout the year.
 You will need to add the tax that you applied for with the County or City clerk. Send the tax to the county/city on a quarterly or yearly basis.
 Deduct business expenses on the Form 1040.


Pay self-employment tax. This tax pays for contributions to social security and Medicare that would automatically have been deducted if you worked for an employer. For the year 2011, self-employment tax is 13.3 percent. Half of that tax, or 6.65 percent, can be deducted from your income to calculate your gross adjusted income.
Tennessee does not have a personal income tax return except for interest and dividends.

