 It is incredibly rare that someone gets a job acting from anywhere but Hollywood. You need to be available for an audition or interview at a moment’s notice or you will never become a paid actor.


Make sure you have enough money saved to live comfortably until you find work – the average cost of living in LA is 50% then the rest of the country., Headshots are high-quality pictures of you that studios use to decide if you are the right fit for a role. There are thousands of photo studios that offer headshots, usually costing anywhere from $200-$400. Make sure you tell the photographer that your headshots are for acting, as there are some other professions that require headshots in a different style., Extras are the people in the background of movies and TV shows, and you can often grab a gig as an extra by simply showing up. Being an extra means you get to be on set, meeting people and leaning how the film industry works, while still making some money acting.


Bruce Willis, Brad Pitt, Megan Fox, and more famous actors all started out as extras and worked their way up from there.Any chance you get to be on a professional film set will help you make contacts that could lead to your next role.
 Jenna Fischer, star of the hit show ‘’The Office,” got her first big role from a woman she met at a party. Years later, after proving she was a dependable actress in several plays and small TV roles, she was asked to audition for the role of Pam.Be kind to everyone you meet, and work hard on every role you get – you never know who is going to come through with your big chance.


The more roles you take, no matter how small or weird, the more connections you will make with actors, directors, casting professionals, and agents.
 Hone your skills with professionals, but, more importantly, take the time to make connections. The people you take classes with are all in the same boat as you, and opportunities will arise for some people that can help you as well. Many now-famous comedy groups, like the Upright Citizen’s Brigade, began through friendships made at acting classes.
 The Screen Actors Guild (SAG) is a union for actors. Many TV shows, films, and even commercials will only hire SAG certified actors. While this does not have to be your first step in Hollywood, you should register online once you start getting your first auditions.


Membership costs roughly $200 a year
SAG members receive health benefits, acting workshops, online casting databases, and support when reading and signing contracts.
 Auditions are your chance to shine, and they are posted online, in trade books, and in newspapers all over Hollywood. You should also continue asking your friends if they know of any good casting opportunities.


Check online casting databases, like Backstage.com and SAGAFTRA.org, to get up-to-date casting information.
Ask your agent, if you have one, to find auditions or parts for you.
Always prepare for an audition by cleaning up, reading the part, and practicing your monologue or speech beforehand.
 Agents specialize in landing roles for actors by communicating directly with studios about their needs. When a movie or TV show needs someone with a certain look or style, they ask the agent to provide them with a list of potential names instead of putting up a Craigslist  ad. To get an agent, research acting agencies near you and send them a resume, cover letter, and headshots. Many will only accept actors who have already worked a few small gigs.


Try to use SAG/AFTRA (Screen Actors Guild-American Federation of Television and Radio Artists) approved agents, as they have been vetted by the industry and have proven connections.
To find agents, search online for “acting agencies,” buy a “Call Sheet” book, which is a print collection of agents, or ask Hollywood friends if they can put in a good word for you.
Apply to 10-15 agencies at a time, as they are often busy and may not even read your submission., As wonderful as it would be to rocket to stardom in your first picture, most actors work steadily for years before being noticed, if they get noticed at all. Do not let pride keep you from applying for small parts on TV shows, commercials, or the backgrounds of movies. Every role you land will help further your dreams as an actor.


Commercials are an enormous market for actors, and usually only require one day of work.
 Sometimes the best way to break into the film industry is to ignore it. Getting on stage is valuable experience that can get you noticed if the right person is in the audience.


Ian McKellan, Alec Baldwin, and Sarah Jessica Parker all began their careers in theater.Stand-up comedians from David Cross to Amy Schumer spent years performing stand up before they broke into television.
 Unfortunately, becoming an actor in Hollywood is a long journey that requires patience, hard work, and sacrifice. Some actors never make it out of commercials and small parts, but they continue because they love their work. Your big break can come at any time, but only if you’re working hard enough to make it possible.

