 Atkins 20 is the name now used for the traditional Atkins plan. This is known as the “balancing” phase, where you start to reintroduce certain carbs and foods slowly to determine the proper balance for your body.Following the standard schedule, you would follow Phase 1 until you are within 15 pounds of your weight-loss goal (or for at least two weeks), then move into Phase 2 until within 10 pounds of you goal. However, because of the limitations in low-carb protein options for vegetarians, it is recommended by Atkins to start at Phase 2 because it permits more carbs.
Atkins, in any phase, focuses on “Net Carbs,” which it determines as total carbohydrates minus fiber, measured in grams.;
,


Phase 2 typically starts at 25 g. of Net Carbs daily, which is increased in 5 g. increments (weekly, biweekly, or monthly, depending on your goals/preferences). Vegetarians, however, can start at 30 g. and build up from there.Atkins also recommends that vegetarians introduce seeds before berries, to facilitate protein and fat intake.
 Without meat available as an easy low carb protein source, vegetarians on Atkins need to rely on options like eggs, cheese, and soy. All through the Atkins diet, you'll see that protein is essential. Find sources that are appropriate to your dietary restrictions and focus on a variety of ways to get these into your diet to hit your protein goal.


Atkins calls eggs “one of nature’s most nutritious creations,”so if you are a vegetarian who includes them, they will be a backbone of your diet plan. Eggs can be a daily breakfast staple, and in any form — boiled, fried, deviled, chopped, etc. — can be included in meals and snacks throughout the day.
No one can live on eggs alone, however, and especially if you are a vegetarian that eschews them, move your focus onto things such as cheese and other dairy like cottage cheese and yogurt, and especially soy.
From edamame to tofu to meat substitute products, soybeans are an incredibly versatile source of protein for vegetarians. Soybeans provide the most complete vegetable protein, and supply only about 3-6 Net Carbs per serving as edamame, tofu, or tempeh. Consider also gluten-based meat substitutes, such as seitan, or Quorn, a meat substitute made from fungi.
 You will consume less than one Net Carb gram per half-cup of alfalfa sprouts, endive, arugula, radishes, spinach, lettuce, and turnip greens, among others.
Other low Net Carb veggies include mushrooms, cucumbers, broccoli, asparagus, and green beans.
Starchy vegetables like potatoes don’t make the cut, nor do corn or carrots because of their sugar content.
So, if you aren’t already a salad-lover as a vegetarian, you may want to become one before trying Atkins, though there should be enough vegetable variety to keep you happy.
 Atkins 40 is a newer version of the diet plan that is meant to provide a bit more flexibility, as well as a bit more leeway on carbs.With it, you start with 40 g. Net Carbs daily, (10 per meal times three, 5 per shack times two), and add 10 g. weekly after getting within 10 pounds of your weight goal.
Foundation Vegetables should make up 15 g. of your daily Net Carbs (around 6-8 servings), with other carb foods making up the remaining 25 g.
This, then, provides you a little more room for including nuts, beans, legumes, and whole grains into your meals from the start, which might make life much easier for a vegetarian.

