 Nowadays, preteens are really thin or on the overweight side. But if they're in the middle of both, it's best to choose either a little bit more towards the fat or thin side.;
, Most of the time, preteens don't care what color their clothes are (unless it's a girl and they're a tomboy or unless it's a super babyish color they don't like) it's more focused on what kind of colors THEY like and what kind of style the colors are on. Many preteen boys wear more athletic style gear, brand name clothing, or funny novelty tees or clothes that are based on their favorite video games/anime. The novelty tees are the same for girls.
 Make it any way you like, but not extremely curly (custom hair?) or completely perfect, because your preteen will look like a little toddler whose mother rules every part of her life and body! A good hair is the straight, shoulder-length hair. If possible, find a way to see if you can get highlights in the hair! Many preteens like highlights in their hair by the time they are in middle school in real life.
 Most preteens avoid slipping back into childhood and are more focused on things that prove how much more of a teen they look instead of looking like a child (in real life). Choose a plain pair of colored, thin sandals for girls. Try to add multiple colors, but not girlie ones unless they are have icons, designs, and pictures on the shoes (only if you're trying to achieve a tomboyish girl sim, some preteen girl Sims are very girly).
 Don't go overboard, many preteens in real life don't wear makeup.
 Make it as realistic as can be; don't overdo it, though!

, Make the likes very realistic. Stu Surprise may not be a good choice, but maybe foods like cheeseburgers, ice cream, French toast, and even sushi could be good. For favorite colors, red, black, brown, purple, green, and very similar colors are great choices.
 Names like Sarah, Missy (for young preteens), Leah, Courtney, Cassidy, Kayla, Megan, Alex,Sam,Dani, and Kristen/Kristin are excellent names for a preteen girl. For boys, Trey, Jake, Josh, Zach, Ryan, Cody, Kyle, Damien, and DJ are very good names to choose from! However, you could also go for sophisticated names, such as Isabelle, Cecilia, Robert, and others.
 Here are some recommended traits:


Couch Potato/Athletic.
Snob/Friendly.
Genius.
Flirty.
 In this case, try to make the Sim younger and less mature than a normal teenager.

