 You should start by letting her know that your relationship is too damaging to you for it to continue. Clearly tell her that you can’t be around her anymore.


Face-to-face contact is best. However, if you have to, you can call, text, or email.
Say something like “I know you don’t share my feelings, so I think it's best we don’t hang out anymore.”
Make sure to be polite and caring. Your goal should be to minimize contact with her, not to hurt her feelings.;
, If you run into her after letting her know you don’t want to be around her anymore, you need to walk away from her. Remember, though, it is better to subtly pass her by than to look as if you’re running away from her.


This works best after you’ve already let her know that you can’t be around her anymore. Otherwise, she’ll wonder what’s going on and won’t understand.
If you run into her by coincidence, you may want to politely acknowledge her before walking away. For instance, wave at her, smile, and keep walking.
Avoid being rude or blurting out things like “I can’t see you anymore” in front of other people., If you live together, you should move out. By living with her, you’ll have to confront her daily. This will likely hurt you and cause unneeded stress in your life.


If you live in the same room, you should probably arrange to stay at a friend’s house until you can get your living situation sorted out.
If you have different rooms in the same apartment, plan not to renew your lease. In addition, try to locate someone to sublet your room.
Remember, even though you’re having personal problems, you are still obligated to pay rent to your landlord. Whatever you decide to do, you need to make sure your contractual obligations are fulfilled – this may include giving your landlord a 30-day notice that you are vacating.
It is important to move out, as continuing to live together will hamper both of your abilities to move on., By minimizing contact, you’ll be able to limit the damage the relationship can do to you. To do this, make sure you plan your social outings so you won’t have to hang out with her.


Avoid socializing at places you know she frequents. For example, if she hangs out at a specific coffee house, stay away from it.
Hangout with friends from another social circle.
Inform your friends that you don’t want to be around her. This way, they can be conscious of the social activities they plan that involve you.