 Keep track of how many servings you eat and avoid going back for seconds. If you need to, measure the amounts of food with a measuring cup to train yourself to correctly estimate amounts.Some people find it helpful to use a small plate or bowl to prevent themselves from taking too much food.
Don’t eat the entire meal when you go out to eat. Restaurants often serve much more food than is healthy. If you enjoyed the meal, take it home and finish it the next day.
 Alcohol is high in calories. Drinking too much may make you prone to obesity, which will then increase your risk of heart problems. If you drink, do so in moderation.Women and men over 65 should have no more than one drink per day.
Men under 65 should limit their alcohol consumption to two drinks per day.
A 12 oz beer, 5 oz glass of wine, or 1.5 oz of hard liquor qualifies as a drink.
 Many people are reluctant to quit smoking because they are worried it will make them gain weight. Smoking and chewing tobacco increase your risk of having hard, narrow arteries. This increases your blood pressure, your risk of heart attacks, heart disease, and strokes. If you need help to both quit and manage your weight simultaneously, there are many resources available:Talk to your doctor or see a counselor
Consult a nutritionist or dietician to develop a meal plan that will work for you
Join support groups or call hotlines
Discuss medications or nicotine replacement therapy with your doctor

, Exercise will help you to lose weight and keep it off. It will also help you to lower your blood pressure and cholesterol levels.Do 75–150 minutes of physical activity per week. You can spread it out however it works best with your schedule. Great low-cost options include walking, running, biking, swimming, and playing sports such as basketball or soccer.
If you need to lower your blood pressure and cholesterol, try to do at least 40 minutes of physical activity three to four days a week. You will probably be surprised how quickly you feel yourself getting fitter.

