 Before you begin cleaning, sort through the coins to determine which coins need the most work. Split your coins into three categories: showing good detail, showing some detail, and showing no detail.Start working on the coins that need the least amount of work. Dirt can probably be removed by simply soaking them in distilled water. You may want to have the coins that need a lot of work cleaned by a professional.;
, It will take time to clean your ancient coins. Over-cleaning the coin can damage it and diminish the value of the coin. Also, some coins will have harder or more difficult deposits that will require more work. You may have to try multiple methods to get the coins clean. Start with the safest and least abrasive methods before you move on to something else., Place your coins in distilled water. The distilled water will absorb the materials that are on your coin and loosen the dirt. Do not use tap water because it may contain ions and mineral that will inhibit the cleaning process. Try scrubbing the coin with a toothbrush after it has been soaking for a few days. Change the water every few days as well.This is a slow process and may take many months until your coin is clean.
 If soaking in water alone has not helped, try to using some liquid soap to clean the coins.after you have applied soap and water to the coin, use a toothbrush to scrub the coin. If you do not have a toothbrush, you can use another stiff brush. However, never use a metal brush because the bristles will scratch your coin., Washing your coins with olive oil is the safest way to clean your coins as you cannot leave the coins in olive oil for too long. It has been used for years and is very reliable. Put olive oil in a closed container, and then place your coins in the container. Change the oil once or twice a month. If you want to speed up the process, gently scrub the coin with a toothbrush.Wait at least a week before you scrub the brush with a toothbrush. Scrub the coin with dish soap under running water. Place it back in the olive oil if it is still dirty.This is the slowest way to clean a coin. It may take months before you begin to see results.

