 Although you may be terrified of putting yourself in social situations, you should seek out social situations. The more you avoid something, the more control it has over your mind. The anxiety around it will grow until it becomes something you fear. The more you get used to something, the less fear and control it has over you.Try making spaces yours. Anything is nerve-wracking when it's unfamiliar. Go to a restaurant, a part of town, or your gym. Walk around. Become familiar with it. Once you start to become familiar with a place, it can feel more comfortable. Plus, you start to put your focus on your surroundings. Then you can start socializing with people.
Take someone with you. You don't have to do this alone. Take a friend or family member to an event. Start small. Take a free class at a community center, go to a group class at the gym, volunteer, or join a meet up group and attend a gathering.
 Finding people with similar interests can help you interact with people. Clubs and groups may give you a smaller environment to socialize in, which may help your anxiety. This makes it easier to force yourself to talk, because you can't just get lost in the crowd.
 When you are in a social situation, try concentrating on the conversation instead of your own anxieties. This helps you connect with the other people, which is a good thing, and offers you opportunities to talk. When you start to worry about how you look to everyone else, pause and refocus on the present moment. Add comments and talk when it seems natural.Focus on the present, instead of replaying things that have already happened.
 When you are in a situation that causes you anxiety, try to hang in there. At first, the anxiety may feel unbearable, but anxiety gradually lessens the longer you are in a situation. Try to stay in the situation until your anxiety reduces by half. This may take up to half an hour, but oftentimes it lessens quickly.


Some social situations are quick, like saying hello or making small talk. Although that may cause anxiety that you can't wait through, you can feel good about speaking to the person and making small talk., Large group situations are great places to practice. You can socialize and be around other people without being the center of attention. There are a bunch of people contributing into the conversation, so don't feel like you're pressured to say something. Try to be comfortable. Look around at the other people in the room. Are they all focused on you? Or are they enjoying everyone's company?


When you get a chance to contribute something meaningful that you think the others will appreciate, throw it in there. You'll do just fine.
This is a great place to make goals for yourself. Start by saying you'll say one thing in the conversation, and increase as you get more comfortable.
 Most people don't pay attention to people's flaws. Most people make an effort to pay attention to the good things people do and say. Feel confident in this knowledge and express your good qualities. Be yourself. Most people will enjoy your company.


Those who pick at your flaws usually do so because of a lack of self-esteem on their part. If they are judging you, you don't want to be around them in the first place.
 People like to be around people who make them happy, and kindness is a really easy way to make others happy. Give genuine compliments, make eye contact, show interest, and smile. Whatever you can do to brighten someone's day is a point in your favor.

