 The subject is the noun that the verb is referring to. To conjugate a verb in Spanish, you'll first need to be familiar with the several different personal subject pronouns in the language. Here they are:Yo — I(formal)

Tú — you (singular familiar)

Usted — you (singular formal)

Él, ella — he, she

Nosotros/as — we

Vosotros/as — you (plural familiar)

Ustedes — you (plural formal)

Ellos/as — they

Note that while there are eight different subjects, there are only six different forms for conjugation. É, ella, and usted are conjugated the same way, and so are ellos, ellas, and ustedes.


;
, Once you're familiar with subjects, you'll need to find the corresponding noun for the verb. If the verb is necesitar (to need), who is it that needs something? Is it you? The person you're talking to? A group of boys? The subject will determine the form of the conjugation.
 All Spanish verbs have the endings of either "-ar," "-ir," or "-er." Once you remove the current ending, you can add on the new corresponding ending. Unless the verb is reflexive; then it will have "se" tacked on past the end of the verb., Once you learn the form of conjugation for "-ar" verbs in the present tense, you can just add the form to the end of any regular "-ar" verbs. Here are the rules for conjugating them in the present tense, using the verb hablar (to talk):


Yo: o - hablo


Tú: as - hablas


Él, Ella, Usted: a - habla


Nosotros/as: amos - hablamos


Vosotros/as: áis - habláis


Ellos/as, Ustedes: an - hablan


, Learn the form for conjugating "-er" verbs in the present tense and just add it to the end of each verb. Here are the endings for the verb "-er" in the present tense using the verb beber (to drink) as an example:



Yo: o - bebo


Tú: es - bebes


Él, Ella, Usted: e - bebe


Nosotros/as: emos - bebemos


Vosotros/as: éis - bebéis


Ellos/as, Ustedes: en - beben


, Learn the form for conjugating "-ir" verbs in the present tense and just add it to the end of each verb. Here are the endings for the verb "-ir" in the present tense, using the verb vivir (to live):



Yo: o - vivo


Tú: es - vives


Él, Ella, Usted: e - vive


Nosotros/as: imos - vivimos


Vosotros/as: ís - vivís


Ellos/as, Ustedes: en - viven


, To conjugate a reflexive verb, the first thing you'll have to do is to learn how to conjugate it depending on the subject pronoun. Each subject pronoun has a distinct form of se. These conjugated forms of se will work in any tense. Here they are:Yo: me


Tú: te


Él, Ella, Usted: se


Nosotros/as: nos


Vosotros/as: os


Ellos/as, Ustedes: se


, Before you proceed, you can place the appropriate form of "se" before the verb. You can think of this as removing the "se" at the end of the verb before you conjugate it. Remove the "se" ending from the end -- you've already conjugated it.
 Now just conjugate the verb according to the rules of conjugating a verb in the present tense -- provided that it's a regular verb. Place the verb after the correct form of se and you'll be done conjugating. You can eliminate the subject pronoun before the reflexive pronoun when you make a statement using a reflexive verb; for example, you can say "Yo me lavo" to say "I wash myself," but the statement "Me lavo" is more common. Here are the forms of the conjugated reflexive verb levanto (to get up) in the present tense:



Yo: me levanto


Tú: te levantas


Él, Ella, Usted: se levanta


Nosotros/as: nos levantamos


Vosotros/as: os levantáis


Ellos/as, Ustedes: se levantan


, These verbs are also referred to as “radical changing verbs”, which means “stem” or “root” in Spanish. In stem-changing verbs, the stem vowel of the verb changes in the present tense. However, the stem does not change in the nosotros or vosotros forms of the verb. There are a few different ways that the stem vowel can change. Here are some examples:


Conjugate verbs with a stem change from o to ue using dormir (to sleep) as an example:


Yo: duermo


Tú: duermes


Él, Ella, Usted: duerme


Nosotros/as: dormimos


Vosotros/as: dormís


Ellos/as, Ustedes: duermen



Conjugate verbs with a stem change from e to ie using querer (to want) as an example:


Yo: quiero


Tú: quieres


Él, Ella, Usted: quiere


Nosotros/as: queremos


Vosotros/as: queréis


Ellos/as, Ustedes: quieren



Conjugate verbs with a stem change from e to i using seguir (to follow or continue) as an example:


Yo: sigo


Tú: sigues


Él, Ella, Usted: sigue


Nosotros/as: seguimos


Vosotros/as: seguís


Ellos/as, Ustedes: siguen




, Some verbs are irregular in their first-person present tense form. The rest of the forms of the verbs will follow the conventions of conjugating regular verbs. It's best to memorize these verbs to conjugate them correctly. Here are a few example of verbs that are only irregular in the first person (the yo form):


Conjugate verbs that change from c to zc in the first person:


Conocer (to be acquainted with): Yo conozco


Agradecer (to thank): Yo agradezco


Ofrecer (to be acquainted with): Yo ofrezco



Conjugate verbs that have a g appear in the first person:


Caer (to fall): Yo caigo


Salir (to go out): Yo salgo


Tener (to have): Yo tengo


Traer (to bring): "Yo traigo"


Conjugate verbs with others changes in the yo form:


Dar (to give): Yo doy


Saber (to know): Yo sé


Ver (to see): Yo veo




, There are other commonly used verbs -- and some not so commonly used -- that are not stem-changing verbs but which are just conjugated in an irregular way. Memorizing these words will help you speak basic Spanish. Here are some of the most common irregular verbs conjugated in the present tense:Estar (to be):


Yo: estoy


Tú: estás


Él, Ella, Usted: está


Nosotros/as: estamos


Vosotros/as: estáis


Ellos/as, Ustedes: están




Ser (to be):


Yo: soy


Tú: eres


Él, Ella, Usted: es


Nosotros/as: somos


Vosotros/as: sois


Ellos, Ellas, Ustedes: son




Ir (to go):


Yo: voy


Tú: vas


Él, Ella, Usted: va


Nosotros/as: vamos


Vosotros/as: vais


Ellos/as, Ustedes: van




