 Once you’ve installed the game on your mobile device, connect it to your Facebook account. Doing so will automatically back up and sync your progress since it’s now stored within your Facebook account.


Even if you lose your mobile device or accidentally delete the game, you’re assured that your progress hasn’t been lost.;
, Collect friends on Facebook. Playing Candy Crush can be a social activity. You can see your friends’ progress on the game maps, and they can see yours. Your scores are also tabulated and ranked against your friends. Friends also play a significant part in moving ahead in the game, as you can see in the next few steps.
 You are allotted only five lives maximum at a time. Once you use one up, it will take 30 minutes to replenish. Consuming all five lives in one go will require you to wait at least two and a half hours for another full set of five lives. However, you can ask your friends for lives.


These gifted lives are given and received for free and will not count against your five lives. The more gifted lives you get, the longer you can play.
Tap the “Ask friends” button to start requesting lives. A friend can give you a life once a day.
 The game is separated by different episodes that contain the different levels. Once you reach a gate for the next episode, you will need three tickets to unlock it or pay for it with in-app purchase. Needless to say, purchasing new episodes every time will cost a lot of money; requesting help from your friends is free.


Simply tap the “Ask friends” button when faced with new locked levels to send your requests. Send the requests to as many friends as you can to get your tickets faster. You only need three tickets from three friends.
 A little quid pro quo can extend your playing time. Every now and then, you’d be shown a window to give some friends lives and extra moves. Take these opportunities to give lives and extra moves for free. They may remember you when it’s their turn to give away lives and extra moves. You’d be surprised how many do give back.
 Candy Crush gives away a free booster daily. All you have to do is turn the wheel. On the game’s main screen, right below the number of lives, is a bubble with part of a wheel. Tap on this to bring out the Daily Booster Wheel.
 If you haven’t played today, the wheel will be turning. Tap the “Stop” button underneath it to stop the wheel. The turning will slow down until it stops fully.
 Wherever the arrow points when the wheel stops represents the booster you’ve won for the day. Each day’s a winner, so you don’t have to worry. The free booster will just vary depending on what you get.


Tap the “Claim prize” button to collect the booster.
 Right before you start a game level, you have an option to equip some boosters applicable to the game. These boosters will be displayed on top of the “Play” button. Tap the ones you’d like to use within the level.


The number of available boosters per type is clearly displayed.
Some boosters can be equipped within the level itself. These types of boosters can be accessed by tapping the appropriate icons on the upper-left portion of the game screen.
These free boosters are limited, so use them wisely.
 The basic way to remove candies from the board is to match three candies. Do this as your last option for every move. To move ahead and gain more points, you have to focus on doing combos.
 Combos are achieved when you’re able to trigger a cascade of matches after moving a candy. The more cascades you trigger, the higher the points you get.


Another way of getting combos is by matching four or more candies together. This will result in special candies, depending on the type of match or pattern you did.
 A Striped Candy is a special candy that results from matching four candies in a row. When you use a Striped Candy as part of a match, it will clear out a whole row or column from the board. The direction of the wipeout is dependent on what direction the stripes are on the candy.


Vertical Striped Candies are useful for Ingredient Levels since they can clear out a whole column of candies and allow the ingredient to fully drop to the bottom.
Striped Candies are also useful in removing jellies and chocolate, when placed in the right position.
 A Wrapped Candy is a special candy that results from matching at least three vertical and three horizontal candies forming a plus, T-shape, or corner-shape. This one’s more challenging and difficult to get compared to a Striped Candy.


When you use a Wrapped Candy as part of a match, it will first explode and knock out the nine candies surrounding it, and then it will drop and explode again, knocking out another nine candies the same way.
Wrapped Candies can be useful in removing obstacles within their explosion area, which can otherwise be difficult to get to.
 A Candy Bomb is a special candy that results from matching five candies in a row. It can be difficult to get, but not impossible. You just have to work on getting the right candies in place to swap with to form the five-in-a-row.


Color Bombs do not need to be matched in order to be used. You can just swap it with another candy, and all similar candies would be removed from the board. By itself, it doesn’t sound like achieving much, but when combined with another special candy, it will give you more awesome results.
 When you get two Striped Candies, regardless of colors and stripe directions, side by side, you can clear out a column and a row in one move, originating from where the combination was made. Imagine multiplying the effects of a Striped Candy by two.
 When you get a Striped Candy and a Wrapped Candy side by side, you can achieve the same thing as combining two Striped Candies, but with a damage thrice as big. It will clear out three rows and three columns in one move, originating from where the combination was made.
 When you get a Striped Candy and a Color Bomb side by side, you can convert all candies similar in color to the Striped Candy to Striped Candies with random stripes. The Color Bomb would then explode, and all the Striped Candies generated would burst out, clearing several columns and rows at once.


Depending on your level, this can be a game-changer. You can generate more Striped Candies by having some more candies of the same color drop before using the combo.
 When you get two Wrapped Candies side by side, you can get massive explosions, much bigger than individual Wrapped Candies exploding. Similar to a single Wrapped Candy, the explosions will happen twice.


Using this combo may not be as useful in achieving your level’s targets, but it is fun to do and generates bigger points. It can also be used to significantly clear out some blockers like jellies, licorice, and chocolate.
 When you get a Wrapped Candy and a Candy Bomb side by side, you can get an effect similar to two Candy Bombs, with the second explosion targeting a random color.


If a Candy Bomb by itself doesn’t do much good for your level, making this combo won’t do any good too.
This is one of the least useful combos in the game. You’re better off using them separately or combining them with other special candies.
 When you get two Candy Bombs side by side, you can wipe your board clean of candies. It’s basically a refresh of your board with new candies. This combo is very hard to get, but it’s extremely useful and fun to use.
 Once you’re in, analyze how your board is laid out. Do you see a good move or two resulting to good combos or special candies? What obstacles are in play and can you do something quickly to remove them?

, If you don’t like your board, go ahead and exit. You won’t lose any life as long as you haven’t touched any candy yet. This is applicable to all types of levels, except for Timed levels.
 If your level has chocolate in it, aim to remove them first. Or at least, remove one square in every move. Otherwise, the chocolate will grow and multiply, and before you know it, your board’s full of them.


Remove the chocolate by making matches or combos beside them.
Some levels have chocolate fountains, which generate more chocolate. These can’t be removed, but you should attack the chocolate the same way.
 If your level has bombs in it, aim to remove them before the timers run out. When the timer runs out, the bombs will explode and you’ll fail the level.


Time bombs can be removed by matching them, just like any other candy. The timers represent the number of moves you have before they explode.
 Licorice swirls take spaces where candies can be. Unlike other blockers, these can be moved just like any candy. They can be removed by making matches or combos beside them.
 Licorice candies prevent the candies inside to be moved. They can only be removed by making matches with the locked candies or by executing special candies that can blow them out.
 Meringues are just like licorice swirls in that they take spaces where candies can be. The only difference is that they cannot be moved. They can be removed the same way, by making matches or combos beside them.
 Multi-layered meringues are more complex than the plain meringues. These require multiple hits to be cleared out. Hits can be achieved the same way, by making matches or combos beside them.
 Marmalades, like licorice candies, prevent the candies inside them to be moved. They can only be removed by making matches with the locked candies beside them or by executing special candies that can blow them out.
 Toffee tornadoes can be irritating as they run all over the board at random, destroying the candies in place. Each move will trigger them to relocate, creating damage to the squares on the board. With these running, they can disrupt whatever pattern you’re trying to build, though sometimes they can also help achieve what you want by eliminating some other blockers.


Toffee tornadoes cannot be removed by the normal matches and combos. They can only be cleared for five moves if hit by a special candy.
 Target Score levels are levels with a target minimum score to pass. You can beat this type of level by doing a lot of combos and executing those special candies.


Go for the combination of special candies to get bigger points.
 Jelly levels are levels that require you to remove all jellies on the board. Some levels will be harder as the jellies will come in multiple layers.


You can beat this type of level by focusing your matches and combos on the areas with jellies. Executing those special candies, like the Striped and the Wrapped Candies, will also help a lot.
Go for the combination of special candies, like the Striped and Wrapped Candies combo, the Striped Candy and Candy Bomb combo, or the two Wrapped candies combo, to wipe them out faster.
 Ingredient levels are levels that ask you to drop all the ingredients in play. There are two kinds of ingredients that can be used: cherries and hazelnuts. You can beat this type of level by focusing on removing the candies on the path of the ingredients to the bottom.


Horizontal Striped Candies on the same column as the ingredients will help a lot by clearing the whole column of candies.
Getting special candies in combo plays, like the Striped and the Wrapped Candies combo or the Striped Candy and Candy Bomb combo, can also result in getting the ingredients to fall faster.
 Timed levels are levels with a target minimum score that needs to be reached within the time limit. These levels have unlimited moves, so you need to work as fast as you can.


You can beat this type of level the same way as Target score levels, just faster.
 Candy Order levels are levels with certain candy objectives. Each level will ask for a certain number of candies cleared out. Some will ask for certain special candies or combos to be executed.


You can beat this type of level by focusing on the objectives, and not care too much about the points. Unless the objectives call for combos, going for them won’t do much good.
If you can complete your objectives before your moves run out, you can get additional bonus points from Sugar Crush, which executes multiple special candies by the factor of your remaining moves.

