 A common cycle with bingeing goes something like this: you feel bad, so you eat, which makes you feel bad, so you eat. Instead of beating yourself up for bingeing, treat yourself as you would your best friend, with kindness and understanding.


Counter negative self talk with positive statements. If a voice inside you says “I’m fat,” counter it with “I’m creative” or “I’m smart”, or whatever may apply that makes you feel good about yourself.
Treat yourself as you would a child. Would you tell a child that he or she was right if he/she said “I'm fat”? Maybe you would even ask, “What makes you say that?” Opening a dialogue with yourself may help you gain more insight into why you are binge eating.
It is important to focus less on the food side of things, and more on your own well-being. The food is likely not the problem. It’s more likely a symptom of something that you are struggling with on an emotional level.
 These could include exercising, joining a class at your local community centre, learning a language — really anything that makes you feel good.
 Try to write at least three pages each day, being sure to note the days when you feel the urge to binge. Being more in touch with your feelings and urges may help you to “reframe the problem from being one of ‘I’m hungry’ to one of ‘I’m feeling ignored or unimportant’ or whatever it might be, and line up the solutions for that,” according to Doug Bunnell, PhD., Studies have shown that visualization alone can have a measurable affect on the human body.Sit somewhere comfortable, close your eyes, and visualize yourself resisting the temptation to binge. Visualize yourself eating a healthy meal and stopping before you feel sick.We like to be right. Our brains will hold on to what we believe to be true, and will work to prove us right. If we think the world hates us, we will see evidence for that everywhere. If we think we are unhealthy and unworthy, we will do things like binge eat to prove ourselves right. You can reprogram your brain. Visualization and positive self talk help.
 You may wish to start with a medical practitioner, who can suggest medications and/or refer you to a therapist and/or support group specializing in eating disorders. For many, therapy will be the ideal route as medications often carry with them drawbacks such as side effects and expense.If you do choose to take medication, combine it with therapy if possible.


There are a number of medications available to help you fight binge eating. These range from antidepressants to prescriptions designed to help with binge eating. As with most medications, there are significant side effects that must be understood, so it would be best to consult with your doctor on the best option for you.
 Seek out either a local support group and/or join an online forum in which people openly discuss their struggles with binge eating. The following websites are good starting points, but you may also wish to do an Internet search that includes the city you live in plus the words “binge eating support” or “binge eaters”.



Overeaters AnonymousCompulsive Eaters AnonymousEating Disorder Referral and Information CentreNational Eating Disorders Association (NEDA), Write it down. Be as detailed as possible. The next time you feel the urge to binge, you will know that there’s another option: to follow your plan.


If you find yourself struggling to go through with your plan, promise yourself to at least complete three of the steps before you give in and binge eat. As with many things, the hardest part is often starting. You may find that after three steps, you want to keep going with your plan, and the urge to binge eat might subside.
 It is such an important step that it bears repeating. It is not fair to yourself to expect to go from bingeing to healthy eating immediately. Be patient and gentle with yourself. You will likely have good and bad days, and that’s okay. The important thing to remember is that every moment is an opportunity to start fresh. You don't have to wait until tomorrow to try again. Choose to be healthy now.

