 You can use ice or a cold compress, but be sure to wrap it in a towel.Or, put a metal spoon in the freezer, and apply the back side of the spoon directly to the site of the hickey., Cold helps bruises by reducing swelling and slowing blood circulation.Apply the cold compress for 10 to 20 minutes at a time, several times each day.For best results, use cold treatment in the first 24 to 48 hours after acquiring the bruise.After icing for 10 to 20 minutes, remove the ice pack for at least 10 minutes before reapplying it as needed., Certain activities can cause bruises (including hickies) to swell, which may prolong the healing process. For the first 48 hours after you've gotten a hickey, avoid "traumatic" activities, including:


hot showershot tubsheat packsdrinking alcoholic beverages, Ice is only really effective for the first 48 hours.After icing the hickey for 48 hours, you'll want to switch to a warm compress for the remainder of your treatment regimen.


Ice heals the broken blood vessels, but heat will help increase blood flow to the area. This will facilitate healing and the reabsorption of blood.Use a hot water bottle or a microwavable heating pad.Do not apply heat therapy for longer than 20 minutes at a time. Don't use heat therapy if you have diabetes or poor circulation., In addition to applying a warm compress, massaging a bruise like a hickey can help facilitate blood flow to the site of the injury.Common methods of massaging a hickey include rubbing it with your hands or applying pressure using:


a toothbrush with stiff bristlesa pen capthe cap from a tube of chapstick, Icing, heating, and massaging the skin will all help the bruise heal, but you may want to treat the skin in order to make the physical mark disappear more quickly. No skin treatment will provide instant results, but will help speed up the healing process.Common skin treatments include:


aloe veraArnica salvePreparation Htaking vitamins C, E, and K supplementstaking bilberry extracttaking bromelain, If you have long hair, you can simply wear your hair down to cover up hickies on your neck and shoulders.Not everyone will have hair long enough to conceal a hickey. Fortunately, if you do not have long hair, there are still plenty of options to cover up your hickey., While the bruise from a hickey heals, you may want to cover it up so that it is less visible. Try using concealer, foundation, and/or powder to mask the hickey.Makeup should be chosen carefully to match your natural skin tone.In a pinch, you might be able to get away with applying toothpaste to the hickey. This will only work if you have a naturally pale complexion, and is much less efficient than makeup., Depending on how you typically dress and what time of year it is, there are many ways you can quickly and easily hide your hickey. The key is hiding the hickey in a way that won't draw attention to it. Try concealing the bruise by wearing:


a bandagea turtlenecka collard shirta scarfa hooded sweatshirta thick, wide necklace