 A cough is quite a general sign and can occur not just as a result of infection, but because of bronchitis (thickening of the airways), heart disease, lung tumors, and lungworm.


It can be difficult even for a trained veterinarian to diagnose the reason for a cough, without the aid of imaging such as x-rays to look at the lungs, and ultrasound to study the heart.
However, the distinctive signs of kennel cough include the harsh hacking nature of the cough, the sudden onset, tracheal sensitivity, and enlarged lymph nodes in the throat.
 The vet will listen to see if a heart murmur is present (the absence of a murmur makes heart disease less likely) and to listen to the nature of the lung sounds.


A heart-related cough often causes gurgly, bubbly sounds in the lungs - again, it can be difficult to differentiate pulmonary oedema (fluid retained on the lungs because of heart failure) from pneumonia, by sound alone. In this case the vet will run blood tests to see if the dog is mounting an immune response to an infection (a raised white cell count).
 Conditions such as bronchitis are usually long term and worsens gradually over weeks to months. Also, when a dog has bronchitis, the lungs tend to have a distinctive harsh crackly sound because of the thickened and stiff nature of the airways., Lung tumors cause a cough when they grow to a size where they press on an airway. A diagnosis cannot be made on a physical exam alone and radiography is essential is a lung tumor is suspected.
 Lungworm infection is a serious lung infection caused by angiostrongylus vasorum. These worms invade the lungs and impair the body's ability to clot blood.Labored breathing, along with pale gums (because of hemorrhage), in a dog not routinely treated against lungworm, should raise suspicion of this life-threatening condition. A blood test is available that gives a "yes" "no" answer about lungworm infection.
 If suspicious of kennel cough many veterinarians will treat with antibiotics and see if the symptoms resolve (diagnosis by treatment!) If the cough remains then further tests are warranted.

