 If you have never been to your local library before, you may need to search online to figure out where the closest one is. You can just put in the word "library" and your town name in the search bar, and the local library branch should pop up.


There are even some websites that list all public libraries in a given country. If you want a list of all of the libraries in your state, go to one of these sites.;
, You will need to bring in some form of official identification, such as a passport or drivers license.You may also need to prove your address, which is usually done by bringing in a piece of official mail (a utility bill for instance) that has your name and address on it.If you are too young to have an official piece of identification, then you will most likely need to go to the library with an adult who has this type of identification. You can get your own library card, but the adult will need to vouch for you.
Some libraries want you to fill out a form online, and then go in to a branch to show your identification and pick up your card. This is why it is a good idea to check online about the application process before going into the library.
 Bring your identification documents with you to the library. Be sure to check that the library is open before trying to go there. Some libraries are open at unexpected times, so double check online for hours and days open., Once at the library, find a person who works there to ask about library accounts. In many cases, you will want to go up to a desk that has a sign that says something like, "New Accounts."


If it is unclear where to go once you enter the library, feel free to ask any employee you see about getting a library card. At the very least, that employee should be able to steer you towards a person who can actually help you.
 This should be a common request at the library, so the employee should understand what you are asking for. They will then walk you through the process and review the documents that you brought with you.
 This process will vary drastically from library to library. Some libraries will ask you to fill out a form, while at others you will just give your identification to an employee and they will put your information straight into a computer.


Whatever information your library requires, such as your address or date of birth, provide it if the request seems reasonable and you are comfortable giving the information.
 Depending on your specific library, you may get your card right away or it may be sent to you. When you get it, sign it to make it official. You now have access to all the amazing resources provided by your local library.


When you come to the library, remember to bring your library card so you can check items out.
 If you're not used to borrowing books from the library, take out one at a time. Then, as you grow more comfortable and you return your books on time, you can get a few out at a time.


Most libraries have a limit on the number of items you can have out at one time. Ask your librarian how many items you can have out at your specific library., The librarians in your library are a really great resource for you. They can give you all kinds of information, such as recommending good books on your specific interests or helping you research topics you find interesting., The more you visit, the more enjoyable it can become. The library can be a wonderful space where you can learn new things and where you have free access to a wide variety of ideas from all over the world. They are a valuable resource that you can use any time they are open.Explore your local library. Peruse the stacks of books and learn where different types of books are housed. This may lead to you finding books on a topic you didn't even know you were interested in.

