 If you are hired for a job when your chronic illness is under control, you may not notice that certain essential tasks are difficult to accomplish. If this occurs, talk to your employer about changing positions within the company.


For example, if you were hired for an active position that is making your chronic condition worse, present your paperwork skills to your boss and request to be moved into an administrative position.
The opposite can also be attempted. For example, if you have carpal tunnel and typing at a desk all day is causing increased pain, present your skills and ask to be transferred into a position that does not stress the wrists.
 If there are no positions open in your company that you may be transferred to—keeping in mind that the ADA cannot protect you once you lose the ability to perform the essential functions of the job for which you were hired—it may be time to seek different employment.


Be sure you inquire about jobs for which you can perform the essential functions, even when your chronic illness flares up.
Let the employer know when you are interviewed of your chronic illness, especially if you believe it will interfere with the essential parts of the position that were listed in the job advertisement.
Don’t be ashamed of your limitations. Instead, be confident in what you are able to do and are good at, and employers will believe in them, too. Keep in mind that they are not allowed to discount you because of your illness if you can perform the tasks they advertised for.
 Many chronic illnesses have organizations that support individuals. And many organizations exist to help individuals with general chronic pain, no matter the origin.For example, the Invisible Disabilities Association exists to help people when they develop chronic illnesses and don’t know where to begin finding assistance., If your illness prevents you from performing work entirely, you can apply for Social Security disability insurance. You must run through a gamut of paperwork, including proving that you can’t get hired at any job. But eventually, if you are approved, you will receive a monthly stipend based on your lifetime earnings.Two years on this disability insurance automatically qualifies you for Medicare.
If you aren’t working and your income from the disability insurance is below a certain level (different for each state), you will mostly likely qualify for Medicaid, which equals free or low-cost health insurance for those covered.

