 Before you go off independently, make sure that you get enough experience with a firm or government organization. Use your time as you work for companies to gain networking connections that could open up leads in the future. You must have the expertise to devise sound strategies that will fulfill your client's career goals.


It may be hard to get new customers if you don't have a proven track record.
 Determine your five-year plan and think about where you want to take your career consulting. You can either stay independent, or start building a team of people to mentor and build your own firm. Decide how much money you want to make as a career consultant so that you know which industries are viable for your goals.


Helping higher end clients land jobs may make you more money in commission.
Make sure that you have a good understanding of business before you go independent.
 As a career consultant, it's important that you have a full understanding of the sector that you're helping people find jobs in. While you don't have to have mastery over the actual work that your clients do, knowing what employers are looking for, common pitfalls of the industry, average salaries and benefits packages, and common traits or skills that are required for the job. It will better enable you to make decisions when it comes to placement for some of the people you're trying to get jobs.


Most professional career coaches specialize in a particular industry.Industries could include consumer products, healthcare, energy, banking, marketing, or technology jobs.
 Make sure that you have a functioning website and have accounts on the most popular social media like LinkedIn and Twitter. Try to gain a following of people online. Provide career advice through social media and try to get it reposted on other blogs.Your website should also be functional and enable visitors to easily contact you.


Make as many connections as you can online so you can increase the exposure for your career related posts.
Be careful not to post anything inflammatory or inappropriate, or it may damage your professional career.
Your website should display your previous success as well as feature your greatest talents and skills.
 Reach out to people that need career management and work with them on their careers. Evaluate their education, experience, skill, in conjunction with their industry of choice to determine if they should find more productive employment opportunities. Reach out to people via social media and talk to employers about job openings that are available. Talk to everyone that you can work within the industry. Do not rely on one client because things can always change quickly.


Because you're independent, you may have a harder time convincing people to hire you before you have a proven record of success.Connect with people on a personal and emotional level by enticing them with a potential future in a better job.
You can say something like, "I was reaching out to talk to you about your position at SunGard. It's a great company, but I really think with your expertise, the sky's the limit. Hire me, and I'll find you a position you really deserve."

, Established procedures will allow you to work more like a business. Come up with a standardized way to on-board new customers, do your job search, or contact customers. This could include creating online forms so that you can store client information, or ensuring that you keep in touch with each client on a daily basis using a calendar. Whatever your process is, make sure that you standardize it to save time and effort as you begin to take on more work.


You can take the experience that you've gained from other companies and implement it into your own process.
 Career counseling is an old job but always changes with the changing employment landscape. Talking to other career counselors could help give you the insight that you need to make your operation more efficient or resolve a complex issue that you have with a particular client. Attend workshops or conferences to meet up with other counselors and learn more about the newest techniques in career counseling.


Speak to people at the career center at a university near you.

