 If your child’s croup does not pass on its own or is more severe, your doctor may choose to prescribe a steroid like Dexamethasone. These steroids will reduce inflammation and make breathing easier.Dexamethasone is commonly prescribed because of its long lasting effect (usually around 72 hours) but it can take up to six hours to produce relief.
 Epinephrine is used for croup when the child is having trouble breathing, or "stridor," at rest. It is given in a breathing machine and is called "vaponephrine." It helps relax the muscles in the airway, which helps the child breathe. It is only given in a doctor's office, emergency room, or hospital. It works quickly, but may not last as long as a steroid. Therefore, a steroid is given along with this., Your child may require medical attention to help them recover from croup, but other related issues could also require medical assistance. Dehydration is a serious risk with croup, as it can make swallowing uncomfortable. Severe dehydration can limit your child’s ability to recover and create other health issues. Keep a look out for signs that your child is becoming dehydrated. If your child exhibits any of the following symptoms, seek medical attention:If your child has been going to the bathroom less frequently than usual, that is often a sign of dehydration. The color of your child’s urine will grow darker the more dehydrated they are. Most babies should urinate at least 6 times a day, and older children should urinate at least 3 times a day.
Dehydration can cause constipation, which can lead to abdominal cramping.
If the soft spot (or fontanel) on an infant’s head appears sunken, your infant may be severely dehydrated.
Rapid breathing and heartbeat are signs that your child is severely dehydrated.
Other symptoms include no tears while crying and a dry mouth.
 It is uncommon for a child to require hospitalization for croup, but it’s important that you are aware of the symptoms that may indicate that your child needs immediate medical care. Seek medical treatment if your child displays any of the following symptoms:Breathing becomes extremely labored or difficult
The child begins to drool or has difficulty swallowing, or the child has noisy breathing (called stridor) even when resting
Skin around the nose or mouth turns blueish or grey
Fever reaches 104 degrees Fahrenheit
The child is difficult to arouse or is very irritable.
 In extreme cases, it is sometimes necessary to insert a breathing tube in your child’s windpipe to help ensure they are able to breath until they begin to recover. This will require hospitalizing your child.This is usually used as a last resort and is fairly uncommon.
Breathing tubes are often used in conjunction with IV fluids to keep your child well hydrated.

