 Lower-activity toys are toys that will stimulate your cat's mind but do not take a lot of energy or mobility to play with. Some low-activity toys that your cat might enjoy include:Paper bags
Cardboard boxes
Food puzzle toys
Cat trees;
, One of the ways a senior cat can get injured is from jumping and twisting. If your senior cat has mobility issues and you are scared of it getting severely injured, avoid getting it high-activity toys, such as motorized mice or fishing-pole toys.Jumping and twisting can be hard on older cats because older cats often lose agility in their bodies. This can be due to age-related health problems, such as arthritis, or just because of the cat's changing body as it ages., As your cat ages, it may be more hesitant to play with you due to physical discomfort or generally low energy. However, it is important to keep the cat playing for its physical and mental health. Try luring your cat into play with a feather toy, a catnip toy, or a treat hidden inside a ball.Toys that make noise such as a toy with a bell or crinkling toys can encourage some cats to play, especially those that my have visual impairments.
The smell of catnip may just lure your cat off its bed and into action. However, not all cats respond, or respond well, to catnip. If your cat doesn't, you will need to find something else to lure your cat into play. Perhaps your cat loves treats and you can incorporate a treat or two into a play session.
 When choosing toys, you should think about your cat's abilities and play to its strengths. For instance, if your cat is losing its sight in old age, which happens to a lot of older cats, then find it toys that don't require clear vision. A blind cat may still love to climb in and out of boxes, so then you should give it more boxes and less toys that require sight, such as fishing pole toys.Remembering your cat's strengths when picking out toys is key to finding it toys that it will enjoy playing with.
 As a cat ages it may not have the mobility or energy that it once did. Continue playing with your cat but make sure to think about its health when playing. The key to playing with a senior cat is to remember that the goal is giving it a bit of moderate exercise and quality time with you. The goal is not to make it jump super high or run as fast as it can.Keeping safety in mind does not mean that you need to be overly cautious with your cat. It just means that you should keep the cat's physical limitations in mind. Contact your vet if you are uncertain about any potential play activity.
 As your cat ages you should continue to play all of its favorite games but you may need to adjust them. If your cat loves to chase a ball, continue throwing them but just don't throw them as far or as fast. If your cat loves to jump at a ribbon, just don't twirl it as high. Making adjustments like this can really make a senior cat's play time more enjoyable and safe.


If your cat loves to climb and explore but is having mobility issues, consider installing cat shelves on your walls so that a senior cat can safely climb. You may also need to purchase a shorter cat tree for your senior cat.
If your cat loves chasing balls, consider playing with them in a contained area, such as the corner of a room. This will assure that your cat doesn't need to run long distances., As your cat gets older it may enjoy new games that take its mobility into consideration. For example, you could place one of your cat's favorite toys inside a tissue or cardboard box. The goal would then be for the cat to figure out how to get it out. This might work especially well for playing with a catnip toy and it does not require the cat to expend a lot of physical energy, just some mental energy.It's good to keep in mind that as it ages you should have your senior cat use its mind more than its body during play.
 Above all, you should keep playing with your cat as it gets older. The activity that playing provides, combined with the love and attention you give it when you play with it, can really enhance a cat's senior years.


If your cat is in ill health and doesn't have the energy it once did, you should still try to play with it. Stimulating a cat's mind can be a great help in promoting the healing of its body.
In general, older cats don't play for as long as younger cats do. However, you should play with them every day., If your cat cannot do some things it used to, such as play or climb, consult your vet to see if treatment is necessary. Many older cats may develop arthritis that impacts their ability to play, but your vet may be able to prescribe a mild medication that will make your cat more comfortable and able to take on its favorite activities.