 Do you just feel burned out? Then give yourself a break. Your brain can grow fatigued like any other muscle, and occasionally you need to give it some time to recover.Allow yourself a few minutes to watch your favorite TV show or to listen to your favorite song. Just make sure you give yourself a deadline to return to your work and stick to it. When you return you’ll feel refreshed and ready to devote your energy to your work.Don't use your break to check e-mail, update social media or read text messages. Research suggests that doing these things during a break can serve to increase stress, the opposite of what you're looking for., Eating something you enjoy will release endorphins in your brain and improve your overall mood. Being hungry can make it very difficult to concentrate or to form coherent arguments. Take a few minutes to eat a snack, but don’t go overboard or you may find yourself napping instead of writing.Being hungry can affect your decision-making skills and alter your mood. You may not be able to do your best writing on an empty stomach.It can be hard to focus on what you're writing about when a part of your brain is more concerned with having something to eat. In fact, when you're hungry you are more likely to identify food related words than you are any other. Unless your essay is about cooking, this might not come in handy., Being sleep deprived can reduce your coordination and reasoning ability in a way that's comparable to drinking alcohol. If you're too tired to keep your eyes open, take a power nap.Limit your nap to under thirty minutes. Studies show that it's the optimal length for a nap during your day to increase productivity.A short nap can provide a 34% increase in performance and 100% increase in alertness.A ten-minute nap may be the best to improve how you feel. Naps lasting over thirty minutes can result in "sleep inertia" or a feeling of grogginess., Move away from the computer or notebook for a few minutes and get your blood pumping. Getting a little exercise will improve your mood, increase your alertness, and make you feel good about yourself. It also provides your brain a break from the stress of writing. Go for a walk, dance around the room, or hit the gym. Just make sure you return to your work when you’re done.Getting some exercise can reverse the affects stress has on your brain. The serotonin, dopamine, and norepinephrine released through physical activity releases tension and makes you feel better.Exercising can release the key chemicals in your brain responsible for your memory, concentration and mental acuity, and the benefit compounds through frequent bouts of physical activity., Give a friend a call and ask if you can bounce some ideas off of them. Sometimes just talking about the subject you’re writing about is enough to create ideas that you won’t be able to wait to get down on paper. Your friend may have some great insights that send you in new directions you had never thought of before; two heads really can be better than one!