 Use an eyeliner color that's a little darker than your natural eyelash color. The idea is to make it look like there is more hair at the roots of your eyelashes than there actually are. This will create the illusion of thicker eyelashes.


Apply a waterproof eyeliner at the waterline under your eyelashes to add the illusion of length without using up eyelid space. With a small push liner brush, push black shadow into the root of the lashes of the upper eyelid. This will give the illusion of a dark lash line. If you subtly extend the line at the outer corners of your eyes, it will also make your eyelashes look longer.
If you want to try something a little more difficult, consider “tight-lining”. This technique takes a skilled hand and involves applying eyeliner between each individual hair at its base creating a subtle line along the edge of your eyelid.;
, In general, mascara will make your lashes look thicker and longer, as long as you use high quality mascara that doesn't clump. Use a mascara that says “voluminous” on the tube like 'Voluminous Butterfly by Maybeline.









A great way to get the impression of thicker, longer lashes is to work on the base of your lashes, and then slowly work your way up to the tip. Apply a little mascara to an eyeshadow brush and gently brush it onto the roots of your lashes. This creates thickness and your lashes will appear fuller. To make your lashes look really full put on a coat of mascara then use some compressed powder. After that, use another coat of mascara. The powder will make your eye lashes look fuller.
Some mascara brands also carry what's called "eyelash primer," which is usually a white-colored product that you apply exactly like mascara. It is used before the actual mascara to enhance length, conditioning, and color of the mascara (important for people with fair colored lashes).
As an added bonus, some mascaras like Rimmel London have serums designed to help grow eyelashes faster., Flat eyelashes look short, even if they're not, simply because of the angle at which they're seen. An eyelash curler will give your eyelashes some extra bounce, but do it carefully and gently. The last thing you want to do is tug your lashes at the roots and cause them to fall out prematurely.









Start at the base of the lashes. Clamp down at the base for 10 seconds. If you want more of a curl than a sharp bend, squeeze and hold your lash curler in the middle of your eye lashes as well. If you do it too many times, your eye lashes will curl all the way back to your eyelid. This is not a good look for anyone.
 If you look closely at pictures of celebrities, you'll notice that many of them wear fake (albeit skillfully applied) eyelashes. Admittedly, there's a steep learning curve in applying false eyelashes so that they look natural and stay put. Once you get the hang of it, however, your lashes will look dramatically longer.









The first step is to curl your fake eyelashes. You want them to look perfect before you apply them. Trim them with a small pair of scissors. You want them to be even and not too long. You want a natural look. If your fake eyelashes are too long, they’ll look fake. Then take the adhesive that comes with the lashes and place 2 to 3 drops along the bottom strip. Leave there for 5 to 6 seconds before applying. Install from the outside corner of the eye and work your way inwards. Lastly, be sure to blend your natural eyelashes in with the fake ones. This can be accomplished with most mascaras.To remove your fake eyelashes, use the removal serum provided or apply a couple of dabs of petroleum jelly to the edges of the lashes. Wait about 10 seconds and then slowly pull from the edges towards the center. Do not rip off your fake eyelashes. You might accidentally remove your normal eyelashes.
 If you can afford them, professionally applied eyelash extensions are a beautiful, natural-looking way to enhance your lashes. The process usually takes a couple hours and costs around $100 USD, but the extensions will last for months with only occasional touch-ups.If you decide to go this route, know that it will be more difficult to wash your face. You cannot place too much pressure on your lash extensions without causing them to fall out. You’ll have to wash around your eye or use a cotton swab to clean the actual lashes.