 You might want to invite a few of your closest friends, (best friends) or you may wish to invite more girls. Remember not to leave anyone out just to be mean. However, if there is someone who you really don't want to invite, don't invite them, even if they are expecting an invitation. They could ruin your party. Be sure you have enough space for the amount of people you are inviting.;
, For smaller groups, you may be able to do something like going out to eat, going to a movie, or going shopping at the mall or arcade. This is hard for large groups, however, because it gets expensive and you will have to carpool (if you still want to do this, use the public transit). It's also fun to pick a theme that you can do at home, like


Movie night
Your favorite color
Spa Theme
A time period (such as Ancient Rome or the 70's)
A popular television show (such as Survivor or MTV)
A spa party

A country (such as France or Japan).
 Add the theme details to the invitations so your friends know what to expect. It's fun to hand them out at school, but your friends might lose them, and other people who aren't invited may get mad. Basically, it's best to mail them or email them out.


Either make invitations yourself, or buy ones from a store which are really pretty and simple or reflect your theme. You could also use free invitation websites such as Evite to create your invitations.
Be sure to send invitations at least three weeks before the event so no one has anything planned. If you will be really bummed if a couple of best friends can't make it; plan a date with them in advance.
Make sure you include the major details on your invite, such as date, time, place, how they will get home, theme, and what to bring.
 You will probably want to serve dinner, but you don't have to. Just don't start the party at five and expect guests to have already eaten. If you are going out to eat, dinner is already taken care of. If not, either serve something simple and yummy, like pizza, Chinese food, or sushi.


To make sure that everyone is happy, ask what type of food your guests like.
Make sure to have a great dessert; either cake, cupcakes, ice cream -sundaes-, cannoli, tiramisu, crème brûlée, pie, brownies, and/or a chocolate fountain.
If you're buying a cake, order it from a specialty bakery, as these cakes are amazing. However, you could just get one from a grocery store.
Don't forget drinks! Serve soda, juice, water, and/or milk. If you want, have a 'float bar' with different sodas (Coke, root beer, Sprite, cream soda, etc.) and different flavours of ice cream so your friends can make their own floats.
For breakfast, serve a classic like French toast, or pancakes with bacon or sausage. You could also try muffins.
 Most importantly, set aside a large area for sleeping bags. A good spot is a family room or living room because you can push the couches and tables to the side and have a big wide open space. Then you can sleep on the couch, too. Decorate with balloons and streamers in your favourite colours, and coloured lights if possible.


Why not make your own decorations as well? You could make posters or draw things to stick up.
 If you're going out somewhere, this will take up most of the time at night, but you should still have a few activity ideas for when guests arrive and for the morning. You could watch movies (no horror films late at night. Romantic comedies are your best bets for a group of girls). Maybe play Truth or Dare and Would You Rather.
 Go shopping and get at least one new item to wear, or get a whole outfit (this could be one of your birthday presents). Make sure to wear something flattering, so you'll look good in pictures, and fashionable, so you'll stand out.
 It should be a large area that can hold everyone and allow for lots of movement.
