 Massage can help you to work out and release any tension in your neck muscles, especially if you tend to feel tension in the same spot on your neck. These trigger points are tight knots of muscle fiber that are stressed or strained.To give yourself a neck massage, start by using your thumb and forefinger to gently press on the muscles that line your neck and shoulder area, also known as the trapezius muscle, which stretches from the base of your skull down to the middle of your back and over your shoulder. You may feel multiple trigger points on your trapezius muscle. These trigger points will feel rope like and when you apply light pressure, you may feel discomfort spread throughout the muscle area.
Use your thumb and forefinger or your knuckles to gently rub and knead out your strained neck muscles. If there is a coworker, friend, or partner nearby, you may ask them to help you rub and knead out the trigger points on your trapezius muscles.
You can also get a professional massage done on your neck and shoulder muscles. Going for monthly massages can help to reduce neck tension and pain.
 You can also use a foam roller to massage out your trigger points and release any neck tension. Foam rollers can be found at most exercise supply stores. Look for a full length, six inch diameter foam roll.


Place the foam roll on the ground or on an exercise mat. Lie down on it lengthwise, with your upper back on the foam roll. You can place your hands on your hips or on either side of your body.
Keeping your torso parallel to the ground, roll your upper back and scapular muscles sideways against the foam roller. You should start to feel tension releasing in any sore trigger points.
Roll at least 20 times on each side of your body to release neck and shoulder tension. You can use the foam roller on a daily basis to help manage any muscle pain or tightness.
 Heat can help to reduce pain and muscle spasms on your neck. Wrap the heat pack in a towel and hold it to your neck for 20 minutes at a time.You can also apply a cold pack wrapped in a towel on your neck as cold temperatures can also offer pain relief.
 A long, relaxing soak in hot water can help to sooth any tense muscles in your neck and shoulders. Try to lay down on your back in the bath so your neck and shoulders can soak and relax in the hot water.You can also take a hot shower but make sure you stand in the hot water long enough for your neck muscles to warm up and relax. Try sitting on a small stool while letting the shower run down the back of your neck.
You can perform your gentle neck stretches while sitting or standing in the shower. This allows you to stretch more while letting the hot shower warm up your muscles.

