 The bristles of a toothbrush may aggravate your symptoms, so opt for an extra soft toothbrush. Brush after every meal, and before bedtime. This will minimize bacteria and reduce oral ulcers.It will also reduce the risk of the ulcers becoming infected.


Avoid toothpastes with alcohol in them, which could irritate your mouth.
Use a fluoride toothpaste that is otherwise as plain as possible — look for one without added color or bleaching agents.
If your mouth gets sore when brushing, soften the toothbrush with warm water prior to using it.;
, In addition to brushing your teeth, regular flossing can help with sores. It can cut down on bacteria, lessening the likelihood of a mouth infection. Make sure to floss your teeth every day.If your gums bleed, do not floss in areas that are bleeding. Floss only between teeth where the gums do not bleed. Check with your oncologist that this is normal — you may wish to speak with your dentist as well to confirm your gums are healthy.
 Rinse your mouth after you eat, and several times throughout the day. This dislodges many food particles and prevents unnecessary irritation. Stick to solutions made with baking soda and salt. Commercial mouthwashes may hurt your mouth.You can make a mouthwash using 1/4 teaspoon of salt or a teaspoon of baking soda mixed into an 8-ounce cup of warm water. Baking soda can create an alkaline oral pH, which helps sores heal faster.
After rinsing your mouth with your solution, rinse it again with plain water.
 If you wear dentures, wash them after every meal to avoid introducing bacteria or irritants. If your dentures bother you, you may want to skip wearing them until your mouth sores have healed., A dry mouth will make your sores worse; therefore, keeping your mouth moist is vital to healing mouth sores.Drink a lot of water throughout the day.
You should also suck on ice chips. In addition to keeping your mouth moist, ice chips will numb some of the pain from your sores.
Sugar-free gum and hard candy can also help keep your mouth moist by encouraging the production of saliva. Choose gum that does not contain menthol.
 When making food choices, do not select anything difficult to chew. This will aggravate sores, prolonging the healing process. Go for softer foods you can chew without pain.Things like scrambled eggs, cooked cereals, and mashed potatoes are good when recovering from mouth sores.
You can also eat other foods that are soft and moist.
If any food seems to be aggravating your mouth sores, stop eating it immediately. Avoid condiments, spicy foods, nuts or any other foods that might be allergens.
 Chewing too much food at once can irritate mouth sores and prolong the healing process. Instead of eating breakfast, lunch, and dinner, strive to eat four to six small meals throughout the day.It can also help to cut your food into small pieces.
Eating slowly can also lessen pain associated with mouth sores.
 Chemotherapy can make you feel very sick, but it’s important to try to eat plenty of healthy foods. Make sure to choose healthy foods that do not injure the soft tissues of your mouth.It's important to get a lot of fruits and vegetables into your diet. You will need the vitamins and nutrients provided by plant-based foods to keep you strong throughout chemotherapy.
 Smoking cigarettes, cigars, pipes, and chewing tobacco harms the inner lining of your mouth, and can also cause cancer and other health problems. If you are undergoing chemotherapy, smoking is very likely to produce and mouth sores and make them far more painful and prone to infection.Quitting tobacco can be very difficult, so talk to your doctor about a plan to help you quit. Your doctor can help provide you with things like the nicotine patch to slowly wean you off cigarettes.
You should also ask friends and family members for support as you try to quit smoking. If you know anyone who smokes, ask that they not do so in front of you.
 Some foods can make mouth sores worse. Sharp foods, or very acidic foods, should be avoided if you want your mouth sores to heal properly.Acidic and spicy foods tend to irritate the mouth, so stay away from things like citrus fruits and salsas.
Sharp foods, and very crunchy foods, should also be avoided. Stay away from things like chips, pretzels, and crackers.
 Alcohol can irritate your mouth sores and make your symptoms more painful. Do not drink alcohol until your mouth sores are healed. There may be other risk factors associated with drinking alcohol when on chemo, so make sure to talk to your doctor about alcohol consumption.As with smoking, ask family members and friends for support when tapering off alcohol. Request that people not drink in front of you.
 If possible, make an appointment with an oncological dentist before chemo. You can ask your doctor for a referral to such a dentist. A good dentist can help you take steps to get your mouth as healthy as possible prior to treatment. This can help you from developing sores to begin with, or lessen the intensity of sores that do develop.Your dentist may also prescribe you a complex mouthwash made by a local pharmacist which fights sores and infection easing the pain.
 Apply a capsule containing 400 International Units of vitamin E directly to your mouth sores, using a cotton swab.While you can get vitamin E over the counter, talk it over with your doctor first. You want to make sure any medications you use are safe for you given your current health.
 Painkillers like acetaminophen (Tylenol) can help with soreness associated with mouth sores. You should always talk to your doctor, however, before taking medication. You want to make sure over-the-counter medications do not interact poorly with your cancer treatment or other medications you're taking.You should not take aspirin during chemotherapy. When selecting over-the-counter painkillers, do not opt for aspirin.
 If you're having trouble managing the pain of mouth sores, talk to your doctor. There are several medication options your doctor may prescribe to help you manage the pain.Coating agents coat your mouth, preventing further damage to sores. They may also ease some pain. Your doctor may recommend you try applying glycerine.
Topical medications are applied directly to sores. While such medications can help numb the pain, you have to be extra cautious when eating and brushing your teeth on these medications. As you won't be able to feel pain, there's a good chance you could accidentally injure your mouth.

