 Lice resemble small, moving crabs usually found around the genitals, though they sometimes be in armpits, eyebrows, or facial hair. If you cannot see whether you have public lice then use a magnifying glass – they are grey-brown, crab-like insects 5-7 millimeters large.Use a magnifying glass to check for lice if you have the following symptoms:


Pale blueish bite marks.
Small, white dots attached to the base of your hairs (lice eggs).
Low-grade fever.;
, Lice shampoos, lotions, and insecticides are available at your local pharmacy. You should select a lice-killing lotion with 1% permethrin or a mousse that contains pyrethrins and piperonyl butoxide.Perform a “spot test” to check for allergic reactions. Place a small amount of the lotion on your arm or leg and wait 10 minutes to check for itching or swelling.
 Clean your body the best you can and dry yourself off before applying medication. Do not try to scrub the lice away as they are evolved to hold to your hairs.
 You should treat yourself and any people who have had close contact with you in the last week (sharing beds, sexual activity, borrowing towels, etc.). Apply the shampoo or lotion according to the directions on the bottle, which usually require you to apply the liquid and leave it for 20 minutes or more.
 All creams need time to work, but do not be tempted to leave them on for longer than recommended. These products are poisons and they will damage your skin if not washed away properly., Most lice treatments do not kill eggs (known as “nits”), so you will need to remove them by hand. Using tweezers or an fine-toothed nit-comb, carefully pull out any small white eggs or remaining bugs., To be safe, you should always retreat yourself to make sure no lice survived. Lice eggs hatch after 10 days, so repeating the treatment ensures that none survived the first round., ’"Pediculosis Pubis," or public lice, are resilient creatures that can live on other parts of your body, including your armpits and eyelashes. Shaving will not get rid of the problem, but it can help in conjunction with lice-treatments., There are several prescription options available for treating public lice, but they should be used as a last resort. Stronger creams are more toxic and can cause illness or skin damage in large doses.


’’’Lindane Shampoo:’’’ Kills lice and eggs, and is available by prescription. It can be toxic, however, and should be used only when other options fail. Never use lindane on small children, people with a history of seizures, the elderly, or pregnant women.
’’’Malathion Lotion:’’’ Known by the brand name “Ovid,” this is another prescription method that has had success with stronger cases of lice. It has not, however, been approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration., If you can’t get rid of your public lice after two rounds of treatment you should see a health professional. They may write you a prescription or send you to a specialist if they problem is not treated quickly.If you develop any redness, pain, or swelling, you should talk to your doctor about a possible infection.

