 Chop garlic and fresh basil. Combine in a food processor with toasted pine nuts, and grated Parmesan or pecorino, pouring in olive oil as you blend. Spread on rustic bread or toss it onto freshly cooked pasta — the residual heat from the noodles won't affect the properties of raw garlic.


This recipe is very easy to adjust by taste as you go. Start with one clove of garlic for a large bowl of pesto and increase if desired. Two cloves may overpower other flavors.;
, Another Mediterranean sauce that understand the value of garlic, aioli can add flavor to sandwiches, chicken salad, and many other dishes. You can make the mayonnaise style recipe in a blender, or labor over this handmade Spanish recipe that uses only garlic and olive oil:Place peeled garlic cloves in a mortar with a pinch of salt.
Crush the garlic to a smooth paste with a pestle.
Pour olive oil drop by drop into the garlic paste as you continue grinding it with a smooth motion.
Keep this up for at least twenty minutes, as the garlic slowly absorbs oil. The finished aioli should be so thick you can turn the mortar upside-down.
 Every Mexican dish needs salsa, every salsa needs spice, and garlic is a great way to fill that need. Try these recipes for jalapeño salsa, chipotle salsa, or cooked salsa (with raw garlic added after cooking).


If avocados are in season, make guacamole. If your usual recipe doesn't use garlic, try adding one clove. Any more and you may need to reduce the amount of onion or peppers to compensate.
 A basic vinaigrette is the easiest salad dressing you can make. One or two cloves of garlic, very finely minced, makes an excellent addition to a small bottle of the dressing. You can also use it in more complex variations, such as this tart recipe:Chop one large garlic clove and two or three leaves fresh basil
Whisk together 3 tbsp (45 mL) olive oil and 1 tbsp (15 mL) raspberry vinegar
Stir in garlic and basil along with 2 tsp (10 mL) brown sugar, ½ tsp (2.5 mL) Dijon mustard.
Season with salt and pepper to taste.
 Better hold your next meeting over the phone — this will leave its mark on your breath. Mince the garlic extra fine, mash it into a pat of butter, and spread it on toast for an eye-opening breakfast.


This works best with tangy, cultured butter, often sold as European-style butter in the United States.

