 You want to come up with a clever name for the clan that is short, or if it is long has good acronyms that flow together. For instance, the clan Chaotic Avengers in US-East has the acronym CA. When you come up with a good name look around on battle.net for any clans with similar names. A good place to look is the Clan Recruitment room, this is a room where clans post advertisements for their clans. If you find a clan with the same name then try another name until you get the right one.;
, You want to have bots that monitor the chat room. Bots are user operated chat clients that sit in rooms, you can do things with them like kick people out, ban people, change your font color, play games, play music for yourself, and other such things. To operate a bot you need a cd key for whatever game you have, Starcraft, Warcraft, Diablo. Once you have a bot and it works you want to read the instructions and the manual, if it didn't come with one then look under the help menu. If your clan channel is like, Op HMK9, or something like that that starts with "Op" you should name your main bot the name of the channel, for instance if your channel is "Op AwX" then name your bot AwX so it can be the moderator with a hammer icon or the big silver character with the maul. I prefer Stealth Bot, because it is by far the best (links under ex-links). At this point if you don't have any extra cd keys to spare ask friends for theirs if they don't play, buy more Starcraft, Warcraft, or Diablo games, or you can look on the internet for sites with cd keys (links in links sect).
 First of all you want to think up a chain of command and offer friends positions. Post bots in different channels (just open the bot a bunch of times for other bots but you can't use the same cd key on 2 bots), if you can't get multiple bots then ask friends to run bots in channels that say something like "Clan At2, join up today! Come to channel Op At2 and ask about recruitment." The Pro clan sites set up their bots so when you type something like .recruit it recruits you and then you are added to the clan on that mod bot, then whoever has unlimited access to it can see the clan roster. Tell members to put your clan tag on their names, like if your name is Jack4Life tell them to add the clan tag on it so it looks like AtX.Jack4Life, or Jack4Life, be creative and come up with a really good clan tag. When you have enough members you can really get pumping.
 Now that you have a thriving clan with a few members and you need something to keep your members coming back, consider making a clan website. The first step in looking for a free clan site is to go on Google and type free clan site. You will get a list of sites and look for the one that suits you. Look for a free one that has templates and offers easy set-up. Not good with HTML or Photoshop? Well ask a member if they could help with the website, creating images and such. A lot of good websites offer templates that already have all the images you will need, so you should be set. Add members to the site rooster and let them have a login and do things like show member's pictures and have a order of command page and other such things. Many sites offer these pages on the templates and all you need to do is type normal words no scripts or anything. You should add a forum for the members to post on and for other clans to set up matches with and such things. Setting up contests and in-clan tournaments is also a fun thing, picture contests are often a popular event.
 On your clan site offer prizes for the tournaments or contests. In Diablo II its always good to give away good items as prizes or in Starcraft and Warcraft offer higher clan positions and other things. Put up clan maps on the website and other things.
 On your forums or in the clan channel advertise a clan tournament for Starcraft or Warcraft. Have your bots advertise it auto, and keep track as people sign up. Create a pyramid and set up matches. Create the rules of the tourney and have fun with it.
 Go to other clan's websites or clan channels and ask to speak with their leaders and offer clan battles or clan wars. Send in your best and wait to come out on the top, or bottom. Have fun with it and post the outcome on your clan website. It is always good to write up your clan happenings on the site for others to see, and get interested.
 Download Winamp and look up on Google how to create your own radio station for clan members to listen to. This is good because if you play good music and have many subscribers chances are you will have less clan deserters.
 Go to other clan sites and offer a clan allegiance. This is where two clans become allies, thus making a stronger clan because you can be backed up by another clan. Do not get too many clans on your ally list because then you have a better chance of backstabbing, and make sure when you have multiple allies they are all allied with each other, too. The one thing you don't want is two of your allies fighting and both wanting you on their side.
 When your clan gets really good, challenge other clans to fights. Offer a high stakes game where if they lose their clan gets to be turned into a branch of your clan, where you ultimately rule over them. Also destroy the competition, if you beat clans in fights more people will join because they know your clan is strong and will be a good place to call home. Thus weakening the other clans.
 Go to weaker clans and offer them a chance to merge into your clan where they can still be in their own channel but be a sub section of your clan. It will offer them better protection and they will like that. They can still make their own website and recruit, like a normal clan but again be ultimately controlled by you.

