 Waterproof cameras differ greatly in use and price. Common uses include photographs of hiking, boating, swimming, snorkeling and scuba-diving.


For example, you should know to what depth you need to be able to use it. If you only need it for the pool and outdoor sports, a depth of 10 feet (3.0 m) should be adequate, but if you need it for scuba diving, its depth should be substantially more.;
, Questions that need to be asked include:


How deep will you be going?
What budget do you have to work with?
What sort of photos will you be taking? Stills? Maybe creatures moving through their natural underwater environment?

, Point-and-shoot cameras tend to be smaller, less expensive and good for every day use. SLR digital cameras are more expensive and are used for professional-quality photography.
 Digital waterproof cameras can differ in price between $100 to thousands of dollars.
 Go to a photography shop to get information about the best models for high-quality photographs, if you plan to print or sell these pictures. Go to an electronics store or an online site to look at the available models for lower cost every-day use.


Go to snapsort.com to look through popular cameras based on your uses. This is a good starting point to begin reading about cameras and what they offer. Then you can move to electronics stores or Amazon to see what prices are being offered at different outlets.
Look for cameras that have 7 to 10 megapixels. Waterproof digital cameras generally do not have very advanced zoom functions so it is important that the resolution is good to begin with.
If you are looking for an underwater digital camera for scuba diving, popular models are likely to range between 2 and 4 megapixels. Some models can be mounted above your mask. Popular models include the SeaLife Reefmaster DC250 and the Sea & Sea USA AquaPix digital camera. These are very specialized models that are only available through Scuba stores or online.
 These are available at reviews.photographyreview.com, dpreview.com/reviews and other sites.
 Some websites suggest that the best time to buy an old-model camera is in March because manufacturers are looking to get rid of old merchandise before the new models arrive. Best Buy, Sears and local electronics stores may also have Black Friday or after Christmas specials.
 These stores often sell the camera with a case or an extra lens at a reduced price.
 Give preference to places that return and exchange, rather than just exchange. Look for a warranty of at least 1 year, in case the camera breaks.
 This will allow you to track and return it more easily. Also consider buying a neck or hand strap or case to ensure it stays in good condition and follows the warranty.
