 There are 5 heart pieces that you can find in Kakariko Village.


Upon reaching Thieve’s Town in Lorule, travel through a portal in the middle of a wrecked house going back to Hyrule. Inside this house there’s a lady that will give you a heart piece by blowing you a kiss.
At the northwest part of Kakariko Village, there you will find entrances to a well. Lift the rocks to clear your way and jump right in to the well below. You will find the heart piece up the stairs while inside the well.
There is a heart piece located at the very center of the Los Woods. You will need to navigate your way to the center until you get to the central log. This central log has a small crack which gives you access to a wall. Merge through the wall of rock to find the heart piece.
Speak to Cucco Girl to play a minigame that involves you dodging a barrage of cuccos for 30 seconds. Successfully complete the task and you will be awarded with 150 rupees and of course heart piece. Cucco Girl is at the Cucco Ranch south of Kakariko Village.
From the Cucco Ranch, now head west to get to Rupee Rush. To obtain the heart piece, you have to collect as many rupees as you can within the time limit – which is 30 seconds.;
, There are 3 heart pieces hidden in Death Mountain.


From outside Tower of Hera, head east until you see a cave with a sign pointing you to Rosso’s Ore Mine. Go inside the cave and make your way through moving platforms. Merge with the mountain wall in a central platform with 2 Lynels. Use your hammer to ascend via moving platforms until you reach the top. There you will find a heart piece.
You will go through Lorule to access the Ice Ruins, pretty much the same thing with the path you took through Rosso’s Ore Mine in Hyrule. When you reach the gargoyle statues, head left and use the Tornado Rod to move north from platform to platform. Right outside the door is portal that leads you to the heart piece.
From Tower of Hera, go southwest and fall down to the center of the gap. Upon landing, head north (under a volcano) and get the heart piece.
 There are 9 heart pieces hidden in Hyrule Field.


From the east side of the Witch’s house, jump into the water until you reach a waterfall. Go into the cave behind the waterfall and there you fill find a heart piece.
Go to the graveyard in Lorule. Climb up the ladder and head north. There is a hidden portal here that can be revealed by bombing the wall. Go through the portal and head east to a cave where you will find your next heart piece.
Go to the Blacksmith's House. Use your Titan Mitts to lift the boulder just south of the Blacksmith's House to gain access to a cave. Enter the cave to get a heart piece.
Travel to the Sanctuary Sewers and go through the first room. Head west and climb up the stairs. Walk towards east on the wired walkway and then merge with the wall at the end of the path. Head east and there you’ll find the heart piece.
From the Eastern Palace, go south and climb up the stairs on the east. Use your bomb on a certain spot that can be detonated. Enter and merge with the wall. Now, head west towards the room where the heart piece is.
Exit the Swamp Palace and from its entrance head east. You now need to locate 2 statues near a wall down the hill. Use your bomb to open up the wall right between the 2 statues. Enter the opening, head north then turn west. Keep on going west until you reach the cave’s exit, there you will find another heart piece.
Travel all the way south from the Eastern palace then head east. Then keep on heading south until you reach a stop. Turn east and then use your hammer to obtain a hidden heart piece.
Go all the way down the trail just in front of the Hyrule Castle entrance yard. Turn towards north to discover a heart piece. Just clear the rocks using your Power Gloves.
Go to the wall at the east side of the Blacksmith’s House and merge with it. While merged, go north and detach from the wall. Head north and there you’ll find a heart piece.
 In order to obtain the heart piece in Hylia, you will need to have the Pegasus Boots. Go to the House of Gales and travel southeast then turn north. Talk to a guy at a top of a small cliff. Talk to the Racing Bro to play Hyrule Hotfoot. The goal is to complete the first challenge in less than 75 seconds. Once completed, return for the next challenge and complete it in less than 65 seconds this time. If successful, you will be rewarded with a heart piece!

, There are 2 more heart pieces to be collected in Death Mountain, Lorule side.


While on the west side of the Death Mountain weather vane, travel all the way north until you reach the Treacherous Tower. Pay 100 rupees to the Beginners Course then 200 rupees for the Intermediate Course. After accomplishing the courses, you will be given a heart piece.
At the top of the crumbled down Miner’s House lies the second heart piece in Lorule Death Mountain. Find the ladder on the southwest and climb up north. Keep going straight until you are able to jump off on top of the Miner’s House. Jump off and fly southwest to obtain the heart piece.
 There are 4 heart pieces scattered all over Lorule Field.


At the Swamp Palace entrance, go east and use the Bog Bomb Flower to clear a huge boulder. Enter the revealed cave and get the heart piece inside.
Travel south and to the west of the Dark Palace. Keep on heading north until you reach a ledge. Walk across it to get a heart piece. Be careful not to fall off.
From the Misery Mire weather vane, head north and go through the portal. Travel northeast of the Desert of Mystery. Look for a set of stairs on both east and west. Make the sand rise up and walk across towards east. Climb up the stairs and raise the west sand. Bomb the area near the portal to reveal it and go through it. Head east and you should find a heart piece there.
Enter the Turtle Rock and go through the southwest exit. In order to travel north via platforms, you will need to use your Ice Rod. Go through 2 portals and use your Ice Rod to reach the southern entrance to the heart piece.
 Lastly, to complete our heart containers, search Thieve’s Village for the last 4 heart pieces.


You need to go to the east side of town at the Treasure Chest Shop and talk with Fortune’s Choice Guy. You then need to pay 200 rupees to open 3 chests inside the shop. One of those chests could have a heart piece inside.
You will need to finish Rupee Rush with a minimum score of 100 rupees and come in with less than 2 seconds left, which results in a double multiplier effect for the heart piece. Keep in mind that this challenge has no time indicator so feel free to use a stopwatch or the likes so you can have a time reference while completing the task.
Go across the wall on the north side to Sahasrahla’s House, located at Kakariko Village, and go through the portal. Keep on moving south of the house until you reach the house’s center where you’ll find another heart piece.
The last heart piece in Lorule can be obtained by simply scoring 100 points in Octoball Derby.

