 Leslie finds inspiration for everything she does through the satisfaction of a goal met, another battle won. Instead of seeing tasks as something you don’t want to do, look at your to-do list as a mountain to conquer. Dominate that list, cross each item off as if you’re Molly Weasley right after she killed Bellatrix Lestrange. Most. Satisfying. Moment. Ever.;
, The lovely councilwoman is a serious fan of this series, referencing it with affection fairly often. In loving Harry Potter you show a love for reading, magic, fantasy, friendship, determination, wit, quirky, crazy cool bad guys, and the unanimous adoration of three unexpected troublemakers turned heroes. A staple in both our generation’s pop culture and Leslie’s heart, this series has a lot to offer all who read it. In loving Harry Potter, you love all the lessons it has taught you, some notably being determination and loyalty, which can help you follow through on any assignment needing completion. Leslie’s love for Harry Potter shows the fun loving side of her, and makes her relatable to the huge fan base that the books and movies have gained. If you have yet to do so, experience the magic and connections you can make from Harry.
 Every good government official has an intricately detailed schedule to organize and prioritize day by day. Leslie’s weekly schedule was chock full of meetings, cleaning the beloved polluted town river, and planning the Parks and Recreation department’s year on top of her council duties. The only way to properly be everywhere you need to be and remember everything you need to do is having a place you write it all down and check. Taking these tasks head on with a determined and positive attitude is the best way to accomplish them efficiently. Leslie looks at her life as well as those around her as something that can be constantly improved. Her optimism, no matter how ridiculous at times, is what spurs her to continue bettering herself along with everyone she comes into contact with.
 No one wakes up every day with a smile on their face and a song in their hearts. Some days suck. But the only way to not let it affect your plans for the day is to try to stay positive. Turn your day around with the age-old rule-- fake it till you make it. When the things that make you smile don’t work to cheer you up, turn to the Leslie Knope state of mind to enjoy the simple things in life. Waffles covered in whipped cream, Ben Wyatt’s derrière and calves, chatting with Beautiful Anne and public forums with the crazy people of Pawnee are just a few of the many wonderfully silly things that make Leslie happy on a daily basis. She thrives on three simple parts of her life that she categorized for us in one of the show’s episodes.
 Or waffles, friends, work, doesn’t matter. But work is definitely third. While Leslie understands that work is an important part of her life, she never lets it come ahead of the people (and breakfast food) she loves. While getting all work done is necessary and satisfying, it shouldn’t become the ultimate derivation of happiness in your life. Relationships and the little things (like your favorite food) are where the fulfillment lies in Everyone’s favorite couple, Leslie and Ben, was developed because they wanted each other more than they cared about advancing in the political world. While they originally broke up to not disrupt Leslie’s campaign, she decided to say “screw it” because she’d rather be with the person she loved than have politics be the center of her life. Even after this scandal, her core values won her the spot of councilwoman. Follow your heart, win in politics…

