 Still, don´t force yourself to dye or cut your hair if you don´t enjoy your look - that isn't the main factor. She has brown short hair, brown eyes with a grayish undertone, full, black lashes, and pale skin. It isn't recommended to look exactly like her - however, it looks best for you to make your hair look a bit tousled - this will add a more "wolfish" look to yourself. Comb it and wear it loose - and if it´s too hot for that, wear a ponytail. As for the eyes: if you want to, you can line your eyes with grey or brown eyeliner (as black is too heavy), so they seem a little more like the eyes of a wolf. Take care of your skin and keep great hygiene.;
, Princess Mononoke wears comfy, but also (kind of) girly clothes. Her dress and her T-Shirt are comfy and torn off, but also tight-fitting and feminine. The knee-length skirt gives her some kind of legroom, as the T-Shirt keeps her warm. Any colors (as long they are not too flashy or unnatural) are okay, but desired are deep blues, faded whites, and any shades of grey. For the shoes, just wear your favorite pair, and stay away from fancy sandals or high-heels. You have to wear something you are comfortable to walk or run with!

, Princess Mononoke wears big earrings, two armlets, and one headdress, as well as a necklace made of teeth and a crystal dagger held by a red string. To look more like her, you can wear any jewelry made of the things mother nature can give to you, as well as Indian talismans and Indian jewelry (mostly with feathers)!

, Princess Mononoke is well known for her short-tempered and stubborn personality - if she has the ambition to do something, nothing will get in her way, not even her own maturity. Also, as a wolves, she can be like a mother, sweet, loving, and caring. Try to find the balance. Stand up for your own opinions. Don’t let things happen to you, make things happen FOR you. Princess Mononoke is very confident and determined.
 Don't be one of these who moans and has to be dragged out of bed. Be awake and lively.
 If you have got a pet, treat it really well. You have to care about nature, because Princess Mononoke believed and fought for the forest and the creatures and spirits within.
 Eat as healthily as possible, and exercise for about 30 minutes per day. She is very athletic and fast-running, due to her live in the forest. Be outside often and do sports regularly. However, don´t overdo it - it still has to be fun for you!

