 The best towels are 100% cotton and feel heavy when you pick them up.If it’s important to you, pick out towels that echo colors in your bathroom, or add a pleasing pop of color. For instance, if the bathroom has black and white tiling, a leaf-green towel would stand out in a pretty way.;
, For all these projects, you want your towels to be as clean and stable as possible. Wash the towels to see if any fading or shrinkage occurs. Use warm water and mild detergent, and avoid fabric softener or dryer sheets.
 If you’re just getting started with decorative folding, a hand towel fan on top of a plain bath towel is easy and pretty. To start, fold the bath towel in half lengthwise, then fold it into thirds in the opposite direction. It should make a plump square shape. Next, take the hand towel and fold it lengthwise into one-inch accordion pleats. Crease the pleated towel in half so it makes a v-shape, lay it on top of the bath towel, and tease the ends apart to it to create a fan shape.
 If you have a towel rack in the bathroom, you can level up. Combine a bath, hand, and face towel into one attractive package by folding the hand towel into a pocket shape and placing the washcloth inside it.Start by folding a bath towel into thirds lengthwise.
Place it on the rack with the rod in the middle, so both sides hang down equally.
Lay a hand towel on the floor with the right side up and tag side down.
Fold the bottom up so it reaches halfway up the towel, then fold the bottom edge down again so it’s level with the first fold. This makes a kind of “shelf” shape.
Flip the hand towel over, so the shelf faces down.
Fold the hand towel into folds vertically. It should be in more of a sausage-shape now, with a pocket running along the bottom edge.
Lay the hand towel over the bath towel so the pocket hangs down in front.
Fold a face towel into a mini-fan, then tuck it into the pocket.
 Are you feeling fancy? Use origami techniques to fold a big bath towel into a swan. This is especially nice if you have two guests in the same room, as you can set the swans on the bed so that they are looking at each other.


Lay a towel so the long side is horizontal.
Take the top two corners, and fold them towards each other. Now the towel will be in a pentagon shape, with a point at the top. The short sides should lay against each other.
Roll each of the top diagonal edges towards one another. This should turn the towel into a rolled arrow shape.
Take the head of the arrow and bend it back towards the tails of the arrow. Then bend the tip of it down. In profile, this will look like a Z-shape.
(Opt.) Fold a washcloth into a fan and put it between the “wings” for a tail.

