 Cats who have eclampsia may not act like normal mother cats. They may be inattentive to their kittens and not feed them. They may start acting lethargic or depressed. In some cases, they can even become aggressive., Milk fever may cause cats to be restless or nervous. They may seem agitated and unable to sit still. This may lead to excessive pacing. They may also start whining or panting., Some cats develop muscular symptoms with eclampsia. They may have trouble walking, or start stumbling or tripping. Their gait may be stiff and awkward. Cats may also be disoriented and not know where they are and run into things.The cat may start having tremors and having convulsions.
In some cats, their body may become stuff. They may lie with their limbs stiff and rigid.
 In some cats, they may start vomiting once they develop eclampsia. They may also have diarrhea. In many cases, they stop eating.
 Cats with eclampsia may run a high fever. They may have dilated pupils or start scratching their face a lot because it is itchy., Eclampsia occurs most commonly in nursing cats, but can also happen to pregnant cats. Usually, the condition occurs between two to six weeks after the birth of the litter. However, it can occur outside of this time frame. It occurs most often with a first time litter.If the cat received poor nutrition during or after the pregnancy, she is at a higher risk for eclampsia.
 Once you start to notice that your cat displays any of these symptoms, take her to the vet immediately. Eclampsia is a serious condition that needs to be treated immediately to avoid the death of the cat. Your vet will give your cat a physical examination.The vet may want to know details about your cat’s diet during and after pregnancy and any supplements she’s been given.
 If the vet suspects eclampsia, they will do a biochemical profile to check blood calcium levels. Low calcium in the blood leads to a positive diagnosis. The vet may also look for low blood sugar.Magnesium levels may also be checked.
 The most common treatment for eclampsia is for the vet to give the cat calcium intravenously to help slowly raise the blood calcium levels. The cat will stay at the vet during this procedure. The vet will monitor the calcium blood levels closely to make sure the cat doesn’t get too much calcium in the blood.Vitamin D may also be given to help the cat absorb the calcium.
 If the cat’s condition has progressed to muscle spasms and seizures, the vet may provide them with anti-seizure drugs to help with the seizures and tetany.This will be given while at the vet to stabilize the cat before they are given calcium supplements.
 If the cat has a high fever, the vet will work to try to bring that down. They may try to cool her with a fan to lower her body temperature. They may also cover the cat with cool damp cloths.
 While the mother is being treated, the kittens will have to be hand fed. Talk with the vet about whether or not the kittens can return to nursing normally after the mother has recovered. If the vet says it is okay, the mother’s blood calcium level will be monitored as the kittens nurse.If the vet thinks the mother shouldn’t nurse anymore, they will recommend weaning the kittens.
 After the cat has been treated, the vet will more than likely prescribe calcium supplements for you to continue giving the cat at home as follow-up care. Follow the vet's instructions for the supplements. This is generally the only aftercare since getting treated by the vet generally cures eclampsia.Don’t give the cat calcium supplements without a vet’s approval. Calcium supplements during pregnancy can mess up her ability to absorb it, which can lead to eclampsia. Calcium supplements after pregnancy can also be dangerous.

