 Remember that every skill takes time. You can't learn a new instrument or sport in one afternoon, so don't expect to learn how to keep your eyes open in one afternoon! It takes time to accustom to the feeling of water on your eyes.;
, The outside of your eye is protected by a thin film called the cornea. It is very tough and keep dirt, bacteria, etc. from getting to the more sensitive parts, like the pupil and the lens. Trust me, I've dissected a sheep eye in science class, just take my word on it..., (: Who doesn't love practice? It may not make you perfect, but it will make you a whole lot better! The first steps are to take on fresh water. Try filling out your bathroom sink first. (You may want to rinse it out to make sure no toothpaste or cleaning products are in it. That could really be hard to adjust to...) Next, take a deep breath and relax. Jitters won't help. Close your eyes and stick your head under. When you feel ready, open them and stare at a point in the sink. Focus and relax, blink a couple times then stare at a new point to get used to the feeling. You can also try this with a tub or bucket of water from a hose.
 The fact is when you're swimming, hair is going to be getting in your face. Get used to it getting in your eyes. Move your head and feel the water on your eyes and your hair (if it is long enough.) The feeling is much different than if you're still.
 Try it in a lake. Focus on a rock, seashell, etc. then continue the steps mentioned above. Pretty soon you'll be so used to the feeling you'll be able to swim like that and amaze your friends! :^)

, Remember the ocean is briny, it's salt water! Salt in your eyes will not feel good, but its also water. Do the steps mentioned above in a calm part of the surf. You could swim out to where it's over your head or could bend over from the waist like you're bending over the sink. I would also recommend to do the sink first, then hit the waves. (:

, This is actually a bit harder than opening your eyes. It's mental and physical control. You're expanding your lungs, holding air, and meditating your mind to calm it into a state that yes, I'm not breathing but I'm not dying. If you stop breathing, your body automatically goes into distress mode. Plus, you're muscles and blood needs oxygen. Learning to control your physical and mental needs takes a lot of practice.
 Control your heart rate, and breathe from your stomach/diaphragm. What this means is your whole torso should expand, not just your chest. You'll feel that you breathe deeper and once you get used to breathing that way, trying to breathe "normally" will feel shallow. Learning deep stomach breathing may make you feel dizzy at first.
 Don't try counting in your head. Focus entirely on your breathing, keeping it even, under control, and at a moderate pace. Don't puff out your cheeks. You're letting that air escape your lungs and and pushing with your stomach. Hold it in your throat when pausing.
 I also follow this dude on youtube. Check out the link below for more in depth practices.