 There are a number of physical signs that may indicate a yeast infection. The most common symptoms include:Itching, soreness, and overall discomfort in the vaginal area.
Pain or burning during urination or sex.
Thick (like cottage cheese), white discharge in the vagina. Note that not all women experience this symptom.;
, If you are having trouble determining whether or not you have a yeast infection, then consider some of the most frequent causes of yeast infections:



Antibiotics - Many women develop a yeast infection after taking antibiotics for several days.Antibiotics kill some of the good bacteria in your body, including the bacteria that prevents the overgrowth of yeast, which leads to yeast infections.If you have been taking antibiotics recently and are experiencing vaginal burning and itching, you might have a yeast infection.

Menstruation - A woman is most likely to develop a yeast infection around the time of her period. So if you're experiencing the above symptoms and it is near the time of your period, then you may have a yeast infection.Birth control - Birth control pills and one-time "morning after" pills cause a change in hormone levels, which in turn can bring about a yeast infection.Existing medical conditions - Some diseases or conditions, such as HIV or diabetes, can also cause yeast infections.Pregnancy - Due to the hormonal changes that accompany pregnancy, yeast infections are more likely during this time.General health - Illness, obesity, poor sleeping habits, and stress can increase the likelihood of developing a yeast infection., As in the case of pregnancies, there are tests you can take to determine what's going on down there. Normal vaginal pH is around 4, which is slightly acidic. Follow any instructions accompanying the test.In a pH test, you hold a piece of pH paper against the wall of your vagina for a few seconds. Then, compare the color of the paper to the chart provided with the test. The number on the chart for the color that best approximates the color of the paper is your vaginal pH number.If the test result is above 4, it's best to see your doctor. This is not indicative of a yeast infection, but could be a sign of another infection.If the test result is below 4, it is likely (but not definitively) a yeast infection.
 If you have never had a yeast infection before or are unsure about the diagnosis, then you should schedule an appointment with your doctor or a nurse at your gynecologist's office.Your doctor or nurse will perform a brief vaginal examination, and then use a cotton swab to take a sample of vaginal discharge in order to conduct a yeast count. This is called a wet mount. Your doctor may order additional tests to rule out other causes of your symptoms.Although yeast infections are very common among women, they can be difficult to accurately self-diagnose. Research has shown that only 35% of women with a history of yeast infection were able to correctly diagnose a yeast infection from their symptoms alone.Herpes outbreaks and allergic reactions to laundry detergent are frequently confused with yeast infections.
Remember that there are other potential reasons why you may be experiencing abnormal vaginal discharge and vaginal discomfort, including other infections such as bacterial vaginosis or trichomoniasis. For example, many of the symptoms of a yeast infection are very similar to those of an STD.If you have a recurring yeast infections, your doctor may need to perform a cultures test to determine if a candida species other than C. albicans is causing infection.
Pregnant women should not treat a yeast infection before consulting a doctor.