 Researching the company will give you an idea of whether the company is a bit more laid back or strictly professional. Your findings should help to shape the outfit your pick out.


When you interview at an organization that has an open, easy going culture, there will most likely be less of a need to wear very conservative, professional clothes.
In offices with formal environments, you should plan to wear conservative, neutral and professional outfits.
 A good tip to remember is that you do not want to be remembered for your dress; that means your attire should help the interviewer focus on the interview rather than being distracted by your wacky clothes. This is best achieved by wearing solid colors rather than some overwhelming prints.


Solid colors like navy, grey and black dresses and suits make you look professional. Small patterns or pinstripes are also acceptable, but remember they should be small enough to appear solid from across the room.
 A brightly colored outfit is likely to turn heads and catch the interviews attention, which may take away from the interview. Therefore limiting yourself to solid colors like navy, black, brown and gray will help you blend into the office environment. White also looks very professional and you can add a white blouse or shirt to go with your suit or dress.


If you find this to be too drab or authoritative, you can make your clothes looks more interesting by adding a dash of color to your neutral color dress.
Pale colors are best to soften the look and make a great choice for interviews that are for a job where you are working with clients or customers. A pale blue shirt can soften the harsh look of a dark grey suit.
Adding a bright colored item like a red scarf or tie can give some authority to your personality.
 It's a good idea to choose an outfit according to the office culture and the role that you are interviewing for. An investment banker’s attire must ooze professionalism and power while if you are appearing for a graphic designer’s position in a startup organization, a casual and creative personality is what you may want to portray. The thumb rule is to present you as the candidate who fits the organization and the position.
 Wearing a lucky jacket or blouse will boost your confidence level, and this is a great thing to have in any interview situation. So, go ahead and wear your favorite watch or jewellery or even that favorite lilac blouse or the red jacket, but keep in mind the tips that have been discussed in the previous steps.


If your lucky dress clashes with the culture of the company you are applying for, it is a good idea to put it aside in favor of a different dress.
 As mentioned above, professional women’s attire will mean different things to different companies. So companies may not care what you wear, but for interviews it is important to look professional. Standard professional women’s attire includes:


Solid colors and conservative outfits.
Coordinated blouse that is in alignment to a conservative color tone.
Moderate shoes preferably black.
Limited jewelry and few flashy colors.
Briefcase or portfolio
Light hosiery.
Manicured nails.
Neat makeup that is not distracting.
Neat and professional hairstyle.
 There are also guidelines for what constitutes professional men’s attire. These guidelines include:


Solid colors and conservative suits.
Long sleeve shirt that is conservative color tone.
Moderate shoes preferably black.
Dark and professional socks.
Briefcase or portfolio.
Trimmed nails
Neat and professional hairstyle.

