


The more you know about how your disease works, the better you will be able to understand how to live with juvenile diabetes.
Several organizations, such as the Juvenile Diabetes Research Foundation International, the National Diabetes Information Clearinghouse and the Centers for Disease Control offer a wealth of information on diabetes treatments, research and potential complications.
Join a support group for people with juvenile diabetes. It will help you discover that, while diabetes is challenging, it will not stop you from living a full life.;
,


Take your blood sugar readings and administer your insulin as directed. Do not skip doses or attempt to administer a dose without reading your blood sugar unless your doctor directs you to do so.
Your blood sugar levels should be between 70 and 110 mb /dL before meals and between 100 and 140 mg/dL at bedtime.
Consult your physician if your blood sugar levels are consistently lower than 70 before meals, or 100 before bed; or consistently higher than 110 before meals, or 140 before bed. This could indicate that you are having trouble controlling your blood sugar and need to adjust your treatment plan.



Your blood sugar levels will fluctuate throughout the day depending on your activity levels and eating habits.
Some forms of insulin must be kept refrigerated. Other forms, such as the insulin pen, should not be refrigerated once in use. Consult your physician about prescribing non-refrigerated insulin that you can carry around with you.
Individuals who have to take multiple injections could also benefit from an insulin pump, an electronic device that automatically dispenses insulin at preset intervals throughout the day. Consult your physician to determine if an insulin pump is right for you.



There is no set "diabetic diet" but there are certain guidelines that can help you remain healthy: eat more whole and fresh foods than processed; reduce your intake of fast food and sugary sodas and snacks; substitute whole grains, such as whole wheat and brown rice, for refined, "white" grains.
Eat at least 3 meals per day and 2 snacks to keep your blood sugar levels stable. If necessary, carry food with you to ensure that you do not miss a meal.



Low blood sugar happens suddenly and the symptoms include: sweating, nervousness and irritability, nausea, hunger, blurred vision, headache and a rapid heartbeat. You could also experience confusion, slurred speech, an unsteady gait and in severe cases, loss of consciousness.
Treat low blood sugar by consuming a glucose tablet, a cup of fruit juice or sugary soda, or a piece of candy. Wait 30 minutes and take a blood sugar reading. If your levels are still low, administer more glucose and take another reading. If your symptoms do not resolve after three attempts, call the Emergency Services.
High blood sugar takes several days to develop and should not occur if you are monitoring your blood sugar properly. The symptoms are similar to the symptoms of untreated diabetes: increased hunger and thirst and frequent urination, blurred vision, weakness or fatigue, weight loss and a rapid heart rate.
Treat high blood sugar by administering insulin and waiting 30 minutes and testing your blood sugar. If your sugar is still high, call the Emergency Services.
Ketoacidosis occurs when your body is unable to use sugar for energy and must rapidly break down fats. The process of breaking down fats releases chemicals called ketones, which can build up in the body and make your blood acidic. Symptoms of ketoacidosis include: rapid breathing, nausea, vomiting, loss of appetite and breath that smells like rotting fruit.

Call the Emergency Services and administer insulin if you are experiencing ketoacidosis.



Notify the school nurse or, if you are in college, the campus healthcare and disability office as well as your teachers.
Notify your friends, and if you spend a lot of time at their houses or with their families, their parents as well.
If you are an adult with this condition, notify the human resources department at your place of employment and your supervisor.
Wear a medical bracelet that advises emergency personnel of your condition in the event you are in an accident and unable to speak for yourself.

