 If you are ordering your certificate through the mail, find out if you can mail a request to the specific county or if you must mail it to a central location.


In some states, mailed vital records requests are only processed in the central office, usually in the state's capital.
For example, if you want to request a copy of a Georgia marriage license in person, you would go to the vital records registrar in the county where you were married. If you wanted to mail your request, however, you would mail it to the central office in Atlanta.Similarly, Cook County Illinois has six different locations where you can request a marriage certificate in person, but only one address to submit a request by mail., Some states or counties have toll-free numbers you can call to make a records request.If you're ordering a copy of your marriage certificate over the phone, you should be prepared to give the customer service representative who answers the phone the same information as you would include on the request form, such as the names of the bride and groom and the date and location of the marriage., You may be able to download and print a request form online. If not, write a letter to the appropriate address that states you are requesting a copy of your marriage certificate and provides important information such as the names of the bride and groom and the date and location of the marriage.#Make photocopies of identification, if required. Some states only allow spouses or other specific relatives to receive a copy of a marriage certificate, and thus require proof of your identity before they will process your request and mail the certificate., Find out what the processing fee is for a copy of your marriage certificate and make sure you include that amount with your request.


You may be able to get additional copies at a reduced rate. Some states may charge extra for a certified, apostille, or exemplified copy. If you need such a copy, you should contact the vital records office before you make your request to make sure you are requesting it properly and have included all the necessary fees.Your fee typically will be around $15 depending on the state and county., In many states such as Georgia, vital records requests must be signed to be considered valid under state law.Some states such as California require you to include a sworn statement signed in front of a notary public under penalty of perjury., Once you've finished your request, make copies of it and then mail it along with the fee and any other documents to the mailing address of the state vital records office., After your request is received, the vital records office will find and mail your marriage certificate to you, usually within a few weeks.

The date of the marriage may impact the length of time it takes to process your request. Older records may not be digitized or may be housed in a warehouse location.