 Cut kiwi into ½ inch (about 10 mm) slices, and pat them dry with a paper towel. Dip slices in melted chocolate, lay them flat in a covered container, and let them freeze for two to three hours., Nip the leafy ends off a pound (500 g) of strawberries, and roll the berries in a cup (250 ml) of Greek yogurt. Place them in a single layer in a wide plastic container and freeze.Or, you can also space them out on a wax paper lined cookie sheet. After they are frozen, you can transfer them to a plastic container or Ziploc bag and keep them in the freezer until you want them.


Try different flavors of yogurt, like vanilla or chocolate.
Try mixing Greek yogurt with honey for a topping.
You can also make yogurt-filled berries, by removing the center of the strawberries and filling them with yogurt.
 Peel several bananas and freeze them for two to three hours. Blend the frozen bananas to a creamy consistency in your food processor, then serve in a tall milkshake glass.Add sweet ingredients for more flavor: dark chocolate chips, or peanut butter. Add a lot or a little, according to your taste preferences and whether or not you are trying to limit calories.
 For this one, you'll need some lemonade, honey, a small amount of sliced or diced berries, and an ice cube tray. Use any type of berry you like: strawberries, blueberries, blackberries, or raspberries work well.Drizzle a small amount of honey into the bottom of the ice cube tray.
Fill trays with lemonade, and add chopped berries to each cube.
Cover the tray with aluminum foil, and poke a toothpick into the center of each ice cube compartment.
Freeze for several hours until solid, and you'll have mini fruit popsicles.
 Stick several blueberries on a wooden skewer, and roll the entire thing in Greek yogurt. Line the kebabs on a plate and place in freezer until the yogurt is frozen solid., Create tiny frozen banana sandwiches in minutes. In addition to being tasty, they are low in calories and high in protein and fiber.


Blend together 1 ripe banana, 1 Tablespoon of peanut butter, and 2 ounces (50 g) of vanilla Greek yogurt.
Peel 3 bananas and cut them into ½ inch (about 10 mm) slices.
Spread the peanut butter-yogurt mixture onto a banana slice, then top with another banana slice.
Put your mini banana bites on a plate and freeze for 2-3 hours.
 In your blender, mix 1 small can of apricot nectar (about 6 ounces or 170 g), 3 fresh halved apricots, 3 ice cubes, and 1 tablespoon of honey until smooth. Add ¼ cup (60 ml) of frozen raspberries, and blend a little longer until the raspberries are slightly broken up but not liquefied. Serve cold in a tall glass., In your blender, combine ½ teaspoon of lime peel, 2 tablespoons lime juice, 2 cups of diced frozen cantaloupe, 1/3 cup (78 ml) of diced frozen peaches, 1 tablespoon of honey and 3 ice cubes. Blend all these ingredients together until they are smooth, and serve in a tall glass., Gather together ¾ cup of frozen strawberries, ½ cup of orange juice, and one banana. Combine all these ingredients in your blender, and mix until smooth. Pour immediately into a tall glass and enjoy.