 Odds are, the moisture in the air will make it difficult to style your hair in any elaborate manner. Keeping your hair down may even prove difficult if you have hard to manage locks, since humidity may cause frizz and hard-to-tame waves. Reduce this effect by tying your hair back in a clean, slick ponytail. It may still get frizzy if you do not use any styling products to keep it down, but the amount of frizz will likely seem less noticeable.
 Braids add an extra layer of structure into your style, which may further reduce unruly frizz. Wear two tightly braided pigtails for a playful, youthful look, or try one large braided ponytail down your back to create a dressier appearance.
 Whether you have your hair down or tied back, hair care products like these are a rainy day necessity. Anti-frizz serum is especially usefully in taming fly-away frizz caused by the humidity. Hairspray may not be necessary for casual styles, but if you want your hair to stay put, you should definitely consider a quick spritz.
 If you have short hair, ponytails and braids are not exactly an option you can take advantage of. For a fuss-free rainy day style, slick your hair back with gel. This keeps your hair styled, frizz-free, and in place while giving it a wet appearance that nullifies the desire to keep your hair dry.
 Mascara can look especially bad once it runs, so waterproof mascara is an absolute necessity on a rainy day. Eye liner and eyeshadow can also run and get in your eyes once wet, so you should look for waterproof versions of these, as well.
 Liquid cosmetics do not wash away as easily as powders, so your make-up will last longer. Additionally, liquids and creams do not streak as easily as powders do upon getting wet.
 The less you can get away with wearing, the better. No matter what products you apply, there is still some chance that they will run or wear off. If you feel comfortable skipping make-up for a day, go for it. Otherwise, keep your make-up application at a bare minimum, only opting for a light coating of the products you feel are “must haves” in your daily beauty routine.

