 While most states allow co-parent adoptions for opposite sex and same sex couples (e.g., Oregon and California), some states prohibit co-parent adoptions.For example, as of 2015, Nebraska, North Carolina, Ohio, and Wisconsin do not allow co-parent adoptions by unmarried couples., If your state allows co-parent adoptions, make sure you meet the other requirements necessary to adopt a child. For example, in California, the essential elements of a valid adoption include:A voluntary and informed parental consent to the adoption (unless the parent has surrendered or has been judicially deprived of parental control)
A suitable adoptive parent (at least 10 years older than the child being adopted)
A decision by the court that the adoption is in the best interest of the child

, A lawyer will help you navigate the confusing legal field of co-parent adoptions. Without the help of a qualified family law lawyer, you may accidentally terminate your girlfriend's or boyfriend's parental rights. A lawyer will help you draft adoption documents, file your paperwork, and go to court.


If you cannot afford to hire a lawyer to represent you throughout the entire process, at least consult with one about the intricacies of co-parent adoptions. Most lawyers will offer free initial consultations where you may be able to learn whether your state allows co-parent adoptions and whether your local court has forms available for you to fill out.
If you need help to Find a Good Family Law Attorney, contact your state bar association's lawyer referral service. After answering a few general questions about your legal issue, you will be put in contact with qualified lawyers in your area.
 If you think you can meet all of the requirements necessary to adopt your girlfriend's or boyfriend's child, visit your county courthouse and request an adoption packet. If your courthouse does not have an adoption packet available, they should be able to point you in the direction of the forms you will need. Make sure you ask for independent adoption forms. Independent adoptions are those that do not involve adoption or state agencies.Visit the courthouse where you plan on filing for adoption. Each county in each state will have different forms and different procedures. While some states will have special courts to handle adoption matters, most states will handle these matters in their normal civil courts.
 An adoption request (or a petition in some states) tells the judge about the adoption request and who all the parties are.In California, for example, you can obtain an adoption request (Form ADOPT-200) from the California court website. When you fill out this form, you will need to include the following information:Your personal information as the adopting parent (e.g., your name, address, and relationship to the child)
An indication of why you are filing in a particular court (e.g., you reside in that county or the child resides in that county)
The type of adoption you are filing for (e.g., an independent, additional parent adoption)
The child's personal information
A statement saying you are suitable to adopt the child (e.g., you will support the child, you are of a suitable age, and and you will treat the child as your own)

, This form tells the judge that you and the child agree to the adoption.You will sign this form in the presence of the judge. If the child is over a certain age (usually 12), he or she will be required to sign the form as well.


For example, in California, you will fill out Form ADOPT-210 by providing your personal information on the top of the form. You will not have to do anything else with this form until your hearing., An adoption order is a blank form the judge will sign if he or she approves the adoption. All you need to do is fill in your personal information and information about the court hearing. In California, the adoption order is Form ADOPT-215., The court will require you to submit an itemized list of the expenses you incurred while going through the adoption process. Most courts will have a form you fill out to accomplish this. For example, in California, you can fill out Form ADOPT-230. Common adoption expenses you might incur include:Hospital services
Prenatal care
Legal fees
Transportation fees
Counseling fees
Court filing fees

, The most important document you will sign and have signed is the waiver, which is an agreement waiving the termination of parental rights. The waiver must be signed by both adopting parents and both biological parents. This is the document that will allow your girlfriend or boyfriend to retain their parental rights even after you adopt the child. Once you have a waiver agreement drafted and signed, indicate this fact on your adoption request.


Remember that every parent involved has to sign this waiver. This will include you, your boyfriend or girlfriend, and the child's other parent.
This agreement will be attached to your adoption request., Take all of your completed original forms to your county courthouse and hand them to the clerk of court. He or she will explain the adoption process moving forward. When you submit your paperwork, make sure you bring multiple copies for your records. While the court will keep the originals, you may want stamped copies for yourself.When your paperwork is submitted, it will be stamped as "filed".
 You will have to pay a filing fee when you submit your paperwork. Each county's fees will vary but they generally fall between $100 and $400. If you cannot afford the filing fee, you can ask the court for a fee waiver., In most adoptions, an investigator will be assigned to your case. The investigator will conduct an interview with you and other interested parties. The investigator might also review your financial information, your home life, and your relationship. After the investigation is complete, the investigator will write a report and file it with the court.


This report will give the judge important information he or she will use when deciding your case.Do everything in your power to ensure a positive report is written. For example, clean your home and make sure it is child proof. Talk with friends and family and ensure they are on board with the adoption. Make sure your financials are in order (e.g., have a steady job and a good savings). Sit down with your boyfriend or girlfriend and discuss parenting plans. This could be the difference between having your adoption granted or denied.
 Once the court receives the investigator's report, the clerk will reach out to you to schedule a hearing date. Work with all interested parties (e.g., your boyfriend or girlfriend and the child) to find a date that works for everyone. All of these parties will be required to be at the hearing., On the day of your hearing, arrive early so you have time to park, get through security, and find your courtroom. Be sure you bring copies of all the paperwork you have as well as the child you are adopting. Once you find your courtroom, sit quietly until your case is called. When your case is called, move to the front of the courtroom and speak with the judge. To grant your adoption, the judge will have to find all of the following:The child is of an appropriate age (and consent was given if child is over 12)
The adopting parent (you) is at least 10 years older than the child, will care for the child, has a suitable home, and agrees to the adoption
The waiver is valid that allows your boyfriend or girlfriend to retain parental rights
The adoption is in the best interest of the child

, If the court grants the adoption he or she will sign the completed adoption order, which you will give them during the hearing. Once the adoption order is signed, the adoption will be official.
 Most adoptions go smoothly so long as the other biological parent (i.e., not your boyfriend or girlfriend) consents to having their parental rights terminated. If the other parent has not provided support or been in the child's life in the past, consent might not even be necessary. However, in some cases, your adoption might be contested. If your adoption is contested, you will have to convince the judge that the adoption is in the best interest of the child. When a judge determines best interests, he or she will take into consideration the following:The importance of family integrity, which in some cases might mean allowing the adoption (e.g., if the other biological parent has been out of the picture for some time).
The health, safety, and protection of the child.
The emotional ties a child has to you and his or her parents.
Your capacity to provide a safe home.
The presence of domestic violence in the home.
The mental and physical health of you and the child.

