 Place a measuring tape at the base of your dog's paw, then measure up to his or her shoulder. Next, subtract 4 to 6 inches (10.16 to 15.24 centimeters). This will be the height you need for your base., A metal trashcan would be best, but you can use a plastic one too. Try to get one that has straight walls; avoid ones that have grooves or beveled walls.

If you have a very big dog, such as a Great Dane, consider getting a 6-gallon (227-liter) paint bucket instead.If the bucket has a handle, be sure to take it off.
 You want the bowl to be small enough so that it will fit inside the trashcan's opening. At the same time, you want it to be big enough so that its rim will sit comfortably on the trashcan's rim. If the bowl is too big, it will roll around on top of the trashcan instead. This can lead to spilled food and water.

If you can't find a bowl the right size, find a plastic lid that can sit on top of the trashcan, then cut a hole in it for the bowl to fit through.
The bowl must have a rim; it is what will hold it up.
 The extra length will allow you to make a nice, finished seam. The extra height will cover you if the fabric starts to go on crooked. Remember, it is always easier to cut off excess fabric than to add more on.

If your trashcan has tapering sides, you might want to add several more inches to accommodate the sloopes., Choose a fabric that suits the decor of your home. It can be solid-colored or patterned. Cotton would work best for this, but canvas or linen would also look nice.

If your bowl is made out of metal, consider a solid-beige color. This will work great with the rope you'll be adding later.
For a sea-side theme, choose a solid-blue color. This will work great with white rope.
 If your trashcan has a seam, place the edge of the fabric against that seam. Use your fingers to smooth out any wrinkles. Try to leave an equal amount of fabric to the top and bottom of your trashcan.

Use a wide paintbrush or foam brush for this. You will be working in small sections at a time, but a tiny paintbrush will take too long.
If you can't find any Mod Podge, you can use another type of decoupage glue. You can also use watered-down white school glue (3 parts glue to 1 part water).
 Once when you are back to where you started, you will find that you have a few inches of extra fabric leftover. Do not glue this fabric down yet., Folding the fabric under by ½ inch (1.72 centimeters) would be ideal. If you don't have enough fabric for that, don't worry; just fold the edge under as much as you can. Paint on a thin stripe of Mod Podge, then press the seam down onto it., The fabric will be much easier to cut once it is dry; you also won't have to worry about ruining your scissors.

If the trashcan has a rim, you can run a craft blade right along it; this will cut off the excess fabric neatly.If the glue is taking too long to dry, set it out in the sun.
 The design can be as simple as a dog bone, a word (ie: FOOD or WATER), or your dog's name. You can also make it more ornate by painting on a small background first, such as an oval with scalloped edges, letting it dry, and then writing your dog's name on top.

This is not completely necessary, but it can make your raised dog bowl look nicer.
 This will help seal your design, and protect the fabric. Make sure that the finish you are using is waterproof or weather-resistant. This way, if the can gets dirty, you can just wipe it clean.

Alternatively, you can also coat your entire bucket with clear, acrylic spray sealer.
 You will need enough rope to wrap around the top and bottom of your trashcan. Something that is the same thickness as your finger would work well, but keep proportions in mind. The larger the trashcan, the thicker your rope should be; the smaller the trashcan, the thinner your rope will be.

If you went with a metal bowl and beige-colored fabric, thick, hemp rope will work great.
If you went with a sea-side theme, hemp rope or white cord would look wonderful.
If your fabric has a pattern on it, consider using white cord. You can also paint some rope black (or another matching color) with spray paint.
 Glue the rope down just above the bottom edge, so that the trashcan can still stand firmly on the ground. Glue the other rope just under the rim, so that it does not get in the bowl's way. Because hot glue sets quickly, only squeeze out a few inches of glue at a time., If the trashcan is not very stable, fill it with some heavy rocks first. Alternatively, you can fill the trashcan or bucket with your dog's food, be it canned or kibble.