 Your jewelry should be appropriate for where you are going. Are you wearing jewelry to work? This is time to be more conservative with your accessorizing. Are you at a formal event? If so, consider wearing more fine jewelry and gemstones. Are you hanging out with friends or going to a party? Then be playful, fun and more daring with your look.


Small, dainty jewelry is best for work. Stud earrings instead of dangling earrings are acceptable. Your jewelry at work should never be distracting.If you are unsure what is appropriate, see what the other women at the office wear and follow suit.;
, You have so many options when it comes to jewelry. Bracelets, necklaces, earrings, watches, and rings are all available. All jewelry comes in different shapes, lengths, materials and widths. Whatever you choose should compliment your outfit and personal style. If you are new to accessorizing, start with a pair of stud earrings. Studs are appropriate for every occasion and can be worn with other jewelry as well., If you are wearing a busy outfit with a loud print, your jewelry should be more subdued. If you are wearing a plain, simple outfit, you can wear more creative jewelry to transform your outfit.Remember your jewelry is an addition to your outfit and should never compete with what you are wearing.


If your outfit is already embellished with jewels, skip the necklace and wear some simple earrings.Your jewelry can also be used to bring your outfit together.For example, if you are wearing a black dress with red shoes, you could wear some red jewelry to pull the outfit together.
For example, you would not wear a huge, statement necklace with a leopard print top. However, you could be much more adventurous with a plain white tee or blouse.
 It used to be taboo to wear gold, silver, copper, rose gold, etc. However, this is no longer the case.Feel free to mix up different metals. Another way to mix and match is by playing with size, width, and texture. Wear bracelets of different widths or necklaces of different lengths.


You can also stack rings on your fingers as well. Try doubling up or wearing a regular ring and a midi ring on the same finger.
Necklaces and wrist wear (e.g. bracelets, bangles, cuffs, and watches) can be stacked as well.
 A necklace should compliment the neckline of your clothing. You want the necklace to be visible, yet not compete with your outfit. The right necklace can emphasize and enhance your outfit.On the other hand, the wrong can be a distraction and take away from what you are wearing.


Try a long pendant necklace if you are wearing a deep V neckline. The necklace should hit right above your cleavage.
A short, statement necklace looks great with a sweetheart neckline.
Layered necklaces and statements necklaces look nice with crew neck cut clothing.
 An easy way to begin accessorizing is to build around one piece of jewelry such as a statement necklace, ring, or bracelet.This piece would be the focus of your outfit, and then all the other pieces would be minimal. For example, if your earrings are the focal point, you may wear a simple band on your finger and a dainty necklace.


If your necklace is the centerpiece, wear stud earrings and minimal rings or bracelets.
Your watch and bracelet could also be the focus of your accessorizing. If this is the case, do not wear earrings or necklaces that would compete with your wrist jewelry.
 The color of your jewelry does not have to be the exact same color as your outfit or the other jewelry that you are wearing.You can wear multiple complimentary colors or wear a pop of color if your outfit is all neutral colors.If you are unsure what colors will look best with your clothing, take a look at a color wheel. Find whatever color you are wearing on the wheel and then look across the wheel to determine which colors are complimentary.Wearing metal jewelry is always a safe bet if you are not sure about what colors to wear.
Diamonds and diamond-looking jewelry are also safe no matter what colors you are wearing.If your outfit is a neutral color (e.g. black, white, gray, etc.), you can wear some bright colored jewelry to add some color and personality to your look.
 Different styles of earrings are more flattering depending on the shape of your face. If you have a long or oval shaped face, try studs or shorter drop earrings. If you have a square or round face, pendant earrings will look nice. Hoop earrings compliment every face shape.These are just suggestions for choosing earrings. At the end of the day, wear earrings that you like and that you feel confident wearing.
 Rings are a beautiful addition to any outfit. To make your fingers look longer, wear narrow bands. If your fingers are already thin, you can get away with wearing wider bands.As a rule, your left hand is for serious jewelry like wedding and engagement rings or family heirlooms. Your right hand is for more playful and over-sized rings., Jewelry is worn close to your skin so look for jewelry that compliments your tone. Cool skin tones have bluish colored veins and have more pink and red undertones. Warm skin tones have greenish colored veins and more yellow undertones. If you have a cool skin tone, platinum and white gold will look best. If you have a warm skin tone, yellow gold and rose gold will look best.Rose gold actually looks good with a variety of skin tones.Go ahead and give it a try.
Gemstones such as yellow diamonds, Citrine, Garnet, Morganite, Ruby, and Peridot are recommended for warm skin tones.
Emerald, Opal, Amethyst, Aquamarine, Zircon, and Tanzanite are recommended for cool skin tones.
No matter your skin tone, diamonds or diamond-like jewelry will always look nice.
 Jewelry will look different depending on your height, body type, and bust size. If you have a smaller frame, thin and dainty jewelry is very complimentary. However, dainty jewelry may not stand out as much on a larger frame. If you have a larger frame, try some chunkier jewelry.


If you are 5'4" or smaller, go for necklaces that sit on or just below your collarbone.If you are tall and/or have a long torso, any necklace length is usually fine. Keep in mind that shorter necklace lengths may get lost.
The shorter your neck, the thinner the necklace should be. For example, you would not wear a choker if you have a very short neck.

