 Tea tree oil a popular and effective natural remedy to help treat pimples. Tea tree oil provides antimicrobial and anti-inflammatory activity. This means that it can help reduce the swelling of your pimple trapped under the skin, along with fighting the bacteria causing it.Mix one drop of tea tree oil with nine drops of water. You may choose instead to dilute the tea tree oil with an oil instead, such as olive or mineral oil. You can also dilute it with aloe vera gel. Soak a cotton ball or a cotton swab in the tea tree oil mixture. Apply it on the blind pimple. Let it sit for 10 minutes, then rinse your face with warm water. You can do this three times a day.Make sure not to get tea tree oil near your eyes because it can cause irritation.
Before you apply tea tree oil to the pimple, test for sensitivity. Apply one drop of tea tree oil to your wrist and wait for about 15 minutes. If you see no reaction, it is safe to use on your pimple.
 Tea can be helpful in treating blind pimples. Green tea and black tea both have tannins, which have anti-inflammatory properties.Combined with a warm compress, tea can help reduce the swelling of your pimple.


Steep either green or black tea bag in warm water. Remove the tea bag and place it directly on the blind pimple. The tea acts as an astringent, which also helps draws out the pimple.
 Honey is a common home remedy for blind pimples. Honey is antimicrobial and antibacterial, which helps fight the bacteria clogging your pores. Honey also can help nourish and heal your skin. Try spreading honey over the pimple with no head, and leave it there for around 20 minutes. Rinse with warm water.Try making a mask by combining honey with apple pulp. Apples are good for blind pimples because the malic acid is believed to firm the skin. Put a cored apple into a food processor or blender and blend until it is a pulp. Mix with the honey to form a mask-like paste. Cover the pimple with this and leave it on for up to 20 minutes before washing off., Milk is a natural beauty product used in many at-home and folk remedies. Milk has alpha hydroxy acids in it, which helps remove dead skin and unclog pores. This can help your blind pimple by helping to remove the clogged outer layer. This may also help bring the pimple to a head so you can remove the pus from inside.Apply milk directly onto the pimple with no head using a cotton ball. Let the milk stay on for at least 20 minutes before rinsing with warm water.
You can do this three or four times a day.
 Aloe vera is a great alternative to get rid of blind pimples for those with sensitive skin. Aloe vera is antibacterial and anti-inflammatory, which means it can help reduce the swelling and redness of the pimple and fight the bacteria causing it.You may choose to use the leaf of an aloe vera plant or aloe vera gel.


Spread the aloe vera onto the blind pimple. Let it set for around 20 minutes. You can do this up to three times a day., Apple cider vinegar has antibacterial and antiseptic properties. This means it can help fight the bacteria causing the pimple and make the pimple come to a head. Apply apple cider vinegar to the pimple using a cotton ball.If you have sensitive skin, dilute the apple cider vinegar in a ratio of one part vinegar to four parts water before apply to the pimple.

