 An opening statement is meant to help jurors comprehend the case, focus on important evidence, and provide context.Before writing your opening statement, you are going to want to grasp why the opening statement is so important. This will help you write the best opening statement possible. Your opening statement should do at least the following things:



Present a clear picture of the case.Your opening statement is one of the only times at trial you will be able to tell a complete, uninterrupted story.After your opening statement, the case will unfold in bits and pieces and may seem unorganized to the jurors.Arouse the interest of your jury.You want the jury to be engaged and interested in the case.If they are not, you may find your jury getting bored and becoming inattentive during your presentation of witnesses and evidence.Build rapport with your jurors.You want the jurors to like you, as you will ultimately ask them to decide the case in your favor. You want to speak to them as the intelligent people they are, and you want to be sincere in the beliefs you convey.;
, Before you start writing your opening statement, you want to brainstorm what type of information should be included and what should be left out. An opening statement is an opportunity for you to discuss the facts of your case while generally avoiding arguments and the application of law to facts.Discuss the facts of your case.Your opening statement should be limited to a discussion of the anticipated evidence and what the main issues are.You must not exaggerate or misstate your evidence, you must not refer to inadmissible evidence, and you must not discuss matters that will not be a part of your own case.Avoid arguing during your opening statement.Because the point of your opening statement is to introduce the jury to your case, you do not want to turn your opening statement into a series of legal arguments.So long as you are assisting the jury in understanding your evidence, your comments should be permissible. However, once you begin asking the jury to make inferences, interpret facts in your favor, and/or resolve disputes, you are most likely making impermissible arguments.Avoid discussing the law in detail during your opening statement. Your opening statement can most likely have a brief introduction to the legal issues on which your case depends.However, you should avoid discussing how the law should be interpreted, and you should avoid applying any of the facts of your case to the law., When you deliver your opening statement at trial, your audience is going to be the jurors. In order to write the best possible opening statement, you will want to know as much about your jurors as possible. Understand the educational and cultural diversity of your jurors, as well as any likes or dislikes they may have hinted at during prior proceedings.The tone of your article should match the audience you are speaking to. You will want to craft your opening argument to make it easily accessible to your jurors without making it oversimplified or rude., One week later, on January 30, she was carried out of the back door dead. What happened in that short week to turn a routine operation into a life and death struggle, and why it never should have happened, is what this case is all about.", You should also familiarize the jury with important locations and times that are going to play a big role in the trial.When you introduce these things, you should attempt to make them as real and tangible as possible because you want the jury to stay engaged and believe your story.,, Your focus should be on who did what to whom, what their reasons were for doing it, and what the consequences were., The car was in good condition, and Jim was alert, sober and not at all tired. He had drunk two beers with his dinner, but was still in full control of his faculties. He would not have driven if he had been feeling any effects from the beer. Jim won’t even drive with a cell phone on.", He killed Boyd for revenge - an eye for an eye - because he blamed Boyd for the death of his daughter. The people of this state will therefore ask you at the close of the evidence to find him guilty of murder.", You should strive to deliver your opening statement from memorization. Doing so will make your opening statement more genuine, believable, and effective.In order to accomplish this, you should:


Write your opening statement exactly as you want to present it;
Reduce it to a general outline; then
Reduce it one last time to a key word outline that you may or may not use during your opening statement itself.,, Before you go into the courtroom to deliver your opening statement, you will want to make any final tweaks you think will make the opening statement perfect. You will have spent so much time preparing and practicing, you will know by this point if anything needs to be added or taken out. Do this at least a day before you deliver your opening statement so you have time to practice your final version.

