 For the stock, you’ll need 2 medium yellow onions. Leave the skin on the onions, and use a sharp knife to roughly cut the onions into quarters. Set aside for the moment.You can substitute white onions for the yellow if you prefer.;
, To give the stock a rich flavor, you’ll need 1 garlic bulb that hasn’t been peeled. Use a sharp knife to cut the bulb in half crosswise so all of the cloves inside are sliced open and exposed. Set aside with the onion.If you aren’t a fan of garlic, you can omit it. If you prefer a more subtle garlic flavor, you can substitute a few cloves instead of the entire bulb.
 For the stock, you’ll need 4 celery stalks and 2 medium carrots. You can leave the leaves on the celery stalks and the carrots unpeeled as you roughly chop both into 1- to 2-inch (2.5- to 5-cm) pieces. Set aside with the onion and garlic.If you like, you can also roughly chop a parsnip for the stock.
 When you’re ready to make your stock, place the carcass and bones from one or more roasted chickens in the center of your slow cooker. If you’re using more than one chicken carcass, break them into pieces so they’ll fit in the slow cooker’s bowl.If you have loose bones, such as drumsticks, stick them inside the carcass to help save space in the slow cooker.
 Once the chicken is in place, scatter the chopped onion, garlic, celery, and carrots around the carcass. Next, add 2 bays leaves and your favorite herbs and seasonings, such as fresh thyme sprigs, parsley stems, leek tops, and/or whole peppercorns to add more flavor.If your slow cooker is small, you can place the vegetables, bay leaves, and other herbs on top of the chicken to ensure that all of the ingredients fit in the bowl.
 After you’ve added all of the ingredients to the slow cooker, pour enough water in to cover the chicken and other ingredients completely. It should take approximately 2 to 2 ½ quarts (1.89 to 2.3 l).It’s okay to fill the slow cooker within 1-inch (2.5-cm) of the top of the slow cooker.
 Once all of the ingredients are combined in the slow cooker, set it to low and allow it cook for at least 8 hours. The longer that you leave the stock to cook, the more flavorful it will be.You can leave the stock cooking in the slow cooker for as much as 24 hours if you like.
 When the stock has finished cooking for at least 8 hours, place a strainer over a large bowl. Use a pair of tongs to lift out the large bones and vegetables from the slow cooker and place them in the strainer.If you don’t have kitchen tongs, you can use two large forks to lift the large pieces from the stock.
 Once only small pieces of chicken, vegetables, herbs, and other seasonings remain in the slow cooker, carefully pour it through the strainer. Shake the strainer lightly over the bowl to ensure that all of the liquid passes through.If you want to strain an even clearer, cleaner stock, place a coffee filter or piece of cheesecloth over the strainer before you pour the stock through. That will remove even fine bits of debris from the stock.
 After you’ve strained the stock, pour it into several jars or other airtight containers. Let it sit out on the counter uncovered for 1 to 2 hours, or until it cools completely., When the stock has cooled completely, cover the containers with their lids. Place them in the refrigerator, where the stock will keep for up to a week.You can also store your stock in the freezer, where it will keep for up to 3 months.
It’s normal for the stock to thicken up into a gel when you refrigerator. When you reheat it, it will thin out to a liquid again.
