 To become a know-it-all, you have to be open to learning and gaining knowledge. You should focus on studying up on everyday knowledge that will come in handy on a day to day basis. This way you can act like a helpful know-it-all when you are around others. For example, you may learn about how to open a wine bottle or how to fix a broken toilet.


You may also brush up on your knowledge of medical procedures so you can be a know-it-all in the event of an emergency. For example, you may read up on how to perform CPR or how to clean a wound.
You may try to learn about survival knowledge that may come in handy if you are stranded in the wild with friends, such as how to make a stone axe or how to make a simple stretcher.;
, To avoid being an annoying know-it-all that irritates everyone around them, you should try to be friendly and polite when you share your knowledge. Adopt a friendly, open tone and try to act agreeable when you tell someone what you know. This will make your know-it-all attitude seem less rude or obnoxious. Try to teach others about how to do something right in a generous way and be a friendly know-it-all, rather than a snobbish know-it-all.


You can appear friendly by displaying open body language, where you maintain eye contact with others and keep your body relaxed, with your arms at your sides. You should also lean towards the person you are addressing and have a friendly look on your face, preferably a smile.When you make know-it-all statements, you should use "I" and say "I think" or "I believe". Even if you know a statement is correct, you want to appear agreeable to others around you and not too obnoxious or annoying. For example, you may say, "I think this is how you open a wine bottle" or "I believe this is how you clean a wound."

, To be a likeable know-it-all, you should be willing to admit when you do not, in fact, know-it-all. Though you may try your best to know all there is to know about a subject or topic, there may be moments when you are stuck or unsure of the right answer. Rather than pretend you know something, be willing to admit that you are not 100 percent sure of the right solution to a problem or issue. Then, ask others around you for their opinion. Doing this will show you are able to open and humble about the limits of your knowledge.


For example, you may try to be a know-it-all about how to solve a math problem in class. However, you may be struggling to determine the right answer for the problem. Rather than sit in class and continue to struggle, you may tap a friend on the shoulder and ask them for help. Or you may raise your hand and ask your teacher for help.

