 Before starting a plan for garden design, it is important to determine the size of your garden. Using a tape measure, measure both the length and width, making note of any irregularities in size or shape.;
, Before planting annuals, it is important to determine what type of sunlight the garden area receives. This will help you select annuals best suited to the light conditions in your garden.


Observe the garden throughout an entire day. Every hour or 2, evaluate the sun and shade patterns, taking notes of direct sunlight, dappled sunlight and shade.
Understand light terminology. In most cases, a plant that requires full sunlight needs 8 or more hours of direct sun. A plant that requires partial sunlight needs 5 to 7 hours of direct sun. A plant that requires semi-shade (or part shade) requires dappled sunlight throughout the day. A plant that thrives in shade requires no direct sunlight.
 Depending where your garden is located, you may have to determine the best vantage point for garden design. For example, a garden located in a corner of your front yard may be viewed from either the street (outside the yard) or the house (inside the yard). Determine which view is most important before creating a garden design.
 Take note of all current vegetation, including plants, shrubs and trees. If there are flowering plants or shrubs, record the bloom colors. If perennials are located in the garden, note when they bloom and when they die back for the season. The existing permanent vegetation can serve as a framework when designing a garden with temporary annuals.
 Using graph paper, create a diagram of the garden. Use the graph paper squares to draw the garden to scale. For example, each square could represent 1 foot or 1 meter. Mark where there are existing plants, shrubs or trees. This will help you determine where to place annuals.
 Color combinations are subjective, but can set the tone for your annual garden. Color palettes may match, complement or contrast. Keep in mind that too much contrast (or too many colors) can be unattractive, but that too much matching (or all the same color) can be boring.


Use a color wheel to help create combinations that are visually appealing. If you don't have access to a color wheel, arrange different colors of flowers together in a flat at a garden center. If the colors look appealing together in the flat, they will create a pleasing color palette in the garden.
Select cool colors for a calm or relaxing color palette. Cool tones, such as white, blue and violet, are soothing and make the garden seem larger.
Choose warm colors for an energetic color palette. Warm tones, such as red and yellow, are bright and exciting, but tend to make the garden seem smaller.
Select colors that complement your home. For example, if you have a red home, steer clear of pink flowers, which will clash with the red. Instead, choose tones like yellow, white, purple and blue.
Consider complementary tones. Complementary colors, such as red and green, purple and yellow, or blue and orange, intensify each another, creating more visual interest in the garden.
Limit the color palette. For formal gardens, use 1 or 2 colors. For informal or cottage gardens, incorporate 3 or 4 colors. Repeat the colors throughout the garden to lead the eye from one plant to the next.
Consider bloom times. Annuals bloom at different times. To ensure your garden offers color from spring through fall, combine annuals that flower at different times to ensure constant color in the garden.
 A garden featuring plants with the same texture can be boring. Use a variety of textures to add interest to the garden. Choose a diverse selection of annuals with fine, feathery, spiked and bold textures. When evaluating texture, consider both the bloom and foliage.
 The most eye-catching gardens feature plants in a variety of heights. Determine the mature size of each type of annual you'd like to incorporate into your garden. This will help you determine placement, with smaller plants to the foreground of your garden and larger plants near the back.


Plan from the back of the garden to the front. In cases of a round garden, plan from the center of the garden to the outside edges.
Separate the garden into 3 levels. Background plants should be about 2/3 as tall as the total width of the garden bed. Middle plants should be 12 inches (30.5 cm) to 36 inches (91.4 cm) tall. Foreground plants typically should be less than 12 inches (30.5 cm) tall.
Include a variety of plant sizes. A variety of contrasting heights will add dimension to the garden area. The most interesting flower beds include a variety of plants shapes and sizes.
 The annuals you choose are a matter of personal preference. Select plants that will thrive in the lighting conditions of your garden, are the right height and texture for the space, and match your intended color palette.


Select larger quantities of a few types of annuals when designing a garden of strictly annuals. Too many different types of annuals will make the garden look busy. For the most impact, plant annuals in groups of 3 to 5 plants.
Choose a single type of annual for an eye-catching border. For maximum impact, select 1 kind of annual for a border.
Fill in gaps in a perennial garden with several types of annuals. To add splashes of color in an existing garden, select a variety of annuals.
Consider foliage annuals. Not all annuals have showy flowers. Annuals like coleus add texture and color in a garden. Many non-flowering annuals feature foliage in colors like blue, gray, gold or silver, which can be a striking contrast among flower blooms.
Add containers planted with annuals. Containers can be moved anywhere in a garden, which means you can add instant color to an area of the garden simply by adding a container. Containers also can fill in bare areas where mature plants have died out for the growing season.

