 Although the word "rich" is found within this enrichment, making money or being wealthy aren't the ways to enrich yourself considered in this article. Instead, it focuses in making your internal and inter-relational life richer. For example, perhaps you'd like to perfect a talent, learn a new skill, network more widely, visit a place that has special meaning to you, improve your sense of belonging in the world or become more spiritual. Whatever it is, define it before you begin your enrichment journey.;
, Use the Cornell note-taking method (see 'citations' section below if you are not familiar with Cornell note-taking). When writing in the journal or diary, use the following to guide you:


Always record the date of your journal/diary entry.
Write about current events.
Write about your mood and feelings.
Write about your goals you want to pursue throughout the year.
Write about anything else that you personally want to write about.


Consider buying a separate planner that contains a calendar to help keep you organized with your enrichment goals. Although this is optional, it can be useful to keep you focused.
 This is an opportunity to explore new interests and to find out things you're not yet aware of.


Pick two books: one that interests you and one that does not interest you.
Read one book for one month, write about it in your journal/diary.  State your opinion on the book and anything else you want to write about pertaining to the book.
During the next month, read the second book and write about it in your journal/diary.
You could pick a fiction and non-fiction book (e.g. the fiction book could be a mystery genre or science fiction and the non-fiction book could be a history book or a biography on a person whom you might want to exemplify some day).
 Learn as much as you can about the activity or sport and practice it to keep your body healthy. In your free time, write about it in your journal/diary.
 Research a language that you might find interesting and study it for two months.  Write about it in your journal/diary and record your voice on your cell phone or other recording device to practice.  If you are really interested in this phase, try signing up for a class in the second month that will further your educational enrichment on the language and use your journal/diary to write about the language.
 Communicate with your family members, old friends and new acquaintances. Cut off toxic relationships that poison or hinder your self-enrichment. Write about your relationships with people in your journal/diary.
 Was there some type of skill that you embarked on when you were younger but abandoned as you grew older? Try picking it up again and practice it for two months to see if you remembered it and journal if you have improved this particular activity or skill after the month is over.
  Feel free to write about it in your journal/diary.
 Here are a few suggestions:


Greg Laurie - Spirituality (Christianity)
Deepak Chopra - Neuroscience/Inspiration
Bill Dyer - Spirituality (general)
Caroline Leaf - Christian neuroscienceElliot Hulse - Inspiration/motivation
Carol Tuttle - Chakra balancing/eastern philosophy
Brad Yates - EFT tapping.

