 Digital meters can display readings in either imperial or metric units. The unit of measurement might be marked on the meter panel, but if not, you can usually tell which unit of measurement you are dealing with based on the number of digit placeholders provided.An imperial meter measures your natural gas in cubic feet, so the display panel will usually have ft3 next to it. Imperial meters also have display panels with four digits to the left of the decimal point and two digits to the right of the decimal point.
A metric meter measures your natural gas in cubic meters, so you should see m3 next to the display panel. Metric meters also have five digits to the left of the decimal point and three digits to the right.
Note that digital meters are increasingly more common nowadays, but dial meters still tend to be more prevalent. Digital meters are most often found on newly built homes and are only used by certain natural gas providers.
 Read the digital meter panel from left to right, writing down the numbers exactly as you see them. Only worry about the main digits found on the main panel screen.


Main digits are easy to identify because they are either shown in black against a white background or shown in white against a black background.
When writing down the numbers for your reading, write then exactly as you see them without any separation.
For instance, if the main digits of your meter panel are "3872," you should write the reading down as "3872."

, Depending on how complex your digital meter is, there could be a few smaller, secondary digits displayed elsewhere on the panel. You should ignore these digits when taking your gas meter reading.


Ignore any red digits or any digits printed inside of a red border.
You should also ignore any printed zeros and any numbers that follow a decimal point.
For example, if the meter shows "9314.78," only record "9314."
Similarly, if the meter panel shows "9314" in black or white print, with "78" in red or outlined in red, only record the "9314."
If the meter panel shows something like "9314" in white with a "0" in black, only record the "9314."

