 The first thing you need to do after starting your game is to pause it. You'll quickly go bankrupt if you try to manage the company without the game paused. Keep the game paused while you do everything in this section. You can find the Pause button in the upper-right corner.


Don't worry if these initial steps make you go negative, you'll quickly make the money back.
Note: you'll still see animations while the game is paused. When the game is unpaused, the Play button flashes.;
, Click an empty pasture and select the "Soy" option. Build three of these.
 Click a fields and then click the DNA symbol. Repeat this for all three farms.
 Click four empty lots and select cow pastures for each one.
 The Feedlot has a picture of a cow on the button. Click the scientific-looking machine at the back of the room and select "Hormones", which has a syringe as an icon. This is all you'll ever need to do in the Feedlot screen to keep making money.
 Click the burger button to switch to the Restaurant view. Click one of the registers and hire a cashier. You'll only need one as you start the game.
 Click an assembly line in the back of the restaurant and hire a single worker. You'll only need one for now.
 Click the McDonald's logo to open the Corporate view. Click the desks in the front and then click the "+" button, which will corrupt a health official. You will be leaving this option enabled for the rest of the game.
 Once you've completed the above steps, you can unpause the game. Your bank account will likely be fairly negative at this point; don't worry too much about it, as you'll soon be making money hand over fist.
 You'll see tractors harvest the soy every few months. You don't have anything to do until you have made two harvests.
 After the first two harvests, you'll only need two soy farms for the rest of the game. Select one and remove the Genetic Modification option (this will get you more back when you sell it). Click the Sell button after removing Genetic Modification to sell the single Soy field.


Pausing the game while making any changes can help keep you from getting overwhelmed.
 Like the Soy fields, your cow pastures are "harvested" every few months by cranes that grab the cows. Wait for two of these harvests to happen before moving on.
 Once you have completed two cow harvests, it's time to stock your restaurant with employees. Add employees to all of your available registers and assembly lines.
 Click the marketing department on the left side of the Corporate screen and enable the Food Pyramid and the Third-World Advertising options. The Third-World Advertising has a handshake as an icon. Only enable these two, and never disable them.
 The above steps are the main things you need to accomplish in order to start raking in cash. From here on out, you'll be maintaining your infrastructure so that you continue to bring in cash every month. One of the most important things to keep an eye on is your cow pasture fertility, as this can negatively impact your meat production (Your soy fields should be fine forever since they are genetically modified). You can see your pasture fertility when you select the pasture.
 Once your pastures start losing fertility, you'll want to remove them and build a new set in different squares. This will allow the old land to heal. Wait for a cow harvest, then pause the game. Sell all four of your cow pastures and then build four new ones. You'll have two empty spaces, and you'll need to demolish two squares of rainforest. This will be the only time you need to demolish any rainforest squares, and you should never have to demolish city squares.


When your fertility degrades on the new squares, you can switch back to the four original squares, and so on.
 You'll want to have the Climatologist corrupted to prevent a negative impact on your business when you destroy the rainforests. You don't need to keep the climatologist corrupted forever, and you'll only need to ever destroy two rainforest squares. Use the Detractors information on the Corporate screen to see when you can disable the climatologist.
 Whenever you see an unhappy crew member, either give a badge for encouragement, or fire the employee. Avoid the Discipline option, as it is rarely effective.
 You can avoid negative backlash from firing employees by corrupting a Politician from the Corporate menu. You'll only need this enabled when you're firing someone. Use the Detractors window in the Corporate screen to see when you can disable your corrupted politician.
 At this point, everything should be fairly self-sufficient. You'll just need to perform the steps in this section whenever necessary to maintain your burger empire. You should see lots of money coming in each month, except the months that you're replacing pastures or corrupting officials.
 It may take several years, but you may eventually notice a surplus of soy or a shortage of beef. Add a pasture for a while to increase your beef production and get rid of your soy surplus at the same time. You should only need the change for a little bit to fix the imbalance, and then it will be back to business as usual.
 You can pretty much ignore any complaints or warnings from your advisers and just continue making money without issues.