 This step works a lot like at home, except it is not as firm. Don't make yourself sit alone or ignore your friends, just don't go out of your way to initiate conversations, like with new people. If you can choose to work alone or in a group, choose to be alone when you can. This seems more depressing in writing; when you're feeling tired and lousy in a busy place, you will want to minimize the amount of times you have to communicate and pay attention to conversations.
 You can utilize some of the home techniques for hiding your symptoms, and/or use other techniques. Using over-the-counter medications for relief is often a good idea when you're trying to be out functioning in the world while sick.


Specifically minimize or hide the symptoms that will be obvious. Friends and strangers are not family members, and are not living with you. You will usually be okay being less active or wearing something too warm/cool, etc. However, you will want to hide symptoms like coughing, sniffling, and laryngitis. These are easily noticeable and can be annoying.
If it's impossible to hide a symptom–like a cough–in your work or school environment, focus on making it less bothersome or obvious. Generally, doing your best to hide the symptom will make it less of a problem, even if you can't completely hide it. As long as you make it visible to the people around you that you are working hard to control the symptom(s), they probably won't be bothered too much. Just don't assume that because you can't hide a symptom, there's no reason to make it somewhat better.
 It's probably more important to you that family member and friends are in the dark, because they are the ones that will tell you to take it easy or treat you differently. Strangers or people you barely know will not care very much about your sickness, so you don't really need to exhaust yourself hiding it from them; let them know you're sick if it's obvious anyway, and then just take care of yourself and make your symptoms less unbearable to everyone.


Even friends wll not treat you the same way that family members will when they find out you're sick. You may want to hide it from them, or you may not care if anyone at work/school knows about your sickness and only maintain that family members don't.
Sickness is not as easy to hide out in the world as it is at home, so sometimes everyone knows you're not well anyway. Pretending you are well will not change that and will just seem silly. Keep this in mind when deciding who to hide your sickness from.
 This tip may seem counter-intuitive if you are reading this article to find out how to hide your sickness so that you can still go to work or school, but it is necessary. People stay home when they're sick for a reason; you may be able to brave the world when sick, but you also may not. If you are hiding your sickness for other reasons, decide if your reasons are worth being miserable all day while out of the house. Some key indicators that you probably should stay home are:


Fever, particularly over 103 °F (39 °C).
Throwing up, particularly within the last 24 hours.
A terrible and frequent cough that would disrupt everyone and would prevent you from doing what you do normally.
Having a job that requires physical labor, or having PE at school that involves heavier exercise.

