 Set a regular and realistic time for breakfast, lunch and dinner. Set an alarm on your phone or watch to indicate when it is time for your next meal. That way, you will be able to stay on track with your scheduled meal times.


A regular eating schedule will condition you to resist hunger only until your scheduled meal time. When your designated meal time arrives, you will become hungry in expectation of the coming meal.
If you work a hectic schedule and cannot set regular meal times for yourself, try to think ahead to the next time you’re going to eat.
 Eat a hearty breakfast first thing in the morning in order to resist feeling hungry later in the day.


A good breakfast should avoid added sugar.
Incorporate fresh fruits like apples, berries, and melon into your breakfast.
Choose cereal, pancakes, bagels, or toast of whole grains. These have more fiber than other types of grains, and will help you resist hunger.
Plan ahead. Decide what you’ll have for breakfast the night before you eat it. Set bowls, utensils, and ingredients out the night before so everything is ready to go in the morning., It won't abolish hunger, but it will help. Besides, water is good for you, and thirst can easily be mistaken for hunger if you don't drink enough.


Aim to drink at least 20 ounces of water per day.
Instead of water, you could also try herbal tea., Eat several small (200-400 calorie), frequent meals and snacks throughout the day. Eat filling, fibrous foods that release energy slowly throughout the day like fruit with granola, a small sandwich on whole wheat, and some fresh vegetables and hummus as a snack.


Fiber will keep you feeling full.
Keep a healthy, low-calorie snack on hand. A granola bar, apple slices, or a banana are good options. Break your snack of choice out when you feel hungry and need a little pick-me-up. This way, you won’t let your hunger lead you to fill up on a whole meal.
Hunger usually strikes about four to five hours after a healthy meal.Set your watch to indicate when four hours has elapsed after your last meal, and help yourself to a snack then (if necessary).
 Juice and soda can add up to quite a few calories, but will not make you feel as full as solid food. Stick to water instead, and fill up on whole fruit and other filling snacks., Eggs, rice, and beverages readily absorb blue food dye.


Use natural food dye from a grocery store to dye your food.
You could also sit in a room with blue walls, or put your food on a blue plate.
 To resist feelings of hunger, eat plenty of lean protein like nuts, beans, and soy. Avoid eating red meat, however, as it can increase your risk for cancer and heart disease.Most people need about 0.8 grams of protein per kilogram of body weight. If you are very active, you’ll need slightly more per day.
Use the USDA fitness calculator to figure out how much protein you need each day.
Use protein powders to make shakes and smoothies for yourself. These can function as meal replacements if you’re interested in losing weight as well as resisting hunger.
 Replace the act of eating with another activity. Instead of eating in front of the TV, for instance, you could do curls with dumbbells, or sip a cup of herbal tea.
 Crash diets or “cleanse” diets are those in which you dramatically reduce the amount of food you’re eating to 800 calories per day or less.Not only are these diets ineffective, as you’re likely to regain any lost weight within six months following the end of the diet, but you also risk compromising your immune system, dehydration, and heart palpitations.


If your goal is to lose weight, the only tried-and-true way to do so is to get regular exercise and eat a healthy diet.

