 The best way to inspire people to donate is to truly care. The more you know about your cause, the more others will be inspired to help.


You may already know quite a bit about your cause. However, it can never hurt to educate yourself further. Spend some time reading about whatever you're raising money for. Try to stay up to date on all the current research and news article about the issue.You might also want to look into research on fundraising and benefits themselves. Try to keep track of what kinds of fundraisers have been successful in the past. What kind of gimmicks, entertainment, auctions, and other common types of benefits have traditionally been successful regarding this type of event?;
, Before you make any other plans regarding a benefit, you need to spend some time determining the type of event you're hosting. Benefits come in a variety of forms. Try to pick a benefit that's doable for you given your resources and is appropriate for your cause.


Smaller events usually come in the form of bake sales, car washes, craft fairs, beauty pageants, karaoke contests, and other low stakes competitions. Such events are fairly easy to plan and do not cost much to put on.If your'e looking for a bigger event, something like a benefit concert, wine and food tasting, raffle, silent auction, or fancy ball. Such events are generally more complicated and expensive but they may draw in bigger money depending on your area and target donors.Research before making any plans. See what kinds of events other charities or organizations in your area are throwing. If a charity is throwing a benefit concert around the same time you were planning your event, you might want to pick a different event type to avoid competition.Keep the values of the organization you're hosting in mind before making a decision. You do not want to choose an event type that wouldn't mesh with your organization's values. If you're hosting a benefit for a local addiction center, you probably don't want to host a wine tasting. If you're running a benefit for an animal welfare organization, a steak dinner might not be a great idea.
 Things like taxes, permits, the buying and selling of food and alcohol, and other aspects of running a benefit are all affected by different laws and regulations. Such standards vary by state. Make sure you review local laws. Consider hiring an attorney if you're confused about the legality of any of your choices. Stop by your local courthouse and ask for information about laws and regulations regarding events and benefits. You can also check your state government website., You cannot run a benefit on your own. Once you've made a decision about the event type, build a team to get your idea off the ground.


Consider how many volunteers will be needed. A small, simple event like a raffle really only needs a handful of workers. However, bigger events will require more help.Look for people with a variety of skill sets. Try breaking down the duties of running your event into a series of categories: fundraising, advertising, public relations, etc., and estimate how many volunteers you'll need on each team.You can recruit volunteers in many ways. Colleges and universities have a lot of students looking for experience and resume builders. If you're part of an organization related to the cause, many people would likely be happy to help out. Ask friends you know with specific skills. Say your cousin Michael works as a social media coordinator for a local business. See if he can help you with the online aspects of advertising.Also, consider any people you will need to run the benefit the day of. Do you need waitstaff, bartenders, musicians, stage coordinators?

