 Cars produce a lot of greenhouse gasses. You could also use greenhouse gasses;
, Trees turn harmful CO2 into oxygen

, Turn off your cell phones, computers, TVs, lights, and video games for 350 minutes. That saves a lot of energy

, They are very energy efficient, and save you money in the long run.
 The materials will turn into new stuff and we won't have to make more.
 Try to use less water for cleaning, washing, and drinking.
 Instead of using toxic cleaning chemicals, try to use just plain old vinegar, or an Eco-friendly alternative.
 Pesticides and insect repellent are highly toxic, and can poison and kill many animals.
 You’re pets waste can be a very powerful fertilizer in growing plants. Just pick it up and bury or smear it in your garden.
 The litter you pick up can help save animals' lives.
 Using organic foods can improve your health, and stop harmful pesticides and fertilizers from being sprayed into our water

, Put a rain barrel below your gutter to collect clean water and help save tap water and money just don’t drink it without boiling.
 The plants you plant will not only feed you, but it it’ll save you from the car ride to the supermarket, and the fruit will be totally organic!

, When you aren’t using your toaster, blender, food processor, and other appliances unplug them to save power.
 Mowers produce a lot of emissions, and grass is good for the environment. Or you could buy a push mower, or an electric mower both are environmentally safe

, Make a compost bucket with the information at https://www.wikihow.com/Build-a-Compost-Bin and fill it with organic waste like apple cores, banana peels or eggshells.
 Pull out some out of the invasive plants. They choke out native plants and kill the native ecology.
 If you have a tank pet, like a fish or a turtle, give him real plants in his aquarium/terrarium instead of synthetic plants.
 If you have to use disposable cups or plates, buy the biodegradable kind, to save space in landfills.
 If you’re printing a two or more page paper, print the first page, turn it over, put it back in the “paper in” slot, and use the other side.
 Even though a fire is a nice way to spend a winter evening, the smoke is bad for air quality.

