 Sometimes it's easy to get too caught up in thinking that the more and harder you work, the better your results will be. This then snowballs. Any signs of failure or not getting wanted results means you feel the urge to just work harder toward success. Rather than working more hours, try to work more efficiently. Taking time away from problems can rejuvenate yourself and make you more likely to be primed for success., If you have a problem that's limiting your success, take some time away from it. Read widely to use other parts of your brain and gain new perspectives that may help with problem solving. Taking time to embrace new perspectives can open new avenues for success.


This also includes knowing yourself. Gauge your own stress level to tell you when its

, It's easy to spend too much of our times and energies bogged down in things that aren't ultimately helping us succeed. Whether it's taking on too many projects, or obsessing over details that aren't particularly important, spend less time sweating the small stuff. This will help create a sense of clarity and succeed without over-working.


Write out the absolute essentials of what you need to do to be successful in your given situation. If you find yourself devoting considerable amounts of time to things that veer from this list, you may be trying too hard.
 Life can throw unexpected hurdles at us. If we are too stuck in our plans and ideas and unwilling to stay flexible, you may end up pushing too hard and spinning your wheels in place. If you have an unforeseen obstacle, use it as an opportunity to let it push you in directions you didn't think of before. Staying flexible ensures you're more likely to be successful, without having to constantly fight between expectations and realities., If you're always working toward a far off goal to feel successful, you may always have your head down working without realizing all of the great accomplishments you're making along the way. This will also let you change how you view success and stop thinking it requires a spartan like dedication to a cause.


Make lists of the various milestones you need to reach your goal. Each time you hit one, take some time away from work and celebrate. Success isn't an objective place as much as a feeling of satisfaction. Be satisfied with your accomplishments!

, Many times modern workers are prodded to believe being busy is the same thing as being successful and goodness. Rather than worry about how many hours you can stay busy, realize that life is short and there are other things to make you feel happy and successful.


Take time for hobbies. You'll feel like more of a success if you spend less time doing things you don't enjoy and make more time for yourself.
 Living smart and frugally now can help so you have to work less later. Invest in a retirement plan through work and accumulate savings so later in life you'll spend less time working and more time doing things you enjoy.


This also applies to things like education. It may seem difficult to finish that degree, or even to pursue an advanced degree, but working hard for qualifications early in life may mean you can pursue a career that involves less work later in life. There's also truth to doing something you love feeling a lot less like work than a job you dread every day.

