 Don't leave it out on the floor where it can get stepped on or kicked by accident. Also don't leave it on a shelf where a pet or sibling might knock it off.;
, If you drop them, they are less likely to break when they land.
 Once a Breyer is scratched it has to be re-airbrushed to fix it. Keep sharp objects away from the Breyer.
 Don't play roughly with them- playing roughly often leads to damage.
, Sometimes Breyers get the paint worn off on the tip of their ears and tail. If the ears or tail were black, use a Sharpie to re-color the area.
 White horses will sometimes yellow with age. You can undo this by soaking the horse in four gallons of hot, not boiling, water with 1 cup of bleach in it.


Horses with white markings and colored bodies may yellow with age too. You can whiten the yellowing by exposing the horse to direct sunlight.
Monitor this whitening process and remember to rotate the horse to complete all sides.
 They may fade. This means keeping them off a windowsill or a shelf that is hit with lots of sunlight.
 You could use an old cardboard box for this; paint it a nice color and build a stall inside it, with a door. Breyer also sells ready-made ones if you prefer.
 You could make a racing mix consisting of breakfast cereal and oats.
 These can be made easily from an egg carton; simply cut out a single egg holder and thread string through its open end, each side, then tie with a knot to keep in place. Hold it by the string and you have an easy food bucket. Add the food made in the previous step and feed it to the horse.
 These can include feeding charts, grooming information and veterinary notes.
 Use toothpicks to make hanging hooks; snap to an appropriate length and glue these to the wall for hanging tack from. Hang the horse's lead ropes, halters, bridles, etc. from these.


A saddle stand can be made by placing a craft stick down flat and gluing a craft stick each side of it. Glue it to the wall.
Find a small, flat container and use it for keeping riding boots in or blankets.

