 This trick involves a bit of preparation that you have to do before you perform it in front of your audience.


This magic trick works by covering the top of a glass with a circular piece of paper that’s the same color as the piece of paper you'll perform the trick on.;
, Work lightly in pencil and keep the line as close as you can to the rim.


You will use this circular piece of paper to cover the mouth of your glass. When you place the glass down during the trick, it will look like the glass is just upside down on top of your paper.
 Make the cut neat and stick as closely as you can to your outline. If you have a sloppy circle, it will be more obvious.


Once you’ve cut out the paper circle, erase the line you drew. This will help your circular cutout to look more natural.
Use an Exacto knife if you have one to cut the circle. Keep your glass over the circle while you cut to ensure you get a nice, even circle.
If you don’t have an Exacto knife, you can use a pair of scissors.
 Arrange each piece so that any excess extends toward the inside of the glass.


Use scissors to cut the pieces of tape as small as possible.
You don’t want any tape sticking out on the outside of the glass. This can ruin the illusion.
 Press your glass with the tape down onto the paper circle. Your circular cutout should cover the mouth of the glass completely.


If you have any excess tape on the outside of your cutout, cut it off with your scissors.
You also want to make sure that you don’t have a lot of extra paper on the outside of your glass now that it’s taped to the rim. If you do, cut it away as well.
 The mouth of the glass should look normal as if it’s simply upside down.


You shouldn't be able to tell that there is a piece of paper taped to the rim.
 Place a quarter on the paper next to the clear drinking glass. To lend the illusion authenticity, ask an audience member for the quarter or another coin.


If you like, read aloud the year on the quarter and emphasize that the quarter must be real since it came from the audience. Show it around, give it a flip, knock it against the table to prove that it is solid.
By directing your audience’s attention to the quarter, you direct focus toward an ordinary object and give it magical weight. This misdirect also keeps your audience engaged so there is less focus on the glass.
Your glass should be on another piece of paper which is the same color, or on one piece of paper which is large enough to fit the quarter and glass.
 The purpose of draping something over your glass is to cover up your cutout.


If you want to give your audience a reason as to why you’re putting a handkerchief or scarf over the glass, you can explain how this is a magic teleporting scarf. You will use the power of this scarf to make the quarter disappear.
 As you move your glass, hold it level and don't expose the cutout paper.


Wave a magic wand, tap the base of the glass three times, or say the magic words, whatever you prefer to add more of a show to the trick.
This sort of embellishment helps to show that the disappearance happens by magic.
 If you want, you can say that you will bring the quarter back. Place your scarf over your glass again and summon the quarter back.


Simply remove your covered glass to reveal the quarter.
If you didn’t read out the year of the quarter at the beginning of the trick, you can pull out another quarter from behind someone’s ear.

