 Be prepared to talk about why you want to diet and what kind of changes this diet will entail. If dieting is a sore topic for your partner, don’t bring it up in front of others; wait instead to discuss in private. Your partner may not have thought about dieting before this moment, so be sure to give them some time after the discussion to think.Say something like “Hey babe, I’ve been thinking a lot about being more healthy lately. I want to live a long life and I want you to, as well. Do you think you could diet with me so we can do this together?”;
, Your partner might agree immediately to dieting or might need a little more encouragement or reasoning to do so. Present to them all of the benefits of dieting and they will find it more difficult to resist. For instance, by maintaining a healthy diet, they might have more energy, have better skin, lose a few pounds, and be less at risk for certain health problems like heart disease and diabetes.They might also look and feel better when they diet.
Consider other pros that will be tailored directly to their own interests. For instance, if your partner is very concerned about or attentive to their hair, inform them that a change in diet often improves hair’s luster.
 Your partner will likely feel more willing to go on this journey with you if you are serious and have done your research. Don’t come to them with vague ideas or general notions of dieting. Instead, show them specific dieting plans that you have looked at that you think would work for the two of you. Perhaps you want to start a new vegetarian diet. On this diet, you can consume vegetables, beans, peas, grapes, seeds, and nuts. You can also incorporate dairy products.


Vegetarians often have lower cholesterol, blood pressure, and body mass indexes (BMI).
Other beneficial diets include Mediterranean diets, which place a greater emphasis on vegetables, but also allows for the consumption of meat sparingly.
 You never know the self esteem or food issues that your partner has, so be kind to them. They might be overweight and using food as a crutch to cope with some problem in their life. Show compassion to them by affirming your love for them, not picking on them when they overeat, and by being understanding of their reluctance to diet.Remind them everyday of how much you care for them.
Do small, thoughtful gestures for them often.
Never try to force them to diet or to talk about dieting.
 Remember that your partner is not the same as you and therefore has both a different rationale process and control of their own actions and behaviors. Rather than focusing on their health so much, focus on your own. A person who feels looked down on or controlled is unlikely to change their behavior or give in to your desire to diet.Also, don’t judge yourself during this process either. Dieting is hard and you might slip up sometimes, which is okay. Forgive and love yourself so that you can show greater love and compassion to your partner.
 Film is a great way to educate your partner about the benefits of dieting and the health risks of junk food and a sedentary lifestyle. Watch documentaries together to show them these potential advantages and dangers.One example is “Super Size Me” about a man whose health suffered when he ate McDonald’s every day for a month.
Other examples are “Vegucated” or “Hungry for Change”, both which discuss the benefits of healthy dieting.
 After you have had a discussion, let the issue rest. Don’t continue to bring it up to them repeatedly; this will make them even less likely to want to diet. Continue to give your partner the autonomy and space to make their own decision about their diet. After they have told you their decision, don’t continue to press them about it. Though you don’t want to, you can still diet alone!Don’t nag them. Don’t continuously bring it up unless they want to discuss it.
When you feel like you want to talk to them about it again, take a five minute break to assess whether such a conversation will be fruitful. Take a walk and breathe deeply.
 If you are primarily responsible for doing the grocery shopping for your home, don’t purchase any more junk food. Buy fruits, vegetables, lean meat, and whole grains, instead. It will be difficult for your partner to eat unhealthy food if it is not available to them. If they would like to have junk food, they can go out and purchase their own.Don’t bring home unhealthy fast food, either.
Avoid buying sugary drinks, chocolate, chips and ice cream.
 One of the best ways to get your partner to diet is to do it yourself. Stay away from junk food and instead eat lean meats, whole grains, fruits and vegetables. It will be difficult for you at first, especially if your partner is still eating all of the unhealthy foods that you love, but your partner will admire your persistence. Once they see you feeling better and looking better, they will likely want in on your healthy lifestyle.Exercise daily or every other day.
Join a gym and find a workout buddy if your partner is unwilling.
 One way to get your partner to diet with you is to make small changes at a time. Your partner will likely notice if you make big changes but will not notice if the changes are gradual. When you cook, you can switch from butter to light butter and from whole milk to 2%. You can purchase meat that is leaner and substitute vegetables instead of having fries.Also, substitute fruits for cake when having dessert.
Try eating healthy once a week, then twice, and so on and so forth until your entire diet has changed over time.
 Another way to begin including healthier foods is by seasoning the new foods that you are cooking well. If you are switching from frying your chicken to now baking or grilling it, be sure to season it well so that it still tastes good. Your partner may not want to diet because they believe that healthy foods do not taste good, but you can show them that they can with proper preparation.Use lemon pepper, garlic, oregano, thyme or any other seasonings that you enjoy.
 Your partner may be coming around to the whole idea of dieting, but may still want to keep a few junk food favorites in the house. Go grocery shopping together so that you both can make decisions about what foods to have in the house. For instance, perhaps your partner wants to keep sodas but can agree on not having any more chips. This will help ensure that they are making healthier choices gradually and at a pace that feels comfortable and collaborative to them.Remember that you still don’t have to eat any of the junk food that they wanted to purchase.
You can also suggest that you try out diet sodas together instead of purchasing regularly sodas.
You can buy low-fat or sugar free versions of your favorite cookies or snacks.
 If cooking is something the both of you enjoy doing, but you have been dieting and therefore having meals separately from them, try to make something together. Find a healthy yet tasty recipe that you can both agree to try and then make it. Or pick a favorite of theirs and look for a healthier way to cook it.For instance, if you both loved pasta, you can purchase whole wheat or gluten free pasta. You can also substitute turkey for ground beef.
 Ask your partner to workout with you. Perhaps they are unwilling to eat better, but if you can get them active, then they will be healthier. Hit the gym or do some workouts from home. You can start small by walking around the neighborhood for 30 minutes a day, as well.Offer to play their favorite sport with them.
If there is a lake nearby, rent some kayaks for a few hours or walk the trails in a nearby park.
 If your partner is competitive, one way to help them begin dieting is by making a bet or wager. Agree that whoever loses the most weight in a week or keeps the diet up without cheating get a prize. The prize can be something small like the winner picking your Friday night movie or something larger like dinner at their restaurant of choice.
 Ask them to commit to the diet for one week and if they hate it, then they can resume eating as they like. Your partner will probably feel so good after dieting that they will at least incorporate some of the changes into their long term eating habits.Say to them “I know you don’t really want to diet with me, but could you just give it a week and see how you feel? It would mean a lot to me.”

, At the end of the day, your partner should do things with you because they love you and want you to be healthy. Simply tell your partner what this means to you and ask them if they can support you. Maybe support doesn’t mean them dieting with you, but it can mean that they might agree to not eat certain foods around you.


You might say “Even if you don’t want to diet with me, I want to feel that I have your support. Can you just help to encourage me through this? I really want to make a change to my health.”

