 When meeting people in a library, you can find those who are interested in the same authors or genres as you. This will pave the way for a conversation, and it will easily break the ice. Spend time in areas that have your favorite reads, and keep an eye out for people reading or searching for the books that you like.;
, If you are familiar with the library's layout and you find someone searching for a book, volunteer to help them. As you direct them to the correct area, strike up a conversation about their favorite books and authors. One of the easiest ways to help people feel comfortable around you is to be friendly and helpful.
 Once you spot people that have common interests with you, you can start a conversation with them. Although you may feel hesitant or shy about talking to strangers, understand that you will not be able to form friendships if you remain where you are. You must take the first step in order to reach places. Start a conversation by asking them for book recommendations or asking them questions about the book that they're reading. As the conversation deepens, expand to other topics, and find out their hobbies and interests.
 Although it may be fun to talk to people, it is best to stop talking to them while they still enjoy your company. Rather than waiting for an awkward pause, you should gracefully bring it to an end. That way, they will look forward to talking to you in the future rather than dreading it.


Keep an eye out for those who don't want to talk. Take note of obvious signs, such as one-word answers or avoiding questions. Rather than attempting to squeeze conversation out of them, it is best to politely bring the conversation to an end before leaving. Understand that there is nothing wrong with being friendly. However, some people prefer to be left alone or are on a tight schedule.
 Each time you visit the library, be sure to catch up with your acquaintances and engage them in short conversations. Once you feel that you both know each other well enough, you can suggest meeting them in a different spot, such as the park or a cafe. Be sure that you set up your meetings in public areas where they will feel safer. You could also exchange phone numbers; however, it is best to wait until your friendship is stronger before asking for their contact information.

