 Hit the Power button on your 3DS, which can be found in the bottom right corner, and select Animal Crossing: New Leaf from the homescreen. After the brief beginning credits play, you will be brought to Isabelle.;
, She will exchange pleasantries with you, and then ask if there’s anything you’d like to do before starting.
 Unlike the stores in the shopping plaza, the turnip vendor is not open on a daily basis; she will only appear in the player’s town only on Sundays, from 6AM until noon, so if you don’t want to wait up for the next Sunday to come, set the date and time to somewhere in this 6-hour span.


Select “Yes” by pressing the A button, and then select the “Change time/date” option. A screen that will allow you to change the date by using the Up/Down buttons on the D-pad will appear. After you are satisfied with the date, hit A to move on to the Time screen, which can be adjusted similarly with the Up/Down buttons. Hit A once more to save your changes.
 A boar named Joan is the go-to source for turnips. She will be wandering around town from 6AM to 12PM on Sundays. Simply walk around the town a bit to find her.
 Approach Joan, and hit the “A” button to interact with her. The dialogue will display a few reply options.
 Joan sells batches of 10 turnips. Its price range between 90 and 110 bells. This price will not change during the day, but it will change by week.


Turnips can be stored in drawers within your home or held in your inventory.
 When playing the stalk market, fresh is best, so make sure that the turnips you’re selling are not rotten. The turnips that you purchase will rot at exactly 6AM the next Sunday, so be sure to sell them before then. If they do end up rotting, you will have to pay Reese to dispose of them.


If you change the date again after purchasing the turnips, this can make them rot instantly, so be sure to sell them first.
 You can check the turnip prices by asking Reese at Re-Tail (it is the blue store icon on the town map). The price of turnips changes twice a day—when Re-tail opens at 9AM and again at noon.


Throughout the week, the price of the turnips will change drastically. They adhere to one of four different fluctuation patterns. You can normally discern the pattern by the fourth day of the week and make the decision on which day to sell your turnips.
 The declining trend is the most useless of the 4 trends, and the most difficult to profit off of, and recognizing the signs of a declining trend early can save you major bells in the long run. A declining trend’s Monday morning price will always be less than 100 bells per turnip. The price will continue to decline a few bells each day, throughout the entire week. If the bell per turnip price is around 90 by the second day, sell all of your turnips ASAP.


The random trend is characterized by arbitrary increases and decreases in turnip prices. Despite its name, it follows a fairly steady pattern of increasing and decreasing. If the turnip price on Monday morning is over 100 bells or higher than the buying price, it means the trend for the week is random. Try and keep track of the increases and decreases. It is best to sell the turnips fairly early in the week, during one of the increases. Sometimes, as the week progresses, the price can drop severely.
 The high spike trend is characterized by a gradual increase in price, a sudden increase by 300 bells, and finally a gradual decrease in price. Pay careful attention to turnip prices for the first two days. If the price is gradually increasing, be sure to check for the spike on the third day.


For example, the price may go from 120 bells to 130 bells and then 450 bells. Make sure to sell all your turnips during the third-day spike, because by the fourth day, the prices will go down again.
 The low spike trend is characterized by the selling price gradually increasing over the span of the first 4 days, with a less than 300 bell spike occurring on the fourth day, and finally a drop in prices after the spike.


Unlike the high spike trend, which drastically increases on the third day, this trend is much more gradual. It would look something like: 115 bells, 140 bells, 160 bells, 260 bells, and then a drop in price.
If you do not see the 300+ bell spike on the third day, you can correctly identify the trend as low spike instead of high spike, and sell all your turnips on the fourth day.
 Aside from predicting the best price to sell turnips for the week, it is also possible to predict what the trend for next week will be. Although there is no guarantee that the trends will follow this pattern, certain trends are more likely to happen after each other.


A declining trend is likely to be followed by a high spike trend, while there are average chances of a random and low spike trend occurring, and a low chance of another declining trend occurring.
A random trend is likely to be followed by a high spike and low spike trend, while it is unlikely to be followed by a declining or random trend.
A high spike trend is likely to be followed by a random trend and is unlikely to be followed by another high spike trend, a low spike trend, or declining trend.
Finally, a low spike trend is likely to be followed by a random trend, averagely likely to be followed by a high spike trend, and unlikely to be followed by another low spike or declining trend.

