 Different varieties of peppers take different amounts of time to grow, so check your pepper species to find out. Hot peppers take the longest - about 12 weeks until maturity - while bell peppers take about 8 weeks to reach maturity.


Peppers don’t grow in cold or frosty soil, so wait to plant them until the weather has warmed enough.
Plant peppers outside at least one month after your last day of frost for the best temperature of soil.
Choose a date that you feel matches the temperature requirements of outdoor soil for you peppers, and count back 8-10 weeks from that date; this is when you will start your seedlings. Memorial day is typically a good time to plant peppers, meaning that you start your seeds in early March.
 Soaking your seeds can help to break down the seed covering and expedite the growing process of the peppers. Place the seeds in a cup of water and leave them for 2-8 hours, or until the sink to the bottom of the cup.


Make a cup of weak chamomile tea to aid in disinfecting the seeds. Soak the entire time in the cup of cooled tea to help dissolve the seed coating even faster.
Mix two tablespoons of hydrogen peroxide with a cup of lukewarm water to soak the seeds in if chamomile tea is unavailable. It too aids in disinfecting the seeds.
 They will only stay in this tray until they’re ready to plant, so don’t worry about using anything too nice or fancy.


Use a store-bought seed tray for the easiest place to sow your seeds, or make your own using an old plastic or cardboard milk jug with holes poked in the bottom.Fill the bottom of the seed tray with pebbles or small rocks and then cover with potting soil.
Plant seeds half an inch apart just under the surface of the soil, and water well.
 Peppers need a lot of sunlight, but the seeds can’t get enough sun from a window indoors. Instead, use any large light (it doesn’t have to be hot) and place it as close to the seedlings as possible.
 Pepper plants are delicate and need to be gradually exposed to a colder outdoor environment before they are transplanted entirely.


About two weeks before you plan to transfer your plants outdoors, you need to gradually expose the plants to the outdoor climate.
Start by placing your seedlings outdoors for a few hours each day, and slowly extend the number of hours the plants stay outside as they continue to grow.
 When the peppers have grown two sets of full leaves, they are large enough to be planted outside.