 Know what’s expected of you at the beginning of the term, so there won’t be any surprises on an exam.;
, If a single paper is worth 50 percent of your grade, you should have your thesis in the back of your mind. Spend lots of time on projects that will significantly affect your grades.
 The syllabus should tell you how many hours of reading are generally expected in a week, so write it out on your calendar at the beginning of the term which days you are going to study for this subject.


Buy a term planner and organize your study time.Schedule a different subject every 3 to 4 hours so that your mind stays sharp.
 If you are an auditory person, then you should tape all the lectures and listen to them later. If you are a visual person, you should take notes or video tape the class for easier revision.
 Don’t let friends tell you that you are a “geek” or “nerdy.” In most classes, you can’t get an A unless you are willing to study hard.
 Your brain needs to breathe, rest and refocus., You should be able to hear, see and get noticed by the professor if you have a question.
 Retention rises dramatically if you reread it one or two times.
 Make bullet points as you go through the reading or homework, or review your annotations. Even if you are sleepy, your brain continues to process information as you fall asleep and doze., Ask questions if you don’t understand it. Think about it critically before you jump into the assignment., You will get the best results when the topic is fresh in your brain.
 Make notes in the margins, highlight terms and doodle illustrations or maps of the concepts. You can review the annotations more easily than an entire text, and you will think about the information more carefully as you read it.


Photocopy textbooks or write in pencil to avoid fines.
 Math skills, science concepts and writing may require outside study time to master. The extra time you take now will benefit you in all future classes.
 Always revise your first draft. Proofread and ask someone to review your final draft before turning it in.
 Changing your study room can actually improve your retention of the material., Studies have shown that the brain can make patterns between the things you already know and new data., The more you are asked to recall the information before the test, the more likely you are to recall it during the test.
 Search for the topic and then “quiz” or “test” and time a test exam. If you can’t find any, use your textbook or team up with a friend and come up with 10 questions for each other to answer., Try to look forward to a challenge, like a test, rather than shying away from it. Give yourself a treat, like a favorite snack or YouTube video before you take the test.
 You will get satisfaction from narrowing your choices down.
 Your grades will be compared to others’ grades, so you must always be well above average on your test. Plan to study harder in any class with a curve, since earning a near-perfect score is the only way to guarantee an A on a test.If your course is advanced, getting an A will be more challenging, since the majority of the students are interested in the material.
 Ask about the material and look for insights on how to understand the material.
 If you score low on a test or homework assignment, ask if you can redo a portion of it to earn a higher grade. Some teachers may not allow this, but others will appreciate your commitment to learning the information.
 Start at the beginning of the term and always turn in extra assignments. You can’t get an A+ without doing extra credit.
 Attendance is a good way to convince a teacher that you are interested. Listen and act engaged in the material and the teacher is more likely to give you extra chances.

