;
,, Press and hold the address until the menu appears, and then tap the "Copy" button.
, Press and hold the text field until the menu appears, and then press the "Paste" button.
 Be careful not to accidentally tap the advertisements disguised as download buttons.
 If you select "Video only" or "Audio only" you will get either only video with no audio or only audio with no video.


720P and 1080P are the highest quality options available. Not all Android phones can play 720P or 1080P content.
MP4 is the easiest file type to play.
 This could take a while, especially if you chose a high-quality version.
 once the video has finished downloading, you can open it in your Video Player app just like any other video on your device.
 In order to download the video from YouTube, you will need to use a video downloading service. There are websites that you can use, such as KeepVid, or programs such as DownloadHelper for Firefox.


Unlike Android, you cannot download converted files directly on your iPhone. You will need to download the video on your computer first and use iTunes to add it to your iPhone.
 Once you load the video to download, you will need to select the file format of the video. Choose the MP4 format in order to play it on your iPhone.
 Higher quality files will take up more space than lower quality files. Choose the one that fits your storage needs to most.


Certain devices may not support HD video (720p or 1080p). Make sure that your device can support the quality that you choose. For example, the iPhone 3GS cannot play HD video, but can play SD video (480p, 360p)., Give the file a name that you can remember. Make note of the download location so that you can quickly add it to your phone later.
 Use the USB cable that came with your device.
 If iTunes did not start automatically, open it.
 Click and drag the file into your iTunes library to add it to the list.
 Sync the video to your device as you would any other video or music file.
 You can access the video on your device by using your Videos app.

