 This is commonly referred to as "orthodox". In Krav Maga, eventually you will learn to do all techniques equally well from your offhand, or "southpaw" stance. Your dominant side is most likely the same hand you write with. If you are one of those rare people that truly is ambidextrous, then begin as a "righty", as most Krav Maga techniques are taught right handed first.
 This means that your shoulders and hips should be lined up with their shoulders and hips. You do not want your upper body bladed off, as this will make your back-most hand (cross) very strong and slow, and your front-most hand (jab) useless. If you are properly squared up to your opponent, then both your jab and cross will have knock-out power., Properly done, you will be able to deliver powerful kicks from either leg in this stance.Your feet should be about shoulder width apart such that if you had skis on, they would touch your opponent's toes.

If you are a righty, then your left foot should be about a half step forward and your right a half step back.
A lefty would switch this exactly opposite. You want to bend slightly in the knees and have both feet up on your toes so that you can quickly pivot, change level by squatting, or burst back and forward. Your toes should be pointing forward towards your opponent.
Put about 60% of your weight on your back foot and 40% on your front foot. Do not blade your legs off to your opponent, where your feet make a line pointing towards your opponent. This is like balancing on a balance beam and makes kicks from your back leg slow, and virtually removes any ability to kick with the lead leg.
 The only time this would change is when you throw a combative of your own, and this would be followed with a fast recoil back to this position. The correct height of your hands can be checked by touching your cheeks with your thumbs. This is about where they should be to protect your jaw. Your elbows should be pointed down to protect your ribs and liver from body shots and edged weapons. While it would suck to get cut across the elbow, it wouldn't be as bad as getting stabbed or your guts spilled out., Always keep your chin tucked like you're trying to hold a towel with your chin. Keep your eyes up, like you're looking through the wrinkles in your forehead. This helps protect your chin from incoming strikes. Someone could punch you in the crown of your head - and the joke would be on them as this is an extremely hard part of your head and will almost certainly break their hand (boxer's fracture)., This will bring them up around your chin. If your opponent throws a hook punch you fail to see coming, or if a second attacker you didn't know about tries to put you in a headlock, your shoulders will absorb a large amount of the impact and prevent a headlock from getting under your chin. This will also help protect you from a knife slash across the throat.