 Stand and position your feet a little bit wider than shoulder width apart.Turn both of your feet out slightly (approximately a 30-60 degree angle), so you look like a ballerina. Raise your arms out in front of you at shoulder height, and bend your knees to begin to squat. Try to get low enough into the squat that your knees are bent at a 90° right angle. Keep your back straight as you lower into the squat. Do these squats for about 1 minute.You can do as many repetitions as you like.









Try to keep your knees behind your toes as you bend into the squat.Squeeze your butt to keep a tight, controlled form to your squat.
To add some dimension to this workout, gently bounce at the bottom of the squat for the last 20 seconds of the workout.Instead of extending your legs completely straight after reaching the bottom of the squat, keep your knees bent, and pulse up and down.;
, Stand and spread your feet out wider than shoulder width apart and your arms relaxed at your sides.Your legs up to your groin should look like a wide triangle. Squat as deep as you can going one direction, and keep your other leg straight and turn your toes to point upward. For example, if you squat to the right, your right knee will bend as you keep your left leg straight and turn your left foot to point your toes up. As you squat, raise your arms out in front of you at shoulder height and slightly lean your torso forward for additional stability.Extend and straighten out your squatting leg to return to the starting position.


Do this same Cossack squat on your opposite leg to complete one full rep.Complete 2 to 4 sets of 8 to 12 reps on both of your legs., Stand upright with your feet together and your arms relaxed at your sides. Shift your body weight onto one of your feet, and touch the toes of your opposite foot next to the foot holding your body weight.Push your hips back to slowly bend at your hips and knees, and squat down onto your one leg that is maintaining your body weight.Raise your other leg out in front of you, trying to keep it as straight as possible. As you squat, raise your arms out in front of you at about shoulder height for balance. Stop the squat when your squatting leg’s thigh is nearly parallel to the ground. Then press through your squatting leg’s heel to return back to your starting position.Keep your back straight and your abs tight as you perform this squat.


Complete this exercise by squatting down on both of your legs, doing approximately
You could also use a wall to hold onto and maintain stability as you squat., Get into a typical squatting position, with your feet about shoulder width apart, and your toes slightly turned out. Your knees should be bent at a 90° right angle.As you squat down, raise your arms out in front of you and bend them at the elbows. From this squatting position, jump and explode up, throwing your hands down and back as you jump. After you jump, land back in your squatting position as softly as you can, bending your knees as you come down..


This exercise can also be done in a plié squatting position.Keep your weight back on your heels rather than on your toes.
Do this plyometric squat jump in 3 sets of 8 reps.