 Cut your nails, if needed, then shape them with a file. Use cuticle oil and/or remover, then push back and trim your cuticles. Lightly buff each nail.









Gel polish is more difficult to remove (and typically longer-lasting) than standard nail lacquer. Taking the time your prep your nails will help you achieve a nice, clean look you can enjoy longer term than typical polish.
 Use a nail cleanser or rubbing alcohol on a lint-free wipe to clean your nails. Depending on the brand of gel polish you’re using, you’ll apply one or more foundation coats – they may be called a bond coat, foundation coat, and/or base coat. Follow the instructions for your brand of polish.
 Use the polish color you want for the lace pattern. This look works well with black polish, but you can use any color or shade you like., Paint the pattern on your nail plate. You can make a pattern of all dots, or create a fishnet pattern with diagonal, criss-crossing stripes to imitate fishnet lace.








If you’re unsure how to create a pattern you’ll like, try looking at the pattern in a real piece of lace, or at lace images online.
 Gel polish needs to be cured with a special LED or UV lamp. Follow the instructions that came with your nail lamp for how long curing time should take.









For example, a UV lamp may take 120 seconds to cure a color polish, whereas an LED lamp may take 60 seconds. Some lamps have a built-in shutoff feature after the appropriate amount of time expires., Mix two drops of clear top coat gel with one drop of the polish color you used for your lace. This will give you a translucent shade to overlay your lace pattern. You can add more drops of clear if you want the overlay to be very sheer.
 You can add a second coat of the diluted color, if desired, and then cure the nails again., Use a clear topcoat made for gel polish. Cure your nails under your nail lamp. If you want a matte look, either use a matte topcoat, or lightly buff the surface of your nails.








You may want to apply cuticle oil around your finished nails to rehydrate the skin. If you buffed your nails, remove any dust first with an alcohol wipe (or wash your hands).

