 Thinking positive will only get you so far. You should, of course, always hope for the best. You should expect that wonderful things will happen for you because they often will. However, you need to also be willing to work hard for good things and plan ahead for how you will deal with hardships or plans which go wrong. There is nothing wrong with being prepared for bad things, it will simply make you better able to handle situations that arise.
 This will be an important aspect of succeeding in life. Jumping from temporary job to temporary job will make it very hard to move up to bigger and better things, so try to set yourself on a career path as early as possible. Choose something which fits your skills, can provide you with an acceptably comfortable life, and that doesn’t make you miserable. You probably can’t be rock star, but you might surprise yourself with how much you enjoy being a sound technician.
 A lot of the time, making poor money decisions is what holds us back in life. Avoid large debts, buy only what you need and no more, and avoid unreliable investments. Saving to buy a rental property, for example, is a much more reliable investment than buying stocks in a new company. That $400 cell phone? Try a cheap phone and using the money saved to pay off a credit card.
 One of the best ways to succeed and live comfortably is to become as financially secure as possible. Try to work towards owning a home rather than renting, owning your car, and paying off credit card debt. The fewer monthly payments you have to make (or in the case of renting an apartment, the fewer payments that provide no returns), the better able you will be to spend money on things you need and save up for a rainy day.


Don’t feel that you can’t purchase a home because of your economic status. There are a number of government and bank programs designed to make home ownership accessible to everyone. Look into the HUD program, homepath properties, and local organizations which help first-time home buyers.

