 Many places that hire guide dog trainers require a college degree of some sort. Consider completing a degree in zoology. Although it is not dog training specifically, it will help you understand the anatomical, biological and physiological side of animals. It will also give you an edge over the competition when applying for a dog training position.A college degree is not a prerequisite to all programs. Check with the agency you want to work for.
Some workplaces will sponsor an apprenticeship for you to become trainer, but you need a four year college degree.;
, As a guide dog trainer, you must be able to work with people and dogs, since you are training dogs to interact appropriately with people. A shelter will give you many opportunities to work with both. Duties might be:


Answer incoming calls.
Perform clerical work for adoptions.
Help scared dogs adjust to a new environment.
Match pets with new owners.
 Volunteering at an animal hospital may be less hands-on than at a shelter, because animals are being treated for injuries and illness, but it will help feed your passion for dogs. Research what hospitals in your area take volunteers. Some may be more hands-on than others and require you to complete an application. Expect to do things like cleaning out kennels and checking in patients.Volunteerism looks good to an employer on an application, because it shows you are passionate enough about the field to work for free.
 Get a job working with dogs, even if it’s just at your local pet store. It will give you experience and help you learn how dogs’ minds operate. Work as a dog sitter or dog walker. They are both in high demand, since people increasingly think of their dogs as family members. Anything to get you working around dogs!, After gaining some experience working with or around animals, apply for a position at a guide dog school. Work your way up to become a trainer by starting in a different position, like a kennel assistant or attendant. They help feed, bathe and walk dogs and are great ways to start. You have a better chance at getting an interview for an apprenticeship if you are already working for the school.
 On-the-job training programs for guide dog trainers are offered to all qualified applicants. Some jobs want you to have experience working with dogs and some are more concerned with finding the right type of person. Look at job postings at companies that train service dogs. Many will have a dedicated employment page on their website., An apprenticeship can take anywhere from two to four years to complete, depending upon the company and its requirements. You must be in good physical shape to complete the program, since it requires a lot of physical agility and stamina. Eat healthy and exercise regularly. Plus, be prepared to assist with teaching dogs and take on ever increasing responsibilities working under a master trainer.
 If you’re not offered a job at the place you apprenticed at, you will be qualified to apply for positions after you complete it. Depending upon the company you apply at, you may have to pass a written test they issue to screen for the best candidates. It may take several tries to get a job, as the competition is tough.
 Most guide dog trainers are self-taught through extensive experience working with dogs or they completed an apprenticeship program, but there are a handful of schools. Do your homework before you commit. Some things a good school should offer are:


The history of dog training starting from the late 19th century.
Animal learning including positive and negative reinforcement, and human versus dog learning.
Dog behavior, including breed temperaments and social cues.
How to design classes to best teach owners and dogs interaction skills., Guide dog trainers know through science how dogs operate and think. Apply to a school that offers an Associate of Science, Bachelor of Science or Master of Science degree if you can. Some schools may not offer degree plans, but can still educate on how to be a good trainer. Make sure they offer classes on biology and other life sciences., The Certification Council for Professional Dog Trainers is the only widely recognized dog trainer certification. This certification shows your professionalism and that you are familiar with the most current training techniques. To get certified, you need to:


Complete at least 300 hours of training experience from the past three years.
Provide a signed reference from a veterinarian or CCPDT certificate.
Agree to the CCPDT code of ethics.