 In the first season, Mia has a simple haircut: long light brown hair with even ends and thin bangs. In the second season, she cuts her hair in scales, but the bangs and colour stay the same. Her hair always looks the best, so you can use your flat-iron or your dryer to achieve the smooth straight look. Go to the hair salon as frequently as you can. Remember, one of Mia's favourite things to do is cut her hair.;
, To achieve this look, use face wash and moisturizer daily. Also, drink plenty of water and eat fruits and vegetables. Visit a dermatologist at least once a month. Spa treatments are also great for your skin.
 Try to make it seem as natural as possible. Mia never goes with tons of make-up. Use only foundation, some mascara and lip gloss for the day. At night you can use some harsher make-up.
 Mia takes very good care of her body. She eats very healthily and avoids carbohydrates. For breakfast she eats mostly fruits. Mia also exercises to maintain her sleek, sexy figure. To achieve this body, focus on eating more fruits and vegetables and limit the carbohydrates and the processed foods. For exercising, it is not necessary to go to the gym! Mia does exercises in the privacy of her own home.
 She wears either a white nail polish or a French. As long as the colour is soft and girly and feminine, it's alright to wear it. You can do your own nails or you can go to the nail salon. You should also put cream on your hands so they are always soft.Wear a lot of rings on your fingers, but make sure they are thin and delicate ones.You can also find a nice watch to wear on your hands, since Mia always has one.
 You don't have to spend tons of money to achieve her look. Just look for more girly and ladylike clothes, like for example shirts and tees and jeans. Just make sure you get mostly clothes with lively colours, especially pink, since Mia rarely wears dark clothes (except for the nights, sometimes).
 It's important that you keep your shoulders back and move your hips. If you need help, you can look on the Internet or go to dance lessons.
 Mia is the leading choreographer of Elite Way School, so she has a natural talent for dancing. You can attend dance lessons to learn how to dance well.
 Mia is nothing if not confident. Even when disasters happen to her, she puts on a big smile and keeps her shoulders back, and doesn't show the world she is down. She discusses her private things only with her closest friends. Try to have more confidence in yourself and be positive, because life is a great adventure. And don't be afraid to desnude yourself in public. Just don't do this very often.
 Mia loves her friends and helps them whenever she can. Try to be there for your friends. If you don't have any, then make some! Mia is generally nice to people (except ones that disagree with her) and has a lot of friends. Have best friends and share all your secrets with them.
 Mia has a very strong personality and stands for what she believes. Don't let people run you over; be a leader! Let them know you have principles - they will respect you for that. But don't get too bossy, because you might be thrown away.
 Room is a very important part of being like Mia. Your room should be in girly colours. Pink, purple or red are all acceptable. Put a lot of stuffed animals and pillows on your bed. Have a pane where you put all your pictures and keep your desk organised.
 Even though she is not very interested in school, Mia maintains good grades. You don't have to be on the top of your class - just don't get bad grades and you'll be fine.
 Mia loves her daddy and she'd do anything for him. She loves her mother also, but she is dead. Love your parents but don't get overly attached to them.
 Since Mia is very rich and has got almost everything she wants, she is spoiled and snobbish, but not too much. She is very nice to people that are nice to her and are not rich, like Luna for example. Seem snobbish at first sight, but be a good person inside.
 Mia is very romantic. She daydreams a lot and fantasies about something (mostly including Manuel). She also gets very excited when something happens to her that's connected to love (and mostly that includes Manuel).
 Whether it's a broken nail or something that she really doesn't like, trust Mia to turn it into a drama. She is very whiny and hates things like insects, dirty objects, clothes out of taste or really anything that's out of fashion.
 Mia is the typical girly girl who appreciates everything girly. She likes everything that has taste and is pretty.
, Flirt with them by walking seductively, pulling and twisting your hair with your fingers, giving sexy mysterious looks - whatever you prefer! Be picky about who you go out with - you don't want to be labeled an easy chick. If aren't very pretty and boys don't notice you, just be confident and tidy - you'll see how they'll suddenly notice.
