 Although in some situations you may need to expand your crafting repertoire, the best and most efficient way to contribute crafts to someone in need is to do what you already know. For example, a quilt guild may make quilts and jewelry makers should choose to make jewelry.


Try doing an Internet search that includes your craft and "for charity" in the search terms. This will give you examples of charities and what other people have done.;
,


Before donating crafts or money to a charity, ensure that it is authentic. You can check this at http://charitynavigator.org.
 Many groups like to dedicate 1 month each year or a few weekends to making crafts to send to an organization they support. The more people who get involved, the more help you will be.

Consider creating a group that crafts for charity that includes teenagers or elderly people. A charity crafting class could be a mother/daughter operation, or it could take place at a retirement community. Many elderly people knit, crochet or embroider and may be interested in meeting with people who are of a different generation.
 Most charities have instructions about the sizes of the crafts that are made, the materials and, in some cases, the patterns. Although most crafters love to be creative, make sure you are doing it within the confines of these instructions.
 Corporate responsibility leads many large stores to look for charities to support, while local small businesses may enjoy both the ethical and marketing benefits of donating materials to a charity crafting group.


In most cases it is unlikely that all materials would be donated. You should expect to have to buy some materials. If you have a group, then you can share the burden of costs as well as time creating the project.
 For example, October is breast cancer awareness month, so you could contribute to a charity and use pink material, and December is AIDS awareness month, so a red craft for an AIDS charity might be preferable. You can increase your craft knowledge while contributing to a number of charities.

