 Becoming exercise buddies is a big commitment. You will be spending time together each week for long stretches of time. The two (or more) of you should enjoy each other's company, and commit to supporting and motivating each other. You will have to know that this will make a very close bond between you and the workout friends, since you are sharing the same physical exercise.Sometimes the best workout partner isn't your closest friend. Ask people with similar schedules and an interest in similar activities.;
, When deciding which friends you should work out with, think about fitness level. If you are going to go to the gym together, use the machines, or visit classes, people of any fitness level will be okay.If you want a running buddy, don’t choose someone who runs marathons if you are working towards a mile or 5k. Instead, find someone roughly around your level who can progress with you.
 Meet beforehand and decide together what kind of workouts you'll be doing. It helps to find shared fitness goals (such as strength training or weight loss), so you can workout on the same types of activities.That said, some people enjoy attending the gym together even if they do entirely separate workouts.


For example, you may decide to focus on aerobic activities only, like walking, running, cycling, or swimming. However, you may want to add in strength training or yoga for stress relief and flexibility.
 Part of the benefits of exercising with friends is that you have people to keep you excited about working out. This means you should work out more than once each week. Come up with a schedule that works for all of you.


For example, you may be able to meet three days each week after work, or try for five days at different times because of schedules.
 Milestones give you a goal and a way to measure your progress. Milestones can also help you stay motivated. When you reach a milestone, make new ones.For example, if you and your friend(s) are training to run, you might set a goal of running a mile or 5 K in a certain amount of time.
 Though you will have a schedule, life isn’t always predictable. Expecting the person to be able to do the same time each week for years isn’t realistic. Instead, be prepared to adapt according to schedules, conflicts, or life changes.For example, if you usually work out in the morning, but your friend gets a new job where they have to go to work earlier, then you may need to start working out at a different time of day.
 Hiking, cycling, and similar forms of outdoor exercise are safer with other people, not to mention more fun. Brainstorm activities you wouldn't do alone, such as a weekend ski holiday or a canoeing trip that requires portage.
 Goalposts are a great motivator. If you share a passion for the same types of exercise as your workout friend or friends, consider training for an event. This could be running a marathon, hiking a multi-day trail, or even a grueling team challenge such as the Tough Mudder.

