 This will save you time when you arrive at the park - you won't have to wait in any queues at the ticket offices!;
, Try previewing each attraction or show on YouTube, or take a peek at the ride through photos from others. Learn from what others see. This can help decide which rides and attractions will take priority during your visit.
, Discuss some of your other options that exist in Orlando. Between the Universal Orlando theme parks and the 4 major theme parks in Walt Disney World and a mess of other things nearby, this might or might not be the right fit for your family.
 The address to SeaWorld is 7007 Sea World Drive, Orlando, Florida 32821 .The cost to park your car at the SeaWorld Orlando resort will run you about $17 for cars and upwards from there (depending on complexity of vehicle).. And even if you factor in SeaWorld's owned separate theme park called Discovery Cove, SeaWorld is another experience to nourish for a day.


For free parking, challenge yourself to walk a tiny bit further away at the Discovery Cove lot across the Central Florida Parkway. Discovery Cove is directly across from SeaWorld, and with the great value this lot contains for the price, it's well worth the extra effort to walk a few extra yards.This lot is tiny and may fill up fast. Have some better reason to be there than just the price. This lot is only about one-fifth the size of the SeaWorld direct lot.
 With it's lighthouse on a pier display, it's interesting to take a few seconds to look at it. You won't find this display at other places. This area is known as Port of Entry.
 Although SeaWorld Orlando has several lands, it's lands have little to no signage behind them. Each land is formed by at least one major attraction and several smaller attractions. With the exception of the entry area these lands include Sea of Shallows, Sea of Legends, Sea of Ice, Sea of Delight, Sea of Mystery, Sea of Fun and Sea of Power.
 For the first time, you'll be able to see many different turtles up close that you wouldn't otherwise see.
, For many, this show is informative enough and encouraging that many can take this in without getting frightened.
,,,, This massive roller coaster will "take your breath away".
, You can really learn about marine life here.
, You can see this rather gentle animals, and at feeding time, can watch them get fed.
 You'll have two choices as to complexity of the motion of the ride, so be prepared to explain which one you want to the ride operator upon entry into the building.
 It's a little ways up, but the ride is cool and relatively easy and can definitely take a load off of any tired feet that may exist

, This is the location of the very funny Pets Ahoy! theater production number.
 This show will have you laughing for a little while.
 With the Shark Encounter exhibit located in this area, it's actually a bit interesting to look at for adults, but be careful with children as some children will seem scared to enter. Only until they can realize that there's a cage that separates them from the sharks, will they feel they can enter safely without getting bitten or hurt.
 It is by far confusing for most visitors to watch a show as weird as the one shown in this area.
, Skip them if you feel the sun beating down on you is too powerful or you have no experience with other paddle boats. Plus, there is little to no extra protection from drowning (should a drowning occur here) due to no supervision onsite.
 Sea of Fun is actually the water-fun and kid-friendly part of the park (not geared towards any animals). It features several water-fun (splash) areas.
, Get to know a lot more about his habit and environment and a little more information about how powerful his fins really are.


Be careful to know exactly what times the Shamu show is showing on that particular day. It normally only has a few times it shows.

Be careful of the Splash Zone at the Shamu zone. They take safety extra-seriously here. So this article doesn't spoil the fun, you'll see why this article and the theatre cautions you to sit back in the upper deck if you don't want to get super soaked. If it looks like fun after one round, go ahead and sit through another show in the bottom row of seats.
 This is one area that is not to be missed.

