 Many bad moods are caused by stress, anxiety, and feeling overwhelmed. If you notice a bad mood coming on during a hectic day, you may want to step back and take this as a warning sign to slow down. You may need to take a five minute break and have some downtime so you can calm down. Once you do this, you may feel your bad mood start to lift.Be willing to listen to your body and pay attention to your moods, even bad ones. Admit that you are in a bad mood due to stress and then address it by taking some relaxation time to yourself.
Make a list of warning signs that let you know when you are feeling stressed out. If you notice that you are experience any of those signs, take some time to take care of yourself.
You may also try moving tasks off your plate by handing some of them off to someone else. These are important steps to staying balanced and not letting your moods get the better of you.;
, Sometimes a bad mood may be due to using social media too often or in unhealthy ways. Excessive use of social media can contribute to feelings of depression, because it tempts you to compare your life negatively to those of your friends.If you notice you get into a negative headspace while using social media, this may be a warning sign that you need to adjust your social media habits.


To avoid bad moods, you may try limiting your social media use to only a few times a day or try to stay off social media completely. You may also try using social media in a more productive way by sharing information about current events, social issues, or articles that are happy and uplifting.
Always keep in mind that people’s lives as they appear on social media are heavily filtered. It is unrealistic to compare your own life to the edited snippets of other people’s lives that you might see on Facebook or Instagram.
 Another common cause of a bad mood is not getting enough sleep. If you tend to wake up in a bad mood or feel your bad mood is the result of exhaustion or lack of sleep, you may need to adjust your sleep patterns. Often when you are overtired, you can end up feeling irritable, grouchy, and unhappy throughout the day.You may try adjusting your sleep environment so you get a good night’s sleep. Or you may need to adjust your sleep position or your routine before bed to help fall asleep faster and for a longer period of time.
Cut back on screen time before bed, as it can be overstimulating and make it harder for you to fall asleep. The blue light from cell phone, tablet, computer, or TV screens can disrupt sleep patterns., If you tend to eat unhealthy food and do not do much physical activity, you may not feel your best. An unhealthy lifestyle can lead to feelings of anxiety, irritability, and fatigue. You may want to consider if your bad mood is a sign that your lifestyle needs to change or shift.For example, maybe you tend to skip breakfast in the morning and do not do any physical exercise during the week. As a result, you may end up in a bad mood at the midpoint in the day because you did not eat enough and you have been sitting in a cramped office or a classroom all day.
The health of your gut can have a surprising impact on your emotional health. For this reason, eating a healthy diet can make a big difference in your mood, and can help you manage anxiety and depression.