 When the teacher asks a question that you know how to answer, put your hand up. When you have an opportunity, volunteer to attempt problems on the board in front of your class. The more you participate, the more chances you will have to interact with your teacher and develop a rapport.


If you are not sure about a question, but no other classmates raise their hand, volunteer to attempt to answer the problem. Teachers typically seek out ways to encourage more participation and will appreciate the example that you set.Class participation can be especially challenging or uncomfortable for foreign students. If you are participating in a study abroad or an exchange program, pay attention to how other students participate and mimic their behavior. Don’t be afraid to approach your teacher before or after class to discuss their expectations for classroom participation.;
, Teachers work hard to prepare lessons and effectively manage classrooms. Show that you appreciate this work by listening closely and focusing on the subject matter. Teachers will appreciate your show of interest in the subject, especially in contrast to other students who may show a lack of interest in the class.


If you find it difficult to pay attention in class, work to improve your focus. Regular exercise, adequate sleep, and a healthy diet can all contribute to mental dexterity. You can also use regular meditation to strengthen your focus., You will rarely impress teachers or classmates if you gloat or brag about success. Your math teacher especially may be unhappy if you inadvertently discourage your classmates by using your test scores to show that you are better at math than they are. Acknowledge your success, but encourage your classmates by noticing their success as well.


Avoid trying to attract attention to yourself for being the first finished or for getting the highest grade. There is no need to bring extra attention to yourself. Your teacher will see your success without you gloating. Additionally, overconfidence can hurt your learning.You can speak about your accomplishments, but don’t dominate conversations by talking about them at length., Participation is a good way to impress a math teacher, but make sure that other students have their chance to participate. Only talk in class when it is instructed or allowed. If you worry that you participate too much, keep a mental tally and limit the number of times that you raise your hand to five.
 Common classroom behaviors can upset your teacher because they distract other students and show that you are uninterested in the class. Don’t pass notes or talk to neighboring students. Respect other students by listening while they talk in class.


Avoid using your phone in class. Even if you think you are discrete, your teacher will probably notice.
 If you do not understand part of the assignment or need to clarify a concept from class, try to ask during office hours. Teachers like to address students’ confusion as early as possible. This will also give you a chance to develop your rapport with your teacher.


If they do not have office hours, ask questions as you leave the classroom. Respect the fact that your teacher may have limited time and keep questions brief and specific.

