 You do not need to stop every time there is a police car behind you on the road. However, when a police car is following you with its lights flashing or siren blaring, that is a signal for you to stop., When you realize that there is a police car behind you with lights flashing or siren sounding, pull over safely and in a way that does not annoy an already annoyed or angry police officer. This means you should use your turn signals to indicate lane changes, and you should stop quickly but not so quickly that the cop has to immediately brake to avoid hitting your car., Pulling over quickly is also important because doing so means that there is a greater chance that you will recall the details of the violation that the cop later accuses you of committing. Furthermore, if you pull over quickly, you will be close to the place where the alleged violation took place so that you can return there if necessary in order to evaluate for yourself the police officer’s specific claims about the violation., After stopping and as the police officer is walking towards your car, you should do certain things that will allay the common fears that police officers have when approaching a car that they have just pulled over. Police officers are routinely killed during ordinary traffic-stops, so understand where those fears comes from. To allay those fears, you can engage in token gestures, such as the following:#*Rolling down your window all the way


Turning off your engine
Placing your hands on the steering wheel
Turning on your interior light if it is dark

, You may know, of course, that during routine traffic-stops, the police officer will begin his conversation with you by asking you for your license and registration. However, do not look for these items until the officer asks for them because if you start rummaging through your back pocket or glove compartment, the officer may think that you are reaching for a weapon., If you are not sure whether the person who stopped you is actually a police officer (e.g. if you are stopped by an unmarked car) and you are concerned for your safety, politely ask for the officer’s ID and badge. If you are still concerned, you can ask the police officer that he allow you to follow him to a police station or that he call a supervisor to the scene., You can give the police officer a reason to search your car by attempting to hide something or throwing something out of your car window. Such actions will give him a reason to search your car. The officer will also be watching your body movements, so a sudden lowering of the shoulders may suggest to him that you are trying to hide something under your seat.
 The officer has a right to ask you to step outside your car if he considers that that is necessary. Only get out of your car if the cop asks you to. Many officers prefer that you stay seated in your car and will command you to stop getting out of your car if you begin to do so. If you get out of the car without being asked or despite being asked to stay seated, the officer may point a gun at you.The officer may believe that you are about to flee or use a weapon if you get out without being asked because officers are “trained to expect the worst.”

, Normally, a police officer cannot search your vehicle if you are pulled over. Nor can they search your home without a warrant. Your actions and words, however, can instill a reasonable suspicion in the police officer’s mind that you are armed and dangerous or are hiding something illegal. If the police officer has reasonable suspicion of criminal activity, he or she is legally entitled to conduct a search.Even if the officer does not have probable cause (or reasonable suspicion), the officer may still take from you any illegal objects that are in plain view (e.g. open alcohol containers or illegal drugs). If these illegal items are in plain view, the officer can open your car door and collect them. In the course of doing so, he may also seize any additional illegal objects that he comes across.
If the police officer has reasonable suspicion that you are involved in criminal activity, he can search your car, and if he has reasonable suspicion that you are armed and dangerous, he is also allowed to pat you down.
If you the police officer ends up arresting you or any of the passengers in the car, they may also search your car. If your car is then towed, the police may also conduct an “inventory search” afterward, even if there is no reason to believe that there is anything illegal inside the car.
 Whenever you speak to a police officer, no matter why you were detained, it is important to know what you should and should not say. Saying the wrong thing can be the difference between losing or winning a case against a police officer.Do not talk back to the officer. Although you may have a legitimate belief that you have a right to stand up for your rights by talking back to the police, the police officer may perceive your talking back to him as a challenge to his authority.If you speak in a tone that the police officer finds unacceptable, you may find yourself being charged with disorderly conduct or disturbing the peace.Such a tone may also lead eventually to an incident of police brutality, so it is in your best interest to be polite in your conversations with the police, whether in your home, in public, or when you have been pulled over in your car.
 Avoid asking “What’s the problem?” or other such defensive opening questions. Allow the officer to start talking first. If you have been pulled over, do not ask the officer why you were stopped. Just comply with his initial instructions, which will likely be for you to provide him with your license and registration.
 If asked “Do you know why I stopped you?” reply “No.” If asked “Do you know how fast you were going?” reply “Yes, I do.” By asking you these questions, the cop is trying to extract an admission out of you to use in court if necessary. Therefore, your answers should be “non-committal and brief.”If the officer, then, tells you how fast you were going, give a non-committal answer like “I see” or simply remain silent because silence is “not an admission of guilt and cannot be used against you in court.”, You may have been a victim of racial profiling but it is equally possible for a person to become a victim of police brutality regardless of race, gender, or age. It is often difficult to prove that police brutality has occurred because police are authorized to use force when necessary. It is, therefore, important for you to have as much evidence as possible if you feel you have been a victim of police brutality.One form of evidence of police brutality is eye-witnesses. Write down the names of all witnesses of the accident or incident. Ask those witnesses if they would be willing to testify in court if necessary.
Another form of evidence is pictures of your injuries. Have someone at the scene take photographs of your injuries. Most cell phones these days have cameras, so this should be easy for an eye-witness to do. A witness may also have taken a video of the incident, so ask eye-witnesses if any of them has a video recording of what happened.
 If you have been the victim of force being used against you by the police, it is also important to seek help of a medical professional. A doctor or other medical professional can assess your injuries and provide a medical conclusion of what happened to you during the incident.This medical conclusion can then be used as evidence should the matter go to court.
 If you feel that your rights have been violated, then file a police misconduct report. Doing so is a crucial step in bringing the police officer to justice.Write the details of the incident. It is important to do so as soon as possible after the incident so that you do not forget the details of what happened. Writing the details down will help you when you are filing a police report.Note that you should only file a police misconduct report until after all criminal charges and civil actions have been resolved. If you file a report before that has happened, you may be revealing too much information, which could hurt your chances of success in court. However, if you were not charged with a crime by the officer during the incident, then you can file the complaint right away.To determine where to file the complaint, type "police complaint" followed by the name of your city in a search engine. Doing so should direct you to details about the office or location where you can file your report. If, in your jurisdiction, the way to get a form is by calling or visiting a police station, then avoid discussing the matter with any police officers, as they may try to indicate you into believing that your complaint does not have merit.Use the correct forms when filing the report. Not using the correct forms and not transferring information you wrote about the incident from your own notes to the official form may result in your complaint being rejected.Make copies of your complaint and keep those copies in a secure location. Mail the complaint using certified mail so that the police cannot deny having received it. Also send copies to your local ACLU and NAACP offices., If you intend to take the matter to court to bring the police officer to justice, it is a good idea to hire a police brutality attorney to help you fight your case. Your attorney can help you receive reimbursement for doctor's fees, medical tests, emotional distress, and lost wages.To find a police brutality attorney in your area, ask for recommendations from friends or family or type the words "police brutality attorney" in a search engine followed by the name of your city.

