 Using too many of them may clog your deck, so only use a few copies of the better ones. Use 1-2 Air Hummingbird, Dark Panther, Aqua Dolphin, Flare Scarab, and/or Glow Moss, and 1 Grand Mole (because it's limited). Also include around 2 Elemental HERO Neos to make the fusions, or Neos Alius if using Pendulums or Gemini support cards. Use Cross Porter to search your Neo-Spacians and Neo Space Pathfinder to search Neo Space.;
, Elemental HERO Prisma is great for dumping Neos and copying its name, so you can fuse more easily. Use 2-3 copies of it. Mathematician can be used to dump Cross Porter and trigger its effect, as well as making Rank 3 Xyzs. Some Elemental HEROs can help too - Necroshade allows you to summon Neos from your hand, Shadow Mist can search the rest of the HEROs and Mask Change, Bubbleman special summons himself and Mask Changes into Acid, and Blazeman can dump Necroshade, Neos, and Shadow Mist. Summoner Monk can special summon Prisma and Shadow Mist and make Rank 4s.
 The best Neos fusions are Air Neos, Grand Neos, Dark Neos, Flare Neos, Storm Neos, Magma Neos, and maybe Glow Neos. Include the ones you have Neo-Spacians for. Magma Neos is hard to summon, so it is not recommended. If you use Necroshade, Elemental HERO Darkbright or Necroid Shaman can be used to dump it with Prisma. In addition, if you have the proper cards, use Elemental HERO and Masked HERO fusions, as well as Rank 3, 4 and 7 Xyz monsters.
 Since Contact Fusions require both monsters to be on the field, you will need ways to quickly special summon your monsters. Common Soul, Fake Hero, and Double Summon can help with this. Convert Contact is a great draw card for the archetype, and Miracle Contact is the best card they have access to. Both should be maxed out. Reinforcement of the Army searches Prisma, the majority of the HERO cards, Cross Porter, Pathfinder, and Aqua Dolphin. Space Gift is also great for drawing, but it can be hard to get enough Spacians on the field at a time. Neo Space and Instant Neo Space will keep your Neos fusions on the field after the effort you went through summoning them. Neo Space is more searchable. E - Emergency Call will search your HEROs, O - Oversoul will revive Neos, Contact Out can save your fusions from destruction or their own End Phase effect, and Wrath of Neos can be used with Neos or a Prisma copying its name to destroy the entire field.
 Cards that would help are Twin Twisters/MST, Raigeki, Soul Charge, Foolish Burial, Call of the Haunted, Oasis of Dragon Souls, and Reinforcement of the Army., Pendulums could help solve that problem by special summoning a bunch of monsters from your hand at once. Good Pendulum engines to use are Magicians (good search card, high enough scales to Pendulum Neos) and Igknights (good at deck thinning and searchable via RotA and Summoner's Art, but you can't Pendulum summon Neos). In a Pendulum deck, use less of the special summon cards and more draw, search, and revival cards.