 If a lot of fluid has built up in your dog’s abdomen, your vet might recommend having the fluid drained. This will provide your dog with temporary relief because when the fluid is drained, his diaphragm will be able to expand more fully and pressure will be taken off of his vital organs. Unfortunately, the fluid will most likely return, though how long that will take depends on how sick your dog is.To drain the fluid, the vet will:


Pass a sterile needle or special catheter, passed through your dog’s previously clipped and sterilized skin. Suction is applied via a closed collection system, such as a syringe with a three-way tap, until all the fluid has been removed.
Most good natured dogs do not need to be sedated for this procedure, and will only need to be given some local anesthetic.
 Angiotensin Converting Enzyme (ACE) inhibitors are a drug that, like diuretics, decrease the heart’s workload. They work by increasing the blood flow out of the heart. Angiotensin plays a role in blood vessel contraction and salt retention.


When blood vessels contract, it makes it harder for blood to circulate throughout your dog’s body. An ACE inhibitor prevents this action and helps blood vessels to open up.
 One such ACE inhibitor is the drug enalapril. The recommended dose is 0.25-1 mg per kg given once daily, although in severely ill patients it can be given twice daily. Enalapril comes in 1, 2.5, 10, and 20 mg tablets. A 10 kg cavalier needs a single 10 mg enalapril tablet once a day., A positive inotrope is a drug that makes the heart muscle pump more strongly. Some inotropes also help to regulate the heart rate, and slow it slightly. This is helpful because a racing heart does not give itself time to fill fully before contracting, and this means the volume of blood pushed out with each stroke is less than optimal. It is more efficient to slow the heart slightly, let it fully fill, and then pump.
 Pimobendan encourages the heart muscles to respond to calcium more effectively, which in turn helps the heart muscle to contract more strongly. It also decreases the stickiness of platelets, meaning they are less likely to stick together in the circulation and cause a stroke.The dose is generally 0.1-0.3mg per kg, given twice daily. You should give the medication to your dog at least one hour before he eats. Pimobendan is currently only available as Vetmedin (this is the brand name), and comes in 1.25 mg and 5 mg tablets. A 10 kg Cavalier would take one 1.25 mg tablet twice daily.

