 Use a wave or curl enhancing shampoo and conditioner and wash your hair as usual. Make sure you do this in the evening, shortly before you go to bed, as your waves will set overnight as your hair dries. The benefit of this styling technique is it requires little work!If you normally shower in the morning, you can do this routine as you get ready. However, your braid needs time to dry and an hour or so may not be enough time to allow your braid to dry and to create waves in your hair. To speed up the process use a blow dryer on your hair while it is braided. Ultimately, doing this at night will give you the best results., Once you have showered, squeeze out excess water from your hair. Then take a wide tooth comb and comb out any tangles or messiness in your hair. If your hair is dripping wet you can squeeze out some of the moisture with an old cotton t-shirt or microfiber cloth.It's important to brush your hair before you braid it, because you don't want to brush it after you take the braid out. This will likely brush some of the waves out.
To comb your hair, start at the ends of your hair and work out any tangles. Then, move your way up through your hair until you reach the roots.
 Now, take your hair and braid it into one long braid (or you can do two braids -- this will create tighter waves). You can do a loose braid or a tighter braid -- it all depends on how tight you want your waves to be. Also, remember that you will be sleeping on this braid so do what feels most comfortable to you. If you want waves that start higher up your head, french braid your hair.


Keep in mind that a tighter braid may make your hair look more crimped than braided, so doing a looser braid is the safer option. If your hair isn't very wavy once you take your braid out, you can always try it again another night. You can also touch up your waves with a one inch wand or curling iron.
To braid your hair, separate it into three equal sections. Then, take the left section and place it over the middle section. Then, take the right section and place it over the left section that is now the middle section. Finally, place the middle section (now the left section) and place it over the right (now middle) section. Continue to do this until you reach the ends of your hair.
It's best to braid your hair while it is wet so the braid dries in your hair. However, some people have such thick hair that it won't dry completely in a braid overnight. If this is the case with your hair, try air drying it a little bit before you go to bed and before you put it in a braid. Then, once it is somewhat dry, braid it and go to sleep. When you wake up your hair will hopefully be completely dry.
 The key to this hairstyle is allowing your hair lots of time to dry in the braid. Go to bed and then don't remove the braid until you wake up the next day. Once you wake up, undo your braid. Your hair should be somewhat wavy. Then, spritz your hair with a little bit of hairspray to help hold your waves and you're done!If you are disappointed with the waviness in your hair, you can always touch it up with a curling iron or wand. You can also spritz your hair with water and apply a styling product to your hair to help add bounce to your waves.
Another option you have is to straighten your braid once it is dry. Simply leave your braid in, making sure it is completely dry. Then, take a flat iron and run it slowly over your braid a few times. It's helpful if you have braids small enough to fit in a flat iron, so if you need to, take your braid out and re-braid your hair into five or 10 braids. Once your braids have cooled, take them out and spritz them with a little bit of hairspray.,