 MoneyGram doesn't require you or your recipient to set up an account, although transfers in the United States must be picked up, in cash, at a physical MoneyGram location.Many other countries accept direct deposit to bank accounts or debit cards.
You may use either your bank account or a credit card to fund your payment, although each option incurs different fees.
 Since MoneyGram only sends cash to physical locations, use the locations page on the web site find the most convenient location for your friend or family member.Enter your Address, City, or Zip Code in the Locations Page search box.
Choose the store that is both conveniently located and has hours that fit your recipient's schedule.
 Visit the "Estimate Rates" link on the main page and enter the amount of money you are sending. This will help you to figure out how much you will be charged to send the funds. You will first enter the amount you're sending then choose your payment source to determine the rate you'll pay.Pay close attention to exchange rates, if you're sending money internationally.
Remember that some credit cards will charge you a cash advance fee if you use them to send money.
 Enter your recipient's first and last name, along with their country. If sending money in the United States, you'll also enter their state of residence. Click "Start Sending Money Now."You can create an account, login, or send as a guest.
If sending money internationally, follow the steps as they appear.
 In the United States, the "Cash" option is already selected. International payments will be able to select from a variety of payments, depending on what forms of delivery are allowed., The exchange rate will be calculated for you automatically, so, if you're sending internationally, you'll see exactly how much your recipient will receive. Make sure that the full amount will not overdraw your bank account or credit card., Paying attention to the details on this receipt, such as the amount of money you sent, payment fees, and recipient information, will help you manage your accounts., You can still cancel the transaction, as long as the money has not been picked up. You’ll need to visit the MoneyGram web site to submit a If you have a MoneyGram account, login to the site and find the transaction details in your Transaction History. You’ll see the option to cancel.
If you do not have an account, use the “Track a Transfer” tool to find the payment and to cancel it on the “Transaction Details” page.

