 You can protect your cat from the elements and get her more used to the snow by building her an outdoor shelter for cold weather. You can use a storage bin that is just a bit bigger than your cat to create the shelter or build one out of wood. Make sure the shelter is not too big, as you want your cat to be able to stay warm with her own body heat.You should fill the shelter with stray or loosely stuff a pillowcase with packing peanuts or shredded newspaper and put it in the shelter. This will help your cat burrow and keep warm in the shelter.
You could also paper the inner walls of the shelter with reflective paper or insulation so your cat stays warm in the shelter.
Make sure you clean the shelter regularly and replace any dirty or wet straw. You should also monitor your cat in the shelter and check on her often to make sure she is staying warm.;
, You can also help your cat embrace snow and cold weather by getting her a pair of winter booties for her feet. Protecting her feet during winter is important, as her paws can be hurt by snow, salt, and chemical de-icers on the pavement. You should invest in a pair of well made winter boots for your cat so she can walk around in the snow with ease.You can find winter boots for cats online or at your local pet store. You may ask a sales associate at the pet store to recommend winter boots for your cat, based on your budget and the level of quality you are looking for.
 Getting a heated water bowl for your cat will ensure her water does not freeze up when it is placed outside in the winter. Cats cannot get enough hydration from licking ice and you do not want to put your cat at risk of dehydration while she is frolicking outside in the snow.You can find heated water bowls at your local pet store or online. You can also find solar-heated water bowls which use the heat of the sun to stay warm.
 You can get your cat used to snow by encouraging her to play with you outside during the winter. You may take her favorite batting toy outside and coax her to have a play session with you in the snow. Or you move her favorite scratching pad out into the snow so she can get used to playing in the colder temperatures.


You may try to play with your cat in the snow at least once a day so she gets more comfortable with frolicking in the winter weather. You should reward her with a treat if she goes outdoors willingly. Over time, she may come to embrace the snow and enjoy playing outside with you.
 You may also try getting your cat to hang out in an outdoor cat shelter in your yard so she gets more used to the cold. You may play with her around the shelter or leave catnip for her in the shelter to get her more interested in lounging in the shelter, surrounded by snow.Make sure you check on your cat periodically when she is in the shelter to ensure she appears warm and cozy in there. Do not leave her in the shelter for long periods of time or overnight, as she will be at risk of freezing to death.
You should not leave water dishes or food in the cat shelter as they can spill and make the floor of shelter moist, which could end up cooling the shelter down to dangerously low temperatures for your cat.
 You can also get your cat more used to the snow by taking her on short walks during the winter. You may invest in a cat leash for her and winter boots to protect her paws. You could then try to take her on daily walks around the block on the leash during the winter to get her more accustomed to the weather.Always be careful when walking your cat in the snow, as you do not want her to become injured due to slipping on black ice. Wipe her paws if she gets ice or salt on them as you do not want to put your cat at risk of frostbite.
You may also invest in a small jacket for your cat to keep her warm in the cold, though most cats have fur that is thick enough for cold weather.
 If your cat ends up spending time outside in the snow, you should check her periodically for any signs of frostbite. Look for the signs of frostbite on your cat, including:Any pale or bluish skin on your cat’s ears, nose, tail, and toes
Any red or swollen areas on your cat
The affected area may not become painful until circulation returns to the area so your cat may not be in any obvious pain. But if you suspect your cat has frostbite, you should immerse the area in warm water for 15 to 30 minutes or put a warm moist towel on the area.
Do not rub the area as this will irritate the skin more. If the skin turns dark red, this may indicate severe tissue damage and your cat should be taken to the vet right away.
 If you decide to let your cat roam outside during the winter, you should take precautions to ensure she does not get injured. Cats tend to try to stay warm by holing up in your car engine compartment or close to your car engine.You can prevent your cat from getting injured or killed by banging on the hood of your car a few times before you start it. The noise will usually startle your cat and force her to get out of there.
You should also try to keep tabs on your cat when she is roaming around outside. Try to keep her in your backyard area only or close to her outdoor shelter.
You should get in the habit of checking for her in warm, cozy spots outside, such as the inside of your car, inside your garage, or burrowed in a hidden spot by your house.
 Most antifreeze tastes sweet to cats and they will often ingest is willingly without knowing it is toxic to their health. You should try not to use antifreeze in areas where your cat will be outdoors so she is not at risk of illness.If you do end up using antifreeze for your car, make sure you clean up any puddles of antifreeze in your driveway or your garage. You should seal and store away all antifreeze containers as well so your cat cannot get to them.
 You should avoid leaving your cat in a cold car during winter, as it can act like a freezer for them. When the temperatures dip in the car, your cat could end up developing hypothermia or dying due to exposure to the cold. Make sure your cat is indoors or under your supervision outside during the winter so she does not accidentally freeze to death in the car., Though your cat can handle some playtime and supervised lounging in the snow, she should not be left out in the snow for more than an hour at a time or overnight. Domesticated cats are not equipped with the survival skills to last in the cold and they are at a high risk of hypothermia or death due to exposure to the cold if they are left outside for too long.

