 Before a meltdown, the child will usually appear stressed or agitated. If she is experiencing sensory overload, she may shut her eyes, cover her ears, or curl into a ball. Upset stimming, or difficulty performing skills they can usually handle, may also occur. Agitated autistic children may withdraw or act out, depending on the individual.


Ask the child if something is wrong.
 Note both sensory and other types of input. It may help to ask the child's siblings to take their noisy play outside, or to remove the child from a loud kitchen.


Try engaging them in a physical activity that helps them to expel energy, such as a walk, gardening, or anything that refreshes them mentally.
Try bringing the child outdoors or into a quiet room where they can take some time to calm down. Bedrooms, calming down corners, and even bathrooms can do in a pinch.
 Meltdowns are incredibly difficult to control, and chances are your child already feels upset about melting down. Don't yell at them, accuse them of being intentionally difficult, or record their behavior to teach them how "naughty" they are. This will only make them feel ashamed.


If your child does unacceptable things during the meltdown (e.g. hitting or yelling at people who are trying to help), tell them that you are upset about these specific actions. For example, "We are not a violent family"or "I understand that you were upset, but it was not okay to yell at the waitress like that. It made her feel sad. Next time, please give me the signal when you start to feel upset, so I can take you outside right away."

, This helps the child feel relaxed, and be ready to deal with difficult transitions or stimuli.


Give them outdoor time. Let them explore nature, swim, play basketball, run around, swing, and do whatever they enjoy. This will help them feel calm, and increase their tolerance to sensory input.
Set aside free time for them. They might read, play with toys, run around in circles, or do whatever they like. Fun time, where they don't need to work on a particular project or learn new skills, allows them to unwind. It also keeps them occupied so that you can have some time to yourself.
 Your child doesn't enjoy melting down, and would probably like to know how to manage her stress. Here are some sample things to suggest to your child:


Counting (forwards, backwards, by twos, by tens, by sevens—depending on your child's math mastery)
Deep breathing
Saying "I'm feeling upset and I need a break" and then leaving
Coming up with a sign to indicate that the child needs to leave (especially if the child becomes nonverbal during meltdowns)

, When the child uses good coping mechanisms, give them genuine praise for their efforts. Tell them how proud their good behavior and effort has made you. Try to place more emphasis on highlighting good behaviors than punishing the bad.
 Make a star chart to hang in the kitchen or the child's room. Use green stars for every successful implementation of coping mechanisms, and blue stars for every attempt to defuse a meltdown (even if it fails). Use a red star for every uncontrolled tantrum or meltdown. Encourage the child to turn their red stars into blue stars and their blue stars into green ones.


Never shame a child for failing to control a meltdown. Chances are, they already feel embarrassed about being unable to handle their feelings. Explain that meltdowns are unavoidable to a degree, so the goal is to do better, not to be perfect.
If the child seems very anxious about getting a red or blue star, take down the chart (especially if the child is diagnosed with an anxiety disorder). This is a sign of a perfectionistic attitude, which can become very harmful.

