 This manual device is a thin grater that’s designed to grate a single whole spice at a time. While effective for grinding, a microplane grater is better for very small quantities of spices, such as when you want to grate fresh cinnamon on a hot drink.


To use a microplane grater, hold the grater by the handle in one hand. Carefully run your whole spice back and forth on the grater edges. Be very careful not to grate your fingers.
Because a microplane grater requires you to get your fingers so close to the grating edge, it works best with large whole spices like nutmeg and cinnamon sticks.;
, A pestle and mortar is another manual way to grind spices. Because the bowl allows you to grind more spices at once, a pestle and mortar is great for about a quarter-cup of spices at a time.


To grind with a pestle and mortar, place the spices into the mortar (the bowl). Use the pestle to grind the spices into the bottom of the mortar. You can also spin the pestle around in the mortar until you achieve the desired grind.
This method doesn’t require you to put your fingers close to a grater, so you can grind much smaller spices like pepper, cumin, and caraway.
A pestle and mortar can also be used for spreads like pesto and curry pastes., A spice grinder is a small electronic device that has a large cup with a blade inside. When you put in the spices and push down on the lid, the blade spins and grinds the spices. These are simple to use and very effective, especially for larger quantities of spices.


To use a spice grinder, simply place your spices into the basin or cup. Put on the lid and push down for about 30 seconds. Remove the lid and check for large pieces of spice. Grind for another 30 seconds if necessary.
To clean this device, empty out all the ground spices and add in several grains of rice. Grind the rice to remove any large spice pieces and sweep up leftover spice dust. Dump out the rice and wipe the inside clean with a paper towel., A basic coffee grinder is essentially the same thing as a spice grinder. The reason the two are differentiated is because spices and coffee both have very powerful and unique flavors. Using a coffee grinder will make your spices taste like coffee and your coffee taste like spices, and vice versa.


If you must use a coffee grinder to grind spices, grind up ¼ cup (49 g) of rice first to remove excess coffee from the grinder. Dump out the coffee dust and wipe the grinder with a paper towel.
Add and grind your spices. Pour them out and run more rice through the grinder before wiping it out with a clean paper towel to make it suitable for coffee again., Making mixed spice is quite simple, and you'll only need a couple tools.Along with your spices, you'll also need something to grind whole spices, a small bowl, a spoon, an air-tight jar for storing the mixed spice, and a marker to label the jar.


You can start with either whole or ground spices to make mixed spice. Pre-ground spices are more convenient, but grinding your own whole spices will result in a fresher spice mix.
To grind your own spices, you can use a spice grinder, pestle and mortar, or coffee grinder.
 For spices that are already ground, simply measure out the correct quantity and transfer it to your jar. For whole spices, grind each spice individually, then transfer it to a small bowl. Measure the ground spice to ensure you have the right quantity, and add it to the jar. When all the spices have been added, stir the mix with a spoon.


For a tablespoon of ground allspice, you'll need 1 tablespoon (14.8 ml) of berries.For a tablespoon of cinnamon, you'll need about 4.5 inches (11 cm) of cinnamon sticks.
For a tablespoon of nutmeg, you'll need about 1.5 nutmegs.
For a teaspoon of cloves, you'll need about 12 whole cloves.
For a teaspoon of coriander, start with a little less than a teaspoon of seeds.
 To keep your spice mix fresh for as long as possible, store it in a cool, dark place. Light and air will degrade the spices, so keep the mix in a pantry or cupboard. Always close the lid on the jar properly when you’ve finished with the mix.


Ground spices that are stored properly will stay fresh for about a year., In British cooking, mixed spice is traditionally used in sweet baking, dessert dishes, and a few savory baked goods. When you use mixed spice in baked goods, a recipe will generally call for about a tablespoon of the mix. Common goodies you can use mixed spice in include:


Dessert pies, such as apple and pumpkin
Savory pies like pork
Tarts
Scones
Puddings
Biscuits
Cookies

, The spices in mixed spice are ideal for pairings with sweet foods like fruit. Next time you make a fruit salad, sprinkle ½ to a full teaspoon of mixed spice on top.


Mixed spice can also be whipped into yogurt or whipped cream toppings that are used on fruit dishes.
 Similarly, mixed spice is also a wonderful addition to fruit smoothies and juices. Whether you're having a breakfast smoothie to get your day going or a healthy dessert after dinner, add ½ teaspoon of mixed spice to all your favorite fruit and berry smoothies.
 Mixed spice contains all the spices that are associated with winter holidays, so it makes a great topping for cool-weather drinks like coffee, hot chocolate, and warm apple cider.
 Curry is a spice blend that originated in India. It is popular around the world, and is commonly found in meat, vegetable, and fish dishes. There are many regional varieties of curry, and you can experiment with different spices to customize a blend. To make a basic curry spice, combine:5 tablespoons (30 g) ground coriander seeds
2 tablespoons (12 g) ground cumin seeds
1 tablespoon (10 g) ground turmeric
2 teaspoons (4 g) ground ginger
2 teaspoons (4 g) dry mustard
2 teaspoons (8 g) ground fenugreek seeds
1½ teaspoons (4 g) ground black pepper
1 teaspoon (2 g) ground cinnamon
½ teaspoon (1 g) ground cloves
½ teaspoon (1 g) ground cardamom
½ teaspoon (2 g) ground chili peppers

, This is a basic blend of five common spices that are often used in Chinese and Asian cuisine. Most grocery stores carry this blend, but you can also make and tailor your own mix. To make your own blend, grind together:1 tablespoon (7 g) Sichuan peppercorns
6 star anise
1½ teaspoons (3 g) whole cloves
1 stick cinnamon
2 tablespoons (15 g) fennel seeds

, This is a blend of dried herbs that originated in the Provence region of France. Herbes de Provence is often used with meat, potato, and vegetable dishes, but it’s a versatile blend that can be used in many dishes. To make this blend, combine:4 teaspoons (8 g) dried thyme
4 teaspoons (8 g) dried marjoram
1½ teaspoons (3 g) summer savory
¼ teaspoon (0.5 g) dried rosemary
¼ teaspoon (0.5 g) dried mint
⅛ teaspoon (0.25 g) fennel seeds
Pinch of dried sage
Pinch of lavender flowers

, Chili powder can be used in a wide variety of dishes, especially meat and vegetable ones. Chili powder blends vary based on region, but a basic blend consists of:2 tablespoons ground chilies
1 tablespoon (6 g) ground cumin
1 tablespoon (5 g) dried oregano
½ teaspoon (1 g) cayenne
2 teaspoons (4 g) coriander
1 tablespoon (9 g) garlic powder
2 teaspoons (4 g) chipotle chili powder

