 Part of looking beautiful while pregnant is gaining the necessary amount of weight to properly nourish your baby. Pregnant woman should eat between 2000 and 2500 calories each day, spread throughout 4 meals.Paying attention to your caloric intake will help you avoid gaining unnecessary weight that may put you at risk for certain medical conditions. You should gain the weight necessary to provide adequate nutrition for your baby and to allow him to grow to a healthy size, but you should pay close attention to gaining the appropriate amount of weight, which will keep you feeling beautiful throughout all three trimesters of your pregnancy.


If you have gained more weight then you planned (or more than your doctor deems healthy) you may need to lose weight. It is important to take great caution when attempting to lose weight while pregnant to ensure that your weight loss does not negatively affect your baby.;
, If consistent exercise made you feel confident and beautiful before your pregnancy, there is no reason that pregnancy should force you to stop (although you may need to alter your workout routine). Feeling fit and strong will make you feel more confident about the way you look and will also help in getting you pre-pregnancy body back after you give birth.Getting exercise during your pregnancy will help you keep your weight down, will boost your mood and energy level, and will increase your stamina and muscle strength.Together, these positive results will help you to feel more beautiful.


Consider attempting to get 30 minutes of moderate exercise most days of the week.Walking, aerobics, and swimming are all great low-impact activities that you may want to try during your pregnancy. These activities will help you stay in shape and feel beautiful.
Always confer with your doctor before starting a workout routine when pregnant. There are certain situations, such as if you have pregnancy-related high blood pressure, in which your doctor may advise you not to exercise., Dehydration is a very real risk during pregnancy, and drinking enough water will help you feel healthy and look beautiful. While a person should attempt to drink roughly one-half to one ounce of water for each pound that he weighs every day, a pregnant woman must pay even more attention to her water intake.Water helps form the placenta and is used in the amniotic sac in your pregnancy.In addition, not drinking enough water can have a negative effect on your appearance. Dehydration can make your skin look dull, negating the beautiful glow that will accompany your pregnancy. In addition, dehydration can make you feel sluggish and ill, and it is hard to look beautiful when you are not feeling up to par.


It is recommended that pregnant women drink about 10 cups (or 2.3 liters) of fluids daily.Drinking water for the majority of this requirement will help you avoid the sugars present in fruit drinks and sodas.
 Many popular brands (think stores like Gap) and designers (look at Isabella Oliver) sell maternity clothing. While some women feel “guilty” for spending money on clothing that they will only wear for a finite amount of time, it is important to purchase clothing that fits your changing body, is comfortable to wear, and makes you feel beautiful.If you do not have the budget to purchase maternity clothing, consider asking a friend who has had a child if she has anything you might borrow for the remainder of your pregnancy. In addition, consignment clothing stores can be a great place to find maternity wear for affordable prices.
Think about finding “staples”- clothes that can be worn and re-worn and apply to many situations. If you purchase a pair of jeans, some leggings, tank tops, and cardigans, you will find yourself able to wear these pieces over and over again.Choose clothes in solid color, which look more sophisticated and are wearable in many different situations! Darker colors can often help you appear slimmer, too.
 During your pregnancy, treat yourself to something that makes you feel beautiful. Whether it’s a manicure, pedicure, or facial, choose a spa treatment (or several!) that will provide a few hours to relax and enable you to walk away feeling beautiful. Alternatively, you can treat yourself to a pregnancy (or prenatal massage). Studies have shown that receiving massage therapy during pregnancy can help reduce anxiety, relieve muscle aches and joint pain, and improve labor outcomes.When booking a prenatal massage, ensure that you find a massage therapist who is specifically certified in prenatal massage.You may also want to confer with your prenatal care provider about obtaining a prenatal massage before booking one. You should absolutely speak with your doctor if you suffer from a high-risk pregnancy., Your body is going through a lot of dramatic changes right now, and in addition, your life is about to change forever with the addition of your little one. That makes the time during your pregnancy a great time to treat yourself. If looking beautiful is your goal, pick something to splurge on that will make you feel as beautiful as ever.


Book a haircut at the new fancy salon in town. Enjoy a new haircut that flatters your changing figure (which may include changes to the shape and size of your face). However, wait until at least the second trimester to schedule highlights, as there is worry that the chemicals in hair dyes can negatively affect your baby.Finally buy those new earrings that you’ve been eyeing up. Use your pregnancy as a reason to buy yourself something that makes you feel beautiful. Create a positive feeling about both your inner and outer beauty that you associate with that item, and anytime you need a bit of a “pick-me-up”, use that item to remind yourself that you are beautiful.
 One of the most important things that you can do is remember what your body is doing during pregnancy. It is growing, nourishing, and protecting another human being. All of the changes that are occurring are happening for a reason.


Try to associate with other mothers-to-be. Surrounding yourself with other women who are also going through the physical changes associated with having a baby can boost your confidence in yourself and your body, and in doing so, make you feel beautiful. In addition, you’ll be making friends who may be sources of fun and support once your baby comes.
 Besides the pregnancy “glow”, your body will change in many other ways. For example, you may notice your breasts increase 1-2 cup sizes, you lose your waistline as your belly expands, and you may have swollen ankles and fast-growing fingernails.One positive way to deal with these inevitable changes is to embrace and accentuate them. Once you embrace these changes, you are on your way to feeling beautiful.


Accentuate the positive aspects of your body to feel beautiful. Look for a feature (or several features) that you feel confidence about, and accentuate it. For example, wear a sleeveless shirt if you’ve got toned arms, a V-neck sweater to show off your new cleavage, or a long flowing dress to show off a newly-rounded belly.
If you are struggling to be positive, remember that your pregnancy is finite. You felt beautiful before your pregnancy, and you will feel beautiful after it as well.
If accentuating your pregnancy isn’t for you, minimize the attention drawn to your baby bump by wearing lose garments, solid colors, and layering your clothes (for example, wear a loose denim jacket over a button down shirt). You can also draw attention elsewhere, such as by wearing a vibrant headband, a cute scarf, or bright tights.
 Don’t worry about having the perfect shape or living up to the ideals you see in pregnancy magazines. Instead, focus on being healthy and happy in both body and spirit. You won’t know how your body will respond to pregnancy until you are actually pregnant.Try to give up the ideal image you may have had in your mind, and appreciate your body for what it is and for what it’s doing. Keep a positive attitude- this will help you feel beautiful.


Focus on the big picture. Your body isn’t changing because you’ve given up on taking care of yourself, your body is changing in order to help your baby come into this world as healthy and prepared as he can be.