 Once you’ve checked your reservation, you can check the airline’s options for ordering meals, checking in pets, checking luggage and choosing your seats. After you have finished checking or making changes to your reservation, you can verify the reservation online.


Know that changing any flight information after making your reservation may cost extra. If possible, try to make sure all your special requests are in by the time you make the reservation.
 While confirming your flight, you may have the option to choose meals for your flight. Be prepared to pay for them, since most domestic flights no longer include free meals. Each airline has slightly different food policies and options, so make sure you know what is available on your carrier.Contact the airline in advance if you have any unique dietary restrictions or food allergies. Call the airline directly or contact them via e-mail if you need special food or have severe food allergies so they will be prepared the day of the flight. There should be a number of options that are available for a variety of diets.
International flights often offer complimentary meals.
 Most airlines charge for both checked and carry-on luggage. Make sure to check-in and pay for all bags before heading to the airport. If you did not pay for checked or carry-on bags when making the initial flight reservation, you can pay for bags when checking in online for your flight, or at your airline’s service desk in the airport terminal.


If you know how many bags you will be checking, enter the number and pay for them ahead of departure with a credit card.
Checked and carry-on luggage is often more expensive in the 24 hours leading up to the flight than prior to that time period. Plan to pay all baggage fees well in advance.
 For most airlines, you can specify the seat type you prefer (window or aisle) or choose your specific seat, if a seat hasn’t already been assigned to you. Some airlines have individual fees for different types of seats, while others charge more for first-class seating or seats with extra leg room.


Most airlines will allow you to choose your seats ahead of time. Check in and find the seat that’s in the best location for your travel.
 If you are traveling with pets, make sure you’ve verified all details with the airlines beforehand. Flying with pets can be logistically difficult, and you’ll want to know that everything is ready when you arrive for your flight. Smaller pets can sometimes be taken as carry-ons. Verify your kennel meets the appropriate sizes and regulation for the airline. Larger animals cannot be carried on and need to be kept underneath the cabin.There are size requirements for both carry-on kennels and checked kennels. You can find these guidelines on your airline’s website or by calling the airline’s “Contact Us” number.
Make sure that you check in advance about any special weather restrictions. Airlines often have travel restrictions for pets based on the time of the year. Verify with your airline that you will meet the appropriate restrictions during the time of your flight.