 Rinse your face with hot water. This will open your pores and prepare your skin for a deep cleanse. Using the tips of your index and middle fingers, lather facial wash across your face in circles, scrubbing thoroughly.Use a facial exfoliate to get rid of any dead skin cells for a healthier, more luminous appearance in the morning.
Use cold water to rinse off the cleanser and close your pores. Gently dab a towel around your face to prevent dryness.;
, If you sleep with makeup on, it will clog your pores, dull your skin, and be smeared all over your face the next morning. Cleanse your face with a gentle makeup remover, and then scrub with a facial wash to remove pore-clogging debris from your face before you go to sleep. You will appear more refreshed and natural when you wake up.Be sure to fully remove any mascara from your eyelashes.
Pay special attention to your forehead, nose and chin. These areas usually get oily, and you definitely want to get rid of any possible makeup in these specific areas.
 If you don't, your teeth will be noticeably gross in the morning and you will have bad breath. Consider using a good mouthwash for fresh breath and floss your teeth every night.
 You do not want to wake up with dry, flaky skin. After you wash your face, be sure to apply a moisturizing cream so your skin can stay hydrated all night.


Look for moisturizers specifically designed for nighttime use.Allow the moisturizer to dry completely before putting your face to your pillow so it doesn't rub off.
 People often have chapped lips when they awaken in the morning from dehydration. To prevent this, put on chap stick before and after you wake up. If you have extremely dry lips, exfoliate your lips before bed, and then apply chap stick.
 Your skin needs water to stay healthy and glowing, and your next chance for hydration after you lay down for bed is hours away. Try drinking one or two glasses of water before you fall asleep to keep your skin beautiful. (If this is more than you usually drink, make sure you use the bathroom before going to bed.) , If you don't allow your body to rest, your eyes may start to develop dark circles and heavy bags, making you appear tired upon waking. You should be aiming for at least six to eight hours of sleep every night.

