 Removing mats can be an extremely uncomfortable process for your dog. Dogs have very sensitive skin, and mats can pull and put stress on the skin.Pet your dog, talk to him in a calm voice, and give him treats as you begin.Try to get the dog to lie down if you can.;
, Before you begin, you can spray your dog's coat with a detangling spray. This can help loosen up mats and make them easier to brush out.Leave the detangling spray on the coat for a few minutes.Detangling sprays may not always work. They will not work on severe mats in your dog's coat., Use a slicker brush to locate the mats. A slicker brush has wire bristles that are slightly bent at the ends. Make sure the bristles don't touch your dog's skin.Mats are often found around the ears, below the neck, under the belly, and along the back legs.
 Take the base of the mat into your hand, at the section closest to your dog's skin. This protects your dog's skin from excess pulling and damage as you try to work out the mat. It also keeps you from giving your dog's skin brush burn since your hand is between the brush and the dog's skin., When you find mats, start to untangle them with your fingers. Make sure to be extra gentle. Mats pull painfully at your dog's skin. Ease the hair in the mat apart a little at a time.This will take awhile, so you need to have patience., Cornstarch is often used as a dematting aid. It can help loosen and untangle the fur.You can also try spraying a light coat of coconut oil onto each mat and then combing out.
 When the mat is very tangled and your fingers aren't working, try picking through it with a comb or other dematting tool instead of just combing through it. This picking action helps break up the hair. Lift the tool in and out of the hair instead of pulling in through. Go from the ends up towards the base. You want to loosen the hair. Don't worry about separating completely., Once you separate as much of the mat as you can with your fingers, run through the mat with a dematting comb. Pull the comb through the mat from the base to the tip.If the mat is bad, comb through from the tip to the base to lessen the strain on your dog's hair. Use a teasing motion instead of combing straight through.
Make sure to keep a hold on the mat so you don't pull at your dog's skin.
 If the mat doesn't come out after using your fingers and a comb or brush, try a mat rake. Comb it gently through the mats. The mat rake has sharp teeth that help cut through the mat., Once you have gotten the mat loosened enough, use your slicker brush to finish brushing the mat. Make sure to brush in the direction the hair grows.Continue brushing out the rest of your dog's coat.