 Your dog needs to recognize you as the alpha, or pack leader, before it will take your training commands seriously. Undertaking leadership exercises with your dog will help it understand that you are in control and deserve its trust and respect. Dogs are naturally pack animals; your dog will be quite willing to cede you authority once it recognizes you as its leader.Try one or more of the following exercises:


Sit on the floor with your puppy, then pick him up gently with both hands positioned just behind his front legs. Hold him at arm's length and make eye contact. Gently growl if he attempts to struggle. Continue holding him until he relaxes. Vary the length of time and location in which you perform this exercise.;
, Ensure everyone in your household is on the same page. Consistency is key to establishing a successful training regimen.
 Commit yourself to work daily with your dog. You'll need to repeat most commands many times before your dog is fully trained.
 Your mood transfers readily to your dog. If you are tired or agitated, your dog will pick up on these cues. She'll be less likely to obey, and likely become frustrated and tired herself. Wait to hold a training session until you're feeling calm and in a good mood., Yelling tells your dog that you're tense, upset, or otherwise out of control. These cues fail to inspire confidence or trust. Remember, you need to be the alpha figure in your relationship with your dog. Speaking at a normal volume level helps establish your command of the situation., The specific commands you choose are less important than their clarity, although once you've chosen it is important to be consistent.Recognize, however, that using more common commands may help in situations where someone else may need to issue a command for the safety of your dog or those around her. Also make sure your dog understands his or her name. The most common dog commands include:


Watch me
Sit
Stay
Down (as in lie down)
Off (as in get off me or the furniture)
Stand
Come
Heel (walk close to my side)
Leave it, As you determine which voice commands to use with your dog, recognize that your tone delivers an equally important message.


Use a higher-pitched, more excited tone of voice to deliver praise and issue active commands ("Come!" "Good dog!"). Dogs hear these tones as encouraging or enthusiastic.
Use a low-pitched, growly tone to issue corrections and commands that don't involve movement ("Off!" "Stay!"). Dogs respond to low-pitched or growling noises with caution or acquiescence.
You might try a low-pitched, flat or slowly descending tone of voice for a command such as "Stay!" that requires some authority, but less correction., Now that you have prepared your household and selected your commands for training, you can begin the work of teaching your dog that "Come!" means "Come!" Set aside time each day for training, but remember that dogs have limited attention spans. Limit training sessions to 15 minutes or less.


Introduce new voice commands one at a time.
Keep expectations realistic. Try working on one component of a behavior. If you want your dog to sit and then stay when you walk away from him, start by training your dog to sit quietly while you remain nearby. Over time you can train him to remain sitting while you walk away.
Start with just a few seconds of compliance and then work up over time. For example, you may work with your dog to "stay" for five seconds over the course of one week and then work on a ten-second "stay" the next. Begin working on a command to "come" by encouraging your dog to travel just a few yards; over time, you can develop her ability to respond over greater distances or around a corner.
Voice commands are essentially habits, and as with establishing any good habit, repetition is essential. Try doing five to 15 repetitions of one behavior before moving on to the next command., Use positive reinforcement as a training tool to ensure your dog understands when he's responding well to your commands.


Most dogs are highly food-motivated, so food can be an especially attractive reward. Experiment to see what works best for your pet, but keep food rewards small so you can use them repeatedly: a soft piece of food, doggie treat, or small square of cheese. Avoid hard foods that she'll need to break apart; you want to ensure she associates the reward with her behavior, and the process of eating a more complicated food could distract her.
Couple food rewards with verbal rewards. Praise your dog each time she responds well to your voice command.
Consider non-food treats such as a favorite toy, a scratch on the head, or brief playtime (ideally toward the end of a training session).Over time, reduce the frequency of food rewards. Cut back to three out of four times the dog performs a given behavior, then two out of four, and so on. Be sure to keep selective rewards random, however. Dogs can be quite smart -- you don't want her to figure out she need only comply every other time!
Continue to respond with verbal praise each time your dog obeys., Using touch at the same time as you issue a voice command can confuse your dog. Her sense of touch will always been more important than your voice command. Consequently, she'll be less likely to respond to your voice command alone., If you aren't willing to get up and physically make your dog follow your instructions, refrain from issuing a voice command. Otherwise, you'll teach your dog that your command is optional., Ensure your dog is safe in any training environment before you begin, but practice issuing commands in different places and around distractions such as people and other pets. This way your dog will learn that "come" or "stay" means the same thing in all situations, and not just in the comfort of your backyard or local park., Keep an eye on your puppy, and as she starts to sit, repeat the command "sit." If she then turns and makes eye contact, deliver a verbal reward such as "good girl." Over time, she'll learn to associate the sound "sit" with sitting down, and realize that if you say that word and she sits she'll receive praise.

