 Marinating is optional, but it can add a nice level of flavor to your meat. You can marinate your meat for a few hours, but don’t marinate for too long because the salt in most marinades will pull moisture from your meat. A pinch of salt and pepper on each steak is also a great way to season your meat. , If you are using a pan, make sure it is a heavy duty, non-stick pan that is large enough to accommodate all of your steaks. Add med-high heat oil (like canola) to the pan and heat the oil on medium-high heat. Don’t use butter. It will brown and then burn. Don’t add the steaks until the oil is very hot. , After you have finished cooking the first side of your steaks, flip them over and cook the opposite side. , The amount of time that you need to cook the opposite side of your steaks will depend on the thickness of your steaks and how thoroughly you want your steaks to be cooked. Keep the heat on medium-high. For a rare 1 ¼-1 ½ inch thick steak, cook for 3-5 more minutes. For a medium-rare 1 ¼-1 ½ inch thick steak, cook for about 5 more minutes. For medium 1 ¼-1 ½ inch thick steak, cook for 5-7 more minutes. For well done 1 ¼-1 ½ inch thick steak, cook for 8-10 more minutes. Subtract a minute or two from the cook time if your steak is thinner than 1 ¼ inches thick.
Add a minute or two to the cook time if your steak is more than 1 ½ inches thick.
 Touch your index finger and thumb together. If you want your steak to be well done, you will need to touch your pinky (little) finger and thumb together and feel the base of your thumb (about an inch below where it connects to your palm). Notice how it feels and then check your steak. Compare the feeling of your hand to the feeling of the steak. If they feel the same way, then your steak should be done. If your steak feels like it is tenderer than your hand, keep cooking or check with a meat thermometer. , Touch your middle finger and thumb together. If you want your steak to be well done, you will need to touch your middle finger and thumb together and feel the base of your thumb (about an inch below where it connects to your palm). Notice how it feels and then check your steak. Compare the feeling of your hand to the feeling of the steak. If they feel the same way, then your steak should be done. If your steak feels like it is tenderer than your hand, keep cooking or check with a meat thermometer. , Touch your ring finger and thumb together. If you want your steak to be well done, you will need to touch your ring finger and thumb together and feel the base of your thumb (about an inch below where it connects to your palm). Notice how it feels and then check your steak. Compare the feeling of your hand to the feeling of the steak. If they feel the same way, then your steak should be done. If your steak feels like it is tenderer than your hand, keep cooking or check with a meat thermometer. , Touch your pinky (little) finger and thumb together. If you want your steak to be well done, you will need to touch your pinky (little) finger and thumb together and feel the base of your thumb (about an inch below where it connects to your palm). Notice how it feels and then check your steak. Compare the feeling of your hand to the feeling of the steak. If they feel the same way, then your steak should be done. If your steak feels like it is tenderer than your hand, keep cooking or check with a meat thermometer. , After you have cooked your steaks to the desired consistency, remove them from the grill or pan and allow them to rest. To rest your steaks, let them sit at room temperature for about 5-10 minutes. This resting period allows the steaks to reabsorb the juices that were released during the cooking process so that your steaks will be tender and juicy. 