 You can make your own oatmeal by pulsing plain oats in a blender or food processor until they are a fine powder.;
, There are many varieties of Similac formula, ranging from soy and organic to powder and pre-mixed, as well as Similac Advance Stage 1, Similac Advance Stage 2, and Similac Go & Grow Stage 3. Your pediatrician can recommend the best type of formula for your baby.Feel free to also try a few different varieties of formula until you find the type that keeps your baby full and happy.
 The formula package should have instructions on how to mix the formula together and will give you the proper ratio of milk to water. Add the appropriate amount of milk and water into the bottle and then shake until combined., Usually, one to two tablespoon of oatmeal is added per four to five tablespoon of milk prepared.


Mix the oatmeal and the milk until they are combined.
You should start with a small amount of oatmeal and gradually work your baby up to eating two tablespoons of oatmeal at every feeding.
The consistency of the mixture should be as smooth as possible, with only slight oatmeal grains throughout.
 This will allow the oatmeal have a nice, thin consistency as it needs to be semi-liquid to make it easier for your baby to swallow.


If you heat the bottle in the microwave, make sure it is microwave safe.
Once heated, shake the bottle thoroughly to be sure the oatmeal is mixed well with the milk.
 These nipples usually work better with a thickened mixture as they prevent clogging. Most babies can drink easily from this type of nipple.


You can use Dr. Brown’s Y-Cut Nipples.You can also cut a “Y shape” into a regular nipple so that the liquid flows easier out of the nipple. Make sure the hole is not too large as this can lead to a choking hazard.The safest option is to ask your pediatrician for a recommendation on the best Y-cut nipple for your baby’s age and size.
 Choking is a major hazard when feeding your baby solids through a bottle.


Feeding using a bottle is suggested for babies who are three to four months of age, as this is the stage where babies can sit by themselves and hold their heads up on their own.
If you are unsure about feeding a bottle with solids to your baby, consult with your pediatrician.
 As your baby gets more comfortable with the added oatmeal and if you don’t see any side effects, you can gradually add it to more of their bottles until they have oatmeal at every feeding.
 In general, babies who are ready for solid foods can hold their own head up, sit with support, and are interested in food and putting things in their mouth.To help with proper digestion, babies should be fed solid foods sitting up on a high chair or sitting on their parents’ lap., Add water and Similac formula to the oatmeal, based on the instructions printed on the oatmeal package.


Usually, one to two tablespoons of oatmeal is added per four to five tablespoon of prepared milk.The type of Similac formula you use will depend on what your baby likes and what your pediatrician recommends.
 If you use the microwave, make sure you stir the mixture well to get rid of any hot pockets.


Never make the mixture too hot to avoid burning injuries for your baby.
 Younger babies have a hard time eating thicker oatmeal compared to older babies, who know how to chew and swallow.


You can gradually thicken the consistency of the oatmeal once your baby becomes comfortable eating it with a spoon from the bowl.
 You can do this by putting a small amount of the mixture on your wrist to make sure it is a comfortable temperature.
 You do not want to cut or hurt your baby’s teeth and gums as you feed them the mixture.


Avoid stainless steel utensils, which can be sharp.
Purchase rubber spoons that have a soft edge and tip.You can also use Gerber Soft Bite Spoons, which are gentle on your baby’s mouth., Once your baby becomes accustomed to eating the oatmeal and formula mixture, you can also increase the amount of mixture you are giving your baby every day.
 Your baby may need time to adjust to the taste of the mixture, though adding oatmeal to formula is one of the best ways to serve oatmeal to your baby.


If your baby refuses the mixture initially, try to feed him again later in the day or at another time of day.
 Babies with reflux have difficulty keeping their food down because their esophagus isn’t fully developed.So, giving your baby thicker formula helps their food to stay down and can be very beneficial for their reflux issues.Reflux is the most commonly accepted reason for adding oatmeal to a young baby’s formula, as giving your baby oatmeal before they are ready can lead to food allergies and a choking hazard.
If you are concerned about your baby’s eating habits, consult your pediatrician for options.
 Begin with one ingredient (oatmeal only) baby food and then have a four day interval before introducing other foods to your baby or combining oatmeal with other ingredients., Honey cannot be given to babies under the 12 months of age as there is bacteria in honey that can contaminate their food.Avoiding honey can also reduce the risk of infant botulism, a muscle weakness.
Some of the signs of infant botulism are suckling, crying, and constipation.
 Your baby could have a serious allergic reaction to certain fruits or vegetables, especially if your baby is very young and you not sure what he is allergic to, as his immune system is not fully developed yet.


The safest thing to do is to avoid adding other food to your baby’s oatmeal to limit the possibility of an allergic reaction.
Some fruits and vegetable also contain high level of pesticides, which can be harmful to your baby, for example berries, potatoes, apples, celery, peaches, etc.
 These foods can cause an allergic reaction in your baby.


If your baby is having an allergic reaction, symptoms like rashes, trouble breathing, low blood pressure, rapid heartbeat, and vomiting may occur.
There are eight food groups considered responsible for 90% of all food allergies, including:eggs, milk, peanuts, wheat, soy, tree nuts (for example, walnuts, Brazil nuts, and cashews), fish (like, tuna, salmon, and cod), and shellfish (such as, lobster, shrimp, and crab).
 Sometimes the symptoms of an allergy do not appear right away, as they could appear up to two hours after your baby has eaten the food.


For severe allergic reaction, such as swelling on your baby’s face lips, head, or eye, call emergency services right away. These symptoms can cause your baby’s airways to close, which could be very dangerous.

