 If your dog tends to bark at people or other animals when they are outside, you may want to teach them the “quiet” command. This command can encourage your dog to stop barking and calm down.You can teach your dog the “quiet” command by saying “quiet” in a normal tone and making eye contact with your dog. Hold a treat in your hand when you do it and only give your dog the treat once they stop barking.
You may need to practice this command several times with your dog so they understand that when you say “quiet” that means, stop barking. Do not yell or shout at your dog when you are trying to get them to be quiet as this often just makes them more alarmed and prone to barking.;
, You can also get your dog to quiet down and stop barking by using a distracting activity. You may distract your dog by giving them their favorite toy or by engaging them in another activity, like having them “sit” or “stay.”


Make sure you have a toy with you when you take your dog for a walk, as you can then use it to distract your dog if they start to bark at a person or another animal.
 You can keep your dog from barking by creating an outdoor space that is fenced off just for them. You may have this space in your backyard or on another spot on your property. Make sure the area has a fence that is high enough to block your dog’s view so they are not tempted to bark at people or other animals walking by.You may allow your dog to go off leash when they are in the fenced area. If you do so, make sure the area is secure and they cannot get out to bark or bother anyone.
 If you know your dog is prone to bad behavior when they are around big crowds or a lot of other dogs, such as barking, you may stay away from these situations. Though it is important to socialize your dog and have them interact with other people and other pets, you may limit these sorts of interactions. Keep your dog on a leash when you are in crowded areas with them and try to take them to less crowded areas if they tend to misbehave around too many people.You may also limit your dog’s interactions to only a few dogs that they like or seem to get along with. For example, maybe there is a dog in the neighborhood they seem to get along with. You may then suggest a play date or go for a walk with the other dog so your dog can still be social, but the activity is controlled.

