 One of the greatest benefits of meditation is the mental calm it can help you achieve. Of course, the world around you can make that more challenging. To help stay focused, meditate sitting up straight. This will prevent you from getting groggy.Avoid eating right before meditating. Digestion can also contribute to lethargy and mental fogginess.
Wear noise-canceling headphones if you find yourself distracted by noise. You may even want to listen to ambient sound or chanting.
 The classic thing to focus on while meditating is your own breath. Definitely try this if you haven’t before. Think about how the air feels as you inhale, and you lungs are replenished with oxygen. Acknowledge how it feels to exhale as well. If any thought unrelated to your breath arises, push it away.If you’re visually inclined, focus on the flame of a candle, or even a specific spot on a wall in front of you.
Another example is a mantra. Repeat a word or phrase over and over in your mind.
Don’t be frustrated when other thoughts arise. This is perfectly natural. Simply push them away without analyzing the thoughts and refocus.
 Your physical senses are another great source of simple information to focus on while mediating. For instance, ask yourself: “What can I feel with my skin?” There is likely air moving around you. Think only about this air and how it feels upon your skin.Similarly, ask yourself: “What am I hearing?” Phase out any peripheral noise and focus on one thing, such as a bird singing outside. Think only about the sound. If you start to think about the bird or the tree on which it sits, pull yourself back to the sound.
 Meditation is challenging, especially at first. It’s practically impossible to literally stop thinking. This is part of the reason meditation can seem so challenging. When you sit and try not to think, you become keenly away of all the mental static that’s constantly bombarding your mind!A busy mind is perfectly normal. Do not judge yourself when thoughts continue to break your concentration. In fact, take these intrusions as a sign that you will likely benefit greatly from meditating. Keep pushing thoughts away and refocusing on your meditation practice.
 There are as many ways to meditate as there are people who attempt it. Simply by attempting to meditate, you are. It’s impossible to fail! Even when a thought arises and breaks your focus – you notice it and recognize is for what it is: simply a thought. Stick with it, and you’ll soon be meditating regularly – not to mention recognizing the healthy, positive effects that increased mindfulness will have upon your life.