 Look for the variety of institutions accepting donations in your area. Depending on your location there many be any number of dedicated food banks, homeless shelters, domestic violence and abuse shelters, and youth homes that all accept regular food donations.

Utilize online resources that find local food banks and food rescue programs based on your location, like these from: http://www.feedingamerica.org/find-your-local-foodbank or http://sustainableamerica.org/foodrescue/.
Check out local businesses like grocery stores or dollar stores, which regularly hold food drives for specific groups or events. Sometimes it’s as easy as paying for a few previously selected items at the register.
Consider if anyone you know is struggling with hunger. If you have a neighbor or family member who is out of work or recovering from a major illness, bring over dinner or offer to do some grocery shopping for them.;
, Sometimes there is a shortage of one type of food and an abundance of others. It’s usually safe to assume that most non-perishables, like canned food and uncooked rice or pasta will be accepted, but it is always better to ask.


Consider the nutritional value of donations. When a person’s meals are extremely limited anything helps, but healthier items are the best.Use your best judgement on strange items. If the item in question is something that grosses you out, chances are they might gross out the recipient of the donation.
 Many good candidates for donation can be found in your pantry, but it’s never a bad idea to buy items specifically to donate.
 You do not want to donate food that is past or nearing its expiration date. Make sure your items are at least 6 months within the date of expiration., Do not donate any heavily dented cans, boxes that are crushed, or anything leaking. Although most donation centers do this already, you can save them a lot of time by checking items before donating., Many institutions only collect items on certain days and times. Ask them for this information before you plan to make your drop-off.

