 You want to learn every aspect of a language over time, but you don’t have time for that right now. Don’t worry about becoming fluent overnight, because you won’t be able to. Instead, focusing your learning will help you demonstrate mastery of the concepts that will earn you a good grade.


A few examples of vocabulary sets are kitchen and dining, transportation, and animals.
Some examples of grammatical units are irregular verbs, past tense, or adjective endings.
 Write the English word on one side, and the other language on the flip side. Cutting your index cards in half is a good way to conserve them. After all, you only need a little space to squeeze in a word or phrase.A way to make this even easier for your brain to associate a concept with its word in a foreign language is with drawings. For example, if you’re trying to learn die Gabel, German for fork, drawing a fork on one side rather than the English word fork may help you connect the concept to the German word.
 As tedious as this is, it is the best way to learn grammar. Write a sentence for each tense and/or word ending. Afterwards, you can choose to write more sentences, or to read over the ones you already wrote, partially memorizing them. Grammar is an essential part of languages, so you should spend time on it.
 If you are no longer in entry level courses, your test may involve a speaking component. Luckily, this is pretty easy to do if you are already studying. When you are using flash cards, say the word before you flip it over. Similarly, say the sentences you are writing out loud. This will get you in the habit of saying the words that you will need for the test tomorrow.


Make sure you are pronouncing the word correctly. Some languages are easier for beginners to learn the intonations than others, but your teacher will respect that you have done your best for your skill level.
Speaking out loud in the language will also help you with circumlocution. This is the ability to find ways to describe what you want to say if you can’t remember the word. For example, if you can’t remember the word fork, saying something like “this is a small kitchen tool that is not a spoon or a knife, that you use to eat chicken.” Your teacher may not give you full credit, but may be impressed with your ability to use the language to describe what you mean.

