 Start with clean, damp hair. Use a towel to dry away any excess moisture, but do not wait for the hair to dry completely.


The hair will be easier to shape when damp, but too much moisture can make it too heavy. Towel dry it until it is no longer dripping wet, but still visibly moist.
This style is easiest to create on fairly short hair of nearly any thickness. Ideally, the nape and sides should be very short, but the top section and crown should be between 2 and 3 inches (5 and 7.6 cm) long. Note that the hair should also be fairly straight, but the style can be done on wavy hair, as well.
 Squeeze a nickel-sized dab of sculpting paste or pomade into your palm, then spread it across both hands. Massage the paste throughout the entire head of hair.


Use your fingers to evenly comb the paste through the hair. Try to cover the hair from root to tip all the way around the head.
The best product to use will depend upon the coarseness of the hair. Determine whether the boy has thick or fine hair, and choose a product formulated for use with that type of coarseness. Light pomades tend to work best for thick hair, but heavy waxes might be necessary for fine hair.
 Attach a diffuser to a standard hair dryer and dry the hair, brushing it upward as you work. Continue until the hair is mostly dry.


To help create the spikes, grab the hair at its root in small sections and pull straight up. Focus the hair dryer on this section of hair as you manipulate it.
Continue until the hair is still slightly moist to the touch, but no longer visibly damp.
 Once the hair is mostly dry, turn off the hair dryer and use your fingers to tweak the spikes as desired.


The simplest option is to quickly run your fingers through the hair, pushing it upward and in a single direction.
Alternatively, you can create a messier look by pulling the hair upward and in different directions over the top of the head.
 Allow the hair to finish drying by air. If necessary, you can hold the spikes in place with a light mist of hairspray.


This step completes the process.

