 The old strategy of static stretching ("reach down and touch your toes") has been shown, on its own, to actually decrease muscle efficiency.To really improve how you run, you should improve how you warm up. A sample regiment might be:


Walk or jog lightly for five to 10 minutes
Two to three minutes "special" running (high knees, butt kicks, skips)
Two to three minutes lunges, side-shuffles, and hip openers
Two to three minutes light static stretching, "Warming up" truly means you want to warm up your body. A higher body temperature ensures your muscles are loose and pliable, and your body is pumping blood effectively throughout. For everything other than easy runs (when you'll be at this pace the entire time), use the first five to 10 minutes to build a light sweat and get your body primed for exercise.


Even five minutes of walking is a good way to get started.
Slowly pick up speed for short 10 second sprints, then return to normal warm-up pace. This helps prime your muscles for speed., These are exaggerated runs that warm up specific muscles and help your legs prepare for a full range of motion. Do each of these "dynamic stretches" for at least a minute.



High Knees: With every step, lift each knee up to hip height.

Butt Kicks: Exaggerate lifting your back leg so your heel comes up and taps your buttocks.

Shuffle Step: Turn sideways and move horizontally for three to four steps. Pivot on your front foot and face the other direction, shuffling for three to four steps before alternating again.

Backwards Jogging: Focus on really extending your stride behind you, reaching those feet backward with each step., In it's simplest mechanical form, running is just a series of single-leg squats done over and over again. What this teaches you is that your hips must be open and loose to effectively transfer energy and improve your pace. To warm them up:



Lunges are when you step forward with one foot, then lower the back knee toward the ground. Keep your toes pointed forward and lower your hips to the ground. Do not let your knee pass over your toes.

Hip Openers are simply picking your knee up and then rotating it out to the side, exposing your inner thigh to face in front of you. Take two to three jogging steps, open the hip, then repeat with the other leg.

Skipping: Take each skip as high as you can get it, treating them more like individual leaps. Bring your knee up high with each bound., After your dynamic stretches, a light static stretch can help loosen up any muscles that are still tight. You want to be sure, however, that you don't push any one stretch to a painful level. You want to feel a stretch, but it shouldn't ever hurt.


Static stretching is a great way to end runs, as your muscles are already warm and pliable. This can help prevent some soreness later., A good goal to aim for is a glass of water each hour up until you set out on your run. Instead of gulping something down at the last minute, keep sipping water up until the run to stay comfortable and cramp-free.Remember that the best way to hydrate is not just right before a run, but the entire day leading up to it.

