 Scatting is the act of turning your voice into improvisation instrument, removing real words and just focusing on noise, melody, sound, and tone. As such, everyone can scat immediately, even if it feels weird or uncomfortable. Just start making noises that sound great over the song your hearing.


Listen to some classic scat singers for early inspiration. "Perdido" by Sarah Vaughan, "Them There Eyes" by Ella Fitzgerald, and Louis Armstrong's "Heebie Jeebies" are all incredible early examples.
Scatting is generally a jazz skill, but artists like Scatman and Bobby McFerrin have expanded it to other genres in modern times.;
, You need to get used to your voice not as a speaking mechanism but as an instrument. As you first start, limit yourself to copying your favorite singers. Play a couple bars of scat singing, then try to repeat it back verbatim to start learning sounds, tricks, and melody construction.


The blues, with simple chords and built-in call and response, is a great place for beginners to begin. Try out "Centerpiece" by Lambert, Hendricks & Ross.Try mimicking actual sung lyrics, but don't use the words. Practice capturing the singer's melody with random syllables instead of words to get used to scat.
As you improve, start copying guitar, horn, and other lines with your mouth, using whatever syllables come to mind to replicate the sound. There is no noise, when scatting, that is off limits!

, As you begin improvising your own scatted lines, start with a couple of "accepted" scat words and syllables. Simple, percussive noises are the easiest way to start, using sounds like "bob," "beep," "ski," "do," etc. Remember that you're not trying to say anything. You're playing with musical notes, not words.The musical scale made famous in "The Sound of Music" is a great place to start: do, rey, mi, fah, soh, la, ti, do!

, Scatting is about using your whole body to make noises and sounds, improvising more than just syllables. As you improve and get more and more used to scatting, start playing with the following variables to expand your musical vocabulary as you sing.



Volume-- draw the audience in by going quieter, then build back up to a louder crescendo with bigger, louder syllables.

Tone-- how do you sound with you chin tucked in? You chest puffed out? How does the shape of your mouth change the sound of your singing?

Pitch-- perhaps the most important, pitch is how high or low your notes go. As you get used to making up syllables on the spot, start working on varying pitch with each word. Songs get boring when they stay in the same pitch for too long -- give some melodic variety.
 Scatting is an intensely rhythmic art form -- you voice is both percussive (like a drum) and melodic (like a trumpet, piano, etc.). As such, you must be able to stay in time while you improvise, holding to the beat like any other instrument. While good singers should already feel comfortable with this, newbies must practice with a metronome or backing track to get used to staying on time at all times.Always start at a speed you can keep up with comfortably. While you can set any rhythm you want, most scat is over a 3/4 "swing feel" of jazz.
That said, practicing improvising syllables on the spot without music or metronome is still a valuable skill. You just need to train your ear so that you can snap to a backing band when the chance arises.