 Before you do any stretches, make sure you raise your body temperature a couple of degrees with a low-impact, cardiovascular activity. This will stimulate increased blood flow to your muscles and help prevent strains or other injuries.Walking at a brisk pace for five to 10 minutes is a good overall cardiovascular warm-up.
Squats and lunges also are a good warm-up before you do stretches or strength training on your lower body. Move slowly, but try to do these exercises in fluid motion, so that you're always moving.
If you have limited space, you also might try jumping jacks or jogging place for five minutes, although these activities involve a little more impact and stress on your joints.
 Provided you have never had any ankle injuries, you can do a seated exercise to stretch your tibialis anterior and the other muscles in your shins. These muscles typically are difficult to stretch.Kneel on the floor with your shins flat on the ground. Your toes and feet should be pointing behind you. You can rest your hands on the ground beside you.
To start the shin stretch, slowly lean back to sit on your heels, stopping when you feel the stretch. If you have to, you can put your hands on the ground behind you so you can lean further back.
Hold the stretch for a couple of minutes, then slowly raise up to release the muscles.
You can also do a standing shin stretch. Cross your left leg in front of your right, so the tops of the toes of your left foot are resting on the floor. Bend your right knee to press your toes further into the floor until you feel the stretch in your shin. Hold the stretch for a couple of seconds, then slowly release and switch legs., When your tibialis anterior is weak, it can keep you from being able to fully flex your foot. Over time, this can cause your calves to become shortened and tightened, which can exacerbate any lower leg problems.You also can do this exercise with a resistance band, but using a rolled towel allows you to better control the level of resistance.
Sit up straight with your legs out in front of you. Wrap the towel around the balls of your feet, then pull the ends of the towel toward you so that your foot flexes up.
Hold the stretch for 15 to 30 seconds, feeling the stretch in your calf. Then slowly release.
You can safely do this stretch three to five times a day if you have particularly tight calves.
 Standing calf stretches are a more intense stretch than the calf stretches you do while sitting, because you are working with your body weight and gravity as resistance.Start your standing calf stretch by standing a few feet in front of a wall or other stable vertical surface. Place your hands on the wall about shoulder-width apart and drop one leg behind you.
Push the heel of your rear leg into the floor, keeping your back and leg straight. Your front knee should be bent.
Without bouncing, push your heel down into the floor until you feel a stretch in your calf. Hold the stretch for a few seconds, then release slowly and switch legs.
You also can do calf stretches on stairs. To do a standing gastrocnemius calf stretch, which stretches one of the two muscles in your calves, place one heel on a step and extend your knee. Your other foot should be flat on the floor. Grab the toe of the front foot and pull your toes toward your shins. You should feel a pull in your calf. Hold for a couple of seconds, then slowly release and do the other leg.
Stand on a step with the balls of your feet firmly on the step and your heels over the edge. Make sure you have something to hold onto for balance, and lower your heels as far as you can without pain. Hold for a couple of seconds, then slowly raise your heels back up.

