 Are you looking for an easy to use distro, paid support, community support, pre-installed codecs, a fast distro or a distro for older hardware? Do you want a distro with a large community, or do you want to join a smaller group?;
, These only give a very rough guide - so get LiveCDs and try the top few recommendations, and see which one recognizes the most of your hardware (especially networking/wireless) and which of those you like using.
 a Live CD, which can run without installing to your hard disk) to test hardware compatibility such as if you can connect to the internet, display your graphics correctly and hear audio.
 The most popular desktop distros long-term are Ubuntu, Debian, Fedora, OpenSUSE and Mandriva.
 If this is difficult or confusing, just try on Live CD before installing. Important note: just because a distro worked for you doesn't mean the newer version of that distro will also work. Try it out on Live CD before you install.
 Fluxbox is a window manager used by Damn Small Linux and Xfce is a desktop environment used by Xubuntu.
 Be aware this will slow your computer down (which may be noticeable, depending on your machine and how you use it) and will increase power consumption.
, It can take a long time to find that perfect distro that "just works" for you.
 Make at least two partitions, plus swap. Keeping the operating system separate makes things much easier if you want to try a different distro, as well as when it's time to upgrade to a newer version. Mandriva has a very easy automated partition manager - once you run this, it will be easier to install any distro using the partitions you have already created.



If you want to help others set up Linux, the LiveDistros will come in handy - use them to demonstrate and give people choices, and see what works on their systems.
Linux LiveCDs can be especially useful if your computer fails, and you need to rescue your files. Simply boot from the LiveCD, and (if the hard drive is still intact) copy your files to a safe location, such as a flash drive or a network computer.

