 Being in a relationship, while it can be wonderful, means sharing your time and life with another person. Being single, you do not have to worry about letting someone else know if you plan to be out for the evening, or you’re off to make a grocery store run in the early morning--or even if you’d like to take a weekend vacation to another city. Having your time all to yourself can be quite empowering.You do not have to fill up your spare time with activities. If being at home, or taking long walks on your own makes you happy, go for it. Having time to yourself means having time to do what you love.;
, Because your time is your own, you can take a spontaneous trip! You can take a day off of work to make a day trip to an unfamiliar city nearby, or perhaps a weekend trip in your own city, to explore freely.Being single also means you get to choose your destination. You don’t have to compromise or go somewhere you have no interest in being. The choice is all yours.
 If you’ve always wanted to live a vagabond’s life, now is your chance. After all, being a relationship might interfere with your desire to hop from campsite to campsite, or call the wilderness your home.This option is particularly great if you are young and love to travel. Living in a tent allows you to move about freely, without a house payment or rent, with only a few things to pack up before your next adventure.
 Being in a relationship typically requires you to share your decision-making with another person. This can mean that you are stuck in a job you don’t love in order to provide security or peace of mind for someone else. If you’re single, you just have to make sure you can take care of you, so leave that job you hate behind, and chase a position you’ll really love.If you do quit your job, make sure you have another job lined up first: being single and homeless is not quite as freeing as being single and financially stable.
 Being single doesn’t have to mean being free from all relationships. It can also mean that you have more time and energy to put into your existing friendships. If you have a friend in need, you can rush to their aid without checking in with a partner. If your friends want to go on a trip to a music festival, there’s no one holding you back.Some studies have found that single people can actually be happier. The key is in making sure you have strong, fulfilling friendships.
Remember that your friends are the family you choose. If you don’t have supportive, loving friends, make it a goal to find some.

