 You might be able to find a short term job more easily if you have certain skills.Bookkeeping and accounting jobs are often short term or temporary. If you have skills as a bookkeeper, you can often find a well paying position on a short-term basis.
Offices and human resource departments often look for part-time workers when they have an increase in paperwork or filing.
If you have tech skills, some firms or websites may hire on a short-term basis.
 The online marketplace Craigslist features an “ETC” category under the Jobs heading local newspapers also often carry advertisements for quick, temporary work. Check everywhere you can and think about what you're able to do.


Take a job as a sign waver. All kinds of businesses hire sign wavers to stand outside for 8 or 10 hours and wave a large sign at passing cars. Used car lots, payday loan stores, and furniture stores in particular use this marketing technique and often pay in cash at the end of the day.
Help out with event work. Browse listings for people and small businesses who need help setting up, running, and tearing down booths for local events like farmer's markets and street fairs. These jobs often start early in the day and often pay the same day. Be prepared to do anything from construction to running a booth.
 This isn't a reliable way to make a lot of money, but if you're just a few dollars short, it can make up the difference. A Google search will help you find some online surveys.


Be sure you qualify for the study before you apply. For example, you won't want to apply for a study that is looking at the effects of smoking if you aren't a smoker.
Apply in person to expedite the process. In the case of some surveys, you'll be able to show up and do a paid survey right then and there. Studies usually last longer, but may provide compensation before the end of the study period.
 Temporary work agencies place thousands of employees with daily work. If you have specialized work skills or previous experience in a field, you might have very good luck temping. There are a number of tips to help you get started with an agency:Visit the agency. Tell them you want to work, and follow their instructions. There will usually be an application to fill out, followed by an interview where you go over your work history and qualifications.
Bring a resume with you. It will help the temp agency sort out what types of jobs you are qualified for.
Dress for an office environment. Business dress shows you are looking to be successful and will fit in a professional setting.
Meet your agent. He or she will work to find jobs for you every day. Try to be pleasant and get along with your agent; it could help your chances some.
Take any job you're offered. Temp agencies can't work miracles; they don't find work for every temp employee every day. If your agent finds work that you can do and offers it to you, take it immediately.
Sometimes, a temp in a longer-term contract can get hired on as a regular employee, so always treat it like a “real” job.

