 You will need large foam boards, a utility knife, dark grey paint and light grey paint, a plywood board, a paintbrush, and a sponge. You should also get a stencil if you would like to stencil your letters on rather than freehand them.
 These can be purchased at Home Depot or other hardware stores. Foam boards take paint well and are sturdy and durable., Look at photos or go to a cemetery and take notes on the shape you would like your gravestone to be.
 Give it a rounded top, make it rectangular, or make the top pointed-it is up to you.For a more ornate look, cut multiple pieces of foam out. These can be glued side by side for a wider gravestone. Play around with shapes. Cut the foam pieces into arches, circles, triangles, etc.
 Make sure that the two pieces are cut in the same shape. Use a construction adhesive (like PowerGrab or DAP) to glue the pieces together. , The base can be made out of plywood, plastic, etc. it just has to be heavier than the foam tombstone (so that the gravestone doesn’t tip over.) Apply the glue to the bottom of the gravestone and hold it onto the base until it dries. Once relatively dry, let it stand and dry on its own for several minutes.
 The most effective paint is exterior grade, latex house paint. Start with darker paint first and ‘stain’ your gravestone. Paint on any cracks or weather stains with this darker color., Use a dark paint to do this. Use a stencil for the letters or paint them on freehand. Your gravestones can be funny, realistic, or scary. For realistic headstones, head to your local cemetery to get a sense of what normally goes on a gravestone.


You can also choose to paint your letters on last, after all of the others layers of paint have been put on. They will stand out more if you choose to paint them last. You can also paint them in red to give them a spooky, less-realistic look.
 Make sure to paint around the name and epitaph (these should remain dark). Use a wet sponge to blend the light and dark paints for a more realistic, weather-stained look. Let the paint dry., For an even spookier look, place them near homemade ghosts or cover them in fake cobwebs.

