 Nail polishes and nail polish remover can have harsh chemicals like formaldehyde and toluene.Both of these chemical are preservatives and can do serious harm if absorbed. You do not have to completely forego pretty nails, just be sure to pick nail polishes that do not have nasty chemicals like Formaldehyde in them, Accutane (isotretinoin), Retin-A (tretinoin), and tetracyclines can all be dangerous to your developing fetus, may cause serious birth defects, and should be avoided. Wrinkle cream may also contain Retinol, which can also be dangerous.If you have concerns about wrinkles or acne while pregnant, it is important you discuss this with your doctor and find a treatment that is safe for both you and your baby.
Botox should not be used to treat wrinkles while pregnant, either., Teeth-whitening products that contain peroxide may not be safe to use while pregnant. There is not enough research to support that it is safe to bleach or have your teeth whitened, so it's best to wait until after you have given birth and are finished breastfeeding. In fact, it is illegal in some countries for dentists to perform whitening procedures on pregnant women.Some whitening toothpastes, too, contain peroxide. The levels are so low they should not affect your pregnancy, but talk to your doctor first. Look for stain-reducing, rather than whitening, toothpaste., There is not clear evidence that tanning will harm your baby, but using a tanning bed is the leading cause of skin cancer and should always be avoided. Tanning may also potentially break down folic acid, which is important in building your baby's nervous system. Avoid spray tans, as you can inhale chemicals that could harm your baby.In addition, overheating by tanning or laying out in the sun can increase your risk for birth defects.Wear sunscreens containing zinc oxide or titanium dioxide.
Talk to your doctor before using self-tanner. There is not enough evidence to show that self-tanning lotion is safe for use while you are pregnant, but it is thought the chemical that browns your skin (dihydroxyacetone) is not absorbed past the first layer of skin. Still, you should check with your doctor before using any self-tanning products, or just make peace with being a little pale while you're pregnant.