 The MLG starting weapon is a Battle Rifle because it allows you to defend yourself off of any spawn, close or far, in almost any situation. Having a BR is almost the tantamount skill in Halo 3 MLG variants, because the best teammate in the world who can't kill somebody is next to useless. Play FFAs in Customs with your friends with MLG settings on (Motion Tracker is usually added into Free-For-Alls) and work on hitting your shots. There are a ton of BR training related maps out there forged on Foundry. Either find one of those or make one yourself and practice long and close range BR. Using the Carbine as well helps you have a steadier BR, because you have to have the reticle on them constantly, instead of every half second.;
, Teamwork is the next most important skill set in the game. There are specific maps played in the circuit, and each of them has their own defining characteristics. To be able to tell your teammates where a person is on the map requires coming up with names for the different parts of the maps and using them to tell your team locations of weak players, or where the guy with the rocket launcher is headed next. Teamwork also includes knowing your role at any given time. If everybody is pressing towards the flag, hang back, come in from a different angle, support your teammates from the other side of the map. If everybody is crowding the sniper tower on Guardian, go to the top of the tree in jungle area, or head on over to blue room and shoot from the window. Concentrating all of your players in one area isn't going to work very well, know when to spread out and take map control.
 The BR isn't the most steady in the game, but if your sniping isn't bad and you know how to call out, grab a sniper and get to high ground. Use your position to call out and slay with the sniper. If you have trouble with working as a team, try to stay back in on position. Don't go roving with a teammate if you're not going to work with him. Stay set up and use that BR skill to put heavy damage on opposing players for your teammates to finish off. Knowing how you play best is key to surviving.
 Knowing the maps is essential to good play. Knowing where power weapons spawn (Rocket Launcher, Sniper Rifle) and being able to time the spawns is key to good map control. If you can rush the rocket launcher spawn and grab it right as it drops, you won't just have rockets in your possession, but you'll know exactly when the new ones are coming up, and be able to repeat the process. Know good places to set up and team shoot, as well as common routes players take from one area to another. On the map The Pit, the green hallway containing rockets and the open hall further to the side are common pathways from one side of the map to the other, but the green hallway can also be a deathtrap if it's you against two. Know when to use the different routes, and which can be used to flank around and come from the side.
 In Halo 3 grenades are everywhere. One frag grenade will drop you to no shields in a single explosion, and a single subsequent BR head shot can put you down. Know when people are going to throw their grenades, and drop down or get away when they start flying. Learning how to use them is just as essential as knowing how to not get hit by them. Learn common camping positions, and then find a spot in the wall right behind them to bank a grenade off and down. If they don't try to run and put themselves right into your BR reticule, then just throw another to finish off all of the one shots.
 If you suck with the sniper, let the guy who's good take it, and focus on what you can do. If you're not any good with the rocket launcher, there isn't much in the way of learning except to try not to aim for the person themselves, but use walls and the floor for splash damage. Jumping and firing at their feet is a good way to accomplish this.
 If you're beaten before the game even starts, then what's the point of playing? If you're doing badly, don't get mad and start to play worse. Sit back and THINK about what you're doing wrong, think about what the opposing team is doing right. Try to adjust your play style. If going up to snipe 3 keeps getting you killed from top blue, than rotate to somewhere else and try from there.
 You don't have to chase down every kill yourself. Your teammates are there to help. Use team shooting and call-outs to corner opposing players, or just overwhelm them with superior firepower before they can get away to cover. As well, you have to be able to understand when your team can't get to your call out or finish the player you just got to one shot. They could be fighting other opponents or attempting to complete one of the objectives. Learn to accept that.

