 MP3 taggers range drastically in terms of quality of interface and functionality, but all taggers provide the same basic service: automatically filling in your MP3s' information en masse. You'll probably have to install whichever MP3 tagger you download, even if it is an add-on; be ready to restart your computer after doing so.


TuneUp, a highly-recommended add-on for iTunes, features a simple drag-and-drop interface; unfortunately, the most practical version of the software is $15. While this program is generally worth the money, if you don't want to pay the initial fee, you'll be restricted to tagging 100 songs and 50 album art pieces a month. MP3tag, on the other hand, is free for Windows and Mac alike. Its sparse yet accessible interface is ideal for editing large batches of MP3 files, and it is compatible with a huge amount of online databases for tag importing. , Once you've finished downloading and installing the tagger of your choice, open it and familiarize yourself with its settings.


Some programs will allow you to de-select any media that isn't an MP3; for the purposes of editing ID3 tags, you should enable this setting.
 Since the information MP3 taggers draw from is online-based, you'll want to have a strong connection to the internet for the entire time that your files are being tagged.


An ethernet cable connecting you to the router can help expedite this process.
 Locate your MP3s, select all that you wish to edit, and drag them into your tagger.


If possible, try to keep your MP3s relatively organized in small batches to make sure you don't have a cluster of poorly-tagged MP3s going into the tagger all at once. You'll want to limit your sample size if something goes wrong in the process.
 Since there are tons of available MP3 taggers for you to use, there isn't one universal instruction regarding this step; however, you should be able to view and edit a large amount of MP3 files within the program's interface, with the option to scan for and import music tags.
 Although most MP3 taggers are fairly accurate, there's always the chance that one of your files will be mislabeled.


You should also re-sync any mobile devices post-editing, both to update your library and to ensure that all the tags carry over correctly.

