 Fatigue is one of the most common symptoms. Sleeping longer hours and slowing down your activities will help your body focus on fighting the flu. Because your body is more exposed to contagion when fighting the flu, staying at home will also prevent the possibility of catching other infections.Keeping an extra pillow under your head when you lie down or sleep will provide some relief to your congested airways. While at home, spend as much time as possible lying in bed. Decrease your mobility to avoid wasting the energy your body needs to fight the infection.;
, Moisten a cloth with warm water or use a hot water bottle to relieve the pain. The heat will loosen the tension in your muscles and relieve cramps. If your muscles are sore, you can also apply the hot water bottle in the area to soothe the pain.
Don’t do this before going to bed to avoid burning your skin while asleep.
 Blowing hard could cause a nosebleed and push germs into your ear passages, thus spreading the infection. In order to blow gently, press one nostril closed with your finger and blow softly to clear one at a time. Sniffing the mucus back into your nose is very bad for your airways. Always have soft paper tissues at hand to blow into whenever you need.
 Humidity will open up your airways and speed up their decongestion, as well as bring some relief to muscular pain. If you feel too dizzy to take a shower, sit in your bathroom with the shower running and let the steam fill the room.
You can also use a room humidifier to moisten the air: just clean it thoroughly before using it.
 This is another common home remedy to relieve nasal congestion. Essential oils like menthol, eucalyptus, camphor and ginger have properties that open the sinuses.To use them:


Add 10 to 30 drops of the essential oils of your choice to a pot of boiling water.
Place a towel over your head and lean over the pot, keeping your eyes closed and some distance from the water surface to avoid getting burnt.
Take deep breaths with your nose and blow your nose regularly.
 The water will help you expel mucus from your mouth and throat while the salt will kill germs. Dissolving a teaspoon of salt in warm water and gargling the solution four times a day will provide some relief for a sore throat. For nasal irrigation, you can buy a saline spray or make it yourself if you have a neti pot or squeeze bottle: spray the solution into your nostrils to decongest the nasal passages.


To make the solution at home, dissolve 2 or 3 teaspoons of salt and ¼ teaspoon of baking soda in 1 liter of warm water.
It’s always better to use distilled or previously boiled water to make your own solution, to avoid introducing new germs to your system. 