 For kits, you use bunnies, for apprentices you could use a fox (or bunny if you're a non member) and finally, a wolf if you're a warrior (this also goes for deputy, medicine cat, leader, elders and queens). If you want, or don't have a wolf/fox/bunny yet, try ending the name with "the cat". (Infinity the cat, Lucky the cat, Countess the cat, etc.);
, "Pelt" means fur. Your pelt is quite important; if your fur isn't appropriate for clanning, you could get ignored in your clan. Basically, you have to remember you're based on real cats from the warrior books, so change your fur to normal cat colors.


Here's a list of colors you should use: black, dark grey, grey, white, beige (beige and a very light grey are next to white, but there is only three, but it is a mix between white and brown, and white and grey), and brown. Red can be used for blood or scars, so if you do get hurt in a fight, maybe use your second color and patterns for scars or blood as well.
 Lighting and fire are most popular, but big blobs are good if you get hurt to look more realistic. Remember to use these in a good color that works with your fur.
 Obviously you should use the normal boy eyes and girl eyes, and use a normal eye color such as green, blue, dark blue, brown, or light brown. There may be exceptions, like black or a dark purple.
 You might need to do some trading to get the right clothes.


For members: Headdresses (If you have one, great! But if you don't, you shouldn't waste to much time getting one, as they are quite rare), fox hats (They can also be for non-members), swords (You can buy them from the normal store), and elf armor (horses only party).
For non-members: Bow and arrows (Note: these aren't as rare compared to rare bow and arrows, and they are quite common so if you have one, great!), fox hats (They came back which is bad, because rarity goes down, but it's also good because they're for new clanners to obtain), and pirate swords (you can get one color from adventure beta hard mode by rescuing the bunnies in this order: Daisy, Jack, Snowball and Oliver).

