 Summer in New York City is hot, hot, hot. Temperatures skyrocket in the months of June, July, and August. Temperatures stay hot, even through the nights when the heat can remain in the 90s (32 degrees C and above.) On top of that, NYC gets very humid. This means thick, sticky air. There are also the occasional thunderstorms that rage violently then subside., Shirts made of breathable cotton work well to combat the humidity and heat. Tank tops and light-material shirts that will catch even a whisper of a breeze are good bets too. Aim for brighter and lighter colors.



For women: Wispy graphic tanks are a cute way to beat the heat while still looking fashionable. Crop top shirts with a high-waisted skirt or shorts are a pretty standard look around NYC in the summertime.

For men: Cotton t-shirts and button-ups are good choices for a summer trip to NYC.
 As stated above, it gets really hot in the summer. That means pants that won’t keep heat in are the way to go. Shorts, skirts, etc. are great ways to combat the temperature. Cotton pants are also an option.



For women: Skirts (including miniskirts, half-cut skirts, maxi skirts, and pretty much any skirt in between) are totally acceptable. Cute shorts made from funky material, high-waisted skirts, baggy cotton gypsy pants--you can’t really go wrong, so long as you’re not wearing thick pants that will make you sweat bullets.

For men: It is a common belief that men do not wear shorts in NYC unless they are playing a sport, heading out on a boat, or going to the beach. Other New Yorkers, however, contest this and say its fine. It really depends on whether or not you care about what people think. Nice boating shorts in khaki or other Vineyard Vines-esque shorts are good. Otherwise, you can stick to breathable pants., Throw a stone in NYC in the summertime and you will be sure to hit a girl wearing a cute sundress. To blend in, bring some light summer dresses in cool patterns and bright colors. Pair it with a floppy hat, big sunglasses, and some cute shoes and you’ll fit right in.


Maxi dresses have been topping the fashion charts for a couple summers. These long dresses are great for hot days and cooler nights.
 While it generally stays warm (or hot,) it can get a bit cooler, particularly after a thunderstorm. A light jacket works well. They are also great for when you dip down into the subway and discover its freezing. You might also consider bringing a hat to wear during the day--that summer sun can be unforgiving. Bangles and funky necklaces also help add style to your wardrobe.

