 Playing with your puppy is a great way to show her you love her. Keeping her active through games will keep her physically and mentally healthy as she grows into an adult.A walk may not seem like a game at first, but you can turn it into one by letting your puppy explore her environment during the walk.


Be sure your puppy has been fully vaccinated before you take her for a walk in public places or allow her to interact with other dogs.
Let your puppy occasionally stop and smell flowers during your walk.Introduce your puppy to new people and dogs during the walk.Carry some treats with you — the person to whom you introduce your puppy can give your puppy treats to help establish a friendly relationship with her.Encourage your puppy to walk up on the curb.She can have fun balancing on the curb versus walking in the street or on the sidewalk.
Practicing basic commands during your walk, such as "sit" and "stay," can help reinforce her training., Your puppy will love playing hide and seek. One way to play this is to hide yourself. Have a friend stand with your puppy as you hide, then call your puppy’s name every few seconds until he finds you.Reward your puppy with treats and verbal praise when he finds you.


If you have been teaching your puppy to come when called, hiding yourself is a good way to practice this command.You can also hide his favorite toys.
Be aware that your puppy may become frustrated if he is not able to find his toy, which may cause him not to like the game.Hide the toy in easy-to-find places (behind the couch, under a chair) until your puppy becomes better at using his nose to find items.
 Playing fetch with your puppy is a good way to exercise her, and teaches her how to focus on you and follow your instructions.A small toy or a soft doll are good fetching toys, since your puppy would be able to easily grab and retrieve them.Do not play fetch with sticks. Sticks could injure your puppy’s mouth, or cause digestive problems if she swallows pieces of the wood.If your puppy does not understand what you want her to do at first, show her how to retrieve the toy and bring it back to your starting place.Fetch is an easy game, so it shouldn’t take your puppy long to catch on.
 If your puppy loves the water, then water games are a great way to show him you love him. Water activities are low impact,and will not put stress on his joints.


Your puppy will probably not be a strong swimmer the minute he jumps in the water. For safety, you may want to put a pet-appropriate life vest on him until he strengthens his swimming skills.Life vests may be available at your local pet store, but may be easier to find online.
A swimming pool or a calm lake are good places to help your puppy become a strong swimmer.Play fetch with him in the water.Playing in the water can be exhausting for your puppy. For his safety, make sure he rests every 10 minutes to regain his energy.Do not force your puppy to play in the water if he does not want to., Playing tug of war with your puppy builds up her physical strength, as well as her confidence.To play tug of war, choose a small, soft toy that your puppy can easily hold in her mouth. As you play with her, make sure that her play does not become aggressive.If your puppy starts to snarl, her play is probably becoming aggressive.
 Teaching him tricks will give your puppy a healthy mental and physical challenge. Start out with simple commands, like "sit," and "stay." When he has mastered the basic commands, challenge him with more complicated commands and tricks, like "roll over" and "play dead."


Teaching your puppy tricks teaches him discipline,which will help him become a well-behaved adult dog.
Reward your dog with immediate positive reinforcement (treats, verbal praise, affection) when he correctly performs a trick., Consider making an obstacle course for your puppy in your home.In a large room, position pieces of furniture and different objects (cardboard boxes, toys) that your puppy will need to navigate to get to you. In addition to being a game, an obstacle course improves your puppy’s agility.
 As much as puppies love to run and play, they need adequate time to rest and recharge. Limit your play and teaching sessions to 10 minutes.Apart from your puppy resting between play sessions, she also needs time to nap.Naps are an important part of your puppy’s growth and maturation. If you let her play too much without time to rest, she may become grumpy.In addition, you may negatively affect her natural growing process.

