 More guests equals more impact from travel, in addition to the extra environmental costs of food and other materials. Go for a more intimate affair. You’ll be able to spend extra time with all of your family and friends, and you’ll have more freedom to focus on each other.You might consider starting with just family members. If this leaves you with some extra space, give each other 5-10 “spots” for a select group of very close friends. Explain to those who might feel left out why you’re keeping it small, and promise them that you’ll celebrate the next time you’re able to get together.
 While it’s likely impossible to have a wedding that’s close to all of your guests, try to identify the area where the majority or highest number of your guests live. If you’re able to have your wedding in that spot, you’ll significantly reduce the amount of travel your wedding causes.
 You’ll want to ensure that you and your guests don’t add to your travel on the wedding day itself. There are many venues that can provide ceremonies and receptions on the same grounds, even if you’d like a religious service.
 Help your guests get connected online by creating a special Facebook group or message board. Encourage your friends and family to participate in carpools, and provide information and links to local public transportation options., If you order food and flowers that are out of season or can’t be produced in your area, it also needs to travel. Visit local butchers, florists, bakers, and other providers to see if they can help you gather food and flowers that are all produced within a reasonable distance of the venue.Not all local food and flowers will be organic. Ask farmers and growers if they have organic produce that hasn’t been treated with pesticides or herbicides.
 If you’re able to honeymoon without taking a plane to your destination, you’ll significantly cut down on your impact. There are likely many options for a lovely and relaxing honeymoon within driving distance. You’ll also be able to use the money you would have spent on a plane ticket pampering yourselves!If you want to travel longer distances, keep it eco-friendly and make it part of the fun. You can travel by train or even sailboat rather than by plane.
You might also consider traveling to a “green” honeymoon destination. There are a variety of websites you can use to pick a spot, including GreenGlobe.travel and GreenPearls.com.

