 Did you know that appliances that are plugged in keep using energy, even when they're switched off? Even an appliance as small as a coffee pot continues slowly sapping energy every moment it stays plugged in, long after the last cup of coffee has been consumed.


A power strip with a switch makes this easier. Instead of pulling 5 devices out of their sockets, all you have to do is flip a switch.
Power down your computer and unplug it at the end of the day. Computers use a lot of energy, and when they stay plugged in you're wasting both energy and money.Don't leave your TV plugged in all the time. It may seem inconvenient to unplug it when you're finished watching, but the savings are worth the trouble.
Unplug your sound system and speakers. These are some of the worst culprits when it comes to sapping extra energy when they aren't in use.
Don't forget small appliances such as phone chargers, kitchen appliances, hair dryers, and anything else you've got that runs on electricity.
 When older appliances were manufactured, companies weren't as concerned with saving electricity. Newer models are designed to conserve energy, reducing your household costs and lowering your carbon footprint. If you have an older refrigerator, electric stove and oven, dishwasher, washer and dryer, or other large appliance, look into getting it replaced.


Look for "Energy Star" ratings on new appliances. These help you assess how much energy the appliance uses. Many energy-conserving appliances are more expensive than those that don't have this feature, but you'll earn the money back over time through electricity savings.
If replacing your appliances isn't an option, there are still plenty of ways to change your routine so that you're using as little electricity as possible.

Fill the dishwasher up before running it, rather than running a smaller load.
Don't open the oven while it's in use, since you release heat and the oven has to use extra energy to produce more.
Don't stand at the refrigerator with the door open trying to decide what to eat. Open and close it as quickly as possible. You should also check the seals on your refrigerator and replace them when they get worn out.
Do full loads of laundry instead of small loads.
 In the old days people didn't need large appliances to run their households; experiment with ways to use only what you really need. Using fewer appliances can make some tasks more time-consuming, but if you get the whole family involved you won't be spending too much extra time on chores.


Most people wash their clothes more than necessary; try reducing the number of loads you do each week.
Hang a clothesline in the backyard and let your clothes line dry instead of using the dryer.
Wash your dishes by hand (using the water conservation method) instead of using the dishwasher.
Limit your baking to one day a week, during which you make several dishes within the same period of time. This way you won't have to heat the oven over and over.
Get rid of small appliances you don't really need, like plug-in air fresheners. Open the windows instead!

