 Look over your pet and see if you can find any abnormalities. These could include areas of fur that are missing or disheveled. This could also include bumps or misshapen areas on the pet's body.


Doing a general visual inspection right away after you get a lost pet back will help you to figure out if your pet has a serious injury that needs immediate veterinary attention.
If you see any trauma on your pet's body, you should give care. For a laceration, gently bathe the area with a weak saltwater solution and then cover the area with a clean cloth. Then take the pet to see a veterinarian. If the trauma looks severe, such as a protruding bone, then try to stop your pet from moving and immediately take it to the closest veterinary clinic or emergency veterinary hospital.;
, Make sure to give your pet some food and a fresh bowl of water right away. If they do not want the food and/or water, then this could indicate that something is wrong. Be sure to mention this to your veterinarian.


After your pet eats/drinks, give them a chance to use the bathroom and see if they are passing fluid and feces normally. Check after they go to see if there is any blood. If they seem distressed or are not passing anything, then mention this to your veterinarian as well.
 Just because you can't see a problem that doesn't mean there isn't one under your pet's fur. Feel all over its body for odd or unusual bumps. If your pet moves uncomfortably when you touch a certain area, this too can be a sign of injury.


Some pets, such as cuddly puppies, will usually be more than happy to let you feel all over their body. However, standoffish cats or crotchety old dogs may be more resistant. In cases such as these, do the best you can and then let the pet's veterinarian do a more thorough examination.
 Gently pinch a section of skin behind their shoulder blades and check to see if it snaps back. It should snap back right away if your pet is well hydrated. If not, then the skin may stick and slowly go back into place.


Take your pet to see a veterinarian immediately if you suspect dehydration.
 You can also check your pet for blood loss by looking at their gums. Gently slide your pet’s lip down and look at the color of their gums. If the gums are white or pale pink, then they may have lost some blood. If the gums look pink, press one finger against their gums and note how long it takes for the blood to return. It should take no more than 2 seconds. If it takes longer than this, then their circulation may be sluggish and they may be in shock.


Take your pet to see a veterinarian if you suspect blood loss or poor circulation.
 While a pet is bound to be a little out of sorts when readjusting to home after being lost, there are some behaviors that signal ill health more than readjustment. Watch your pet after it gets home to see if its behavior is relatively normal or if there might be something wrong with it health-wise.For example, a lack of appetite or a hesitance to let you touch it, when you could before, might signal a health problem that needs to be addressed


Also, if your pet is unsteady on its feet, when it is normally steady, or it is bumping into stuff, it may have some sort of injury that needs treatment.
 You will need to judge whether the injuries you have found are life threatening or if they simply need care but will not risk your pet's life. In order to make this assessment, you can call your veterinary office or call your local animal hospital if your usual clinic is closed.If injuries are life threatening, take your pet to its veterinarian or to an animal hospital immediately. Call the office on the way there to tell them what is going on and to allow them to prepare for your arrival.
If the injuries do not seem life threatening but need veterinary care, call your veterinary office or your local animal hospital and explain the situation. They will advise you whether to bring the pet in immediately or to wait for an appointment.
 If you don't find anything wrong with your pet after you get it back, you can still have it looked over just for peace of mind. It may have an injury or health issue that you cannot detect. Make an appointment for a time that is convenient for you and tell the veterinary office why you are bringing the pet in.


If your pet has not had its regular annual appointment, this is a good time to go ahead and schedule that. Your veterinarian will assess the pet's overall health and make sure it is up to date on vaccinations and medications., With a thorough exam, your veterinarian should be able to detect any problems that started when your pet was lost.Once your pet has been assessed by a veterinarian, you should follow the treatment recommendations they give you. It may be that they tell you that your pet is just fine. However, they may prescribe medications or suggest some sort of veterinary procedure that your pet needs.


It is appropriate to discuss treatment options with the veterinarian. Ask any questions that you have and discuss the cost of procedures and medications before you agree to them.

