 There are many different types of piercings you can get on or around your penis. Some of the most common are Prince Alberts, Ampallangs, Frenums, and more. Look them up and see what you think sounds best. Google Image Search will usually help you sort out the basics.;
, Getting this done at home can lead to all sorts of diseases that can risk your health, as well as the health of your package. If you want to ever use that thing again, go about this very, very carefully. Dong rot is nothing to joke about. This is the only body you've got, so don't ruin it.


Also read up on your local laws. In most places, you must be 18 years or older to get piercings without an adult accompanying you. Please be responsible.
 Piercing sizes generally follow the American Wire Gauge standard in which a larger number represents a smaller size. For example, genital piercings are typically done from a size 16 to about a size 12, though there are always exceptions. A 14 gauge is about 1/16".
 Make sure to get the correct gauge size for your piercing. Most tattoo/piercing shops won't sell you piercing needles due to liability issues, but you can order them online without too much trouble. Make sure you are getting them from a reputable source and that the packages come entirely sealed, because you can get some very serious diseases from unhygienic needles. As we said: dong rot is not something to joke around with.
 Make sure it is the right size and shape for your new piercing. Barbells or rings for a Frenum ladder, a curved barbell for a Prince Albert, etc. Keep in mind the length of jewelry that you will need. Having jewelry that is too small can cause significant problems while healing, so if you're not sure, get something a little bigger just in case, that way you have some extra room if it swells (and it will most likely swell).
 Depending on the piercing, it might be useful to buy a pair of clamps as well. Sometimes it can be very difficult to hold the head how you want it, especially in places like the scrotum or the shaft of the penis. These clamps allow you to mark your spot, then clamp the skin just how you want it so you don't have to worry about it slipping and moving while you are trying to pierce. Piercing in the incorrect location can cause serious bleeding or worse, permanent injury, so clamps are a good idea.


This is one reason why it may be good to get it done by a professional. Placement is very important and experience will go a long way towards helping with getting your piercing where it should go.
 You can order gloves from these sites as well. They are very important. You must be sure to take any possible precaution against the spread of Blood borne pathogens and other infectious diseases. Alcohol wipes are good as well to sterilize and clean the skin around your potential piercing spot. Also it's very useful to get some A&D ointment to lubricate your needle. It makes it a lot easier when you push it through the skin.


Remember that all the alcohol wipes in the world may not help. In fact, even alcohol wipes can become contaminated. Professional equipment is useful for this reason.

