 It is good to set aside time when you and your coach can talk one on one. At the beginning of practice, ask your coach if they have a few minutes afterwards to talk. This will give them a heads up that you need to discuss something, and they will not leave immediately.You can say, “Hey coach, can we chat after practice today? I have something I need to discuss with you.”
If your coach tries to ask you what you want to talk about, tell them, “I’d like to discuss my future on the team. We can talk more after practice.”

, When the time comes, you should let your coach know directly that you want to quit. By stating it in a clear, confident tone, you will demonstrate that you are serious. You might want to let them know that you have thought this decision over carefully and that this the right decision for you.


You can say, “I’ve been thinking this over for several weeks now, and I think I have to quit.”
Another way you can say it is “It’s time for me to move onto other things. I need to leave the team.”

, You should give your coach reasons why you want to quit. While they may want to change your mind, by stating why you want to leave, you will demonstrate that you have thought this decision through completely.


You might say, “I have to focus on my other work right now. My grades have been slipping, and I need to focus on my GPA so that I can get a good job.”
You can say, “I’ve been having pains in my leg, and I went to the doctor. I have a torn meniscus, and I won’t be able to play for a while. I think this will give me some time to pursue some other interests in my life.”
If you have a doctor’s or teacher’s note, now would be the time to present it. Say, “I have a note from my doctor if that would help explain the issue.”

, Perhaps you are quitting because of a problem on the team or maybe your coach can accommodate some of your needs. If there is a reason why you might stay, you should inform your coach what it is. They may be willing to work with you to fix the issue.You might say, “I will be honest. I’ve had some arguments with members of this team, and unless we can work out something between us, I think it is best for us all if I go.”
You can say, “I need more time to study so that my grades do not slip. Maybe if I didn’t have to go to that extra weight training session on Friday, I’d be able to manage my time more effectively.”
If you have a “bully coach,” it may be best not to tell them that they are the problem. They may redirect their anger at you. Instead, let them know that you are quitting for personal reasons, and do not provoke them., It is good to let your coach know how much longer you are planning to be on the team so that they can prepare accordingly. Give them a date when you will no longer be on the team.


You can say, “I’m planning on staying for the rest of the season, but I will not be returning after that.”
Alternatively, you might say, “I can only stay on for another two weeks. I’m sorry that I have to leave in middle of the season.”

, Make sure that your coach knows you appreciate their hard work since you’ve joined them. A sincere thank you can show that you are grateful for their influence and help while you have played the sport.You might say, “It’s hard for me to leave, and I really appreciate all that you have done. Thank you so much for believing in me up until this point.”

, If you cannot tell your coach in person, an email is the best way to get in touch. You may find your coach’s email on a school, university, or league directory. If you cannot find your coach’s email, you might try writing them a letter. Give that letter to a teammate, who can pass it onto the coach.


It is not a good idea to quit in writing unless you are unable to talk to your coach in person.Perhaps you must quit suddenly and can’t go to another practice. Maybe you’re receiving treatment and cannot see your coach.
A letter might read: “Dear Coach, It’s hard to say this, but I have to quit the team. I’m sorry I could not tell you in person. I have to go home suddenly for personal reasons, and I will not be able to continue on this season. I’m not sure if I will be able to continue playing. Thank you for all of your support and hard work. I will always appreciate it. Sincerely, Trent.”
If you are in middle or high school, you might CC your parents on the email. Alternatively, your parents might write the email for you.

