 If your date appears to violent, emotionally unstable, or makes you uncomfortable for any reason, it is okay to leave. Use any of the excuses that you have prepared and get out of there.


If you are truly desperate and don't want them to know you're leaving, tell them you're going to the bathroom and take any personal items with you, then sneak out another way.
 If your date tries to prevent you from leaving, physically or through verbal coercion, get someone nearby to help you, like a waiter or another couple. This could be as simple as asking them to get the manager or call the police, but the point is that by drawing other people into the situation, an aggressive person is more likely to back off out of a desire to not get into trouble.


Get loud. Although embarrassment might make you want to keep quiet and not make a spectacle, it is to your advantage to be loud and make sure other people can hear that you are not interested in this person's advances or company. This may convince people, without your solicitation, to come help you.
 If for some reason you should be cornered and there is no way to avoid violence, use proper self defense techniques to make your assailant back off. If you have it with you, using mace is perhaps the easiest method. When attacking, aim for the areas of the body where you can do the most damage in the least amount of time; these include the eyes, nose, ears, neck, knees, and groin.Kick the side of the knee to injure or even incapacitate an attacker.
Gouge, poke, or scratch an attacker's eyes with your fingers or knuckles.
If your attacker is very close to you, user the heel of your palm to strike the under portion of their nose, throwing the whole weight of your body into the motion.
The goal of attacking your attacker is not to beat them up but to prevent them from following you and, in the case that they are holding you, make them let go.
 Once your attacker lets go, run away, preferably in the opposite direction. If your attacker recovers and gets a hold of you after being hurt, they will likely be very angry, so the situation will be even more dangerous for you. Go somewhere where there are a lot of people, or get into your car to drive away.


Do not immediately go back home. Should this person be capable of following you, you do not want to accidentally show them where you live.
 If you have been attacked, this is considered an emergency situation. You will want to call 9-1-1 so that police can be dispatched to help you and, if necessary, make an arrest. Be prepared that when you contact the emergency operator you will need to try to tell them exactly what happened, where it happened, and where you are now.Stay on the line. A sudden disconnect could mean that something has gone very wrong for you, and the operator will try to call you back. This could delay emergency response time and tie up the lines, so be sure to stay on the line until you are told you can hang up.

