 If you have time to plan, think about when to make your trip. There are benefits and drawbacks to traveling at any time of the year, and there are some unique things to consider when planning a trip to New York.Temperatures in New York tend to be most pleasant in the early fall, when they range in the 60's. However, be careful when you go if you're planning a fall vacation. You may end up paying steep hotel prices if you go around Thanksgiving.
Christmastime in New York can be exciting for a variety of reasons. There's a lot to see and do in the city around the holidays. However, you're very likely to find pricey hotels around this time. You may be better off saving your money and going in January and February. While the weather will be bitter, you'll save on hotels.
Visiting in the spring and summer months can be a good idea, but the March/May months may be very rainy. A summer visit, like June or July, will usually have very humid weather and big crowds, as it's a very popular time to visit. If you'd rather avoid crowds, you may want to stay away over the summer.;
, As New York itself can be expensive, it's a good idea to aim for cheaper flights. Explore ways to book your flight for cheap, so you'll have more money to spend in the city.Fly out out on a weekday. Prices tend to be lower if you're flying out on a Tuesday or Wednesday rather than a Friday or Saturday. You can also try flying out early. As passengers tend to dislike the stress of early flights, these tickets may be cheaper.
Check to see if prices dropped 24 hours after booking your flight. If prices went down, call the airline to cancel and then rebook your flight at a cheaper rate.
Monitor social media as you get ready to book your flight. Airlines often post special discounts and sales.
 Hotels in New York vary greatly in prices. If you want to stay in a hotel, it's a good idea to use an online tool to find a hotel in your price range. Websites like TravelZoo, Groupon, and Living Social can help you find a hotel at an appropriate price for your needs.You also may notice these sites offer trip packages, which include air fare. In some cases, trip packages may be cheaper than finding a hotel and an airline ticket separately. If you see a solid trip package that would greatly reduce your airline costs, take it.
 If hotels are out of your price range, there are many alternatives. NYC is a popular travel destination, so hotels will rarely be cheap.Consider using a website like CouchSurfing. You make a profile about yourself and your travels. You'll then find hosts through the website willing to take in travelers. It's vastly cheaper than a hotel, and a good way to make friends in the city.
Consider doing a temporary rental through a site like AirBnB, where you rent someone else's apartment or room for a week. You could also look into staying in a hostel or a Bed and Breakfast, which both may be cheaper than a hotel.
 You do not need to rent a car in New York as the city has solid public transportation. Getting a metro card at one of the train stations will cut back on costs significantly, and reduce the amount of time you'll spend taking cabs.A seven day metro card costs about $30, which is significantly cheaper than what you would pay taking cabs.
You can purchase a card at the station. The process is fairly straightforward, but if you have any questions you can ask an attendant.
 The subway can be hard to navigate if you're a beginner, but technology can help. Pick up a physical subway map at the station or download one on your phone. If you have a smart phone, applications like Google Maps will also be able to direct you to the proper public transportation routes to get you where you need to go., New York can be overwhelming as there's so much to do and see. Spend some time narrowing things down by deciding what you can't miss in the city.


Think about your personal tastes. You may be coming to the city for its art and culture. Therefore, seeing a Broadway show is a must, as is hitting up the art museums like the MET and MOMA.
If you're more into something like architecture, consider touring the financial district or booking an architectural tour of the city. You could also spend time in Central Park, browsing the statues and attractions. You'll also want to see the Statue of Liberty and the Empire State Building.
Make a list of everything you want to see, and then rank your list. Group the most important attractions towards the top, and then move downward. At the bottom of your list, you should have some attractions you could stand to miss.
 New York is a massive city comprised of uptown, midtown, downtown, Brooklyn, and other neighborhoods and boroughs. When planning your itinerary, break the city down by sections. Target different neighborhoods each day to hit all the attractions you want to see.Uptown and midtown are easy to see on the same day. You can see the Empire State Building, walk up and down Broadway, hit up Times Square, and see museums like the MET and the Museum of Natural History.
You can also tour downtown and Brooklyn on the same day. You can see the Statue of Liberty, as well as the 9/11 Memorial, and then take the subway into Brooklyn. Brooklyn offers a lot of unique food that may be cheaper than other parts of the city.
You also may want to take time to visit some places off the map. You could, for example, go to Coney Island for a day, or see a nearby state park.
 Museums are a must see in New York City. In addition to the major art museums, there are a variety of science and architectural museums you may want to see on your trip.In addition to the Museum of Modern Art, and the Metropolitan Museum of Art, you may want to check out the Contemporary Art Center.
If you're into science, the Natural History Museum is a must see as it contains a wide array of exhibits overviewing Earth's diverse history. You could also consider the Museum of Mathematics.
If you're interest in history, the Tenement Museum is a five-story brick building that tells the story of immigrants who first moved to New York City in mid-19th century.
 Central Park is a massive part of New York City, and it can be overwhelming to try to navigate the park solo. It is about 843 acres. If you get close to Central Park, you may notice people offering tours. You can also look up tours online and see if there are any well-reviewed tours in your price range.If you don't want to take a tour, you can always rent a bicycle. You'll get through Central Park faster if you're biking, and a bike ride through central park can be a fun and relaxing way to spend an afternoon.
 The Statue of Liberty is a must see for many when coming to New York City, but think about how you want to see it. You can view the Statue of Liberty from a distance, but you may also want to actually go up and see the statue itself. To do so, you'll need to take a ferry. You can book tickets online the day before you plan to go.There will be a brief security checkpoint before you board the ferry. You'll then be taken to the statue, where you'll exit along the wooden pier.
You can simply view the statue up close. You can also go up into the statue if you visit on a day that it's opened.
 Seeing a Broadway show is a must for many in New York City. However, tickets can be very pricey. There are a variety of ways you can find tickets in your price range when visiting New York City.You can visit what is known as the TKTS booth found in Times Square. Tickets for shows that have not sold out yet are sold at this booth for a discount price.
There are also websites, like TodayTix and nytix.com, that allow you to buy cheap tickets last minute.
 Discount tickets you can book last minute are great, but keep in mind the pickings will be slim. You're unlikely to get your first choice. If you want to see a big show currently running in New York, book your tickets ahead of time.


It's a good idea to get your tickets before you even leave. Tickets can be purchased online. You can have them mailed to you, print them, or pick them up at the theater.
Tickets to big shows are not cheap, but if there's a play or musical you have your heart set on seeing, it may be worth the extra price.
 When choosing restaurants, avoid eating out when you find yourself in Times Square. Restaurants here are rarely high quality as they're often tourist traps. As Times Square is busy, you will not have a chance to enjoy your meal as waitstaff will want you to eat quickly and leave. You're better off dining at local restaurants in smaller neighborhoods.
 If you see an empty subway car, you may be inclined to hop on to get a seat. This is a mistake. Empty subway cars are usually that way for a reason. There may be a bad smell or a spill that pushed people off the car. You're better off squeezing into a crowded car than getting on an uncharacteristically empty car in the middle of the day.
 Museum schedules vary greatly in New York City. Some museums are closed on certain days of the week. When planning your trip, it's vital that you check a museum's schedule. The Whitney, for example, is closed on Tuesdays.


You should also read reviews online to get a sense of when museums are likely to be crowded. On certain days of the week, you can expect big crowds and lines. You're better off going on days when the museums will be less packed.

