 In the case of thoroughbred names, spaces and punctuation marks count as letters so you will old be able to have a total of 18 characters. For example, ThereAndBackAgain! is an acceptable name because it has 18 characters, but There And Back Again! is not because it has 21 characters (including spaces)., While this might seem obvious, what might not be vulgar or offensive to you might be offensive to someone else. Double check that the name you pick out does not have any bad connotations that are offensive to religious, political, or ethnic groups, or that are vulgar in anyway.


For example, The Great Farter might be a funny name to you, but could be found vulgar by others, or might be taken as an offensive dig at God.
 Thoroughbred racehorses are not allowed to have names that are all initials; they cannot have names that are clearly promoting a commercial or artistic cause; and they cannot be named after a living person unless there is a written confirmation from that person saying it is okay.
 Any horse that has won a major race will have his or her name permanently retired. However, other names of horses that have not won major races can be recycled.


For example, you cannot name your racehorse Seabiscuit, though you could potentially try naming your horse Seabisquick or some other play off of a famous horse’s name.
 If you want your racehorse to be a star, you’ll need a name that fans (and gamblers) can get behind. For this reason, it may be better to pick out a shorter name, though catchy names aren’t bad either. There’s something very charming about chanting the name Ruffian (which is probably why Ruffian is racing’s greatest filly).
 The Jockey Club, which is the organization charged with recording and approving the names of racehorses, may require you to explain the name if its not very clear.


For example, the 1977 Triple Crown winner, Seattle Slew, was named after the owners’ hometowns--Seattle, and the word for a swamp which in Florida is called a ‘slew’.