 If you've taken a gait speed test and notice that your gait speed is not normal, you might benefit from speaking to your physician or a physical therapist.


Gait speed is not just an indicator of how fast you can walk. It's an indicator of how many body systems are responding and functioning. If you have an abnormal gait speed, it's worth speaking to your doctor about.
Just because your gait speed is below normal, doesn't mean you cannot improve. Your physician may recommend that you get regular physical therapy. This will help you build strength, coordination and endurance.
 Improving gait speed is not based on continued aerobic exercise. In fact, one of the best ways to improve gait speed is by incorporating regular and consistent resistance training.One exercise you can try are chair sits. Start by sitting on a sturdy chair - it shouldn't be soft or reclining. Without using momentum or your arms, stand up to an upright position. Then slowly sit back down without using your hands. Repeat 10 times if possible.
Also try calf raises. While standing in front of a sturdy backed chair, slowly press up through your heels until your are on your tip toes. You may need to hold on the back of the chair for support. Repeat 10 times if able.
In addition, you can try step ups. Find a step - either on a stair case or use an aerobic step. If you cannot step up very high, a low aerobic step is best. Hold on to a railing or another person for support and step up with one foot. Bring your other foot to meet it on the step. Then step back down. Repeat about 10 times with each leg.
 Although resistance training seems to be the biggest determinant in whether or not you improve your gait speed, it' still important to include aerobic training.Aerobic exercise in particular, improves endurance and will help increase the length of time you can walk.
It's important to start with low intensity exercises - like walking - and slowly working up to higher intensities over time.
While you're walking, you can try: practicing walking over objects, walking both forwards and backwards, walking while you carry light weight objects or alternating speeds of walking.
 In addition to resistance training and some balance training, studies have also found that exercise in rhythm, especially when listening to music, there were improved results in gait speed.These studies showed that participants who walked or danced in time with music had better long-term results compared to the control groups.
If you are working on improving your gait speed, consider finding music that has a steady and slow beat.
Over time, work on walking to a faster beat to help you improve your gait speed.

