 Keep it clean, healthy, and good-smelling. Quality products include Pantene, TreSemme, Garnier, and Bumble and Bumble, but you should use whatever works for you. Some good hairstyle ideas include:
, Brush your teeth thoroughly and use mouthwash. Shower once or twice a day, but before you step into the tub, shave your arms, legs, and underarms. Body hair can hold onto bacteria, causing odor when you sweat, not to mention it doesn't look all that hot.
 Drink plenty of water, eat fruits and veggies, and always get a good night's sleep.
 Unless you're ambidexterous, don't paint your nails by yourself. Have a friend do it for you, or go to a salon. If you have a habit of biting your nails, or they just wouldn't look good enough with nail polish, get artificial nails. You can never go wrong with a classic French tip, but don't be afraid to experiment with bright colors and fun patterns.
 It has both a purpose and a secret. The purpose of makeup is to enhance your best features, not cover them up. And the secret to wearing makeup is to make it look like you're NOT wearing makeup. Sounds impossible, right? Well for example, if you don't love your eyebrows you can just trim them and use an eyebrow pencil to correct them. Remember, don't make it obvious that you're wearing makeup. Save the eyeshadow for formal school functions.
 Before resorting to commercial products like Proactiv and Epiduo, wash your face everyday with soap and hot (NOT scalding!!!) water, rinse with cold water, exfoliate, and use lotion. Do this everyday until you see results.
 If you said younger girls, then consider updating your wardrobe. While it is much more important to get what you like, you should also find out the top five most popular brands in your school, and get the hottest things that each brand has. Mind you, not everything has to be expensive, or even well-known. As the lady in the ShoeDazzle commercial said, stay one step ahead; make everyone think you know something they don't. The best way to pull this off is to shop online. Good sites include Choies, TBDress, and YESSTYLE.
 Guys absolutely love the smell of vanilla, but you should have a variety including flowers and fruit. Bath and Body Works, Victoria's Secret, and The Body Shop should be your go-to stores.

