 The simplest way to keep a cat from killing wild animals is to keep it inside. Cats can thrive inside, especially if they are given lots of toys and stimulation to keep them occupied. In exchange for limiting a bit of your cat's freedom, you will protect the small yard animals in your area.Most organizations interested in protecting wildlife in urban areas promote keeping cats indoors in order to protect wild bird populations.
 In order to limit a cat's ability to sneak up on small yard animals, you can put a bell on its collar. As the cat moves, it will make a small ringing sound that will notify squirrels, birds, and other small animals that the cat is stalking them.Some cats eventually figure out how to move without the bell making sounds. However, it is worth a try if your cat is constantly stalking and killing small yard animals.
 Cats that are sneaking up on small wildlife rely on blending into their surroundings to pounce on unsuspecting prey. In order to limit a cat's ability to do this, you can place a brightly colored collar around your cat's neck. Birds are especially adept at spotting bright colors, so they will have more warning to flee from a dangerous situation.Whenever you put something around your cat's neck, be sure that it has a safety clasp that can come apart if the cat gets it hooked on something.
 One reason that cats kill small yard animals is because they are hungry. To avoid this behavior, make sure that your cat is well fed whenever it goes outside. This may minimize the cat's instinct to hunt.There are a variety of motivations for cats to hunt and hunger is just one of them. Thus, keeping your cat well fed may not eliminate all killing but it could minimize it.
 Instead of letting your cat outside, where it could kill or injure wild animals, consider building it contained patio, also called a catio. A catio is an outdoor space where your cat can enjoy fresh air and the sounds of nature but it is fully enclosed, so your cat can't get its paws on wild animals in your yard.Catios can be a variety of sizes and can either be connected to your house, so your cat can go in and out of it when it likes, or they can be stand alone areas that you have to put your cat in.
You can either create a catio by enclosing an existing porch with screening or by adding a new area onto your home that is enclosed. Basically, a catio is a ventilated box, so you if you plan on building one from scratch the supplies you will need include lumber, screening, and hardware.