 If you’ve started to notice that he isn’t communicating with you as much as he once was, you should take a step back from reaching out to him. When you’re the only one who texts, calls, or tries to make plans without any reciprocity, it’s clear that he isn’t interested in seeing you.Try this for a week to see whether he begins to change. Do not contact him first and see whether he initiates conversations with you. He will either notice that the conversations have stopped and reach out, or he will not reach out and that will tell you that he isn’t interested.
 You may have mutual friends with the guy that you like. If you are able to, ask his friends if they know if he is interested in anyone or whether he is still interested in you.


Vice versa, notice if he asks you for advice about his romantic relationships with other people. This is a clear sign that he is interested in someone else and that he sees you only as a friend. If he starts to ask things like, "How can I get this girl to notice me?" or "What kind of date should I plan for her?" it's clear that he has no interest in you romantically.
 This is the single best way to know whether he is interested in you still. Speculation about his communication, his behavior, or his attitude can help you gain a good idea about how he is feeling, but you never know until you have a conversation with him.


This can be scary and nerve wracking. No one wants to feel rejected and this is a vulnerable position to put yourself in. However, you may be reading his signals incorrectly or you may be missing signals that he thinks are clear.You can broach the subject indirectly or directly. You can ask him, “Are you still interested in hanging out together, or would you rather just be friends?” This gets to the heart of the issue and gives him the opportunity to share what he is feeling.
 This is very important since losing a guy that you’re interested in can be an emotional time. Whether this guy who has lost interest is your boyfriend, a crush, or an ex you need to take care of yourself and be kind to yourself.Do things that make you happy. You can hang out with friends, cook your favorite meal, go for a walk outside, paint a picture, or watch a new movie.
 Accept that he may not be interested you anymore with dignity and grace. Keep your distance from him and try not to vent your frustrations or anger to mutual friends.It’s natural to grieve the loss of this relationship and your idea of what your future might be together. After you’re done grieving, move on from the situation by focusing on the other positive parts of your life.
Keep the big picture in mind. It is hard for you, for sure, but there are many wonderful guys out there looking for relationships.

