 You will need to collect at least two colors of craft foam (one that has adhesive on it and one that doesn't), scissors, and a split ring or key chain assembly.


You do not need a ton of craft foam! Even pieces only a few inches long and a few inches wide will work just fine. In fact, this project is a good one to use up scraps from other projects.
 You will need to cut out as many squares as letters you want on your keychain.









Alternatively, use up to four different colors to create a keychain with layers of color.
When deciding which letters to put on your keychain consider using your initials (if the keychain is for you) or a simple four letter word that is important to you, such as "love" or "cute". You don't want a huge keychain hanging off your keys, so keep it short and sweet.
 Each letter should be about 1 inch (2.5 cm) tall.









Use block letters to draw each letter to that when you cut out the letter the center of the letter will be the color of the foam, not the color of your pen or pencil. Try a creative design or font that will make the letters unique but legible.
 Take your time to cut the letter out as neatly as possible. If the letter you are cutting out has a central area that you need to cut out, start cutting in the center of the area, away from the edge line. This way you can be careful and gradually cut away the foam up to the line.
 Decide how they should be arranged and what the overall shape and size of the finished keychain should be.









Don't take the backing off of your foam letters just yet. Take the time to make sure your layout is just the way you want it before you do!

, Remember that all of the letters you cut out earlier should fit onto it with space around each to frame the letters nicely.









While a rectangular shape is just fine, remember that you can be creative with this shape too.
 Stick each letter onto the larger piece of foam, working carefully to be sure the letters are lined up. Be sure to press each letter down firmly, so that they won't fall off.
 This hole is for the ring to attach to, so make sure you are putting it in a spot that will make that possible.
 Be gentle with the foam, as you don't want to tear your project at the very end. Now you have a great personalized keychain that is ready to use.

