 That way, you can use the space underneath it to store boxes of clothes, shoes, accessories, and other miscellaneous items. If you don't like the appearance of clutter underneath your bed, use a bed skirt or dust ruffle to conceal the space.


You may also want to consider choosing a bed frame with built-in storage. Lots of furniture companies make bed frames that double as dressers, with built-in drawers on each side.





;
, In a small bedroom, it's important to find every opportunity for storage---including the walls. Shelves and cabinets create extra storage space while also serving an aesthetic purpose.


You might want to consider building a wall of cabinets right behind your bed, letting them double as a "headboard."






Hang coat hooks on the walls for jackets, purses, and keys.
 If your small bedroom doesn't have a closet, then invest in a clothing rack. That way, you won't have to buy a bulky, oversized dresser to fit all of your belongings.
 This is a great trick to create more storage while also providing extra seating space. Place the ottoman against one of the walls or at the foot of your bed; whichever works best.
 Though your natural instinct might be to stick with white to make the room seem larger, adding some color here and there will add dimension to the room and, as a result, make it seem bigger.


The key is to find a balance between having too much color and not enough. For example, offset white walls and a white bedspread with colorful throw pillows and curtains.






Don't be afraid to mix and match colors. Sticking to only one or two colors will make a small room look drab.
 In order to avoid having a room that looks too "busy," add one or two pieces that really stand out and draw the eye's attention. This piece can be a colored headboard, an accent wall, a painting, or curtains.


If you decide to paint an accent wall, we recommend doing it directly behind your bed. That way it will double as a headboard (or serve to frame an existing headboard) and create harmony.
 The key is to look for unique items that will add character and dimension to your room. Try adding a ruffled bedspread, textured throw pillows, a patterned rug, or woven wood items.
 If your room has a window in it, there are certain things you can do to enhance the light coming in. One trick is to hang a mirror on the wall opposite the window; the reflection will double the amount of light coming in. You can also add small decorative mirrors in whatever shapes and patterns you choose. These add some decorative flair and bounce light around the room, acting like windows to make the room seem more open and bright.


Avoid using heavy curtains or shades. Roman curtains block out some light even when they are open. Try using a sheer curtain instead.






Trim any hedges or branches right outside of your bedroom that may be blocking sunlight.
 If your room doesn't have windows, or if natural lighting isn't enough, then add extra light where you can. Try installing track lights, a chandelier, or extra lamps to brighten up the room.
 While a large bed is certainly luxurious, you don't want it to take up the entirety of your living space. Instead of a king sized bed, for example, try a queen or a full. You'll definitely be thankful for the extra space.


If there are two people living in the bedroom, consider buying a bunk bed.
 With such limited space, it's important to only bring what you really need into your bedroom. If possible, store items you don't use daily in a hallway closet or in the garage. These include camping gear, skis, musical instruments, bikes, suitcases, and so on.

