;
, 


Elevate the top of the board approximately two inches using a piece of hard foam such as rectangular blocks found in the floral department at craft stores or make one from a piece of hard packing foam. The board must be secure and stable during painting, so be sure the device for elevating goes all the way across the top of the support board.






You will transport the wet painting on the board to the hairdryer as you work. You will also avoid a cramped, stunted stroke by gliding the paint across the paper from side to side and letting your brush go right off and onto the board.
,  Arrange the paints around the edge of a white plastic plate or white palette, leaving the center clear for mixing. 


In art, as in life, sunsets come in many combinations of colors and surprising new colors will be created from the basic three as the paints flow downward, merging and mingling.
 Plan to work fast to paint the stripes of color.  Prepare your puddles of color by pulling a color into the center of the palette and adding enough water to make it the consistency of milk, mixing thoroughly.,  Do it in one pass, don't stop to reload your brush.  You will see, as the paint flows down, a bead forming at the bottom of the stroke.



Repeat with a second color, but this time have your brush slightly touch the bead. The color from the earlier stroke will be pulled into the next stroke.
 Don't go back over the sky. You can alter it somewhat by picking up the board and tilting it various ways to make the paint flow together.

As soon as you are satisfied, remove the riser and let the painting dry flat. Air dry or use a hairdryer. If it curls slightly, roll the dry painting gently the opposite way.
 Make up an entirely separate palette for these dark colors. Use a large yogurt or whipped topping lid, but keep it well away from the other colors.,, Either draw the tree from one of your own photographs or take a tree from one of the free, photo sharing websites.
  Lightly sketch the outer limits of the branches to form a compact shape for the branches.
, A tree trunk will split into three or more large branches and then smaller branches will split and grow off these.


Continue to draw branches until they become so fine they are barely visible, but stop at the pencil line you drew for the outer edge. To avoid smearing the branches, dry as you go, or turn the piece upside down to draw the finer branches.

















