 This will protect your clothing from any "accidents.";
,


For most people who examine a fistulated cow, two shoulder-length gloves are best so that the material can be examined and handled by both hands. Often when one arm can't reach something, the other needs to be used instead.
 This will better protect your hands from the smell of the gastric juices

, The left side is where the cannula is always located.
 You may have to pull out the plug; to do this, you grab the top part of the handle and pull down. This will break the seal from the top down.
, However, remember it doesn't have to be tight together like if you were rectal palpating a cow, because the opening of the fistula is large enough to put your hand through up to your shoulder.
, You may have to pull out handfuls of feed to get your arm in there at first, depending on how full the rumen is.



The gas layer is at the top of the rumen and able to leak out of the rumen as the cannula plug was removed.
The second layer is the solid layer, which comprises of recently-consumed and partially digested roughage and grain. This is the stuff you should take out and examine before going in again.
The liquid portion is the bottom and third layer, comprising of grain, liquid digesta, and small particles of roughage. The particles in the liquid layer are more often half to a tenth or smaller of the size of the particles in the solid layer of the rumen.
 They are hard to feel for, however, as they are much softer and pliable projections of the rumen than things like pimples or muscles. The papillae are round-shaped projections with a narrower base near the wall of the rumen, and are responsible for absorption and uptake of nutrients into the cow's bloodstream.
 There are two main contractions: primary and secondary.


The primary contraction is the most pronounced and can be the most startling if you've never felt it before: the smooth muscle of the rumen contract in on themselves to mix digesta and microbes together to increase digestion ability.
The secondary contraction is less defined and may be harder to notice until you've identified it after the 2nd or 3rd contractions.
 You may have to go in up to your shoulder, especially if you have short arms, to feel this.


The esophagus is basically a "hole in the wall" with sphincter muscles, and is located above the reticulum into the rumen.
 The reticulum is always located in front of the rumen below the esophagus, and can be identified by feeling for the skin making a sudden peak from the rumen towards the front of the cow.
,


If you are the last one to examine the cow, the plug must be replaced soon after to keep stomach contents from being expelled. The plug has to be placed so that it forms a tight impenetrable seal from the outside world to the rumen.
It's often a lot harder to put the plug back in than to pull it out. It will take a bit of manipulation to put it back in properly.



If you have only one hand that was gloved, take the glove off by taking the end of the glove at the shoulder and moving it down so that it turns itself inside out as you remove it. The latex glove will come off when you have the shoulder-length glove inside out already using your clean hand.
If you have a second shoulder-length glove on, take the first one off like you would with any other glove, then with the other one, take it off at the shoulder and moving it down so it turns inside on itself and keeps the other dirty glove inside as well.
 Your OB suit will also be disposable and can be taken off and tossed as well.
