 Write down a list of things you want to do over the summer. Include films you'd like to watch or books you want to read.
 But make sure not to sleep in very late, don't waste precious summertime!;
, Take advantage of the daylight.
 Get through your pile of unread books and take it easy.
,, It may be as bored as you are.
 If you are allowed, have a big party with a bunch of people at least once during summer.
 Catch up and have fun together.
 Get season passes to make it cheaper and to give you the incentive to keep going back often.
 There is a lot to do at the beach, such as swimming, tanning, reading under a shade umbrella, people watching, eating ice creams, walking the dog, etc.


Wear plenty of sunscreen and have a good hat. Don't get sunburned.
 Meet up with friends there, to make the visit even more enjoyable.
 Bring friends for extra fun! If there is a lake you can water ski, tube or just swim.
 Go for walks, run, jump on the trampoline.
 If you don't own one, skateboard, scooter and roller blade.
, A natural one is better for your skin and looks great.
 This can be a lot of fun. When it's finished, show it to friends––they're sure to be impressed.
, Allocate roles to each person and write a script. Film it, edit it, then upload it for your other friends and family to see.
 It might sound boring but a lot of times it can be fun! Pick a hot day when a lot of people are outside.
 This is especially useful if you are going to a different school. Check out the summer sales for both casual and school clothes and see if you can find some bargains.


Hunt through thrift stores for fun things. Piece together your own outfits. You might even consider repurposing vintage clothing to make it funkier and more "you".
 Test out new colors or products to see what you like.
 Look around for unique items that match your outfits and that really appeal to you. You might like to shop in a department store, at local craft markets or even online.
 Get yourself some folders, notebooks, backpacks and other essential items. Throw in a few fun ones too, such as a Hello Kitty pencil case or a bunch of scented erasers.

