 A great way to adjust your schedule to include early morning workouts is to start going to bed earlier. This will ensure that you are getting enough sleep to accommodate your new routine.


If you struggle to go to bed early, try going to bed 15 minutes earlier than you did the previous night until you have reached the ideal bedtime. This will ensure a slower, steadier implementation of a new schedule that will not throw off your current routine or schedule.
Wake up earlier. Just as it is important to begin going to bed earlier, it is also important to start waking up earlier in order to adjust your schedule to including morning workouts.
 Whether you cook an entire meal or simply grab a granola bar on the way out the door, eating breakfast is important. It can help individuals maintain their weight and boost metabolism early in the day.Oatmeal is a healthy option that will keep you full until lunch time. You can add honey, fruit, or brown sugar to give it some flavor.
If you have time to cook before work, you can make eggs, toast, and bacon or sausage. This is a popular breakfast that includes protein, carbohydrates, and healthy fat. Learning how to make a healthy breakfast is an important part of a morning workout routine to help your body recover.
If you do not have time to cook before work, you can purchase breakfast and granola bars to take with you on the way out the door. Protein shakes are another popular breakfast for individuals who are on the go.
 Being clear about your goals and where you would like to be in a month, three months, six months, and a year, can be very motivating. It can help you plan out exactly what you need to do to achieve those goals.


In a notebook or Microsoft Word document, write or type your goals for the next month, the next three months, the next six months, and the next year. Remember to be realistic with yourself. For example, it is not realistic to set a goal to exercise every single day of the week. It would be more reasonable to set a goal to workout at least 3 to four days every week.
Keep the notebook or the Word document in a safe place and refer to it every month to cross off any goals you have already accomplished and to make sure that you are staying on track. You can also print out your document and hang it on the wall or store it somewhere that you will see it every day, if that will help you to stay motivated.
 Tracking your progress is a great way to monitor yourself and whether or not you are staying consistent with your new lifestyle. When tracking your progress, you will most likely stay motivated and make the changes a habit that will become stronger with time.


Keep a calendar that you can use specifically to cross off or mark the days that you work out to keep track of how often you are getting up for your morning workouts. It may help you to stay motivated once you see that you have a consecutive streak of days that you have exercised before work.
 Another positive way to stay motivated and on track is to reward yourself periodically. You will be more likely to meet your goals if it means treating yourself to a relaxing massage or purchasing those shoes you’ve been eyeing.


For example, if you set a goal to exercise four out of seven days a week for three weeks in a row, and you met or exceeded that goal, you can reward yourself by purchasing something you’ve been wanting for a while, making time for a special hobby, or eating a special meal you don’t have very often.
Make sure you don’t go overboard with your reward. You don’t want to turn rewarding yourself into an excuse to overindulge.

