 Whether it’s a match against your rivals or a qualifying game, remember: it isn’t played any differently than less important games. So strike the “big” out of “the big game.” Focus only on the nuts and bolts of what you have to do in order to win, not what’s riding on your performance.Keep this in mind when giving your teammates a pep talk, too. Avoid preoccupying them with what a win or loss might mean in this instance. Leave the special circumstances unmentioned and simply talk about the game as if it was any other.
 Think of all the things that make you nervous when performing. Now recognize that they don’t have any magical powers over you, and that your nervousness is a response that comes solely from you, not from some spell cast over you. So start challenging yourself well before the big game by meeting your fears head-on. Give yourself the added boost on game-day by looking back at these as challenges met and overcome. For example:If you doubt your abilities over a certain aspect of the sport (like sinking a 3-point shot in basketball or conquering hills in cross country), tailor your workouts or devote extra practice to address it.
If the presence of a certain family member, friend, or special someone in the crowd makes you self-conscious, invite them to practices or less important games beforehand, or even just to watch you shoot hoops in the driveway (or something similar).
 Whether you’re thinking about yourself or your team, boost your confidence by tracking how your performance progresses from the start of your season throughout. Focus on your performance, rather than your record. Don’t get yourself down by confusing the two if you’re having a less than stellar season. Always emphasize how much you’ve improved, both individually and overall, regardless of how many wins you tally up along the way.Almost everyone experiences setbacks at one point or another during a season. Focus less on the setbacks themselves and more on how fast you recouped from them. Stoke yourself up by reminding yourself how quickly you can bounce back.
Remember: a loss doesn’t necessarily mean you performed poorly. You could just as easily play your best game ever during a defeat. So honor that performance by recognizing it as such.
 Whatever diet your sport demands, be sure to eat right in the days leading up to the big game and on the day of. Get plenty of rest in the preceding week, as well. Plan well ahead of game-day to eliminate any distractions that might steal your focus from your performance, such as:


Setting a double alarm, confirming all travel arrangements, and laying out and/or packing your uniform, warm-up gear, and equipment to reduce the chances of running late on game-day.
Completing any unrelated tasks, like homework or paying bills, beforehand so you’re not tempted to worry about them during the game.
 Remember: pumping yourself up for the big game doesn’t mean going berserk. You don’t, for example, want to psych yourself up for a race so much that you burst from the starting line at a pace you can’t maintain. So pay close attention to your ability to focus on what you actually need to do during the game. If you find yourself feeling overwhelmed by the stakes involved, try:Meditating to refocus your mind on the here and now instead of what the future may hold.
Distracting yourself with books, movies, slower music, homework, or hanging out with friends outside your team.Making two lists regarding the game, one of things that are within your control, and another of what is beyond it, so you can refocus on what you can actually control.

