 This is a fairly simple craft that your kids can use to carry their school supplies. You'll be using washi tape, which often comes in interesting patterns, to blunt the edges of the milk jug. To make this you'll need:


Spray paint (for plastic)
A 1 gallon milk jug
A utility knife
Washi tape (available at most craft stores)
A ruler
Foam board
A pencil
A chalkboard label., You'll want to clean out your milk jug with soapy water first and allow it enough time to dry. In some cases, your milk jug might still have a lingering odor. To eliminate this smell, you may want to soak the jug in soapy water.


You can also try to remove odors by leaving some baking soda in the dry milk jug overnight.
 Apply your spray paint to completely coat your jug. After it dries, you'll likely want another layer or two to ensure a thick coating and rich color. After the jug is dry, use your utility knife to remove the face of the jug (the top half of the front), leaving the handle of the jug attached.You can adjust the cut in your jug as you see fit, but a 5" (12.7 cm) long opening may make it easier to retrieve items from the jug.
The cut out portion of your jug can be thrown out or recycled

, Raw cut edges of plastic can be sharp or pointy, so you'll want to cover the edges you've cut with washi tape. This will create a decorative barrier to the sharp, cut edges.


If washi tape is not available and appearance isn't a priority, you can use duct tape or electrical tape as a substitute.
Some kinds of duct tape come in interesting patterns. These can be used with roughly the same effect as washi tape.
 A divider will help keep pens, pencils, and markers separate in the jug. Use your utility knife to cut a 5 ½" (17 cm) square out of the foam board. Then cut a ¼" wide, 1 ¾" deep notch at the midpoint of the top of your square. After that:Place the foam board notch side up into the jug.
Cut another piece of foam board the same size as the first with notch that is ¼" wide and 1¾" deep notch in the bottom edge of the square.
Align the notches so the rectangles lock together.
Depending on the size and shape of your milk jug, you may need to adjust these measurements.

