 Because rabbit foot ferns do not grow from seeds, but rather are propagated by dividing rhizomes or collecting spores, you must purchase an existing plant. Rabbit foot ferns are available at garden centers and through online distributors.;
, Because the rhizomes hang over the side of the container and can grow up to 2 feet (0.61 m) (.6 m) long, the rabbit foot fern is ideal for a hanging basket. The container should be either plastic or clay, and 6 to 10 inches (15.2 to 25.4 cm) in diameter. Plastic containers tend to allow for a more even distribution of water than clay pots, but clay pots are sturdier and may last longer.
 The soil should contain 2 parts peat moss, 1 part loam and 1 part sand or perlite, which is a volcanic glass with a high water content. The soil should have a neutral pH of 6.6 to 7.5.
 During the winter months, a north-facing window is an ideal location for the fern. During the spring and summer months, when the sun is higher on the horizon, choose an east-facing window with filtered light. Avoid south- and west-facing windows where the direct sunlight may scald the fern's fronds.
 Allow the soil in the container to dry out slightly between waterings. Over-watering will cause the fronds to yellow, and may result in root rot. Do not allow the plant to sit in water.


Mist the fuzzy rhizomes regularly. The rhizomes take up moisture. Mist them every few days, or as needed, to prevent them from drying out.
 Ferns thrive in moderate humidity. If your heat is on in your home during winter months, consider using a room humidifier where your rabbit foot fern is located. If you don't have a room humidifier, place the fern's container on a tray of wet pebbles to increase the humidity around the plant.
 The rabbit foot fern will thrive indoors in comfortable house temperatures. If the temperature drops below 60 degrees F (16 degrees C), check the plant before watering and only water when the soil is dry to the touch. If the temperature rises above 75 degrees F (24 degrees C), you may need to water the plant more often.
 Any liquid houseplant fertilizer can be used to feed the fern, but use only about half the recommended amount. Too much fertilizer may scorch the fronds. Do not fertilize newly potted plants for at least 4 to 6 months, or until the plant is showing signs of active growth.
 Thrips, mites and fungus gnats are often found on the foliage of houseplants like the rabbit foot fern. These pests like wet soil, so keep pests away by not over-watering. To remove pests, brush them off with a wet towel or a cotton swab dipped in alcohol. Most houseplant pesticides are not safe for use on ferns.



Divide the rhizomes to create more rabbit foot fern plants. Carefully separate the rhizomes using a sharp knife, keeping the roots and stems attached. Place the rhizomes in a moist potting soil mixture and water as needed. The rhizomes hold a lot of water, so do not overwater the newly planted fern or it will rot.
Propagate new rabbit foot fern plants with spores. Examine the underside of the leaves for spores. Remove a leaf with dark spores and place it in a paper bag. When the leaf dries, the spores will fall off. Plant the spores in a peat-based mixture. Water, cover with plastic, and keep at a temperature between 65 and 70 degrees F (18.3 and 21.1 C). When the fronds are about 1 inch (2.5 cm) high, remove the plastic and transplant the fronds to small containers.

