 Is it a little bit hot out today? Wipe your face with the bottom of your shirt to show off the ab muscles. Make sure you have them flexed before you lift your shirt. Be careful you don't get a lot of sweat on a cotton tee-shirt or else everyone will notice a big wet spot when you lower your top!


This move works well in the gym when you don't have a towel handy.
Be sure that your target audience is nearby and in your line of sight.
Make the motion quick but deliberate so it doesn't seem rehearsed.;
, Slowly fold your arms across your chest and push your wrists upwards a little bit.


This move accentuates both your biceps and, if you're wearing short sleeves, your forearms.
An arm-fold is a strong body language move. It conveys confidence!
It's also a movement that can be held for several minutes without seeming intentional.
 This also shows off all the muscles in your arms. Because it's such a quick motion, save it for moments when you want to get the maximum effect from whoever is watching.
 If you're wearing a T-shirt or tight-fitting top, interlock your fingers while facing the target audience. For extra flexing, keep your fingers interlocked and flip your hands around so that your palms face outward.


This pose shows off a combination of muscle groups in the upper body and makes you appear larger than normal.
It can be performed while standing or sitting down.
For added effect, raise your arms and turn the move into an overhead stretch.
 Lean against a wall with one arm fully extended and the palm of your hand flat against the surface. Bend your hips just a little bit.


Supporting your upper body with your arms holds your triceps muscles in a constant
Standing with all of your weight on one leg bends your body into a slight curve. This curve of your body is called contrapposto and is a pose used by artists for thousands of years!

, When you land on your left foot, your left leg should be straight and supporting most of your weight. At the same time, your right leg should be naturally bent. It may take some practice to make this look natural and unrehearsed.


When done right, it makes your quad muscles tense just before you land on your foot, causing your leg muscles to bulge when you walk. If done wrong it just looks awkward and jerky.
This works best if you are wearing knee-length shorts, or tight pants in a thin material or light color.

