 There are several plants that your cats will absolutely adore if you add them to the garden. These include:

Cat grass (Dactylis glomerata) – this is great for chewing on to aid digestion. It is also loved by dogs, rabbits, and guinea pigs.



 



Lemongrass – the smell intrigues many cats. If you're growing it for yourself, grow another bunch for the cats because they will probably chew it.







Catnip (Nepeta cataria) – the plant that cats will love to roll in. When dried, it makes excellent stuffing for toys.






Catmint (Nepeta x faassenii) – another beloved rolling-in plant. This can also be used dried in cat toys.






Mint family – most members of the mint family entice cats. Mice don't like peppermint though, so this can also help to keep mice away from the garden.







Pennyroyal (Mentha pulegium) – this appeals to many cats. As an added bonus, you can use it to make a flea repellent.






Valerian (Valeriana officinalis) – cats enjoy playing with the foliage and flowers.





;
, These are idea hiding spots for both cats and dogs and can also be a form of play entertainment for them to swat. Look for grasses that grow in bunches and have fun seed heads.
 Keep all of your pets and your children cool during summer with lovely shaded trees. Shady trees will allow pets to relax under them whenever needed, and cats will enjoy climbing them to escape the dogs and kids.


Avoid any trees that grow poisonous pods, seeds, berries, etc., if you have pets and young children. If you already have these growing, fence them off or pick up fallen berries, etc. regularly.
 Many pets will appreciate at least a small space of well tended lawn. Rabbits and guinea pigs enjoy spending time on a lawn with you nearby, and both cats and dogs enjoy lawn at all times of the day, rolling on it, sleeping on it, and playing on it.


Be careful about the pesticides and fungicides that you add to lawn, as pets and children playing on lawn can easily be infected by whatever you've sprayed onto it.
 A good crop of carrots and lettuces will keep your rabbits and guinea pigs happy for a long time. Pick regularly and feed to them. You can also cook up vegetables and mash into dog and cat food for added vitamins and nutrition.
 Not only are sunflowers beautiful in the garden, but you can take the opportunity to harvest the sunflower seeds and feed them to your pet birds. Simply add them to your bird's usual feeding dish.

