 If you’re miserable, chances are it’s going to be harder to find someone who wants to commit. Remember that a relationship won’t satisfy you unless you’re able to love yourself first.Putting energy into a new relationship must come from a place of self-confidence, not neediness.
If your relationship is built around neediness, it’s unlikely to be healthy in the long term.
 Being gentle with yourself is essential to staying healthy in a relationship. Make sure that you’re tending to your needs, both physical and mental. This means taking the time to exercise, meditate, relax, spending time with friends, doing activities that you enjoy.Don’t expect another person to meet all your needs.
Caring for yourself will have a wonderful effect on your well-being, which will benefit all your relationships.
 Accepting someone else’s differences, and admitting your own shortcomings, isn’t easy to do. This process of discovery can be painful, but sometimes the most difficult parts of relationships result in the most personal growth.You might find ways that you carry pain from past relationships is affecting your experience with this person.
It’s possible to waste a lot of energy resenting the fact that relationships can be hard. When you expect a relationship to be perfect, you’re setting yourself up for failure.
 Relationships set up the perfect breeding ground for judgmental thoughts, which lead to resentments. Judging your date for doing things you don’t like will lead to frustration - quickly. There are several kinds of judgment that can impact a relationship in its early stages.They are:


Criticizing: When you imply that your date is wrong for his reaction to an event or situation, and that you are right. This sets you up as a moral judge, the decider of what is right and wrong. It’s unhelpful, and doesn’t lead to greater intimacy.
Analyzing: When you try to assume that you know why your date is saying something, you’re engaging in the judgmental nature of analysis. For example, saying, “You’re just doing that to make me angry,” implies that you know what the appropriate action is. It’s a way of implying that you’re the healthy one in the relationship.
Praising: You might be surprised to see this listed as a judgment, but it is a way of blocking intimate relationships by selectively reinforcing only the behaviors that you prefer. In addition, praising someone too often erodes trust over time because it’s perceived as insincere.

