 Rabbits are curious and playful. While they may not always be interested in toys you have, leaving things around for them to play with will help prevent boredom.These don’t need to be fancy toys bought at a pet store. Rabbits can enjoy themselves with untreated wood products, hard plastic baby toys, pine cones, oatmeal boxes, and phone books. Just be prepared for your rabbit to chew those items up.
You can move toys around too. When something isn’t where your rabbit expects it to be, it will naturally try to explore and learn more.Avoid toys made from cherry, redwood, and peach wood, as these materials can be poisonous to rabbits.
 Rabbits are fast, active animals that like to run and jump around. In the wild, rabbits can run up to 3 miles every day. You probably don’t have 3 miles to give your rabbit, but you want to make sure your rabbit’s secure play area is large enough for it to move around. Ideally, your rabbit run will be at least 8 feet long and 4 wide with some kind of fence or barrier at least 4 feet high., Rabbits need to exercise their legs by jumping on and off raised areas. These don’t need to be complicated things, maybe a box or chair that your rabbit will be able to jump on and off of. Keep these areas near grassy or soft areas for more comfortable landings.You can encourage your rabbit to jump up and down on these platforms by placing treats on top of them or back on the ground., Rabbits sometimes need an area where they can feel safe and secure. Your rabbit will also want an area that it can go to get out of wind and rain, or just go if it feels stressed and afraid, or simply wants to be alone. Make sure your shelters are big enough for your rabbit, and try to make more than one entrance if possible.Cardboard or wooden boxes, paper sacks, sections of wide-bore drain pipes, and shelves are all good places for a rabbit to hide.
If you have multiple rabbits, make sure you have enough hiding spaces for each individual.
 Because of their curiosity and speed, rabbits can easily get themselves into trouble, even if you are watching. Make sure you’ve gotten rid of hazards or other things that can cause harm to your pet.Make sure the area is sealed off and doesn’t have any small holes, like in a fence, where your rabbit can escape from the area. Outside of a den or other safe space you have set up for it, you don’t want your rabbit to get somewhere you can’t reach.
Remove house plants and weeds to prevent your rabbit from eating something poisonous.
Block off wires with a PVC pipe, or wrap them in electrical tape to prevent nibbling.
 If your rabbits are going to be let loose outside, you need to keep an eye on them at all times. Keep an eye out for possible escape attempts, poisonous items they may try to eat, and any predators that might be lurking nearby.