 If you’ve decided that the relationship cannot be salvaged, you’ll need to find ways to distance yourself from them. If they’re a co-worker or classmate, you can try to adjust your schedule to avoid one another. If its really adversely affecting you might talk to a superior and have them help you avoid being around one another as much as possible.
 It can be hard, but if you’re constantly coming across someone who dislikes you through a mutual group of friends, you might want to either find a new group to hang around or tell your friends your problem.If you have great friends in that group, talk to them and let them know how you feel about the person in question. Your friend may have noticed it too and if they are good friend will likely want to help you avoid something that's making you uncomfortable.
 One way to weed out that bad is to surround it with good. If you put people around that are positive and make your situation positive. If you have friends or individuals that bring a lot of positivity in your life and that you genuinely enjoy being around, try to make plans with them that do not include your negative friend.
 Talking might be helpful, but where this fails you need to act in a way that is best for your own well being. This might include avoiding their conversations, avoiding being at the same place as them or even just generally drawing a line to avoid them at all costs. If it's a co-worker and you must see them, you can make a boundary that eliminates any talk or activities not revolving around work. The person will quickly get the hint and keep your relationship professional.
 If you’re trying to cut a negative relationship, remember that friendships are mutually consensual relationships. In other words, if you do not find yourself in a friendship that helps you, don’t be afraid to put your foot down. When all other means have failed, and your negative friend still persists; simply tell them no and avoid social interactions.


This can be hard but you should never feel obligated to see and speak to people who cause negativity in your life. Once you have said no enough times, they'll likely get the hint.

