 Each person has a different preferred hand position. If you are right-handed, hold the base of the stick with your right hand and rest the narrow end on your left. If you are left-handed, do the opposite.


For a good hand position, try putting your index finger on the top of the stick (curving it) and put your thumb at the bottom of the stick. This is a good, basic way to put your hand in position because you have total control of the stick. Hold it tight as well.

Some will prefer to rest the stick on their index finger while others may rest the cue in between their fingers in a flatter style. Experiment with a few to see what yields the best results.
This hand will never move. Only move your back arm when shooting.


Your feet should be a little wider than shoulder-width apart and at a 45-degree angle.
During your practice strokes, your eyes should switch from the contact point on the cue ball to the point you're aiming for on the object ball.
 Line the pool tip up with the cue ball, aim, and hit away! Sounds easy, huh?


As a beginner, focus on hitting the cue ball straight and with power.
Aim as if you were to directly hit your object ball. See that spot you'd be hitting if you were allowed to? Alright. Now, aim to get the cue ball to that spot on your object ball.
Experiment with slow, easy shots. Sometimes a softer touch helps your ball to ride the edge of the table or stay in a more defensive position.
 Now that you've got 8-ball down, why stop there?


Try "Cutthroat Pool." Each player chooses a section of the numbers (if 2 players, 1-7 and 9-15; if 3 players, 1-5, 6-10, 11-15) on the correlating pool balls. The object of the game is to sink your opponent's balls and only have yours left on the table. The last one with a ball (or balls) on the table wins.
Try 9-ball. This one can be a bit about luck, but that can be said about most games. The object of the game is to sink the balls in the pockets in numerical order, from 1-9. Each player takes turns going up to the 9 ball. The one to sink the 9 ball wins.

One player could sink 1-8 and still lose. That's the beauty of it!



, Always focus and keep your eye on the ball. Tune out distractions as best you can.


Don't get too confident or frustrated--the tables can turn in a second. Focus on improving your shot, not winning.
Allow yourself a game to warm up. Once kids stop running around, the TV gets turned off, and your muscles start remembering what you've learned you may see an improvement.

