 To grow organic mushrooms, you should use grounds from organic coffee beans. Keep the coffee grounds fresh and free of mold as you collect them by storing the grounds in a sealed plastic container in the freezer. Thaw the grounds out to room temperature 24 hours before using them.


If you do not drink coffee, or do not drink enough to collect the grounds, go to a local coffee shop that sells organic coffee and ask if they would be willing to sell you the grounds.
 The bucket should only be filled about halfway.
 Dry grounds will not work well. Add a little bit of water to the grounds, just enough to moisten them, and drain out any excess.
 For this method, spawn that comes in the form of sawdust mix works better than spawn plugs. You can usually find this spawn at garden supply stores or at online specialty shops.
 Break it up by crumbling the spawn in your hands and sprinkle it over the surface of the grounds.
 Use your hands to gently stir the spawn/sawdust mix into the moistened coffee grounds until the thoroughly combined. Use your hands to gently pat the surface, compressing the spores into the grounds.
 There should only be about 1 inch (2.5 cm) of empty space in between the surface of the mixture and the rim of the bucket.


If you do not have enough grounds and spawn to fill the bucket, drill a few holes into the side of the bucket, about 1 inch (2.5 cm) above the surface of the grounds and spawn.
 The plastic wrap helps the mixture retain moisture. Puncture the wrap, poking several hold in it, to prevent the build up of carbon dioxide.
 The grounds should be misted twice a day. You can spray the mushrooms through the holes in the plastic wrap, or you can remove the wrap temporarily as you spray and replace it when you are finished.
 Mushrooms should begin to grow within one or two weeks.
 You only have about one week to harvest fully mature mushrooms before they go bad. Snip them off at the point where they come out from the surface, or twist and pluck them by hand.

