 You can either jog, take long walks, go to a gym, do it at home by jogging in place while watching a good movie or use exercising equipment you may have at home.;
, There are several different ways of achieving this, but start with simply sitting still for 10 minutes at each setting. Try not to interfere with your thoughts; simply observe them. Your thoughts will slow down after several attempts at meditation and when this happens, it is a good time to extend your meditation time to 15 minutes.
 Organization allows you to use your time better and also makes you feel good about yourself with less stress. Set aside a couple of hours each week to do your deep cleaning and during the week make sure you put things in their proper places as you finish using them. Sometimes it is helpful to make a game out of cleaning and maintaining the organized home. For example, when cooking, clean up after yourself as you go, and lay the food out like a piece of art, and slowly begin the process of cooking.
, Have lunch or dinner once a week with a friend, and if not that, then perhaps have a long walk in the park together while having good conversations. Always think of a topic to discuss and be well read on the subject, so that it is a good conversation. If you don't have friends, then volunteer your services to some good organization of interest. You will probably meet friends there.
 If you don't have a hobby, start one. For example, writing and gardening both allow time to yourself, as well as a feeling of achievement. If you live in an apartment, you can put flowers in a pot and achieve the same feeling as you would with a yard. If you don't write, begin by keeping a journal, where you will write about your goals and feelings on a daily bases. It becomes almost like a friend you share your feelings and goals with.
 Go by the grocery store and pick up something that takes a while to cook, such as a soup or stew. Go home and begin your day by cooking, watching a good movie, and bringing your spirits up again. Light candles and set the table with class and you will soon discover that you are feeling better.
 Have certain tasks you do during the day, which causes you not to feel lonely or low.
 Here are a couple:


What you think, is what you are.
You can turn anything negative, into the positive.
Life is too short to fret over small things; try to let them go and look to positive things.

