 Bring a pot of water to boil. You'll want to use water that's around 205 degrees for brewing your coffee. Be sure to use clean, filtered water for the best taste.Either use a kettle that has a long thin spout or carefully transfer the water to a pouring kettle with a long thin spout. Take care not to burn yourself when handling boiling water.
 Unfold your paper filter and place it so that it fits the single cup brewer that you set over your coffee mug. Pour a little hot water over the filter so that it's completely soaked. Carefully, pour out and discard the soaking liquid.There are a variety of single cup cone brewers available. These include Kalita, Bee House, Clever Dripper, and Hario V60. The brewer will sit atop the serving mug so the coffee filters directly down and into your mug.
 Weigh out 24 grams or about 2 tablespoons of ground coffee for your pour over brewer. Always use medium-coarse grounds. Using the right grounds will create the right extraction for the time you're brewing. For example, using a larger surface area (coarse grounds) requires longer brewing time than fine grounds that only need a quick extraction.If you can, grind your beans just before using them. Fresher beans will make a better tasting pot of coffee. If you need to buy pre-ground coffee, just take care to store it in an air-tight container out of direct sunlight and use it within a week.
 Place the grounds in the pre-moistened filter that should still be in the top of your pour over brewer. You should also have a digital timer or clock ready before you start brewing.


You'll use about 400 grams of water which will yield one large cup of coffee., Start the digital timer or look at the clock to keep track of when you start brewing. Slowly pour about 1/4 of a cup or 50 grams of the hot water over the grounds in the filter. Gently stir the grounds and water (known as a slurry) with a spoon or chopstick.


Stirring can break up any clumps of coffee grounds and make sure the grounds are completely saturated., Once your grounds are saturated, wait for 30 seconds. This allows the coffee grounds to bloom. Slowly, pour more water over the grounds so the filter is always half-full of water.You should use a circular wiggling motion when pouring the water over the grounds. This can help mix the coffee and water together.
 The water will slowly filter through the grounds and the paper, into the bottom of the pour over brewer. You don't need to stir the coffee, just let it filter down. Remove the filter and drink your coffee.


This entire process should take a total of 2 1/2 to 3 minutes from the time you started brewing.