 Bait your hook or jig with your chosen bait. Then cast your line. Let the hook or lure sink to the bottom of the river or lake. Once it is at the bottom, you need to retrieve your hook. You can work your line in two main ways, slow retrieval and fast retrieval. The speed that you do this will depend on the time of year. To retrieve your hook, pull back on the fishing rod. Slowly lay your rod back straight, pulling in the line as it sinks to keep it taut. Repeat until you have reeled the line all the way in.


In those times when walleye are slower, such as late summer, fall, and during the middle of the day, use slow retrieval. When you pull back on your rod, do so slowly, making the jig or hook move slowly through the water to entice the walleye.
In spring and early summer when the walleye are more aggressive, use fast retrieval. Pull your rod back quickly, making the jig or bait zoom through the water. This will entice the more aggressive walleye to chase after your hook.
Since walleye are known to be near shorelines, you can fish for them from the bank of lakes and rivers. Cast the line into the lake or river, aiming for the areas 3-10 feet from the shore where the walleye are most active., When you feel something tug on your line, a walleye might be biting on your hook. When you feel this, pull firmly back on your rod. This is called setting your hook. This will pull the hook into the lip of the walleye and secure it on your line. Reel your line it to bring your fish out of the water.You can use a net to grab the fish once it is reeled in or do it by hand. If you are doing it by hand, watch out for the walleye's back fins. They are sharp and will cut you if you are not careful.
You may need a pair of pliers to get the hook out of the walleye's mouth. Have them on hand just in case the hook gets stuck.
 You can catch a walleye in a boat using the method known as trolling. On your boat, cast your trolling rods off the back of your boat and let the line sink. Then, using a trolling motor, drive slowly around the lake or river. Allow your lines to stay behind you. The lures or baited hooks will follow along behind the boat to entice the walleye. This is especially good for off seasons such as fall and winter., Walleye can be difficult to find, especially in the middle of the day, during hot weather, and once fall hits. Keep looking for areas where they might be and keep casting. If you are having a hard time finding an area that have a concentration of walleye, check the fish and game website for your area. There are surveys that explain the density of certain kinds of fish in different bodies of water. Look for the area that has the largest concentration of walleye and try your luck.