 Place the mushrooms and flax seeds in separate bowls. Pour water over the contents of both dishes and allow them to absorb that water for a full four hours.


Place the mushrooms in a dish and pour enough cool water inside to cover them by a full 1 inch (2.5 cm). Soak for four hours, drain the water, then rinse with running water. Cut the mushrooms into strips and set aside.
Place the flax seeds in a small bowl and pour 1/4 cup (60 ml) water over them. Let soak for four hours. The flax seeds should absorb the water during this time.
 Pour the vegetable oil into a medium saucepan or deep skillet. Warm the oil on the stove over medium-high heat.
 Scatter the sliced ginger in the hot oil. Sauté, stirring occasionally, until the ginger turns golden-brown.


Remove the ginger from the oil when ready. Set it aside temporarily.
 Toss in the prepared mushrooms and drizzle in the sesame oil. Reduce the heat to medium, and stir-fry for several minutes until the sesame oil becomes fragrant.


You should only need to cook these ingredients for a minute or so before the heat draws out the scent of the sesame oil.
 Stir-fry the contents of the pan for 30 to 60 seconds, blending the seasonings in thoroughly.


If you do not have both light and dark soy sauces, use 2 Tbsp (30 ml) of whatever soy sauce you have on hand.
 Pour the water and sugar into the pan and stir them into the rest of the contents. Cover, and let simmer for a full 10 minutes.


Watch the contents of the pan. You do not need to stir the mixture, but you need to make sure that it remains at a gentle simmer for the full 10 minutes. Adjust the heat settings as needed to maintain that simmer.
 Remove the pan from the stove and transfer the mixture inside to a large bowl. Allow it to drop to room temperature.
 Pour the cooled mixture into a blender. Add the flax seeds, as well as the pre-cooked ginger, and pulse the ingredients together until texture becomes smooth.


You won't be filtering out any solid ingredients for this recipe, so any visible chunks left behind need to be very small and hardly noticeable.
 Pour the pureed sauce into a saucepan and return it to the stove. Cook, stirring constantly, over low heat for roughly 5 minutes.


Essentially, you're just heating the sauce through during this step. You don't want it to boil or simmer.
 You can serve the vegan oyster sauce now or pour it into a plastic or glass container with an airtight lid. Refrigerate it for up to one week.

