 Nothing makes a guy feel special like showing him your true self. This is especially true if you don't normally show it to other people. Be silly, be strange, be wild — whatever you feel like being! This shows how comfortable you feel around him, which in turn will make him lower his guard as well.


Timing is important here. While you should start to lower your guard once it's clear that you like each other, you shouldn't immediately start launching into your most bizarre habits. This can be confusing. Instead, introduce these things gradually so you both have a chance to get used to each others' true selves.
 Ironically, believing in yourself can make your special guy feel more valued. Don't feel nervous or pressured to make your man feel special. Instead, stay relaxed and casual. Be friendly and act genuinely interested in what he has to say, but don't, for instance, force yourself to laugh at a joke you don't find funny. Try to keep eye contact with him when you're having a conversation. Smile when he makes you feel good. These simple gestures show him that you're confident in your own skin and confident loving him.


On the other hand, avoiding eye contact, staring at your feet, or nervously hanging on his every word will get the opposite result. Guys sometimes aren't the best at reading other peoples' emotions, so being nervous, timid, or quiet can make it seem like there's something wrong with him.
 Guys are often pressured to act strong and hyper-confident, so being able to take some of this burden off his shoulders can be greatly appreciated. For example, if someone in public disrespects him or is rude, you don't have to meekly stand by and wait for him to handle it. Feel free to stand up for him with your words and actions. This will make him feel like you are willing to go out of your way to protect him, which shows how much you care about him.
 Guys sometimes don't get lots of opportunities to express anxieties and feelings of vulnerability. They often feel pressure to act like nothing ever worries them. They may even have been taught that showing vulnerability (through fear, crying, etc.) is a sign of weakness. You know better, so make sure he knows that you’ll always be there for him. Let him know that, around you, he doesn't have to be strong all of the time. Offering a hand to hold and a shoulder to cry on when things are not going well for him can make him feel like the most special guy in the world.


Some men may not take every opportunity to share their fears and anxieties with you. Try not to feel unwanted if he pretends that everything is fine when it's obviously not. Offering your help (even if he declines it) shows that you care about him and are always eager to help him. Be ready to support him when he does ask for your help.

