 Don't be fooled by someone's looks, or how they talk about lavish or expensive things. Listen to what they are really saying and doing. Are they negative, mean, or critical of people? Do they make you feel less or not good enough? They are likely acting out of insecurity — faking a sense of superiority or self-esteem.


If they are your friends, be honest with them about how their actions make you feel, and see if they respond in a caring and sincere way. If they don't, consider spending time with other friends.
Don't let someone make you feel less than, even if he has a fake smile throughout. Sometimes calling someone out on what he is doing can help to change the way he is acting. For instance you could say, "You know Bill, I see you smiling but you actually seem uncomfortable or upset. Is something wrong?"

, Fake people may be emotionally immature, or feel bad about themselves. Instead of coping with this in a healthy way, they lie and manipulate in order to make themselves seem better that others. They have an exaggerated sense of self that simply hides what they are really feeling. They may see your successes as competition and attempt to "one-up" you in order to feel good.
When you encounter someone like this, remember that she is coming from a place of fear and insecurity, no matter how confident she may seem in the moment. Instead of getting angry or trying to fight back by one-upping her, try to look at her behavior with compassion — think to yourself, "Wow, she must be feeling really insecure right now." Then just smile and refuse to participate in her game.
 Fake friends often don't last. They don't know how to have a strong and long-lasting relationship based on trust. Instead of continuing to hang out with people you know are fake, think about those friends and family who have known you for many years (maybe a lifetime).


Spend more time with those who know, love and care about you.
Talk with parents, school counselors, or mentors that may have advice about what you're feeling.
Make an effort to reconnect with friends or family that you may have ignored or lost touch with. Some of them may not respond, but the real friends and family will forgive and forget.