 Two sound waves moving up and down together are said to be "in phase." When one of the waves is moving up at the same time as the other wave moves down, the waves are said to be "out of phase." Out-of-phase waves cancel each other out, resulting in a flat line of sound.Flipping the phase on one speaker will cancel the matching signal's waves in the other speaker.The efficiency of this as a technique is pretty debatable. It may theoretically work, but it's not a way to save a song file without vocals.
 Each speaker usually has two wires going into it, one with a positive lead and one with a negative lead. Usually these are red and white, black and red, or black and white. Sometimes, they're black and black. Swap the two wires going into one speaker around.


Where the black wire was connected, connect the red wire, and move the red wire to the black wire's terminal.
Many modern stereo systems and head phones do not allow you to swap wires on the back of one speaker. Sometimes the wires are bundled into one wire sleeve. The only way to swap the bundled wires is to splice them or re-solder the connector.
 There are special digital techniques using chips called Digital Signal Processors to do the flipping of the wave inside the stereo or hi-fi. Usually the button is a "Karaoke" button, which flips the one side of the stereo image phase.


If your stereo or app has one of these, then just press it and the Lead Vocals will get very soft or disappear.
 Background vocals are often mixed more to the left or right, so these are hard to remove. You will have to sing along with them and pretend they are your very own backing choir, if you're trying to make a karaoke track.


Flipping phase really affects Bass waves. So the Bass might disappear along with the Lead Vocals. Digital DSP Karaoke systems will fix this by flipping the phase on only the Vocal frequencies. Try adjusting the levels on your stereo to get it to sound correct.
Sophisticated vocal removal systems or software allow you to decide which frequencies get flipped out of phase.

