 Little ones are sometimes unable to sleep because their tummies are rumbling, or they wake up too early in need of breakfast. You may be able to see a big difference in your child's sleep patterns if you prepare them a carbohydrate-rich snack half an hour before bed.Good options are bananas, cereal, or a small peanut butter sandwich on wheat bread, which has the added benefit of protein, which can also keep your child's tummy full longer.
 Many parents swear by the almost magical effects of a soothing cup of warm milk to help their child relax and drift off to sleep.


The milk is a nice combination of carbohydrates and protein, which can help settle your child's stomach and squash any hunger pangs. Also, serving the warm beverage in a favorite mug is comforting and soothing, which can also help explain why so many children respond well to this remedy.To make the drink more appealing, you may want to add a teaspoon or so of honey to the heated milk, or try adding a few drops of vanilla extract.
 It should probably go without saying that your child shouldn't be drinking soda (or coffee!) in the evening. However, if your child is struggling to fall and stay asleep, one of the underlying reasons could be because he/she is stimulated from the caffeine he/she has consumed earlier in the day.


In order to promote a healthier sleeping schedule, carefully examine your child's diet and cut out any sources of caffeine.Pay attention to the labels of all of their beverages and snacks: caffeine is sometimes found in surprising items, such as what you thought were “un-caffeinated” root beers, juices, or energy waters.Caffeine can also be found in some candy, ice cream, and cocoa drinks, so you many want to limit these treats., Even if your child isn't hopped up on caffeine, their energy levels could be pumped up because of too much sugar.Take care to control your child's intake of sugar, particularly after dinner.
 Whether you are looking for bedtime snack ideas for your child or looking for ways to improve your child's overall diet, the food choices you offer can have an impact on his/her sleep.


Make sure that your child has a well-rounded diet, and be sure to check in with your child's pediatrician before making any major changes.
 While none of these foods will magically make your child drift off to sleep, they are all healthy options that may promote better sleep. Try adding any of these to your child's plate:


Cherries: these are a good source of melatonin, which is the chemical that helps us regulate our sleep patterns.Jasmine rice: this rates highly on the glycemic index (how long it takes your body to digest the glucose (sugar) in the food. A higher score is better, meaning the glucose is released slowly into the bloodstream, making us less vulnerable to blood sugar crashes.Fortified cereals made with whole grains: search for cereals and grains which are a good source of complex carbohydrates. Quinoa, oatmeal, and barley are also good options. (good complex carbs)
Bananas and sweet potatoes: besides being a good source of healthy carbohydrates, both of these contain good levels of magnesium and potassium, which can help relax muscles., You may begin to see an improvement in sleep patterns if you limit the amount that your child drinks before going to bed. Thus, make sure that your child isn't drinking all throughout the evening after dinner.


If your child needs to get up to use the bathroom shortly after being put to bed, he/she will have to start the falling-asleep process all over again. If he/she had managed to get a few winks of sleep in before waking up, then it could be all the much harder for his/her to go back to sleep after this “power nap”.
 While drinking a mug of warm milk may be part of a good bedtime routine, and while you don't want your child to become dehydrated, you don't want to overfill his/her bladder. Otherwise, he/she will be waking up during the night or getting up way too early.


Offer your child just a small 2 to 4 ounce mug of milk, for example, or give him/her small sips of water.
 You should also be sure to have your child go to the bathroom as one of the last steps of his/her bedtime routine.

This will help cut down on accidents and hopefully allow your child to stay asleep longer without a full bladder.

