 To test if a dish is microwave safe, you can put it in the microwave with a cup of water. Find a glass or cup that is microwave safe, and fill it three-quarters of the way with water.It’s important to use a cup that you know to be safe for the microwave, otherwise the test may not work.
To be certain, find a cup that has the microwave safe stamp on the bottom.;
, Place both the glass of water and the dish in question side by side in the microwave. Microwave the two items together on high power for one minute.


If the dish is too large to sit side by side with the cup, place the cup on top of (or inside) the dish.
To increase the power on your microwave to high, look for a button that says Power, Menu, or Settings., After a minute in the microwave, use oven mitts or a potholder to remove the cup of water. Then, place your hand on the dish in question to feel how warm it is:The dish is unsafe for the microwave if the dish is warm and the water is cold. A warm dish means it absorbs heat.
The dish is safe for the microwave if the dish is cool and the water is warm. A cool dish means it doesn’t absorb heat.
Note that the dish may feel warm in the center if you had the cup of water in or on the dish.
 In order to keep track of which dishes are microwave safe and which aren't, use a permanent marker to label the bottom of the dish with the results of your test.You can use any labeling method you like for your dishes. For instance, you can mark microwave-safe dishes with a happy face, the letter M, or two wavy lines.
Don’t forget to label dishes that aren't safe for the microwave as well. You can use an unhappy face, an M with a line through it, or some other indication.
 The easiest way to know that a dish or utensil is microwave safe is by looking for the stamp on the bottom. There are typically three things that will indicate a dish is safe to use:The words “microwave safe”
The words “microwave friendly”
Wavy horizontal lines

, Most ceramic, glass, china, and porcelain dishware is safe for use in the microwave. The exceptions are if:The manufacturer states that the dishes are not microwaveable
The dishware has metal paint or decorations, such as gold or silver trim
Lead glaze was used

, There are several manufacturers out there that make heat-proof cookware that is also safe for use in the microwave. Some of the companies that make these items are:


Anchor Hocking
Duralex
Pyrex
Corningware
Visions

, Some paper products are safe to microwave, including parchment and wax paper, and white paper plates, napkins, and towels.To make sure that no inks or dyes leach into your food, don’t use paper products with printed matter, logos, or writing on them.
 Some plastic dishware and wraps have been made especially to be safe for microwaving, and these don’t contain plasticizers that can leach into food.


If you want to microwave plastic dishware, make sure it says it’s microwave safe. If it doesn’t say it, don’t use it.
When you use microwave safe plastic wrap in the microwave, make sure it’s not touching your food directly., Unless you follow a very strict safety protocol, it’s not safe to microwave metal. Putting metal in the microwave can lead to sparking, fires, and a malfunctioning unit. Be sure to watch out for:Dishes and cups with metallic paints
Dishes and cups with decorative metal trim
Wire twist ties
Take-out containers with metal lining or handles
Aluminum foil
Metal utensils

, Lead glaze used to be common for lots of dishware, and is still used in many countries. You should not use dishes with lead glaze to hold or serve food, because the lead can transfer to your food. Lead is extremely toxic and consuming lead is hazardous to your health. If you microwaving dishware with lead glaze, even more lead can leach into the food. Dishes that are likely to have lead glaze include:Clay dishware with a shiny or transparent glaze
Handmade artisan dishware
Dishware with bright and vibrant colors on the inside surfaces
Antique dinnerware
Highly decorative and shiny dishware

, Plastic food containers that are meant for refrigerated items are not meant to be heated, and are certainly not designed for the microwave. This includes containers made for:Yogurt
Butter or margarine
Cottage cheese

, The USDA Food Safety and Inspection Service states that while it is safe to microwave white paper products, brown paper products should not be microwaved.This includes brown paper lunch bags and brown paper towels.
The same site recommends not microwaving newspaper.

