 You know your loved one is upset, anxious, scared, and a variety of other emotions. However, it’s still important for you to ask them how they are. They are likely so focused on their child that they aren’t concerned about themselves.A simple, “Hi, friend. How are you feeling today?” could be all it takes to let them know it’s OK to talk about what they are going through. They may not feel comfortable discussing what they are experiencing because they don’t want to detract anything away from their child.
Asking shows you care and lets them know you are genuinely concerned. However, stick around after their initial answer—it may change once they feel they can actually talk about how they really feel.;
, Don’t expect them to entertain you when you visit the hospital. Realize that they are likely going through the hardest time of their life at the moment. They won't interact with you in the same way that they usually do. For example, your friends might not have the energy to make small talk or laugh with you.Don’t force anything when you visit. Trying to maintain a conversation may be too much for your loved one to handle right now. Sometimes just having someone to sit with in silence is a huge offering of support.
 Your loved one may feel like their world is crashing down all around them right now. Seeing you could be the breath of fresh air they desperately need. Smile, offer hugs, and try to stay positive when you’re around them.Feel things out when you get to the hospital. You can determine your energy and positivity level based on how things are going in the room. Adjust your behavior accordingly. For example, if your friends seem light-hearted it may be okay to tell a light joke about the hospital food or the parking. But, refrain from light-heartedness if they are crying or upset.
 Someone with an ill child may experience stress, isolation, fatigue, or other more serious symptoms of mental health issues. Offer to listen to the parent as often as you are able, but also keep in mind that just being there during these times may be helpful enough. If you think the parent may require more help than you can provide, then connect them with the appropriate resources, such as a therapist. Psychotherapy would allow the parent to talk through their feelings and increase their motivation to take care of themselves. Some common emotional issues that the parent may be having with their child being hospitalized might include:

Anger and frustration
Grief and sadness
Guilt (maybe feelings that they could have done something different to prevent their child from being hospitalized)
Anxiety and fear, such as worry over financial difficulties, or the possible death of their child.
Isolation and loneliness
Declining physical health and strain, illness, and physical and mental exhaustion.

