 When you conjugate verbs in simple future tense in Spanish, all you have to do is add the correct ending onto the infinitive form of the verb. There's no need to remove the ending to get to the verb stem, as when you conjugate in other tenses.The simple future endings are -é, -ás, -á, -emos, -éis, and -án. The accent mark indicates that you should place emphasis on the last syllable when you say the word. When you add one of these endings to a verb stem, you are saying the same thing in Spanish that you would be saying in English if you said something will happen in the future.
For example, take the Spanish infinitive escribir (ess-CREE-veer), meaning to write. You would conjugate this verb in simple future tense as yo escribiré (I will write), tú escribirás (you will write), usted/él/ella excribirá (formal you/he/she will write), nosotros escribiremos (we will write), vosotros escriberéis (you all will write – note that this pronoun is only used in Spain), and ustedes/éllos/ellas escribirán (you all/they will write).
 In some Spanish verbs, the spelling of the verb stem changes when you add the ending for simple future tense. About a dozen of these verbs are relatively common verbs that you may find yourself using frequently.Typically, you change the verb stem by adding a consonant to it. For example, when forming the simple future tense of the verb haber (pronounced AH-vair, meaning "to have"), you add an r: yo habré (yo ah-VRAY – I will have).
In other irregular verbs, you substitute one consonant for another. For example, for the verb hacer (pronounced AH-sear, meaning "to do or to make"), you exchange the c for an r to make the simple future tense: yo haré (yo ah-RAY – I will make).
Find a list of these irregular verbs – there are many available free online from Spanish language websites – and memorize the ones you believe you will use frequently. Return to this list when you encounter a verb you don't know.
 If you make assumptions or wonder about something in English, you typically use present tense (although you can use future tense in some circumstances), but Spanish is different.Simple future tense is most often used in Spanish to express a probability that something is happening in the present, or to speculate or guess about the present. For example, if it's close to lunch time and you're speculating that the children might be hungry, you would say "Los niños tendrán hambre" (lohs NEEN-yos ten-DRAHN ahm-bray, meaning "the children might be hungry," or literally "The children will have hunger"). Note that this sentence uses the verb tener (to have, to be), which is irregular in simple future tense.
If you're unsure about something taking place in the present, and are wondering aloud about it, you also use simple future tense. For example, if you're getting ready to go out but can't find your keys, you might say "¿Dónde estarán mis llaves?" (DOHN-day ess-tay-RAHN mees YAH-vays, meaning "Where could my keys be?" or literally "Where will my keys be?")

, The future tense in Spanish recognizes that you can't literally predict the future. If you believe something will happen in the future, but have no guarantee that it will take place, use the simple future tense.For example, if you have a well-educated and experienced friend who is currently seeking employment, you might say "Encontrará un trabajo bueno" (in-cohnt-rah-RAH oon trah-BAH-hoh boo-WAY-no, in English "He will find a good job"). You have reason to believe that this will happen, but there is no guarantee.

