 You can find four heart pieces in Skyloft. Be warned, some require you to complete quests in order for you to get make the heart pieces available.


First heart piece can be only be accessed if you have completed the missing kid quest in Skyloft. After you obtain 10 Gratitude Crystals, take them to Batreux in exchange with the heart piece.
Go to the Kinight’s Academy and use your clawshot on the chimney. Target the clawshot marker and enter the chimney. Down the chimney, you will be able to get a glimpse of the headmaster in the bathroom. Turn right and go through a crawl space to access Zelda’s room. Search her wardrobe to find a heart piece.
Another heart piece is available for purchase at Beedle’s Shop. If you have the right amount of rupees, you’d be able buy the heart piece. You can get a discount of you complete Beedle’s Missing Beetle Quest.
In order to get the last heart piece in Skyloft, you must complete Fledge’s Workout Quest first. After that, find him at the Sparring building and simply assist him work out. You have to score at least 600 to receive the last heart piece.;
, After completing the Sad Sad Situation Quest, you should go ahead and play the high dive game and make sure you don’t miss a single ring. Also, make sure you avoid Dodoh balls and aim at the 50 rupee zone landing. You will be rewarded a heart piece upon completion.
 There are two heart pieces hidden in Pumpkin Landing. Both of these heart pieces involve the Chandelier Replacement Quest.


During completion of the Chandelier Replacement Quest, hit the guard rail a couple of times to make the chandelier fall down. There you have the first heart piece.
The second heart piece can simply be obtained after you complete the Chandelier Replacement Quest and all the other jobs Pumm assigned you.
 The heart piece in this location can be obtained after beating stage 4 of the Thunder Dragon’s Lightning/Boss Rush Mode. Of course you need to heal the dragon first before you can get access to the minigame.
 After you complete the Sandship Dungeon, return to the Shipyard. Explore the area where you used the Mine cart and talk to the Goron just nearby. Now play the Rickety Coaster game and try to finish the heart-stopping course within at least 65 seconds to win a heart piece.
 Go to the ship and make your way at the back. Look for the clawshot mark and use your clawshot to reach the main deck below. You will find the heart piece inside a chest.
 There are six heart pieces that can be found in this location. Remember, you will need to have the Goddess Sword to obtain all pieces.


Outside the Skyview Temple entrance, go activate the Goddess Stone and simply go back to the sky to obtain the heart piece. Just travel and follow the new Goddess Chest icon on your map.
Travel to the Temple of Time (Lanayru Desert) and go straight outside the broken gate. Head north and use the right time stone to reveal a cart. Take that mine cart and t to hit the Goddess Cube as you cross the bridge. Return to the sky and just follow the new Goddess Chest icon right on the map.
Go to Faron Woods and go to the top of the Great Tree. From your vantage point, you’ll be able to see the Goddess Cube at the lower right side of your platform. Jump towards the cube and head back to the sky to find the chest with the new icon on your map.
First, beat the Pirate Stronghold and open its shark mouth wide open. Use your clawshot once you reach the front door. Aim above the door to access the upper platform. Once you locate the Goddess Cube there, return to the sky to get your heart piece.
Go to the Fire Sanctuary and find an opening on the wall near the waterfall area. It is the one without a fence. Now it’s time to dive into this spot. The goal is to land at the top of a stone pillar which has the Goddess Cube on it. Hit it and return to the sky to find your chest.
Travel to the Eldin Volcano and look for an area that is too hot then keep left heading to the Fire Sanctuary. Now, look for a platform with a dig spot which has a platform underneath it. There you will find the Goddess Cube. Come back to the sky and look for the piece of heart.
 You can collect three pieces of heart in Faron Woods.


The first heart piece is an easy one to get. Simply use the tightrope nearby at the Great Tree and land on the other side to obtain the heart piece.
From the Sealed Temple, head to the Faron Woods. Look for the Goron researcher. Just follow his instructions on what you should draw on the wall to receive a heart piece.
To acquire the last heart piece in this location, you need to use a bomb to blast open a wall near the Sealed Grounds entrance. Behind the wall awaits the heart piece.
 In order to obtain the heart piece in Skyview Temple, you need to have a beetle. First, find the biggest room and go on top of the statue with a switch. This switch will activate a mechanism to reveal the heart piece in this room.
 While traversing the main path of this location, the heart piece can be found on one of the ledges of the volcano.
 First, you need to have the Mogma Mitts. Then, dig a certain spot near the lava river and catch the Mogma. This Mogma will try to run away so you need to catch it. After successfully catching the Mogma, he will then acknowledge the Mogma Mitts you are wearing and finally reward you a piece of heart.

