 If you don't have a full magazine and you go running into combat, you're going to be either dead or lucky. The majority of the time it's the first one. Reload when you can so you don't have to do it in a combat situation.;
, The most basic rule of modern combat, if you don't take cover, you're going to get hit, and if you get hit in the Veteran mode for more than 1 second, then you're going to die. Call of Duty 4 utilities an engine that conveys realistic physics so you can penetrate weak cover. However, unlike multiplayer, the enemies in the campaign cannot penetrate ANY cover. Use this to your advantage. If you are struggling to hit an enemy, take careful note of his position and kill him through your thin cover without having to worry about getting shot. Go prone. If you go prone and slowly edge around your cover, then the enemies will hardly notice you, assuming that the enemy is at eye level.
 Fully automatic fire-like in real life- causes recoil and wastes ammunition, but controlled bursts aimed correctly at the head are far more efficient. Use your iron/red-dot sight to get a shot then pull back the trigger and quickly release it to fire a burst.
 Something that Call of Duty 4 lets you do that other games don't is the option to throw back Fragmentation grenades. Always try to throw back grenades otherwise they may explode, and you can get severely injured or killed. On Veteran difficulty, the enemies have an almost infinite supply of grenades so don't be afraid to throw them back.
 Using a flash-bang grenade is very useful when you want to stun enemies, clear a building, evade or just to use them as a decoy. Flash-bang grenades are non-lethal, but they blind and deafen enemies temporarily so you can go in for the kill. When used in conjunction with a shotgun or knife it's quite deadly.
 Besides, your primary weapon you have a secondary and a melee weapon. Switching to your secondary weapon is always faster than reloading your primary weapon when in a tough spot. The Pistols in this game pack a major punch and are quite deadly. There have been players who have eliminated entire squads of enemies with a pistol. The knife is a melee weapon that kills in one hit. Keep in mind that when you finish your knifing motion your weapon won't be available for a second and that's all it takes for enemies to neutralize you.
 There are a variety of explosives in COD 4 ranging from Fragmentation grenades to air strikes. The Fragmentation grenade is mainly used to clear buildings, eliminate large groups of enemies or flush enemies out. It can also ricochet off walls. The M203 grenade launcher can be used on infantry, or on infantry gunships which can potentially leaves fewer enemies to fight.
 Sniper Rifles can be found in numerous positions around levels, and an experienced player can take out multiple squads. The best strategy is to go prone in a hidden area (preferably high up) and aim for head shots.
 Remember the message you receive on the first mission: "You're Hurt! Get to Cover!" It is imperative that you follow this instruction here because checkpoints are sparse so dying isn't the best idea.
 You can use every strategy in this 'How to' and not be successful until you realize a lot of stages have units that will NEVER stop respawning. No matter how many you kill and how thin you think you're making their lines, they'll be back before you can fully advance. Be prepared to get creative. Gas grenades and just being plain crazy are two ways to get around the infinite respawn.
 Although checkpoints can sometimes be sparse, they are your best asset in beating the hardest levels. How do you reach a hard checkpoint? Use some of the tips above. Also keep in mind being crazy might just work. (See the next step)

, Why does being crazy sometimes work in your favor? If you run ahead through fire, dive behind some cover and stay there, that might get you past the hardest stages in COD4. This is true for two reasons. (1) Your team is invincible and will never die. (2) Your team only advances as far as you do. Using these two facts together, if you advance hard and fast, so will your team. Eventually, if you wait long enough ahead of them, they'll advance slowly and steadily, killing everyone along the way, and will eventually catch up with you. Soon after your screen should say you reached a checkpoint.
 Call of Duty 4 has an auto-aim feature like past Call of Duty titles. Clicking the "aim" button whilst the cross-hair is near an enemy will get it automatically centered on the enemy. Use this often as it is a great way of neutralizing a squad.

