 It is possible to conceive while you are in a long distance relationship. To increase your chances of becoming pregnant, you need to follow several steps to monitor your body to help improve your odds. Learning to track and monitor your menstrual cycle is one of the most important things you can do to monitor your fertility.Tracking your cycle will help you figure out when you are ovulating. Ovulation is when your body releases a mature egg that is ready for fertilization.
Ovulation typically occurs around day 14 of your menstrual cycle. Most women have a cycle of about 28 days.
You are most fertile in the three days immediately before ovulation. Typically, these are the 11th, 12th, and 13th days of your cycle.
Make a note on the calendar on the first day of your period. This is the first day of your cycle.
Many women have irregular periods. This can make it more difficult to predict ovulation.
You are most fertile in the days leading up to ovulation. This is the ideal time to have sex. If you have to choose only three days a month to be with your partner, choose the three days prior to ovulation.
 Paying attention to your body can help you figure out the best times during the month to have sex. You can then plan visits with your partner during those times. Monitoring your cervical mucus is another natural way to help keep track of your most fertile days.Cervical mucus is a thick, fluid like substance released by your vagina. In the days leading up to ovulation, this mucus is more likely to be clear and slippery. It may look like egg whites.
On your least fertile days, the mucus will be thicker and cloudier. You may produce no mucus at all after you are done ovulating for the month.
 You can purchase an over the counter product that can help predict ovulation. Most drugstores sell ovulation kits. Ask your pharmacist if he recommends a particular brand.Using an ovulation kit can help you figure out your most fertile days. You and your partner can try to plan to be together on those days.
Follow the directions on the package of your kit. You will be testing your urine.
You will either collect your urine in a small cup or you will urinate on a stick. Most kits recommend that you try to test your urine at approximately the same time each day for the most reliable results.
After waiting the specified amount of time, the test will indicate whether you are in your fertile window or not.
 Another natural way to chart your most fertile days is by keeping track of your body temperature. Basal body temperature is the temperature of your body when it is at rest. This number fluctuates throughout your cycle. Take your temperature each day to help predict ovulation.Your body temperature is lowest during the first days of your cycle. It will increase after ovulation.
Typically, your body temperature will be 96-98 degrees before ovulation and 97-99 degrees after ovulation.
It is important to take your temperature at the same time and using the same method each day. Keep track of what is normal for your body.
Purchase a thermometer that specifically takes basal body temperature. These are available at most drug stores, and you can select an oral or rectal thermometer.

