 Is there a certain area on the body that is itchier than others? Does your pet lick his feet, under his tail or along his belly?


The most common areas of irritation for allergic dogs are around the back and tail, the abdomen, and the legs and paws.;
, It can be common that your dog’s itching is so severe that he chews his skin to the point of creating a “hot spot”. This skin lesion can develop overnight and can get very large very quickly. The skin is pink, moist, hot and painful. You may even see sticky material oozing from the wound created. These are infected open wounds and need veterinary intervention to give your pet relief.


Chronic cases of itching might result in the thickening and roughening of the skin so that it looks like elephant hide.
Hot spots are often the symptom of allergies to fleas, foods, grass, mold or other environmental substances. There may be more complicated underlying conditions such as low thyroid (hypothyroidism) levels or Cushing’s disease (hyperadrenocorticism). Secondary bacterial and yeast (malassezia) infections are not uncommon and will require specially tailored treatment., There might be a particular time of year that your dog is itchier. Perhaps he is itchy after being on the lawn or after eating a certain food. By noticing patterns, you will help to narrow the focus of your pet’s treatment to help with the itching., If your dog has a really strong body odor, seems excessively thirsty or does not seem as lively as usual, you should take your pet to the veterinarian. Your veterinarian will need to do blood tests and evaluate swabs from the skin surface to get more information to help define appropriate treatment.
 Whenever you notice your dog itching, write down the circumstances, including where your dog has been, what he’s been eating and what part of his body is itchy. This will be extremely useful for your veterinarian, who will rely on this information to narrow down the possible causes for your pet’s itching and skin lesions.

