 Sometimes you might get lazy and let garbage or unnecessary stuff pile up around your room. Get a garbage bag and go around your room. Put everything that you could throw away in there.It can be very helpful to have a little garbage can in your room for you to throw things away into. Make sure you clean it out when it gets full.
Not only will this make your room less cluttered, but garbage also attracts bugs and other pests. Plus it smells. Getting rid of it will make your room smell better.;
, You can use an old rag, or a nicer wipe, and wipe all the dust off the top of your furniture. You’ll probably find a lot of dust on places like nightstands, dressers, and your desk if you have one., Clear off everything that isn’t your sheets and blanket. Tuck your sheets under the corners with “hospital corners” for a neat look. Place your blanket on top and smooth it down, then fold down the top of the blanket and sheet down. Then you can put back on your pillows or anything else you like to keep on your bed.


A good time to make your bed is first thing in the morning. That way you will remember to do it right away. Also, it will make sure that the only time your bed isn’t made is when you are sleeping in it.Your bedsheets should be washed every couple of weeks, so make sure to strip your bed when your parents ask to make sure they stay clean.
 You always want to keep your clothes neat so they will look good when you wear them, and so you know where they are. If you have clothes lying around the room, sort them into clean clothes and laundry. That will help decide where they go next.


If your clothes are clean, fold them and hang them up in the closet or put them back in the dresser where they belong.
If your clothes are dirty, gather them up, and take them to the laundry room. If your parents let you, you can even do the laundry, and clean your clothes yourself. Just make sure to check with them first. Once they are clean, fold them and put them away properly in your room.
 If you have items lying around your room, get them off the floor and find some place to put them away. If they are just lying on the floor, it can be tough to move around without stepping on something. Doing that means you could hurt yourself, or break one of your toys, or both.


Don’t just throw things into a pile in your closet. That only moves the mess to another part of your room. Make sure you have a shelf or chest to put things in before starting. If you don’t have enough room for all of your stuff, you may want to ask for something else to store them in, or consider getting rid of stuff you don’t use or play with anymore.

