 If you're not already familiar with it, deathrock sounds like a dark and oftentimes humorous mixture of punk, new wave, goth, glam and acid rock. Do not go into a Deathrock club requesting metal influenced artists like Marilyn Manson or Wednesday 13/Murderdolls lest you wish to receive a lot of blank stares - deathrock clubs don't play metal though they do play psychobilly, gothic rock, and '77 punk. Start off with the classic deathrock bands like:


Christian Death
45 Grave
Specimen
Sex Gang Children
Southern Death Cult
Sexbeat
Alien Sex Fiend
Virgin Prunes
Blood and Roses
Bonemen Of Barumba
The Birthday Party
The Gun Club
T.S.O.L.
Rudimentary Peni
Red Lorry Yellow Lorry
Burning Image
Anorexic Dread
Voodoo Church
U.K. Decay
Super Heroines
The Flesh Eaters
Phaidia
The Lords of the New Church
Kommunity FK
Theatre of Ice
The Last Days of Jesus
Mephisto Walz
The Naked & The Dead;
,, They own impressive vinyl collections. Develop a high tolerance towards extremely long and detailed discussion on what to do during a zombie apocalypse and whether you'd be better off owning vinyl, MP3s, tapes of CDs, and be prepared in defend your choice.
 Remember your aesthetics, your body is art hence your attire is to-Do not merely dress for aesthetic pleasing of your friends an peers dress for yourself. Punk is at Deathrocks heart and punk is anti-conformity

, Leopard print, skeleton bones, and ripped fishnet stockings over your arms and legs (for male and female!) are often the best for the deathrock genre. Black is the main color, but a combination with any dark shade of pink ranging from purple to near blood-green will give that haunting effect for your outfit.
 Political and sociological humor are a must, please do understand politics before stating "Down with the Right-Wing!" at a democratic caucus. Deathrock is unicorns and rainbows and unicorns and rainbows are a dangerous yet intellectual movement so be aware.
, Deathrockers are at their core absurdists who believe the only things that give life meaning are relationships with others and creating art. So whether it's designing your own deathrock themed blazer, leather jacket, or just making your own band patches and band t-shirts, and possibly decorating your room or apartment, have fun with it and realize that creating things helps give life meaning.
 Deathrock can be hard to find in some cities, so prepare to visit some goth, punk, Industrial and any horror themed rock concert too!

