 Whether consciously or not, everyone lives by a narrative. The story you tell yourself about your life and experiences matters when it comes to mental awareness. Your understanding of your personal narrative has an impact on your current actions and future goals.Personal mental narratives can be constricting in some ways. For example, you may learn to see yourself as a victim of circumstance. Inaccurate feelings of helplessness and hopelessness can result. In order to become more mentally aware, periodically reevaluate your mental narrative.Look back on your earliest memories. What people, events, and experiences had the greatest impact on you? Why? How do you frame setback in your life narrative? What times in your life did you feel most emotionally and mentally stimulated? Answering these questions can help you see places where negative thought patterns may be tied to an inaccurate view of your life story., Everyone has core beliefs that they try to live by. Core beliefs are developed both by yourself and by your circumstances. How you behave is often linked to your belief system. Evaluating your belief system can help you become more mentally aware of your own behavior.Identify your core beliefs. Try to write down a list of five values you live by. Then, write down assumptions you also believe. For example, what do you think of other people? Do you feel you can be trusting of others? Why or why not? Think about abstract values. What do you think it means to be a good person? A bad person? Do you react to people in a particular way because they defy your core belief system?Look for examples of black and white thinking in your core beliefs. These types of thought patterns can subtly affect how you interact with other people. You may be unaware of the impact you have on others as a result. Maybe you believe lying is wrong, regardless of the situation. You may then have a tendency to overreact to white lies told to spare your feelings. You may also be too blunt around other people, giving them your version of the truth instead of modifying your response to be more tactful.Look for black and white core beliefs about yourself. Oftentimes, people do not try new things or push themselves hard enough enough to succeed because of inaccurate and self-defeating thoughts. For example, maybe a big rejection earlier in life has led you to convince yourself you'll never find romantic love. You may feel you're not lovable in that way and have stopped dating or seeking out companionship. Therefore, your core belief about yourself becomes a self-fulfilling prophecy., People who are most self aware do not fear criticism. In fact, they seek out honest feedback in order to improve themselves and their behavior. If you want to increase your level of self awareness, seek to do the same.


Everyone has blind spots, that is traits others see in them but they do not see in themselves. Ask trusted friends and family members to be honest about your blind spots. What traits about yourself are you largely unaware of? How do these traits affect your behavior?Many people become defensive when confronting blind spots, especially when blinds spots challenge are inherent sense of identity or force us to confront negative behavioral patterns. Try to let go of your inclination to go on the defense when seeking feedback. Remember, you are striving to become a more mature, mentally aware person. Even if parts of the journey are hard, it will be worth it., One trait of mentally aware people is their ability to accept realistic responsibility for their actions. Try to take responsibility for your own thoughts, behaviors, and feelings.


No one is going to make things better for you. If you want to improve a situation, you must take responsibility and do so yourself. Mentally aware people have long since accepted this fact. Be willing to admit to your mistakes and shortcomings.Keep in mind mentally aware people accept reasonable responsibility. Just as it can be bad to refuse to acknowledge your ability to change a situation, you need to make peace with the fact some things cannot be changed by your actions alone. Let go of inevitable setbacks and unavoidable circumstances that temporarily alter your path. If it rains all day and you want to go for a run, for example, accept that you'll have to catch up on your workout tomorrow., Mentally aware people understand the need for self care. In order to be mentally aware of yourself and your surroundings, you need to care for your body and mind.


Self care involves engaging in simple rituals that are often overlooked during the course of a busy day. Get enough sleep at night. Eat three meals a day. Make time for exercise.Make time for leisure. Relaxation is important to your mental well-being. Incorporate an hour of you time into your daily schedule. Take a warm bath. Go for a long walk. Spend time with your pets. Read a book.