 You can make your chain as long as you want it to be. Try making a short chain of 12 stitches for practice or make a longer chain for a scarf or blanket. Just make sure that you have an even number of stitches in your foundation chain.Always remember to check the gauge for the yarn and hook you are using. This will help to ensure that your finished product is the size you want it to be.;
, Count two chains from the hook (not counting the chain that is on the hook) and then single crochet into this stitch.

To single crochet, insert the hook into the stitch, then loop the free end of the yarn over the hook and pull it through the stitch. Then, loop the yarn over the hook again and pull this yarn through both of the loops on the hook.Continue to single crochet to the end of the row. Continue to single crochet every stitch to the end of the chain. When you are finished, you will have your foundation for the criss cross stitch.
 Once you reach the end of the first row, you will need to turn the stitches around and chain 3 new stitches.These stitches are called turning stitches. They will give you some slack to begin the new row., With the criss cross stitch, you will be crocheting one stitch ahead and then going back across the stitch you just made to crochet the one you skipped. Start by skipping over the first stitch in your row and crocheting into the second stitch instead.To double crochet, start by looping the free end of the yarn over your hook. Then, insert the hook into the stitch and loop the yarn over the hook again. After that pull the hook through the stitch and loop the yarn over again. Pull this new loop through the first two loops on your hook. Then, loop the yarn over the hook once more and pull it through the last two loops on the hook., After you have finished your first double crochet, you will need to go back to the stitch you skipped and double crochet into it.After you finish double crocheting into this stitch, you will have completed your first criss cross stitch., Work in the criss cross stitch all the way to the end of the first row and in all rows following this one. You can use this pattern for all of the rows in your project or you can alternate with a simpler stitch, like single or double crochet.Remember to turn and chain 3 at the beginning of each row.

