 Dental schools are highly competitive and demanding, taking four full years to obtain a degree.;
, Dental school can be expensive, so it is best to look for ways to supplement your tuition. This includes taking out student loans as well as looking for different scholarships. The American Dental Association offers scholarships to underrepresented minorities and second year students, and other students may be eligible for federally funded scholarships.



One way to obtain a Dental License is by examination. To do this, one must first submit to a Fingerprint Criminal Records Check. One must also complete the Jurisprudence Assessment as given by the SBDE (State Board of Dental Examiners). In addition to a diploma or degree from an accredited Dental Association dental school and proper identification, one must complete one exam. The exam can be provided by the Western Regional Examining board, the Central Regional Dental Testing Service, the Northeast Regional Board, the Southern Regional Testing Agency, or the Council of Interstate Testing Agencies.
By credentials is another way to obtain a Dental License in Texas. Applicants have to obtain a Level II background information report processed by the Professional Background Information Service, or PBIS. One must also provide proof of graduation from an accredited dental school as well as complete the American Dental Association Nation Boards, both parts I and II. Applicants must also provide proof of their general dentistry clinical examine and whatever post graduate training is available. Also provide paperwork pertaining to any state where you previously held a dental license and information on any place of dental employment or practice.
By foreign graduation is the final way to qualify for a Dental License. In addition to the background check and SBDE Jurisprudence Assessment required for License by Examination, any applicant for a Texas Dental License who has previously had an application in a foreign country must also adhere to special requirements. The applicant must provide proof of his graduation from a dental school (submitted in English). The applicant must also complete training in program designated by the American Dental Association and accredited by the Commission on Dental Accreditation which includes at least two years of training.
 Gaining more experience and keeping up with CPR and other certifications will make you more appealing to possible employers.
 In addition to private practices, many other options are available for dentists with appropriate credentials in Texas. Research the many different career opportunities and choose the one that fits your lifestyle and personality.

