 If you have addressed age discrimination in your employee handbook or other written company policies, these can serve as evidence that you were aware of your responsibilities under state and federal law.


Be prepared for the employee's attorney to request copies of these policies, as well as personnel records, during the pre-trial discovery process.You also should be able to demonstrate that managers, supervisors, or anyone with authority to make employment-related decisions is familiar with the requirements of state and federal anti-discrimination laws.
 Age cannot be listed as a requirement for a job unless it can be considered a bona fide occupational qualification.In any written job descriptions, look for certain "trigger words" that may indicate a preference for younger employees over older employees in that position.
If there are skill tests or physical requirements for the job, make sure they are necessary to perform specific job duties – not just a smoke-screen for an actual age preference. For example, if you have listed as part of a job description that the employee must be able to repeatedly lift 100 pounds over his or her head, this could be considered unnecessary if employees in that position sit at their desks all day and never lift anything heavier than a piece of paper or a pencil.
 To defend yourself against an age discrimination claim, you must show that the employment decision was based on factors unrelated to the employee's age.


Keep in mind that it's typically difficult for an employee to provide direct evidence that the employment decision was made because of his or her age.This difficulty benefits your defense as long as you can show sufficient other reasons for making the decision.
For example, suppose you have an employee who alleges age discrimination because she was terminated and a younger employee took her place. That in and of itself is not enough for her to prove age discrimination, however. Your records of poor performance or multiple disciplinary actions, on the other hand, would prove you had sufficient non-discriminatory reasons to terminate her employment.
Gather any written documents such as emails where the employment decision was discussed. The plaintiff likely will request copies of this correspondence during pre-trial discovery., You are allowed to consider age in making an employment decision provided the age limitation is necessary for employees to perform essential job duties.This defense is known as the "bona fide occupational qualification" exception. To prove it, you must show that no person in the group you're discriminating against could possibly perform the job.Have your attorney look over the job qualifications you're using and determine whether it falls under this exception.
For example, airlines are allowed to require pilots to retire at a certain age due to safety concerns with elderly pilots.
Unless the connection is well established in your trade, you probably will need expert witnesses to testify as to the inability of older people to perform the job in question.
 If the lawsuit relies on a disparate impact theory, in which the employee alleges that a seemingly neutral policy nevertheless has a disproportionately negative effect on older employees, you can escape liability by proving the decision was based on non-age factors.This defense is available only in these disparate impact cases, and is something you must prove. If you meet your burden of proof, the plaintiff can only win his or her lawsuit with direct evidence that you intentionally discriminated on the basis of age.
You must show that the factor upon which your decision was based is related to your business purpose, and that you assessed the decision's potential impact on older employees and took steps to mitigate any disproportionately negative impact.
In "disparate impact" cases, providing managers objective criteria through which to assess employees is crucial. Keep in mind that factors such as "flexibility" or "willingness to learn" often are considered by the courts to be euphemisms for youth.

