 If your porch swing didn’t come with swing hooks, you’ll need to attach some. The precise location where you’ll need to attach the swing hook depends upon the design of your porch swing.Generally, you should locate the point where the vertically-oriented front of the armrest intersects with the horizontally-oriented front-most edge of the actual seat. Install one swing hook facing out from the side of the porch swing, then install another at the corresponding point on the opposite side of the swing.
Place the next two swing hooks on the porch swing at two points located at the same height as the swing hooks you’ve already connected, but place them toward the rear of the seat where the seat intersects the back.
Drill pilot holes before screwing the swing hooks into the porch swing itself. Use a drill bit with a diameter just a bit smaller than that of the pointed end of the swing hook to drill your pilot hole. This is an important step that can prevent your porch swing from splintering.
When you’re ready, screw the swing hooks into the porch swing by hand.
 The screw-eye is a metal loop. After installing two screw eyes, you’ll loop the rope or chain attached to the arms of the swing into it. Drive your screw-eye into a thick beam or joist at the place you wish to locate your porch swing.Locate a thick beam or joist (at least two inches wide and five inches thick) that can support a screw-eye.
Once you’ve located the joist or beam where you wish to install your porch swing, drill a pilot hole into it with a drill at the point from which you wish to hang the porch swing. This is an important step that can prevent your beam from splintering.
Turn the eye-screw into the hole as far as it will go, then pass a screwdriver through the circle of the eye-screw so that its central point is just below the hole into which you drove it.
Place one hand on the handle of the screwdriver and place one hand on the other end of the screwdriver. Push up hard with the screwdriver against the eye-screw to jam it tightly into its hole.
Install another screw-eye in another joist or beam at a distance from the first that is roughly equivalent to the length of the porch swing.
Use screw-eyes with a four-inch shaft and a socket with a diameter that can accommodate the rope or chain you’ve selected to hang your porch swing.
 In homes with finished porch ceilings, you won’t be able to use a screw-eye. Instead, you’ll use an eyebolt. Cut away part of the roof above the porch swing to access the joists and beams that can support the eye-screw.Predrill a hole through the joist. The drill tip should come out straight through the ceiling of your porch.
Slide a six-inch machine-threaded eyebolt up through the porch ceiling and have a friend on the other end (on the porch roof) secure it with a nut.
Install another eyebolt in another joist or beam at a distance from the first that is roughly equivalent to the length of the porch swing.
Repair the roof when finished.
This technique is most common in older homes.

