 Don’t expect to always be correct, and learn to accept the possibility that you’re wrong. Intelligent people grow accustomed to having accurate judgement and may therefore adapt a know-it-all personality. Realize that being wrong is not a personal attack, and being right is not a necessity.Believing that your logic is perfect is actually a weakness, because it creates “blind spots” in your way of thinking. People who are overconfident in their ability to reason are prone to making more mistakes.
Approach every situation with an open mind. Be honest with yourself that you don’t know it all, so that you can let go of trying to have total control over your thoughts. Even if it feels vulnerable, this actually strengthens you so that you can build experiences and more knowledge., Sometimes intelligent people can be unaware of their own errors because they don’t want to acknowledge that they’re capable of making such mistakes. Don’t be in denial or feel shameful – everyone makes careless mistakes! Learn from your mistakes and don’t allow the expectations of others to bring you down.Other people may have high expectations of you because of your intelligence. Don’t take their criticisms to heart; instead, accept feedback and be thankful. It may take someone else to point out that you made a mistake in order for you to realize it!
When it occurs to you that you’ve made a bad assumption, try working backwards from the time you made the mistake. Analyze any contributing factors that led up to the error, and how you could have handled the situation differently.
 Intelligent people may not reach their full potential if they are afraid to fail.Being determined and even enthusiastic about analyzing the causes of failure can teach you great lessons. Furthermore, being unafraid of acknowledging failure will set you apart from the many people – and companies – who neglect to analyze and remedy their failures.Focus on results instead of trying not to fail. People who concentrate on their goals with optimism are more likely to succeed than those who are trying to avoid failure.
When you fail, embrace it as a learning experience. Give an explanation – not excuses – and offer solutions. Don’t give up or let failure make you timid. Congratulate yourself on handling it well and gaining new perspective. Then create a plan to prevent similar obstacles in the future!

, Stick with tasks and apply yourself – that’s how you develop grit. When the going gets tough, resist the urge to move on to something else to affirm your self-worth. Avoid multitasking, which can actually make you less productive. Stay focused on completing the task at hand to the best of your ability, and don’t give up!For example, you’re doing a project at work and it leads to having to deal with someone whose personality you haven’t meshed with in the past. Don’t use this obstacle as an excuse to abandon the project and move on to something that feels more fulfilling in the moment. Challenge yourself – do your best to get along with your difficult colleague. In the end, you will have the satisfaction of having been persistent, and you can pat yourself on the back that you were able to work alongside someone who has been a challenge for you in the past.
 Smart people are more likely to lean towards worrying and pessimism, so it’s important for you to learn how to think positively.Don’t expect to be able to change your mental attitude overnight. Start acknowledging when you’re feeling negative and work on combatting worry and stress. Try to see the good in each situation.Get enough sleep so that you are less inclined to be moody. Aim for 7½-9 hours of sleep each night. Listen to relaxing music and read motivational quotes every day if you can, or at least whenever you’re feeling down. Avoid the company of negative people as much as possible.For example, let’s say that you released a product to a test market and got negative feedback from consumers, when you thought it would be very well accepted. Instead of letting the unexpected feedback get you down, think about the positives! The feedback is a valuable tool for improving your product. Furthermore, you got the feedback before releasing the product to the masses on a wider scale.
Don’t be hard on yourself, but do try to analyze potential areas where you could improve emotionally.If you’re having trouble recognizing your emotions, listen to your body and try writing a journal about your feelings. This will help you assess which feelings are negative, so that you can shift your focus to positivity., Intelligent people tend to see their self-esteem as tied to their careers.The danger in that is you can begin to see things that happen at work as personal, and your real personal life can dwindle as well. Realize that your worth in this world goes far beyond your job, and expand your horizons! Have activities and pursuits that give you a sense of personal accomplishment.Understand and define what makes you who you are, besides what you do for a living.


For example, take classes on topics that broaden your knowledge base. Teach a class or give a speech at a local library or hobby store. Take in foster pets or walk dogs for a local animal shelter.
Socialize outside of work, and for purposes that have nothing to do with work. Consider joining a hobby club, or meeting to play a group sport like tennis. You could also volunteer at a local non-profit organization, get involved in a political cause, or help better the environment. Use your smarts for meaningful causes that can benefit from your intelligence and leadership. For example, get involved in a church group and help rebuild homes for those affected by natural disasters., Intelligent people tend to get more upset by the psychological implications of getting older.However, you can combat this inclination by focusing on the benefits of aging instead. When you expect age to come with positive growth, you are more capable of nurturing that. You become better equipped to realize the potential of your intelligence, talents and emotions.While young people only use one side of their brains to accomplish tasks, older people can use both!
Aging does not mean that you will inevitably lose your memory! The way you choose to view aging can affect the way your mind ages. In other words, convincing yourself of such a negative stereotype can actually seal your fate. If you want to remain sharp as you age, you have to believe that you will, and stop fearing the worst.Your personality, creativity and psychological identity will continue developing throughout your life. You can only acquire wisdom, one of the greatest gifts in life, through age and experience.

