 Depending on what you plan on advertising, this can include a website URL; event times, dates or places, such as the details of a special performance at a nightclub; or a photo or logo to include with the ad.
 Next to the word “Sponsored” is a link that reads, “Create an Ad.” Click on that button.
 Note that for each choice you make when creating your ad, Facebook automatically generates a preview at the bottom of the page so you can see instantly what your ad will look like before proceeding.


Destination: Choose between an external URL (website) or a Facebook page you have created.
For pictures you choose to use in your ads, be careful they are not owned by someone else. You want to either use your own pictures, or pictures in the public domain.

For an external URL, you’ll need to include the URL in the proper field. Then enter the title of your ad, the body of your ad copy and an image or logo.
For a Facebook page you can choose between Sponsored Stories, which includes either a story about the viewer's friends or a story about your Facebook Page posts, or Facebook Ads, which includes a specific message and call to action written by you.

For a Sponsored Story, you’ll need to choose between a Page Like Story and a Page Post Story. A Page Like Story will show the user a friend who likes your page, with the call to action being a “Like” button. A Page Post Story shows the user an excerpt and image from your last post on Facebook; here, the call to action includes a comment button, a “Like” button and a Share button.
For a Facebook Ad, you will need to choose the Destination Tab or which tab of your Facebook page the link in your ad will direct the user. Then you can include the body of your ad copy and an image or logo.
 Facebook ads offer the company or service provider a lot of versatility. What do you hope to accomplish with your ads?


Get More Page Likes. People who like your page will be likelier to see posts that you create on your Page. The more likes you have, the larger your audience becomes when you create a post.

Advertising for likes is controversial. Some people think its great, others think its of limited usefulness and will tell you it's a waste of money.
Look at where your likes are coming from. Some ad campaigns have ended up getting a business tons of likes from some 3rd world country where the business doesn't operate.


Promote Page Posts. Promote a specific post you've created, increasing its chances of reaching your intended audience.
Get New Users. Target people who are more likely to download and use your app.
Increase Attendance. Target people who are more likely to attend one of your functions.
 Don't just advertise blindly. Advertise intelligently. Who you target in your ads could affect your bottom line. If you're not targeting the right demographic(s), you're taking a stab in the dark.


Location: Choose a specific city, state/province or country where your ads will be seen.
Demographics: Choose an age range and whether you want to target men, women or both.
Likes & Interests: Enter a specific interest, and Facebook will match your ad with the home pages of users who have included that interest in their profiles.
Connections on Facebook: Choose whom you’d like to target; choices range from only your friends to people who are or are not fans of your page, to all of Facebook.
Advanced targeting options include level of education of the user, whether to target people on their birthdays, language and relationship status.



If you choose beer drinkers in Germany, you may find you are reaching most of the population.
If you choose fans of pesticides in the north of Portland, Oregon, you may find you are reaching only a few people. Reaching this targeted group (whatever your target may be) is the best strategy, but if too small, think of ways to expand the target group.

Perhaps the people you are trying to reach are not telling you they like pesticides, but you might be able to reach those same people by choosing, say, landscapers or apple farmers.
 You can choose to either pay per click (CPC) or pay per impression (CPM). If you don't know exactly how you're going to budget your CPM, you should be prepared to pay more money for CPM than CPC.


Campaigns, Pricing and Scheduling: Here, you can choose the currency you want to use when paying for your ads, your daily or entire campaign budget, and when you’d like your ad to appear.
 Make sure that all of your information is correct. On this page, you have the chance to go back and edit any part of the ad you’ve designed.
 You can pay by credit card or by PayPal. You've officially started an ad and boosted your chance of seeing a return on your investment.

