 You may need to collect a small amount of blood from a cat to monitor the cat’s glucose levels. This is a common practice for cats that have diabetes. To collect a blood sample from a cat, you will need:A sterile hypodermic needle
Medical gloves
A test strip
Cotton balls or gauze
You can find these supplies at medical supply stores or online.;
, You will be getting the blood sample from the cat’s earflap, as this is the easiest spot to draw blood from the cat. Put the medical gloves on and warm up the cat’s ear to make it easier to draw blood. Hold its ear between your hands or apply a warm compress to the ear for one minute.If the cat squirms in your grip, place a towel over its head. This will calm the cat down and help it to stay still. You can then reach under the towel to warm up the cat’s ear.
Say calming words to the cat as you rub its ear to help it remain calm. For example, you may say, “Good kitty” or “Let’s be calm now.”

, Flip over the cat’s ear and locate the hairless part of the ear. You should see a vein that runs just on the inside of the top of the cat’s ear. This is the marginal ear vein, which is the vein you will be drawing blood from. It is painless to draw blood from this area for the cat.Do not confuse the marginal ear vein with other veins on your cat’s ear. You should only be focusing on the vein that runs on the inside top part of the cat’s ear.
 Pet the cat as you use your other hand to carefully prick the marginal ear vein with the needle. Do this quickly and gently so the cat does not get startled. The cat should not feel the prick at all.


Once you prick the vein, a small drop of blood should appear on the surface of the cat’s ear.
 Place the test strip just underneath the cat’s ear and let the blood drip onto the strip. You should only need one to two drops of blood on the strip to test the cat’s glucose levels.If you are using the test strip to test the cat’s glucose levels, place the test strip in a glucometer. The glucometer will then produce a read-out detailing the levels of glucose in the cat.
 Once you have the blood sample, use a cotton ball or a piece of gauze on the prick area. Gently but firmly apply pressure to the cat’s ear by holding the cotton ball on the spot. It should stop bleeding after a few seconds.As long as the bleeding stops, you do not need to put a band aid or gauze on the prick. It should heal just fine on its own.

