 Most people who do yoga use it for physical exercise. There’s nothing wrong with this approach, but it leaves out yoga’s traditional mental and spiritual sides. If you are serious about being a yogi, learn more about the whole experience.Total yoga is “a system for relieving suffering of the mind.” Traditionally, yogis held that people suffer because of their egos, which strive for control.By teaching us how to calm the mind and quell the ego, yoga lets us live as we truly are and in harmony with the surrounding world.
If you are interested in the inner secrets of yoga, consider reading classical texts like the Yoga Sutra or the Bhagavad Gita or modern takes like Yoga: the Greater Tradition., One thing that you can do to connect to yoga’s spiritual side is to meditate. Meditation is a mix of concentration and breathing that, if done right, can help you to reach a different state of consciousness, where the mind is alert, relaxed, and directed inward.As part of yoga, meditation can reduce stress, lessen pain, and help you manage anxiety.But meditation can also open your mind.
Try to find a quiet spot and sit comfortably, with your spine erect. Close your eyes and take deep breaths. Focus on your breathing, in and out, and let your attention rest on the rhythm. It is OK if your mind wanders, but always bring it back to your breathing.Don’t expect to “get” anything out of meditation or to feel better or worse. The point is precisely the opposite – to free you from worldly anxieties and concerns.
Also, don’t worry that you are doing it wrong – there is no “wrong way” to meditate!

, You may have heard that fasting is good for you physically. Many people believe that it allows your body to “detox” and somehow expel harmful toxins. While the evidence for this is spotty,fasting is practiced in yoga and other spiritual traditions to help develop willpower and focus the mind. Trying it might help you to reach a higher level in your journey.


The idea behind spiritual fasting is not just to skip a few meals, but to overcome your bad habits and thoughts and control yourself in mind and body.
Some practitioners think that fasting for short periods helps you to build willpower as well as sensitivity and intuition.
Keep in mind that spiritual fasting should be undertaken with the guidance of a spiritual master. Fasting for physical wellbeing should be done with medical advice. You should NOT attempt long fasts.