 If you contract with the Army at the beginning of your first year of graduate school you will receive 100 percent of your tuition, in addition to book allowances and stipends. After graduating, you must serve in the Army for three years of active duty or in the National Guard for six years, as payment for the free tuition.If you enlist in the Army ROTC, the summer before graduate school begins you need to attend its Leadership Training Course (LTC). This is a paid, month-long course that teaches you the basics of becoming an Army officer.
Be sure to speak with active duty veterans who have taken advantage of these opportunities before you sign up.
 This applies to active service for any branch of the military. There are also many scholarship opportunities if you are disabled as a result of your military service. You can qualify for the GI Bill if you meet the following requirements:You entered active duty on or after July 1, 1985.
If your obligated period of service is less than 3 years, then you must have served 24 continuous months. If enlisted for 3 years or more, then you must have served for at least 36 months.
You must not have declined the GI Bill in writing when you signed up.
You had your military pay reduced by $100 per month for 12 months ($1,200).
You have an honorable discharge.
 Many schools offer free tuition to full-time employees. If so, take a full time job at the college doing something related to your field if possible, or an office or service position if not. You can attend graduate classes part-time on evenings and weekends.
 Whether or not you already work in your field, find out if the company funds graduate degrees for existing employees to encourage their advancement. This type of employee incentive is most commonly offered in the business and technology fields. (Tuition assistance would be a good question to ask before you take a job.)


If the boss is paying for your graduate degree, he will expect you to perform well in both your classes and at work. If either slack, chances are good the company will no longer foot the bill.
When employers pay for graduate school they usually expect that you will remain with them, so they reap the rewards of your advanced degree. This agreement could be stated, written and signed, or implied.
If your degree is not related to your current job and you are in the United States you may need to pay income tax on part of the tuition which your employer pays.

