 If your horse isn't comfortable in his bit, he won't be calm. A good bit will fit more on the bars of the horse's mouth than the tongue. Experiment with different bits until you find the bit that is right for your horse.Hot horses often dislike the pressure of the bit, and, not understanding why the bit is there, become even more resistant and worried. This results in an inexperienced rider using more pressure on the but, which reinforces the cycle.
If you must teach your horse to accept a bit of any sort, try using an elastic insert. This insert releases pressure in response to the horse's relaxation. This reinforces his relaxing, and teaches him to accept the bit.
 If your horse is kept cooped up in a pen too many hours per day, he's more likely to be hot with pent-up energy and excitement when he finally gets into the pen. A healthy horse will want to release this energy by running and playing.Your horse should get plenty of grass and hay, with only a little grain. Too much grain means too much energy for a horse.
Pasture turn-out is a great stress-reliever for your horse.
 Sometimes, even an experienced rider won't be able to figure out how to calm their hot horse. It can be helpful to have the aid of an professional who isn't emotionally involved with the horse. The trainer may be able to spot behavioral routines you may have developed with your horse.Check with your local riding stable, equine veterinarian or farrier about professional trainers in your area.
A good way to evaluate a potential trainer is to observe them at work with another horse. Ask if you can schedule a time to observe them at work. If their training style makes you uncomfortable, you should try another trainer. A good trainer should inspire confidence.
Be prepared to make detailed observations while you watch the potential trainer at work. Are the stables clean and well-tended? Does it look like a safe place for horses and people? How does he interact with the other horses?
Once you've found a trainer you like, arrange one session between the trainer and your horse. Horses respond differently to every person, and you want to make sure that there's a good fit between your horse and the trainer.

