


Shelter is essential for hot, sunny days during the warmer months. If you rely on trees as part of the shade, ensure that they're not toxic. Trees also need protection from chewing, including removal of chewed branches to prevent infection to the trees. A shade shed should be built in pastures lacking in shade trees. This can be as simple as a high roof on four posts or a shed with three sides; it can be made very inexpensively.
Orient any shelter so that it heads away from prevailing cold winds and to make the most of cooling summer breezes (usually south facing in the northern hemisphere, vice versa in the southern hemisphere).
If you do need to build before starting the business, get firm timelines and signed deals as to costs of building. Most building projects inevitably cost more than initially thought. Moreover, get a variety of estimates rather than relying on just one builder. And only use registered builders affiliated with a recognized building association.
 This is extremely important, as you don't want your horses escaping or getting hurt on the fencing. Good fencing costs money but it's not worth skimping because injuries and loss can amount to a lot more than money outlaid on suitable fencing from the beginning.


The best fencing of all would be a tall, thick, and wide hedge with a wooden fence in front of it. However, as most people don't have the time to do this, a good quality wooden fence works just fine, as does metal bars. Wooden fencing comes in many kinds, such as post-and-board, post-and-rail, etc. and needs to be maintained. Using wood that is non-toxic and enduring, you should expect a good 15 to 20 years life from a well-cared for wooden fence. The trick is in maintaining it––borers can attack such fencing and bored horses like to chew it. Keep a regular eye for insect damage of wooden fencing and replace it regularly; as for chewing, you can try running an electric wire along the wood to condition the horses into leaving the fence alone. Many people resort to vinyl coated white wooden fencing because it needs less painting maintenance.
Another option is electric fencing. Provided it is properly earthed and made with quality wire using at least three to four rows, it is a cost-effective and usually safe solution. Most horses will shy away from it after a few shocks. However, sometimes it can scare a horse enough to destroy the fence, so care needs to be taken with particularly wild or frisky horses.
Do not ever use hog wire fencing for horses. Horses (and other wildlife like deer) can accidentally get their legs caught in it.
Barbed wire should not be an option for keeping horses. Barbed wire was designed for cows, not horses. Horses can be seriously injured, perhaps permanently, if they get caught in barbed wire.
 Also make sure you have equipment to clean the paddock/pasture and any other areas the horses will spend their time. Equipment includes a spade or a shovel and a rake if your horse is stabled. When replacing the bedding, you will need either a bucket for transporting the bedding or a wheelbarrow. Buy good quality tools, either new or used, as good equipment works better and lasts longer, making it cheaper in the long run., Horses need a lot of food to maintain their body condition. If a horse is underweight, she needs more to put the weight on, if she is overweight, she needs less feed. Know what the horse was fed before you bought it; horse's diets need to be adjusted over a period of several days. Remember that how many oats you give the horse depends a lot on how strenuously she is working. The basic components of a horses diet include:



Forage - Horses eat roughage to keep them warm. When buying hay, look at the quality––you want something that is nutritious but is not going to pass right through the horse. Try to get grassy hay, or an oaten hay. If you do get alfalfa (lucerne) hay, try to get a second or even better a third cut, as the hay will be more stalky and will not be too rich.

Concentrate - Horses in a paddock usually will eat grass and will require hay to help keep their body condition. However, some horses require hand feeding every day, twice a day, or every other day depending on the horse. The best mixture of chaffs is alfalfa and oats or wheat. The alfalfa chaff will provide high protein and calcium for your horse, and the wheat will provide a source of bulk food. This is when the horse will eat to stay full but the food does not put on or take away nutrients. This is used when you want to fill a horse up faster without adding heat and energy to the food.Older horses with bad teeth generally should receive a fair amount of chaff too, as they don't have to chew so much and still get the fibre and energy they need. Other than that, this also helps with maintaining a healthy appetite.
When feeding your horse chaffs (especially made from alfalfa), first mix in some water and crush it into a gruel. This will help prevent choking.
Also, don't feed your horse chaffs right after exercising, or she may choke because of lack of saliva to break down the chaff and make it go down smoothly. So before giving your exercised horse chaff, first let her drink some water and get rehydrated.



Supplements - Pellets and grain are good ways to put on weight and maintain it. They are also handy when you require a boost of energy for a show or your horse needs a lift. Boiled grains are best as they help to put weight on and during the colder months help to keep the horse warm. If you don't want to fuss around with boiling them, go for a steamed or crushed variety. Wholegrain needs to be broken prior to consumption, as the grains expand when contact with moisture has been made. If you're new to feeding and want something super easy and cost efficient, go for a Pelleted Mix. There are a lot on the market, and it can be difficult to find the right one for your horse. The best thing to start with is a lucerne pellet or a cool pellet. These feeds are add no additional energy and they provide a range of vitamins and minerals. After a while you can try different products until you find the perfect fit.

