

Plastic boning is the cheapest and most common type of boning found in modern corsets. If you're after a pretty top or something to impress in the bedroom, then go for this option. It's cheaper than other types and you will have plenty of designs and styles to choose from. Plastic boning cannot be used for waist training and should not be laced tightly, as this can cause the plastic to bend and dig in. If you choose an overbust corset and have large breasts, you should avoid plastic boning as it will be uncomfortable and will not provide enough support.



 


Steel boning comes in two different types, spiral steel and flat steel. Spiral steel is more flexible than flat steel, and they are often both used in the same corset. This type of boning provides a lot more support than plastic boning and is usually much more comfortable. While corsets with steel boning are usually a lot more expensive, if you are planning on wearing your corset regularly or for long periods of time, the benefits of buying a corset with this type of boning are well worth the additional cost. Not only will it be much more comfortable, but it will last much longer and is far less likely to lose its shape. A steel boned corset can be used for waist training if the overall construction of the corset is strong enough.






Double boned corsets (the boning should be steel) are normally used for waist training. They have twice as much boning as a normal corset and so can offer far more support and so can be laced tighter. If you want to significantly change the shape of your body, these will give the best results.





;
, An overbust corset covers the breasts, while an underbust corset stops just below them. Underbust corsets are far easier to buy off the rack than overbust corsets as they go by the waist measurement only, rather than waist and bust. If you are planning on wearing your corset underneath your clothing an underbust corset is far less obvious than an overbust corset.
 If you want a corset with plastic boning, you'll be able to buy a corset from a wide range of shops (they are sometimes sold as normal tops, but usually you will need to look in underwear shops), but steel boned corsets are harder to come by and you may find the only way to get what you want is to order it online. If you are planning on using your corset for waist training, you will get the best results by having your corset custom made.



If you are buying your corset off the rack you will need to know your waist measurement and, if you are buying an overbust corset, the measurement around your bust.
If you are ordering a custom corset online they will tell you what measurements they need. This will probably include the measurements around your bust, just below your bust, your waist and your hips. They will also need to know the vertical distance between each of these measurements in order to give you the best fit possible.
If you are buying a custom made corset from a shop, they should fit you for the corset there, and you won't need to take any of your own measurements.
 There are a lot of options here and this will have a huge impact on the final look of your corset, so pick carefully. Some fabrics to consider are:


Satin (or satin polyester). This produces a very shiny corset and is especially common for corsets sold as underwear.
Taffeta. This is usually less shiny than satin, and so doesn't look quite so much like underwear if you plan to wear your corset as a top. This is a good option if you want a plain corset but want to avoid looking like you forgot to get dressed.
Brocade. These beautiful woven fabrics make a corset look elaborate without the need for additional embellishments.
Lace. While you won't find any corsets made out of lace alone, a satin corset covered in lace can look very effective. Lace is also very commonly used to add embellishments to a corset.
 While most corsets will lace up at the back, there are a number of different options for the front of the corset:


A steel busk. This usually has five or six large clips on that secure the corset and create a straight line down the front of the corset. This is the most common way to fasten a steel boned corset.
A zip. Zips are often used on reversible corsets (corsets that are designed to be worn inside out to give two different designs) but may not be strong enough if you are planning on using your corset for waist training.
Wire hook and eye closure. These take forever to fasten up each individual clasp and while they are much more discrete than the clips on a steel busk, they are not even close when it comes to strength. Great for fashion corsets that won't be laced tightly, but otherwise they should be avoided.
Laced up. You can choose to have a corset that laces at the front and back. While this can look pretty, you run the risk of looking like you're just dressing up.
 If you are having your corset custom made, find out what your options are and ask to see pictures (or examples, if you are in the shop) of each style/fabric.
 Steel boned corsets are usually designed to reduce your waist by 4–5 inches (10.2–12.7 cm), but some waist training corsets are designed to reduce it further, to around 6–7 inches (15.2–17.8 cm) smaller than the natural size of your waist. If you aren't sure how the sizes work for a particular company or what size you should go for, ask. It is also of utmost importance to read the product manual and other instructions to know the exact corset size that will fit your waist perfectly.
 There are a few things you will need to consider when you try on your corset to make sure that it is suitable.


Check that your corset fits. If you can tighten it up all the way comfortably, you may want to consider getting a slightly smaller corset so it can be laced tightly.
Check that the cut of your corset is flattering. There's no point buying an expensive corset if it makes you feel unattractive.
Make sure that your corset is reasonably comfortable. While they usually take a bit of time to get used to, a corset shouldn't be particularly uncomfortable to wear unless you are lacing it very tightly.
Check that the quality is as high as it should be. While you shouldn't hold unrealistically high expectations of cheap, plastic boned corsets, the more expensive corsets should be fairly solid. Waist training corsets should have multiple layers of fabric to make them as strong as possible. Check the stitching, fabric (it shouldn't form ridges when the corset is tightened) and grommets to make sure your corset is of good quality and will last.
 You can't normally chuck a corset in the washing machine with everything else. Most corsets need to be dry cleaned or hand washed, and they should be cleaned only rarely. Where possible, wear something between the corset and your skin to reduce the frequency of washes. Make sure you will be able to clean your corset before you buy it.

