 Scruffing is one of the most popular ways to stop your ferret from biting.Grab your ferret by the loose skin on the back of the neck, and lift it to your eye level.Close the mouth with your index finger and thumb. Look at the ferret and say, "No!" in a loud and firm voice.Your ferret will probably struggle and try to move around. Don't be alarmed. You are not hurting the ferret.
If your ferret has a defiant attitude, you can drag the ferret on its back across the floor after you have finished scruffing.This will reinforce that you are in charge.;
, If scruffing does not work, put your ferret in time out. Put the ferret in a travel carrier or cage for 5 minutes or less. This method works best for baby ferrets (i.e. kits) because they are very playful and do not like being alone. Time out will help your ferret associate biting with something bad.Your ferret may go to sleep if you leave it in the cage for too long during time out. Your ferret needs to associate the cage with punishment not with nap time., Kits often get overly excited when they play and will begin to bite. If your ferret bites you during play time, give the ferret a toy to bite instead. This teaches your ferret that it is acceptable to bite a toy but not to bite people.There is no need to make a big deal about biting using this method.
 You should never hurt your ferret as part of the training process. Do not flick their nose, throw them, or hit them.Never scream or yell at them either. You do not want your ferret to be afraid of you. Your ferret may actually bite you more if it is afraid of you.Think of your ferret as a child that you love but are trying to discipline. You want to be seen as a loving, caring authority figure.
 Ferrets hate the taste of Bitter Apple and Bitter Lime and Fooey. You can buy any of these at your local pet store or online. Spray a small amount on your hands, toes, ankles, and anywhere else your ferret likes to bite.This will help the ferret associate biting with a nasty taste.


Never directly spray your ferret.
You can also put some of the spray on a Q-tip and put it in the ferret's mouth when it starts to bite.Bitter Apple also comes in a paste. This is helpful if your ferret likes to bite cords or their cage bars. Apply the paste to the item to deter the ferret from biting.

