 However, it’s best to be informed about the teams, players, and trends within the game of soccer before betting on a particular game. Read soccer news and learn to identify matchups that seem to favor one side or another.


For instance, if one undefeated team goes up against another team that loses frequently, you would be wise to bet against the team that loses regularly. However, don’t always bet on the favorite. Betting against the favored team can yield big rewards if you win.Run a search for "soccer betting tips" online and do some research before betting on soccer.
 Odds are typically represented as a number that you can multiply by your total bet to figure your winnings.


For instance, assume you bet $100 on a game with odds of 1.5 in Germany’s favor. When Germany wins, you will receive $150 (1.5 times the $100 you bet).
An “odds on” wager is one where the amount you can win is less than what you bet initially. In the above example, the $150 represents your $100 bet plus $50 extra. These bets are easy to win but offer minimal payout.
An “odds against” bet is one in which the amount you win will be more than what you staked. These bets are harder to win but reap greater rewards.
Different bookmakers have different odds. Check several bookmakers to get the best odds before making a bet.
 Moneyline odds are a given number in the hundreds or thousands, accompanied by a plus or a minus.


A positive moneyline odds value indicates how much you will earn on an $100 bet. When winning a moneyline bet, you’ll also get your initial betting unit returned.
For instance, if you bet $100 on a team with +200 moneyline odds, you’ll get $300 back (your initial investment of $100 plus $200 dollars). If you bet $200 on a game with moneyline odds of +100 and win, you’ll get $400 ($100 on the first hundred you spent, another $100 on the second hundred you spent, and your initial $200 investment).
Calculate potential profits with positive moneyline odds by dividing the odds by 100, then multiplying the result by your initial stake.
Moneyline odds represented as a negative number indicate how much you must invest before earning $100.
For instance, if moneyline odds on a team are -100 and you wagered $100 and won, you’d get $200 back (your initial investment of $100 plus $100 in winnings).
Calculate potential profits with negative moneyline odds by dividing the odds by 100, then dividing your stake by the result.
 Probabilities indicate how likely something is to happen or not happen.Generally, a low value for odds means that the team you’re betting on has a high probability of winning. A high value indicates the team is not favored, and likely to lose.


The probabilities of a match’s outcome are usually defined in the range between 0% (no chance) and 100% (a sure bet).
Probabilities do not guarantee an outcome. For example, a team might be estimated to have a winning probability of 70%, but still lose.
Avoid betting on teams with probabilities for victory of 50% or lower. At that probability, you’re taking a big chance with your money.

