 Raw egg is a great natural remedy for damaged hair and acts as a natural conditioner for dry hair. You can apply raw egg to your hair in two ways:Whisk two egg yolks in a bowl and massage them onto your scalp. Leave the egg yolk in your hair for a few minutes and then rinse your hair with cool water and shampoo. You can apply this remedy once a week.
You can also use egg yolk as part of a homemade shampoo. Mix an herbal infusion of liquid soap, organic herbs, essential oils, and olive oil. Then, add in a beaten egg. Massage the mixture on to your scalp and leave it for about 15 minutes. Rinse it with cold water. You can apply this shampoo once a day.
Egg oil is a more convenient, less smelly alternative to raw eggs.
 Coconut is a rich source of lauric and stearic acids, which lubricate your hair. The oil also penetrates deep into the hair shaft, which prevents the cuticle from becoming damaged and makes your hair look healthy and fresh.Massage your scalp with pure coconut oil using your fingers. Leave it on overnight. Wrap your head to keep the coconut oil on your hair.
Rinse off the coconut oil in the morning in the shower with cool water.
 Styling products, as well as air pollution, can leave a film on your hair that saps moisture and dulls your shine. Dairy products like sour cream and plain yogurt can help to reverse this damage. The lactic acid in dairy products gently strips away any dirt and moisturizes your hair.Massage ½ cup sour cream or plain yogurt into slightly damp hair. Let it sit for 20 minutes.
Rinse the sour cream or yogurt out with warm water, followed by cool water.
Shampoo your hair as you normally would.
This treatment can be applied every other week.
 To add some body to your hair, go for an unlikely beauty beverage: beer. The fermented drink contains yeast, which works well to hydrate limp or dull hair.Make the beer flat. Pour the beer into a container and let it sit out for a couple of hours to deplete the carbonation.
Mix ½ cup flat beer with 1 tsp light oil, like sunflower or canola, and a raw egg. Apply the mixture to clean, damp hair. Let it sit for 15 minutes, then rinse it with cool water.
You can also pour flat beer into a spray bottle and spritz it onto dry hair. When the beer evaporates, the remaining protein residue from the wheat, malt, or hops, strengthens your hair.
Apply both treatments every other week.
 Avocado is a good natural conditioner as the fats in the avocado promote hair growth and stronger hair. Its oils and proteins also help to smooth and weigh down any unruly hair.Mash up half an avocado and massage it into clean, damp hair. Let it sit for 15 minutes before rinsing it off with water.
You can amp up the moisturizing power of avocado by combining a mashed avocado with 1-2 tsp sour cream, egg yolks, or mayonnaise.
Apply these treatments every two weeks.
 Aloe vera is a natural moisturizer for your skin and a natural conditioner for your hair. You can use aloe vera in a juice or gel form.Apply a handful of aloe vera juice to your scalp and the ends of your hair. Wash it off with warm water after a few minutes.
You can also create a mixture of 4 tbsp of aloe vera gel with 2 tbsp of coconut oil and 3 tbsp of yogurt. Stir the mixture and apply it on to your hair. Let it sit for 10 minutes before rinsing it off with water.
 Maybe you have hard water in your shower, you spend a lot of time outside without a hat, or you straighten your hair every day. If you do any of these hair dehydrating things, moisturize your hair with honey.


Massage about ½ cup honey into clean, damp hair. Let it sit for 20 minutes. Then, rinse it off with warm water.You can also add 1-2 tbsp olive oil to loosen the honey for easier application.
For really sun-damaged hair, mix honey with 1-2 tbsp of a protein-rich ingredient, like avocado or egg yolk. This will help to replenish the keratin protein bonds of your hair that are damaged by UV rays.
Apply these treatments once a month.
 If your scalp is itchy and dry, or flaking, use olive oil and lemon juice. The acidity in lemon juice helps to rid your scalp of any loose, dry flakes. The olive oil then moisturizes the newly exposed skin on your head.Mix 2 tbsp fresh lemon juice with 2 tbsp olive oil and 2 tbsp water. Massage the mixture into your damp scalp.
Let it sit for 20 minutes. Then, rinse and shampoo your hair.
Treatment can be applied every other week.

