 If you've never visited the touristy things in your area, spring break is a great time to do it. Most kids will love getting to see the landmarks and take pictures. Just be sure to include something age-appropriate for each kid, so everyone has a good time., Almost every area has a place where you can enjoy a family picnic. Choose a scenic spot with plenty of room for the kids to play, and pack all of the family's favorite foods. The lake or the beach make a great place for picnicking. Spending the day outside can make it feel like you're on vacation without the hassle of going away., You likely have a kid-friendly museum in your area or nearby. Pick one, and make a day of it. Do all the "extras," such as seeing the movie they offer or paying to take the tour. Eat somewhere nearby or in the museum to cap off the day., Because it's spring break, your area will likely have a number of local events to keep you and the family entertained. You'll likely find music festivals, craft shows, carnivals, and other events around town. Pick a few to make the week more memorable.
 Even if you need to stay in town for the week, consider spending a day out-of-town. Travel to a nearby state park for the day, or visit that landmark you've always meant to see. Go see that famous family-friendly restaurant. You could even take a short train trip.
 Spring break is perfect to make time to see people you haven't seen in a while.One way to get everyone together is to host a big party at your house. Let your kids invite some friends, while you invite adults you'd like to spend some time with.


If you want to cut down on the hassle, make it a potluck or order pizza in. You could also just schedule a big dinner out somewhere.
 One way to make a staycation feel like a vacation is to experience new things in your city. Explore parts of the city you haven't been before. Try new restaurants, go in new shops, and visit new parks. Explore a library you haven't been to. Walk around an artistic district., Since you're saving money by staying home, maybe you can spring for something new to do. Maybe you've been eyeing a family art class, for instance, or you've been wanting to go to a show that's coming to town., During spring break, you'll have more time to plan and execute a special family night. Pull out all the stops for an extra-special, memorable night of family fun. Pull up those Pinterest boards for ideas you've always meant to do.


For instance, you could buy stuff to make homemade pizzas, and then pig out in front of a family movie.
Alternatively, camp out in the backyard with s'mores and scary stories.

