 By researching in advance, you'll save yourself a lot of time and frustration once you arrive. You’ll also be saving yourself a lot of money. Figure out what the area offers culturally and naturally. Look at the area or city’s tourism and cultural boards’ and governmental websites, read articles online, determine the best way to get around in the area and figure out what’s free or discounted and when.Find out if you have member perks on any cards or memberships, such as free access to museums across the country.
Collect coupons to attractions, theme parks and events.
Make sure you’re on Groupon.com, LivingSocial.com and Mamapedia.com for more deals.
 As soon as you’re unpacked, talk with the concierge about the best restaurants to eat at on a budget and for recommendations about parking and entertainment. You’ll find out a bunch this way, including a lot you didn’t think to ask. The same goes with talking to locals. They’ll know all the best spots, and talking with them is a chance to experience the place you’re visiting.
 Like with hotels and planes, you’ll save money if you make your reservation early. If you plan on driving a lot, get the unlimited mileage plan. Try to rent a car from a rental agency that’s not in the airport terminal. Those at airports typically charge higher rates. Book the smallest car you need and upgrade if you want once you get to the rental agency. Before getting the insurance coverage through them, check to see if your car insurance policy or even a credit card covers the car in case of an accident.


Make sure you compare daily and weekly rates. Sometimes renting it for a full week, even if you only need it 5 days, will be cheaper.
Packing your own GPS can also save you money. You won't have to rent one if the car doesn’t come equipped with one, as many won’t.
Look for coupons in travel magazines, the travel section in your newspaper, on rental car websites, etc.
Also call and ask them about special rates and discounts they offer or will be offering in the future., The cheapest form of transportation on your vacation will be walking. It's also an excellent opportunity to talk with the locals and to see the city and take photos. Most cities also have some form of rapid transit system like the subway or metro. You can get maps at the stations, or print them from the city’s transit website before you leave. Print the bus routes, too, if you plan to use the bus, which you may need to do to connect from one rapid transit line to another.


Public transportation is an excellent way to travel once at your destination. It’s easy and inexpensive. You'll save a lot of money in cab fares (and tips) and in renting a car. Most cities offer discounts for students and seniors, too.
It's also safe, contrary to what you may have heard.
 Take free walking tours through parks, arboretums, museums, homes, art exhibits and so forth. Go to a street fair or concert. See free movie screenings in parks or cafes. Swim in the ocean, at the lake or in the river. Take a bike ride through the forest. Get lost wandering the streets of a new city. There’s even a website called Couchsurfing.com that will connect you with locals who will show visitors around the area for free, just for the fun of it!, There are a couple of ways to do this, one being easy and the other hard. We’ll start with the hard way. Don’t take your debit card with you when you go shopping. Instead, buy a pre-paid credit card or travel card that has only the money on it that was factored into the budget for shopping. Or, because the other option includes sometimes needing cash, only take the cash that you can spend. Just like with eating off the tourist path, shop off it, too. Hit the back streets, the local shops, the street markets.


And remember that in many countries, you’re supposed to bargain for the price, which is one reason you need cash. Have fun haggling!

