 Anything that draws attention to you (in a good way). Be sure to have a bunch of shirts and even jeans in neon colors! You aren't only limited with your clothes though, if you don't have as many brights as you wish then just add some accessories and brighten yourself with those!;
, Many rainbow chicks have hair as colorful as their clothes and personalities, but don't think that you have to dye your hair. It's your hair so do with it what you like and what you think looks best on you!

, Attitude is one of the most important things! Rainbows aren't mad or sad so try to keep a happy aura with you or if for some reason something is wrong and you just can't help but feel down it's OK. try to talk with someone about whatever it is and when everything is all better shine bright and be happy!

, Don't be mean to someone just because they aren't like you, instead try getting to know them! If they end up being mean then just stop hanging out with them because if you hang out with negative people you will probably be called a 'poser' more often. Also try new things. You never know if you're going to like the new sport that has caught your eye or if that band everyone is talking about is really as great as they say. Don't be afraid of new things.
 You should get headbands, necklaces, rings, earrings, etc... in many different colors! You could also make Kandi bracelets (like Kandi kids or ravers do. Just get bright beads, stretchy string, and some friends together and make a bunch of them!) Don't be limited by what the stores have either you can always try to make some cute and original pieces! All that matters is that you have fun trying to create your next big piece.
 They are either jealous or they aren't very accepting. DON"T EVER CHANGE BECAUSE SOMEONE ELSE SAYS TOO! Stay true to yourself and you'll be happier than you would be if you stopped doing what you love.
 Hot topic and Claire's have great selections! Try looking for funky eyeliners too, they come in a lot of colors, mascara does too! The possibilities are endless if you just look in the right places!

, If you're one of the more artistic rainbows then you might want to carry around a book or paper and some writing utensils, even if you're aren't very good at drawing it's a great way to spend time that would otherwise be wasted. Crayons, colored pencils, and markers are some of the cheaper supplies that come in many colors! If you're feeling very artistic then go and try some modeling clay or painting, you never know if it's fun unless you try!

, While some may say you can't be upset, that is wrong! Whoever wrote that must not have been a true rainbow. All people get sad it's normal. If you don't get sad then there is something wrong with you! If you are trying to convert into a rainbow always remember: You can still have emotions when you're a rainbow, but just try to look on the good side! If you didn't get the leading role in the play then try to be happy for whoever did, if you got switched out during a sports game feel good for whoever got put in, etc...

