 When you spend time with a friend fighting an eating disorder, certain moments will challenge you. Arming yourself with knowledge regarding not only anorexia, but basic information about healthy weight change, nutrition, and exercise will help you better plan stress-free times with your friend.Consult books, articles, and brochures from trusted medical and non-profit sources such as the Mayo Clinic and the National Eating Disorder Association.
Look for materials that address common misunderstandings and appropriate responses. Better understanding what goes on in your friend’s mind helps you respond calmly and sensibly, rather than with anger or frustration.
 These might prompt your friend to avoid certain situations. Plan your time with your friend away from these triggers.


For example, do not plan activities that including eating. Your friend may feel pressured to eat, and back out of plans because of this.
Limits will differ for everyone. Ask your friend what makes them uncomfortable and try to respect their answer.
 Just like arranging a time to talk is important, it is also helpful to schedule time to hang out with your friend and enjoy each other’s company.


Make sure you spend time with your friend outside of the time you take to help them. Distraction is important, which means having time to simply hang out as friends.
Find comfortable activities. Talk to your friend about what they most want to do and find things you will both enjoy.
Remember that anorexia doesn’t change who your friend is on the inside. Hanging out with them like you would any other friend gives them time where they are not dominated by their eating disorder.
 Sometimes your friend will simply need you to be there while they are struggling. They may or may not want to talk or go do something, but regardless they need your support. Create a plan for when your friend needs help fast.


Decide on logistical matters such as where you will meet in advance. It may add a lot of stress to figure these things out in the moment, so asking “would you like me to come over if you say you’re not feeling ok?” ensures you both know what your friend wants in hard times.
Make sure there is a plan for when you are not available, as well. Let them know you are there for them even when you cannot be there by setting up a plan for them to get help even when you are busy.

