 There are in person classes that you can take that are given by the Princeton Review for the ACT, for example.These classes are great because some students benefit from the sense of accountability that you get from a traditional class setting. These classes can vary in length, but for the Princeton Review course, it lasts 6 sessions. To enroll, you go online and find a website for the course you want to take, enter where you live, and the dates you are interested in taking the class to find a class near you.


The Princeton Review course gives 4 practice tests so that you can measure your progress and target your problem areas. Most other test prep courses will offer something similar for you to chart your progress.
These classes tend to be expensive but will often include the cost of the study materials that you will be needing.
Do the homework associated with these courses in order to score the best you can.
If you live in a rural area, you may need to commute to a city to take the tests.;
, There are many online websites, some of them free and others at a cost, you can sign up with that will prepare you for the test you are taking. For example, for the ACT, there is a website that prepares you for the ACT through videos, text lessons, practice tests that simulate the real test, and games to help you study and keep you engaged., For the ACT, for example, there are different kinds of study guides you can buy depending on your need, and this is the same with many other tests. The following are different types of study materials for the ACT: critical books are study guides are for anyone trying to improve their scores, regardless of skill level or areas of strength/weakness; subject training books will help you focus on one specific area of the test, for example, English, Reading, Math or Science; books for top scorers are for those who want an extra push to get their score to the top; and last, books for people who score low and/or only want to work for a short amount of time. Avoid these 5 hour type short study guides unless you only need to improve your score a small amount.


Purchase your materials from book stores, online, or check them out from a library.
Research the best study guides for the specific test you are preparing for and your needs.

