 The hex locked, fixed weight dumbbell or a spin locked dumbbell are good choices. The hex locked dumbbells are adjustable, but not easily, with an allen wrench. fixed weight dumbbells are solid dumbbells, they cannot be disassembled and there is absolutely no chance that a plate will fall on you (there are no plates). The disadvantage with solid dumbbells are that there is some torque because unlike the hex locked and spin lock, there is no revolving sleeve. The spin lock dumbbell has a collar that is threaded on so it is safe, and the disadvantage of this dumbbell is that the bar protrudes out on both ends.;
, The dumbbell's initial position on the floor is between your legs (straddled). The other hand is placed on the lower thigh (of the same side the hand is on, i.e. if the dumbbell is grasped with the right hand, the left hand rests on the left lower thigh), and should also be chalked. Chalk can be bought at sporting goods stores and is used to absorb perspiration thus strengthening the grip.
 The other arm is bent and is pushing down on the lower thigh (this is like when your are getting out of a chair, and press your thighs with your hands, for extra strength). The pull should be accelerated up and not yanked up.
 The short backswing gives the lift a little head start and feels natural because this lift, more than the hang dumbbell power clean, is elliptical in its upward path.
 The knee should track over the feet. For the initial pull the weight should be throughout the foot and not on the balls of the foot.
 Use a slight dip at the end to get under the dumbbell.
 Stand up straight first, bend your knees and forcefully push the dumbbell to full extension with your legs, hips, lower back and the muscles normally used for pressing.
 After each repetition, place the dumbbell on a foam kickboard. A hallway runner folded several times works as well to gently drop the dumbbell on. The kickboard shortens the movement a little, dampens the noise, and protects the floor. This is one repetition. Alternate with the left side hand during the set or from set to set.
 Do not lift a dumbbell or any object with a rounded or twisted back. The spine must, for the most part, be rigid and not twisted because the spine was not made to have a lot of rotation. Rotate your body around your spine. Look at golfers when the swing their clubs, they are not rotating their spine - they are twisting their body around their spine.
 When observing lifters lower weights, it may look like they are just letting it fall. Unless they are using bumper plates, they are actually controlling the weight on its descent to avoid damage to the floor, the equipment and to avoid damage to their shoulders and back. With a good padding on the floor, the negative would be more like a controlled drop, but nowhere close to a free fall drop used by Olympic lifters dropping their barbells with bumper plates. With too much control, in the negative, the biceps will be the weak link. Use good form when lifting and lowering the dumbbell.
