 Different places have different requirements. If you have to get a license, you will most likely need to have a high school diploma or a GED, along with graduation from an accredited cosmetology school.


All U.S. states require hairdressers to have a cosmetology license.;
, There, you will learn everything from basic hair-cutting to more complex styling and hair-coloring treatments. Be sure to read the requirements of your state or country before choosing your cosmetology school. For example, many states in the United States require a certificate from the National Accrediting Commission Of Cosmetology Arts and Sciences (NACCAS)


Consider taking some classes on other beauty-related subjects, such as makeup and doing manicures.
 The cosmetology exam usually has two components: a written, multiple-choice exam and a performance exam in which you can demonstrate your hair-styling skills to an evaluator. You can study for the exam through books, online study programs or software-based study guides. A good way to practice for your physical exam is by giving haircuts to your friends and family.
 This position is often a paid six-month or yearlong position at a salon, where you will be trained by hairdressers. There, you can practice the techniques you're learning from your cosmetology-school textbooks.
 The exam usually takes place at a state-assigned testing center. Once you've passed the exam, you will likely become a strong candidate for open positions at many salons.
 The best time to do this is while you are getting your hair cut, so that you don't distract your hairdresser from other clients. You can also try to set up a meeting with your hairstylist on a time and day when both of your are free. Be sure bring a pad of paper, something to write with, and questions you want to ask. Here are some ideas:


Did you have to take any special classes? If so, where?
Did you have to get a license? What can I do to prepare for it?
How long/how much did everything cost?
Is there anything you can advise me on?

, Make sure that you have a neat, clean appearance. A pair of black slacks and a black shirt will look the most formal. Consider getting your nails done, and go easy on the makeup. Be sure that your hair is done as well. You are, after all, applying for a job that deals with making hair look great.
 Potential clients will have troubles trusting your abilities if they see that you have messy, unkempt, or damaged hair. They may assume that you do not know how to take care of hair and may hesitate entrusting their precious locks to your hands. You do not need to style it extensively every single day—just make sure that it looks clean and healthy.
 This is a great way to get experience and will help prevent you from falling into the "you need experience to get a job, but you need a job to get experience" spiral. The internship may even lead to a job offer, depending on your performance, how much they like working with you, and whether or not you have finished your education.
 The hair salon can only do so much when it comes to getting clients for you. Even if someone does walk into the salon, he or she may not pick you as their stylist. By using social media, however, you can tell more people about yourself and your work, and thus get more clients that way. Here are some ideas:


Consider creating a Facebook, Twitter, Tumblr, or Pintrest account. Use these to post photos of your work, and mention any specials you might have going.
Create a website or blog, and use it to tell people about yourself and your work. You can post your work address and prices, along with some photos of your hair cuts.
Encourage satisfied clients to visit your sites and post feedback.
 You may be a talented hairdresser, but making certain mistakes can cause you to lose clients. Many hairdressers rely on returning clients. When you get a new client, you want to give her a pleasant experience so that she will return to you the next time she needs her hair cut. This section will offer you some guidelines on how to keep your clients, as well as how to make first-time clients into life-time clients.
 This might mean that you will have to go back to school and take some classes to learn new, specific techniques that were not in fashion or even available when you first went to cosmetology school.
 Not everyone likes chatting while getting their haircut, but many people do. When striking up a conversation with your client, listen to her replies. If her replies are short and terse, she may not like the subject or she may not feel like talking. Consider changing the subject a few times. Great conversation topics include school, work, friends, hobbies, and weekend plans.


Ask more questions about your client instead of talking about yourself.
Be sure to face your client and avoid talking to her through the mirror; this will help build the trust between you and your client.
 Do not insult your client about the state of her hair, and always ask her before touching her hair. She may be at the salon to get her hair touched, cut, styled, or dyed, but asking her something like "May I see your hair?" will help her prepare mentally and emotionally for this.
 You will be close to your client for long periods of time. A strong perfume or body odor can be off-putting and deter your client from returning to you. Be sure that you shower every day and wear deodorant. If you tend to get sweaty throughout the day, consider bringing a fresh shirt to change into.
 Not only is this important for hygienic reasons, but your clients will also appreciate it. A messy counter implies that you are messy in other tasks as well, including haircuts. Make sure that your tools are very clean and that there is no leftover hair or product them. The seats, aprons, and the floor should also be clean.
 Not only is this good customer service, but it shows your clients that you really do care about them and that they can rely on you. Do not act upset or annoyed when a client changes her appointment. Smile, even if you are talking on the phone; it will make you both sound and look friendlier.
 Don't do anything you think might look good if she doesn't want it. If the client really wants something that you know will be a mistake and look awful, try to suggest something else. Be sure to start with the smallest suggestions first, instead of the larger ones. For example:


If a client really, really wants straight-cut bangs, but she has thick, curly hair, ask her how she'd feel about you thinning the bangs slightly and explain that they would still look straight, but that they will have less body.

