 You should only perform the maneuver at home if your doctor has clearly diagnosed you with BPPV. If there is a chance that your vertigo is caused by some other condition, the maneuver should only be done by a doctor. The maneuver you will do at home is almost the same as the one the doctor performed, only there will be some slight adjustments.You should not do the Epley maneuver at home if you have had a recent neck injury, if you have a history of stroke, or if you have a limited range of your neck motion.
 Place a pillow on your bed so that when you lie down, it will be behind your back and your head will be lower than the rest of your body. Sit on the bed and turn your head 45 degrees to the right.


If possible ask someone to be there while you do this maneuver. It will be very helpful to have someone keep time for you, as you will have to remain in each position for 30 seconds.
 With your head still rotated 45 degrees to the left, quickly lie back so that the pillow is under your shoulders and your head is lower than your shoulders. Your head should be resting on the bed. Keep your head at the 45 degree angle facing the right. Wait for 30 seconds., Do not lift your head when you turn it; if you do, you may have to start the maneuver over. Stay in this position for 30 seconds again.
 From your position where you are facing the left, move your body so you that you are lying on your right side. Your head should be facing down so that your nose is touching the bed. Keep in mind that you head will be turned more than your body., Wait 30 seconds in the last position, lying on your right side with your head facing down so your nose touches the bed. Once the 30 seconds is up, sit up. You can repeat the self-maneuver 3 to 4 times a day until you do not feel any sensations of vertigo. Note that, if you have BPPV on the left side, do the same exercise but with the sides reversed., This way, if something goes wrong and you inadvertently trigger more dizziness or vertigo, you can sleep it off (as opposed to having it negatively impact your day).

Once you have practiced the maneuver and feel comfortable performing it on yourself, feel free to do it at any time during the day.

