 Identify the times that your child engages in each activity and try to keep it the same each day. When children and parents know what is coming next, it makes the routine that much easier to follow. Specific activities that you may want to incorporate in your schedule include:


Bedtimes, wake times, and naps
Bathing
Leaving for school or daycare
Extracurricular activities
Meals
Other structured activities

, Children with ADHD often struggle with remembering where they have placed things. This can be quite challenging when you’re trying to stick to a schedule that is being disrupted because your child can’t remember where he placed his lunch bag. Make sure to organize your home so that he has a logical space to store his items. For example, he may keep his book bag in a bin next to the front door or pencils in his desk drawer. Organize your home so that it makes the most sense for your family and lifestyle.
 Allow your child to complete his homework in small chunks. In between each chunk, he should be permitted to have a break. It would probably be helpful to use a timer to help your child stay on task. Having a plan can help with the homework routine.


Have a special place where your child does his homework and keeps his supplies. Keep in mind that every child is different. Some children may need a quiet place away from others to concentrate while other children may need to be near their parents for help with assignments.
 Use written reminders to help your child stay focused on the routine. The instructions should be brief so that it doesn’t become a distraction.


Checklists are great at keeping children with ADHD organized. Try posting a checklist by the exit door, in his room, or anywhere else that will help him to remember the routine.
 When you see your child trying to stick to the daily routine, it’s very important to praise him. This will motivate him to continue to practice the routine to the best of his ability. Be sure to not just focus on him completing every detail but recognize his efforts as well.

