 Spend a little time teaching your pet to obey verbal commands not to lick themselves or you. Verbal commands, once you teach your pet, will prove very effective.


When your pet is licking you or themselves, say “no lick!”
Move away from your pet slowly as you give the command.
Only repeat the command once or twice.
Don’t yell at your pet.
Training with verbal commands may take several weeks or longer. Have patience., Positive reinforcement is a great way to stop your pet from licking you or themselves. Remember, the point of positive reinforcement is to reward the pet for doing (or not doing) the intended behavior.


Pair your positive reinforcement with verbal commands. When the dog obeys your verbal command, reward them.
After the dog obeys what you’ve said, reward them with a treat and/or by saying “good boy.”, If verbal commands and positive reinforcement have not worked, you may want to consider negative reinforcement. With negative reinforcement, you’ll essentially train your pet by punishing them for licking the cream or ointment.


One of the gentlest ways to use negative reinforcement is to simply touch or tap your pet lightly when they lick lotions or creams. This is best paired with a verbal command such as “no lick!”
If you want to escalate negative reinforcement, you can try using a spray bottle. Simply spray your pet lightly when they lick you or themselves.
Never hit your pet. Hitting is not an effective way of training and will alienate your pet from you.Also, be aware that negative reinforcement may not work when you aren't in the room. Many dogs will associate the owner with the punishment, rather than the activity. This means they don't lick when the owner is there, but will happily return to licking once they've left.
 You can also consult a trainer or your veterinarian for ideas about training your pet. Ultimately, as pet care professionals, they'll have access to the latest information about how to stop your pet from licking lotions or creams.


Consider enrolling your pet in a training program.
Schedule a consultation with a trainer about your cream or lotion licking problem. Tell the trainer that you have serious concerns about it.
Mention the licking problem to your veterinarian at your next visit. Your vet may have some really good ideas about how to stop your pet from licking.

