 One of the best ways of ensuring that your dog will not engage in destructive or otherwise poor behavior when she is by herself is to assign her appropriate tasks to do while you are away. Doing so will ensure that your dog is fulfilling her natural desire to remain active while at the same time engaging in healthy, non-destructive activities., A great way to simulate an environment in which your dog can hunt for food is by making use of food puzzle toys. These are containers that hold food and treats but do not provide your dog easy access to their food. Working for her food in this manner will fulfill her innate desire to hunt for food, simulating an environment similar to what wild dogs experience when scavenging for food.Food puzzle toys make your dog work for food in ways that are healthy for your dog because of the skills (e.g. pawing, nibbling, rolling) required to access the food. In addition, these toys also have a calming effect on your dog by encouraging her to engage in chewing and licking.Allow your dog time to learn to play with food puzzle toys. Gradually increase the amount of effort required to access the food from her food puzzle toys. If your dog is used to being served food in a bowl, she will take some time to learn to enjoy playing with food puzzle toys. Be patient with her as she learns this skill and do not force her to do too much too soon.For detailed instructions on how to stuff a particular brand of food puzzle toy known as a KONG food puzzle, visit this website.
 Make your dog hunt for her meals around the house by hiding treats and food puzzle toys around the house. The ASPCA suggests that you can hide 'one of your dog's meals right before you leave her home alone, and she'll have great fun hunting her chow while you're away.'You can vary this activity by doing the same in your yard so that your dog can hunt for food both inside the house and outside in the yard. Most dogs love playing the game of looking for pieces of kibble in the grass., All dogs have an innate need to chew. The ASPCA observes that chewing helps dogs keep their jaws strong and teeth clean and that both wild and domestic dogs spend hours chewing.Providing your dog chew time with acceptable items to chew on will not only help her in maintaining a strong jaw and keeping her teeth clean but will also prevent her from chewing on items around the house that you do not want your dog to chew.

