 If you ask questions, you'll often get the right answers from the subject himself. For example, you could clarify what you learned in shotgunning by asking, "Now, Billy, he's your grandfather?" Ask questions in such a way so that they can be perceived as statements. That way, if the subject affirms your question, it will seem as though you knew the answer. If the subject indicates that Billy was not his or her grandfather, it's okay because you were just asking a question.
 Most of the time, the subject will volunteer more information than is necessary. He might say something like, "No, Billy was my uncle. He lived on a farm." You now actually know something about your subject. By using this information to ask more questions, you can give the impression that you actually know quite a bit about the subject. If you're a good listener, you can get up to speed quickly.
 Once you're on a fruitful line of questioning (or "reading"), keep going. If, for example, the subject says they are making a decision. You could follow that with a statement such as, "But this decision involves another person, too." Most decisions do involve at least one other person to some extent or another. If you're observant and brave, you might notice the subject's wedding ring and say instead, "But this decision needs to be made with your husband." If you're right - because the statement is so obvious, yet also targeted toward an observable attribute of the person- you'll be that much more impressive.
 Once you've helped the subject to open up and you have some idea of what you're talking about, you can bring the reading to a satisfying end by relaying a message from the deceased friend or relative. You don't need to be exact and you don't need to give advice. Just tell the subject what he or she wants to hear: that everything will go well.


You could say, for example, "Billy wants you to know that he's always watching over you and he misses you. He's happy and he wants you to be happy too. And you will be. You're going to make the right decision." You may want to warn of challenges ahead to give a more realistic tinge to your reading, but the most important thing is to make the person feel good.

