 Your right hand goes on the bottom of the saxophone with your fingers resting on three white buttons. Your thumb sits on a thumb rest closest to you.Your other hand rests on the top of the saxophone with your thumb on the thumb rest and your fingers rest on the three large buttons on the top.You will typically have a total of 5 buttons on the top. You rest your fingers on the larger ones or ones that have indents. Skip the very top button, which is usually smaller than the other ones.
Hold your saxophone close to you so that you have full control over it.
Practice stretching your fingers to the other buttons on the saxophone to build finger dexterity.
 Curl your bottom lip over your teeth and put your mouth halfway over the reed. To get the best sound you want to seal your lips to the mouthpiece when you blow.Make sure to keep in mind that air can escape from the side of your mouth as well.
 Notes on a saxophone are comprised of open and closed keys that are performed by holding down buttons on your instrument.If you want to read off sheet music or play with a band, it's important that you study and memorize a key chart, so you know which buttons to hold down.


A C note is played by holding down the large middle button on the top of your saxophone., To learn classic saxophone music or play with other musicians you'll need to learn sheet music. Sheet music is comprised of notes arranged on five lines called the staff. Sheet music will also designate the register in the form of the treble clef or bass clef, as well as the beats per minute in a song.


Notes on the lines in higher registers from top to bottom are, F, D, G, B, and E.
Notes in between the lines in lower registers on the staff from top to bottom are, E, C, A, and F., The best way to learn how to play saxophone is to take lessons from an instructor who can show you how to play. An instructor will be able to teach you music theory and can give you tips on how to improve your personal performance.
 To get a better understanding for what your saxophone should sound like, listen to professional saxophone music. The more you listen to different styles of saxophone music, the easier it will be for you play by ear.


Some of the best sax musicians include Sam Rivers, Joe Henderson, and John Coltrane.