 These injuries could come in the form of bruises or cuts that continue to show up without explanation. It is also important to note if when you ask the child about these markings, he or she responds with an explanation that doesn’t make sense or sounds like it is a cover up for some other explanation.Physical abuse could present itself as cuts, bruises, welts, muscle sprains, red marks, black eye, marks of finger nails, human bite marks, burns, abrasions in the pattern of an instrument, lacerations and broken, loose or missing teeth.
Before drawing any conclusions, it is important to make sure that the child doesn’t have any diseases, like Hemophilia or brittle bone disease, that can cause cuts or bruises.;
, Burn marks are usually appear on the hands, arms, legs and buttocks. Scald burns are the most common types of burns. They can be caused by any hot liquid such as hot water, soup, hot liquids such as tea, coffee, or by cigarette butts. The burn marks appear differently depending on the intensity of the burn.


The burn marks appear differently depending on the intensity of the burn. The first degree burns have the reddened sunburn look.
In the second degree burns some part of the skin looks damaged and turn into blisters with fluid inside.
The third degree burns are when that part of the skin is completely destroyed and also possibility of muscle and bone getting damaged. The skin takes a deep red color.
 When coming to a conclusion it is important to keep in mind the shape, pattern and location of the bruise. If a bruise appears on a bony part of a child--like a knee or elbow--the chances are they got that while playing. But, if the bruising occurs in unusual places such as neck, back, cheek, genitals and buttocks then they can be looked into as a case of child abuse. The shape of the bruise should also be taken into consideration:


If the child has been slapped hard on the cheek, then the finger marks appear on the cheek. If he has been hit hard on the arms, back, or thighs then the hand or finger marks appear in that area. The skin would look pink or red.
If an object like a belt, stick, shoes, kitchen utensils have been used then there are formations in that area which indicate that an object has been used to abuse them.
 Bite-marks tend to be in different locations of the body. Bite marks on infants tend to be used as a way to punish them and they tend to appear in areas such as cheeks, shoulders, arms, and buttocks. They can be identified by tooth marks. If they are deep enough to split or crack the skin then it takes time for them to heal--otherwise, they heal in about 24 hours.
 You should take note if a child seems to be hesitant or afraid of going home. Physically abused children are also generally show extreme reactions to loud noises, sudden movements, and even physical touch., One of the lesser known signs of a child who is being abused is their clothing. If you notice that a child is wearing a long-sleeved shirt and long pants on a hot day, there is a chance that he or she is covering signs of abuse. Similarly, scarves can conceal marks on the neck, and hair that is styled in a way that covers a side of the face could potentially cover bruises or cuts.


You should also pay attention to how much school the child misses. An abusive parent may keep a child from going to school until the injuries have healed.
 Pay attention if the child has been showing aggressive behaviors and getting into brawls or fights with other peers at school and during activities. The child may try to justify their aggressive behavior or show no remorse for what they have done. They act this way because they believe that they are being physically abused as a punishment or because abuse is a way to relieve stress.
 A child who is being abused may become angry with himself because he feels helpless or powerless to stop the abuse. He may also develop low self-esteem and display a lack of interest in fun activities or making friends.

