 Find out how long it will take to get there, and the optimal route. If it is only a few hours, a car ride may be your best bet. If longer than a few hours, deciding between a road trip and air travel is critical. If it will be a road trip, find a route that has interesting landmarks, scenery, and places to take breaks. Look up family-friendly attractions near your destination. Museums and great scenery likely won’t keep their attention. Plan a visit to a popular attractions like an amusement park as part of the overall itinerary.
Pre-plan your pit stops so you have convenient stopping points, like restaurants with play places.
Make a list of odd, roadside attractions like the largest bottle of ketchup or a basketball-painted water tower.Look for large truck stops or travel stops where there is plenty of room to walk around, lots of snacks to peruse through, and maybe even a trinket or toy that might draw attention.;
, If you’ve already established that the travel window is minimal without issues, be sure to add in time for extra pit stops, multiple bathroom breaks, and time for them to adjust to new time zones. When returning home, build in an extra day so they don’t have to get back to school the day after getting home. When possible, try to find flights with longer layovers, layovers in new locations, and seats on the plane near the bathrooms.
 Make sure to book a room that is large enough to accommodate everyone. Ensure you have enough beds, parking spots, places to store valuables, a mini fridge, and any supplementary needs (e.g. iron, hair dryer, extra hangers).


Ask for your extras when making reservations. It may be difficult to accommodate on the day of arrival.
There are particular rules for plane travel with children. Research the seat restrictions and the items you are permitted to ship for free before finalizing your itinerary.
When you check in, some locations have unlisted extras like toys, treats, and various kid items. Be sure to ask for whatever extras you can. Hotels are eager to please and retain guests by providing everything possible., However possible, whether it’s looking up care providers in the area, or simply taking turns, ensure you include time for some adult relaxation. If everything is about the kids, and there are no breaks provided, the minimal issues will soon be aggravating enough to irritate and anger.


Schedule a couples massage while the kids are away.
Go somewhere like a bar or a casino where the minors are not permitted.
Find a 4-star restaurant and have a relaxing dinner.

