 Outdoor photography requires that you keep aware of your own comfort levels foremost. If you are likely to be taking photographs in the rain, under the searing sun, in bodies of water, etc., you need to be wearing the right gear.


For pond, stream, swamp, etc., photography, get some decent boots, waders, gaiters, etc.
For searing heat environments, wear a good hat with a wide brim, neck cover and an elastic band to keep it in place. If the brim can be turned to one side or folded back, this might be useful to prevent shading your photos on occasion.
For cold weather shooting, rug up appropriately and get gloves that are warm but still allow you to move the camera apparatus.
Pack adequate food, drink and snacks. Take along anything that can make the experience more comfortable, such as a blanket, mat or umbrella.
 You should have a solid idea of the aperture and speed that you will need. You don't necessarily need the best camera gear out there but you do need to know how to use what you have well, and be patient to get those good shots.


Digital or film? Digital cameras tend to be faster and cheaper, so for most amateurs, they are the ideal choice. And it needs to be a DSLR––bird photography requires a good quality camera with a fast shutter speed.What sort of lenses do you have? Ken Rockwell recommends cheap, ordinary lenses for pet birds, and then a skip up to practical long lenses in the US$1000-1600 range for wild bird photography for amateurs.For the more serious, you can dabble in very expensive lenses but wait until you know that this is going to really be your hobby before investing at the high end.
Do you want to stop the motion of the bird in flight, or allow some blurring to convey action? If so, know how to do this in advance; many good cameras have a continuous movement tracking mode. Read up on how to set your camera to use all of its focus sensors. Birds won't stop flying for your fiddling! (Note that many cameras are good at tracking birds against a bland sky, not so good when a complex background comes into play; see How to photograph sports or How to photograph motor racing for tips on dealing with movement.)
Do you want to convey the colors of brilliantly colored birds? Will you require filters or other gear to improve the colors?

