 If you have acne, the first step to preventing scarring is to get your acne under control with the appropriate treatment. This may seem obvious, but it's true. The earlier you begin safe and effective treatment, the less chance of any skin damage or scarring. Take the time to go into your doctor or dermatologist's office to discuss your skin and the proper course of action.There are different types of acne, including:



Mild acne — Mild acne is characterized by the whiteheads and blackheads common to most of us.

Moderate acne — This type is characterized by those red, angry-looking pimples called papules and those red pimples with white centers called pustules.

Severe acne — Severe acne, also known as cystic acne, causes nodules (painful, pus-filled cysts) under the skin. This type of acne causes causes the most scarring.;
, As soon as you feel a pimple forming, use a spot treatment because this when such treatments are the most effective. There are different types of spot treatments, but most of them contain one of three main acne-fighting ingredients: salicylic acid, benzoyl peroxide, or sulfur.Keep in mind that spot treatments will work on most blemishes, but won't have much effect if you're trying to treat a cystic pimple.
 If you have cystic pimples (pimples that stay under the skin and never develop a white head), consider getting a cortisone injection from your dermatologist. Cortisone, which is a steroid medication, will reduce inflammation drastically and will greatly reduce the chance of scarring. In addition, it will keep you from attempting to pop the pimple yourself, which increases the likelihood of scarring.Cortisone injections work fast; they can reduce inflammation and the size of the pimple within 24–48 hours.For an at-home treatment for a cystic pimple, you could try René Rouleau’s Anti-Cyst Treatment, which uses lactic acid and ethyl lactate to penetrate the skin and dissolve the cells clogging your pores as well as decrease bacteria and inflammation.However, this may not work for many people with cysts.
 Primarily made out of collagen, scars are one way in which the body repairs and heals itself. Scars usually feel a bit indented on the skin due to a loss of collagen after intense inflammation. Picking or squeezing only causes more inflammation and injury to the area, in addition to pushing pus and other bacteria deeper into the skin and resulting in more collagen damage.Don't make the mistake of thinking pimples are "ready" to be popped. Even this can cause scarring unless done by a trained dermatologist.

