 Nothing gives a clearer picture of data than a graph or chart, but even those can be subtly manipulated to give different effects. This is because people tend to look at the shapes and sizes on the graphs before bothering to check the numerical specifics attached to them. The simplest way to manipulate the y-axis is to simply not label it.


If you have a set of 5 bars on the x-axis, but no indicator of how tall they are relative to one another, there's no way to gauge whether or not there's any actual significant difference between them.
 Let's say your data set ranges between 1 and 50. To hide the differences, measure your y-axis in increments of 100; to accentuate them unfairly, measure the y-axis in increments of 1/10th. A difference between 3 and 10 looks huge when measured in tenths (it's 70 units apart!), but is barely even noticeable on a graph where 100 is the first increment (it's much, much less than 1 unit apart!).
 If your data ranges from 11 to 51, you can make the lowest number look even lower, and the highest number look even higher, by labeling your y-axis so that it starts at 10. This makes the bar representing 11 just barely higher than the x-axis. It'll appear as almost nothing unless someone is savvy enough to actually look closely and see that the graph was started from 10 instead of 0.


The bar representing 51 becomes 50 times higher than the bar representing 11 on such a graph, since the smaller bar is only 1 unit high. If the graph had started at 0, the bar representing 51 would have been less than 5 times the height of the bar representing 11.
 Any time you see the words “not to scale” in the fine print, chances are you've run across an example of this. It isn't always done maliciously; sometimes, the numbers involved are so vastly different that there isn't a way to accurately represent them on the same page. However, it can easily be used for unsavory purposes.


For example, a visual representation of size could be drawn to height scale but not width scale, making a taller object (such as a building) also seem much thinner or wider than it actually is.
 This is commonly seen in broad surveys that divide results by certain categories, such as the famous chart showing which term for a carbonated beverage is most popular in what county all across the United States. At first glance, such information seems very detailed, but questions soon arise: how broad is the survey data? What is the threshold for determining the result? Is mean, median, or mode average used?


If you were to only use one result from every area you surveyed, and threw out all the rest, you could easily control the results by area without ever divulging that your sample size per area was tiny. Again, it's a lack of concrete information that makes the results so hard to quantify.

