 If you're dating someone, you want to know ahead of time if that person is going to want to control every single aspect of your relationship. One way you can check for this trait is to watch for someone who will not vary their schedule or routine at all. Try changing a date to another time to see if the person can roll with it.This symptom can also be a sign that the person is not willing to compromise, another bad sign.
Either way, you probably want to get out of this relationship.
 Someone who loves you, or at least likes you, will want to spend time with you without you feeling the need to beg. That person will make time for you because they enjoy your company and want to develop a relationship.Pay attention to whether or not the person actively makes space for you in their lives. Do they say yes to plans? To they call you to ask you out? Do you see them at least once a week, most of the time?

, Of course, everything isn't about you all the time. However, the person you're with should show an interest in you, asking you about your day and what's going on in your life. They should ask your opinion, meaning they will at least hear your side of the story without trying to shut you down., While it may seem silly, if someone is attracted to you, they will usually laugh at your jokes. Now of course, not every joke will get a belly laugh, but most of the time, they should at least crack a smile., Many people have a perfectionist streak, and that's not a problem. However, if that person turns that streak on you, it can be a problem. In other words, if the other person is always critical of you, always looking for your flaws, that can be a sign that they don't want to commit. Usually, it's not about you at all, but rather, the fact that they're not ready for intimacy.The opposite of this person is one who constantly tries to build you up. They actively want to make you feel good about yourself, and look for ways to compliment you and your achievements.One way to recognize what type of person you're with is to see how they react when someone else criticizes you. Does your boyfriend or girlfriend defend you or stay silent?

, At the beginning of the relationship, the person may be treating you just fine, while he or she treats waiters and other people they see as "below" them with rudeness and contempt. This red flag tells you that they can easily turn that meanness on you, and that they're not a very good person to begin with., A person who likes you will generally show that affection physically. That doesn't have to mean sex or even kissing, depending on your relationship. However, it can mean the person will reach out and touch your arm while talking or put an arm around you when you're next to each other. These small signs of physical touching can mean the person likes you.The opposite is sometimes true, though not always. In other words, a person who doesn't seem to want to touch you could mean the person's not attracted to you. However, it could also mean that the person has had some trauma in their past and therefore, has trouble with physical intimacy.

