 Ask yourself whether you are really interested in this guy, or if you're just flattered that he took an interest in you. If you touch base with your feelings and find that you're a wholehearted "Yes!!" on this guy, then feel free to accept his offer. If you're lukewarm about him, but you feel bad saying no, consider whether it will be easier to reject him now or later.;
, Some guys will ask you out on a first date to a park, a dance, or the movies just to spend time with you and get to know you better. Especially if you're in elementary school, middle school, or high school, guys might ask you to be their girlfriend without arranging a "date". This could mean that he wants to eat lunch together, or walk home together, or hold hands, or more. Some guys might just ask you to be their date to a dance or another event.


Don't be afraid to ask him what he means. If you like him, but he isn't clear about what he wants from you, it is completely your place to inquire further. If he says something as vague as, "Will you go out with me?", you can say, "Sure! What did you have in mind?"
If it's a group event, make sure that he is inviting you explicitly as his "date". If he invites you along with him and his friends, it probably means that he likes you, but it doesn't necessarily mean that he's asking you to be his girlfriend yet. It might be a way for him to get to know you better, or to gauge whether you like him back before he makes a big move.
 Your exact response depends on his question. Think about what exactly he is asking you to do, and accept his request if you feel comfortable with it.


If he asks you to a specific event, all you need to do is agree to go. If he asks you to a dance, for instance, just smile and say, "Yes, I'd love to."

, If the guy asks you out on a first date, make sure that you get the time and place. Figure out whether he is going to pick you up, or whether he plans to meet you there. Find out if it's a group event or just the two of you. Make sure that you're available on that day, at that time, and that you don't have any prior plans.


You don't need to get the details before you say yes. The point isn't the event – it's that this guy wants to spend time with you. If you want to spend time with him, simply agree to go to the event, and work out the details later.
Don't be afraid to reschedule if you have a conflict. If you really want to show him that you're interested, offer an alternative. Say, "I'd love to go to the movie with you, but I'm going to a friend's birthday party on Friday night. Could we go on Saturday instead?"

