 Blushing is a normal physiological response to awkward situations. Although some people do suffer from chronic blushing—blushing frequently for unobvious reasons—recognizing that it is a normal part of the human physiology can be a way to help your stop trying to control it.Trying to force yourself to stop doing something can often backfire, causing no change or even an increase in symptoms. Letting go of this control often allows your body to relax.
Tell yourself that this is what your body does by adopting a personal mantra like, “This is just what my body does. I don’t like that I do this, but it’s just the way I am.”

, Another way to deal with frequent blushing that lacks a specific cause is to try to make yourself blush at specific times. Pick three times a day and try to make yourself blush for about 5 minutes at a time. Write down each time that you successfully make yourself blush.This exercise shows that you have more control over blushing than you thought you did, and helps you accept the uncertainty of blushing when you don’t mean to.
Try to blush a few times a day at home at first, but transition to blushing on command when out in public as well.
Keep a tally of the times you blush, both on command and when you blush without meaning to. It may be helpful to keep two lists for each type of blushing so you can see if your accidental blushing decreases.
 Take a look at your feelings about blushing by writing in a journal or talking to someone, like a trusted friend or a counselor. Ask yourself things like what blushing means to you, why you think that you blush, and what the consequences of blushing are in various contexts.


One therapy technique asks you to make a worst-case scenario so that you can see how things are not as bad as fear tells you they are.Exploring your motivations for specific actions helps you to prioritize your behaviors and change them for the better.
 Don’t beat yourself up when you blush. Listen to your self-talk the next time that you blush. It is likely negative talk, and if so, you should make an effort to transform this inner critic into a positive one. Punishing yourself with negative talk can make you get into a cycle of shame that makes you repeat the unwanted behavior. Forgiving yourself is the key to halting such behaviors.Instead, treat yourself like you would treat a friend who came to you with sadness over doing something they didn’t want to do. You would listen to them and remind them of their good qualities, wouldn’t you? Do this for yourself after (and during) blushing.
 Sometimes you can’t solve chronic blushing on your own, and that’s ok. A type of therapy called cognitive behavior therapy (CBT) can help patients understand why they blush, and train their minds to think differently about it. Some CBT therapists point to the root cause of chronic blushing as social anxiety, which they can treat patients for in regular sessions.