 While just about any type of herb will do well in a container, not all vegetables will. You can buy mature plants from a nursery or you can start them from seeds. Here are the types of herbs and vegetables that do well in container gardens:Herbs, such as basil, mint, and thyme. You can even plant a bunch in a large planter for a mini garden.
All salad greens, such as collards, lettuce, mustard, and Swiss chard. Harvest only the outer layers.
Tomatoes, eggplants, and peppers all do well in summer pots, but will need supports or cages.
Cucumbers, zucchini, and other types of squash will also work. Cucumbers can also climb a trellis to save space.;
, This is important, otherwise the soil will become waterlogged and lead to root rot, which can kill your plant. Your planter can be made out of anything: wood, plastic, clay, etc. Keep in mind, however, that wood planters don't last for more than a few seasons. Also, if you live in a hot, dry climate, stay away from terracotta; they dry out too quickly and soak up too much moisture.


If you absolutely must have a terracotta planter, get one that is sealed on the inside.
 Short, wide pots are good for shallow-rooted, plants such as lettuce, while large, tall pots are good for vegetables, such as a zucchini or pumpkin. Half-size wine barrels also make great containers.A 10-inch (25.4 centimeters) pot is best for herbs and small plants, like strawberries and lettuce.
A 14-inch (35.56 centimeters) pot is great for herbs and salad greens, like spinach, non-heading lettuce, and arugula plants.
An 18-inch (45.72 centimeters) pot is good for small vegetables, such as broccoli, cauliflower, eggplant, and small peppers. It can also hold salad greens and herbs in small bunches.
A 24-inch (60.96 centimeters) pot is best for large vegetables, such as cucumber, squash, and tomatoes. It can also hold small bunches of small vegetables and herbs.
 This will prevent the soil from falling out while allowing the water to pass through. You can use a scrap of burlap, window screening, or even a coffee filter.


You will also want to place a dish under the planter to catch any excess water and keep your floor or patio clean.
 Different plants will have different needs; some plants need a well-draining soil while others need a water-retaining soil. In general, however, you should look for soil that is light, fluffy, and holds moisture well.Consider looking for ingredients, such as: aged bark, lime, perlite, sphagnum peat moss, and vermiculite. They will make the soil more expensive, but they will ensure the healthiest crops.Added wetting agents will help the soil stay evenly damp.
Fertilizers are great additions, but you will need to add more fertilizer later on; it doesn't last forever!
If you have thirsty plants, such as vegetables, consider getting a specially-formulated soil that retains water., Make sure to have some extra soil on hand, as the soil will compress a little once you water it. Do not pack or press down on the soil, however. Instead, gently tap the pot against the ground, or rock it side-to-side, to collapse any air pockets., Carefully take your plant out of the container it came in, and make a hole in the soil large enough to hold the plant's root ball. Place the plant into the hole, and gently pat the soil around it.


If you are starting your garden from seeds, then sow the seeds according to the directions on the seed packet.
At this point, you can also add cage or supports, if needed.
 The soil will compress 15 to 20%, so you will have to add more soil on top and water again.Keep doing this until the soil level is 1 to 2 inches (2.54 to 5.08 centimeters) from the rim of the pot.


Add some liquid plant food to the water for a nutritional boost., Water them when the top inch (2.54 centimeters) of soil is dry. If you find that the soil is drying out too fast, add some mulching on top, such as fine bark or straw. If you live in a humid climate, use white pebbles instead; hey will dry out faster and prevent root rot.Fertilize only when necessary, and be sure to use the right type of fertilizer for your herb or vegetable. Each plant will have different requirements.
Make sure that your plants are getting around 5 hours of direct sunlight each day. Some plants, such as cabbage, can live in shaded areas. Others, such as cucumbers, thrive in full sun.

