 Every autistic child is different, and while some children may have no problem eventually living independently, for others this may be difficult or impossible.Look at the child as an individual when considering accommodations. For example, if the child has problems with executive functioning, you may need to provide extra reminders and triggers that allow the child to complete daily activities with minimal stress. These can be revised over time to create a more functional system for your child.
Autistic children may need to be taught specific, sequential steps to completing different tasks, especially if they lack adaptive skills. For example, an autistic child whose alarm clock stops working may decide the solution is to sleep in their classroom so they're not late for class, rather than replacing the battery in the alarm clock.Talk to the child and find out whether they want to live on their own. While this is a goal for some children, others may feel more comfortable and secure if they continue to live at home with their parents.
You may also want to consult their treatment team to assess the likelihood of succeeding independently and their functioning outside of the home.;
, Many communities have living options that allow higher-support autistic people live relatively independently with help from a full-time professional staff. These services can be recommended through your insurance company, organizations that serve people with autism, or members of your child's care team.Many of these facilities have counseling and job-placement services, and may also provide transportation to and from work and other social outings.
These facilities also offer many activities and other opportunities that the autistic person otherwise wouldn't be able to access, since support services for autistic adults can be very limited.
If the child needs a lot of help but wants to try living independently rather than staying at home, a community living arrangement may provide the best balance of support and independence.
 Autistic adults with lower support needs may be able to own or rent a place of their own, if they can get help with chores such as cooking, cleaning, and grocery shopping. Look for assisted living options if you and your child think that this would suit them best.


If it is more financially feasible or would make your child more comfortable, you can also create a rotating list of family members and close friends who can stop by and check in on your child occasionally.
 If some autistic people can't see a visual reminder to do something, they won't do it. This can be a problem in traditional housing, where items that normally would trigger a response to do something are hidden away in drawers and cupboards.You can use images and charts as reminders to complete various tasks. Keep each step as small as possible so the task is not too vague or overwhelming.
For example, you might make a sign to hang on the back of the front door that says "do you have..." followed by a list of things the child normally needs when they leave the house (such as their backpack, house keys, bus pass, and phone).
You also can create signs in the bathroom and kitchen to ensure all steps of basic self-care tasks, such as eating and bathing, are completed correctly.
 Many autistic people eventually learn how to drive, but it may take an autistic person longer to learn than it would for other children. Even autistic people who know how to drive well may not be comfortable with long distances.If the child will have their own car, keep in mind that there's more to owning a car than just driving it. Make sure the child understands vehicle maintenance and knows what to do in case of an emergency.
Go over the car insurance with the child so they know who to call and what steps to take in case of an accident or mechanical failure. You might also include detailed instructions in the glove box for common issues, such as changing a tire.
If you live in an area with significant public transportation, that may be an option. The place where the child lives will have to be convenient to a public transportation stop.
Transportation to and from medical appointments may also be available through your insurance. Check with your healthcare provider to see if this would be covered.
 You can learn a lot about transitioning into adulthood by reading blogs and books written by autistic adults who have had successful careers and other experiences.Since services for autistic adults are limited, and have historically been even more limited if not nonexistent, many autistic adults discovered adaptive techniques and helpful accommodations on their own through trial and error.
You can help an autistic child transition into adulthood by taking advantage of this wealth of experience and learning tricks from those who have already been through the transition stage.
Accounts from autistic adults to seek out include the writings of Temple Grandin, who has written a number of books on her experience with autism, and Cynthia Kim, who has several published books about being an autistic adult, and also blogs about her experience at musingsofanaspie.com., In many communities, services for autistic adults are limited. For this reason, it's important to identify services that may benefit the child with their transition into adulthood as soon as possible.Many services have waiting lists, which means you need to sign the child up early so the services are available when they need them. Ask the organization that supplies the services if the child has to be over 18 before they can be put on the wait list, or if they have a separate wait list for minors.
Services you might want to look for include support groups with fellow autistic students, life skills mentorship programs, and college or career orientation and mentorship programs.
Keep in mind that the transition into adulthood is an ongoing process, not a single event such as turning 18 or graduating from high school. Even if services aren't available immediately or as early as needed, they can still be beneficial later on.

