 Place the leather bracelet over a sheet of tracing film and carefully trace the outline of the bracelet onto the film.


Lift the bracelet away once you've traced the outline.
Do not trim the tracing film down after creating the outline. The film must remain a little larger than the outline so that it is easy enough to handle.
 Draw your desired design into the outline on your tracing film. You can use either pencil or pen.


Draw a freehand design or use stencils to trace an intricate design onto the film.
This method is best used for more complex designs since many simple designs can be made using the easier, faster stamping technique.
 Use a moist sponge to moisten the grain side of the leather.


Saturate the sponge completely under running water, then wring out the excess. Brush this mildly damp sponge over the leather to dampen it.
The moisture lowers the resistance of the leather and makes it easier to engrave. Too much moisture can cause the leather to dry out and crack, though.
 Place the tracing film over the leather bracelet. Tape the film to either the bracelet or the working surface to hold it in place.


Make sure that the outline on the tracing film lines up perfectly with the perimeter of the leather bracelet.
The grain side of the bracelet should face up.
Note that you should also be working on a hard working surface, not a soft surface.
 Use a stylus or blunt modeling tool to trace over the design on your tracing paper.


Apply enough pressure so that each stroke sinks into the leather beneath the film. You do not need to cut through the film as you trace the design.
If you have any straight lines, consider using a ruler or similar straight edge to help maintain them.
 Remove the tracing film and go over the lines again, making them deeper and easier to see.


For simple outlines, you can use the same stylus or modeling tool to create deeper indentations.
For more complex designs, use a swivel knife and make actual cuts into leather.
 Trace along any swivel knife cuts with a rounded modeling spoon tool.


The idea is to bevel the harsh edges and lines of each cut, smoothing them out and making them look neater.
 Flip the leather bracelet over so that the flesh side or "wrong" side now faces up. Trace over the raised lines of the pattern with an ink pen to make them easier to see.


If the outlines of your design are not visible from the back of the bracelet, you may need to trace them again from the grain side of the leather using the rounded modeling spoon.
 Use a ball modeler tool and firmly press into any solid portion of the design that needs to be raised when viewed from the front side.


Make sure that you stay within the pen lines as you press the leather.
 Flip the leather back over to the grain side. Use a small paintbrush to apply leather welder glue to all raised areas of the design.


The glue helps "plug" the grains of the leather, creating a smoother finish.
Let the glue dry before continuing further.
 Use a damp sponge to moisten the grain side of the leather again.


As before, the leather should only be damp and not soaked.
 Use a rounded modeling spoon to bevel and round off all lines in the pattern.


Trace the lines as you did when beveling the edges before. This final beveling will create a smoother, neater appearance.
 Allow the leather bracelet to air dry completely. Once the bracelet dries, the engraving process is complete and the bracelet should be ready to wear.


Note that you should wait to apply any stains or sealants until after the engraving process is over.

