 Locate accessibility ramps. They are usually located to the sides of doors or near restrooms, stairs, and elevators. When embarking down a path with multiple obstacles, ask "What's the easiest way for you to do this?" Listen to and follow his or her instructions carefully.If you are hosting an event make sure it is accessible. Check the venue for barriers to the building's entrance. Make sure aisles and corridors are wide enough to maneuver a wheelchair. Bathrooms should be large enough to turn the chair around, and a handrail is needed. If the event is outdoors, then the ground or surfacing should allow a wheelchair to move easily over it. Gravel, sand, soft or very uneven surfaces can present a challenge.
 Certain public areas are designated for wheelchair use. Specific stalls in restrooms, parking spaces, and school desks are designated wheelchair accessible. Do not use these spaces unless you are accompanying a person who uses a wheelchair. You have the option to use all of the other stalls, parking spots, and desks, but people who use wheelchairs are often limited only to those designated wheelchair accessible.


When shopping, be aware of scooter/wheelchair users and try to keep to one side or the other of an aisle. Share the aisle, walk as you would drive.
When parking, avoid parking beside a van with a handicap license plate that appears to be away from other vehicles. The handicap van occupant may need the empty space next to the van to deploy a ramp when wheelchair user returns to the vehicle. Not all designated handicap parking spaces have sufficient space beside them to accommodate the ramp, so sometimes it is necessary for ramp-equipped vans to park far away from other cars to obtain the necessary space.
 If you see a situation where a wheelchair user could use your help, ask first. Don't be offended if a person declines, he or she is probably just very independent. For example, if you see a person in a wheelchair approaching an entrance, you can ask, "would you like me to get the door for you?" If you see a person using a wheelchair struggling up a steep incline, you might ask "Would you like me to help you up the hill?"


Never move a person's wheelchair without permission. He or she may have had it positioned to transfer to and from the chair easily.

