 Only some have screens, but work very well for music, podcasts, etc. iPod shuffles have a built in clip on the back that clip onto clothing. With three settings (shuffle, play through and off), they are available as a 2GB (500 songs), or 4GB (1000 songs), Two gigabyte being $59 and four being $79. It is available in five different colours; silver, blue, pink, orange, green.;
, The 4th generation iPod nano can play video (the 5th generation can record video), and downloadable iPod games, which also have the same features as the full sized models. They come in 8GB (2000 songs), or 16GB (4000 songs) for prices $149, $199, respectively. The nano comes in 8 different colours: Black, gunmetal, purple, blue, green, yellow, orange, (product) red, and pink. Note: (product) red gives money to AIDS in Africa. The newer iPod Nanos are extremely durable and scratch resistant, much more so than the previous generation as they are encased in aluminum.
 The iPod can hold up to 30,000 songs, 25,000 photos, or 150 hours of video. They can also play games downloaded from the iTunes Music Store. They are available in 120GB (40,000) for $249. The iPod comes in black or silver. This is a good choice if you want to download a lot of movies or videos which take up a lot of space on an iPod.
 This is virtually identical to the iPhone besides the loss of the phone and camera functions. It can hold 8, 32 or 64 GB of data, for $199, $299, and $399. It has Wi-Fi which allows you to surf the web with Safari and watch videos on YouTube. The iPod Touch also has iTunes which allows you to download music to your iPod without a computer. The screen, like the iPhone, has a touch interface, and is slightly smaller than the iPhone with a 3.5 inch (8.9 cm) wide screen and 8 mm wide device. Later versions of the iPod Touch include software that can recognize songs when the user walks into a Starbucks coffee shop. Every time they release a major update to the iPhone/iPod Touch, you WILL have to pay some amount of money, IF you have an iPod Touch. (People with iPhones don't have to pay for some reason.) Note: The 3rd Gen iPod Touch 8GB is really just a re-packaged 2nd Gen that is being sold for less then it was before September, 9, 2009.
 If you are looking for something smaller than a full size iPod but are unwilling to put up the money for an iPod nano and you want a screen. They came in 4GB or 6GB editions. They have a monochrome (black and white) screen and can't display videos photos or album artwork. They were available in blue, pink, silver, and green. You can't buy an iPod mini brand new as they aren't made anymore, but they are available online on sites such as Amazon and eBay for various prices.

