 To make your own candle, you will need a bag of soy wax flakes, one wick (more if making several candles), a glass container for the candle, a scented oil of your choosing, skewers and a glass measuring cup. You will be able to find these items at a craft store.


Consider using palm or beeswax flakes as an alternative.
 Grab the container of your choice. This could be a glass bowl or a mason jar. Lay the metal end of the wick flat along the bottom of the container. Tape the top end of the wick to a skewer so that the wick is pulled completely straight. Lay the skewer on top of the container with the wick outstretched.


If the wick is really long, simply cut it with scissors. It should reach slightly above the rim of the container.
If a skewer isn't available, just about anything will work. Try using a kitchen utensil instead.
 Use a glass measuring cup for this. You will need twice the amount of wax flakes as the size of your container. For example, if your container measures one cup, pour two cups of wax flakes.


If you're unsure about the size of your container, simply fill the container with water. Pour the water from the container into a measuring cup to have an exact measurement.
 Fill a saucepan halfway with water. Then, set your glass measuring cup with wax flakes in the water. Make sure water isn't getting into the container. If it is, you will need to pour a little water out.Turn your heat to medium-high and stir the wax with a metal spoon or spatula. Once completely melted, turn the heat off. This will only take a few minutes.
 Using an essential oil, add about 10 drops into the melted wax. This will create a moderately scented candle. For a stronger scent, add more drops. Stir the wax and scent slowly using a toothpick or metal spoon.


Remember that you can replace the essential oil with a fragrance oil or scented cube, if that's more readily available.
Each bottle of oil will have specific instructions regarding number of drops, follow these guidelines for best results.
 Use an oven mitt to hold the glass measuring cup. Hold the skewer so the wick doesn't shift while pouring. Slowly pour the scented wax into the container. Let the wax sit and cool for 3-4 hours.
 After the candle is completely solidified, remove the skewer. Feel free to burn your scented candle and enjoy.


These make excellent, inexpensive gifts as well.

