 Make sure that the part extends down the back of your head, towards the nap of your neck.


You can part your hair to the right, but you will need to reverse all of the steps in this article.;
, The section should be right between the hairline and the part.
 Separate the section into three strands. Cross the left strand under the middle strand. Cross the right strand under the middle strand.









You are crossing the strands under instead of over in preparation for the Dutch braid.
 Continue crossing the left and right strands under the middle one. Add a little bit of hair to the left and right strands just before crossing them. When you reach the back of your ear, stop.








Keep the braid on the center-side of your head, between your ear and the side part.
 If you are having trouble Dutch braiding horizontally, try a Dutch waterfall braid. Instead of adding hair to both of the top and bottom strands, you will only add hair to the top strand.
 When you reach the right side of your head, pause. Angle your braid downward, and Dutch braid for a few stitches. This will create a sort of curved shape., You are forming something that looks like an "S" or a zigzag.
 Secure the end of the braid with a mini hair tie or clear elastic.
 Gently tug on the left loops that make up the braid. You want to pull them out of the braid just enough to create petal-like arches. You only need to do this for one side of the braid.
 Work your way from the outside of the spiral inward. Tuck the end of the braid into the center. Hold the bun steady with your hand.








Keep the fluffed out loops of the braid on the outside of the spiral.
 Insert them starting from the outside of the bun, then work your way inward. Try to hide the pins inside the bun so as not to detract from the overall look.
 Use your fingers to loosen the outer loops of the braids as needed to form the petals. If anything feels too loose, secure it with a bobby pin.
 This will add that final, magical touch to your braid. You can also use a bridal rhinestone clip as well.It should be no bigger than your thumbnail. If it's too big, it will look tacky.

