 Photos from your last camping trip can showcase your adventures, or photos from your child’s first year can be a decoration for a first birthday party.
 Collages can decorate a small area of a wall, or they can be the centerpiece for an entire room. Take into account how many pictures you have to work with; making a large collage will require lots of pictures.
 These can come from just about any printed material, from magazines, newspapers, old books, or postcards. Even fabric can be used in collages. If you are doing a photo collage, you should select the best photos that represent the event or convey the theme you’re going for. Depending on how large your collage is, you may need to choose just a few pictures, or you may need 10 or more.


Consider how large you want your pictures to be in your final collage. The pictures do not need to be the same size, nor do they need to be the same shape. In fact, a range of sizes and shapes will give more dimension to your collage and make it more interesting to the eye. Think about if you want a certain picture to dominate the collage and have subordinate pictures surrounding it, for example.
You don’t need to always choose pictures of people. Adding in pictures of details (a bridge or road, a plate of cookies, a deck of cards from a poker game) can add dimension to your collage. These add to the overall sense you’re trying to convey in your collage. Because you are creating a collage of many pictures, you can afford to include some background or detail pictures.
 Your collage will look better if you have high quality images with sharp resolution (at least 300 dpi; 600 dpi for larger photos).
 You can use all matching frames, or use frames that are all different shapes, sizes and colors. You can either have a professional framing service do this, or you can select your own frame. Choose a frame that is complementary in color to the collage. Have hooks on the back to enable easy wall hanging.
 Start deciding how you want to place your pictures. Do this on the floor or large table so that you are not putting unnecessary nail holes in the wall. Keep an eye on the colors: are you grouping all the blue-toned photos together? Do you have a big spot of brown-toned photos? Spread the photos out to balance the color across the entire collage. Or, you might want only blue-toned photos in the collage so that it matches the room for which you’re making the collage. Test out different arrangements, patterns, and color schemes. You may also want to swap out a frame if it doesn’t seem to work in the overall arrangement.
 Using plain paper or wrapping paper, cut out shapes that are the same sizes as your frames. You will use these to help you put nails in the wall on which you will hang the framed pictures. Stick these pieces of paper on the wall with removable tape. Refer to your frames that you’ve laid out on the floor as your guide.Mark on these papers where a nail would need to go. Nails would not go right at the very top center of each frame; rather, they will be down an inch or two, and perhaps there are two nails for a frame. Determine where the nails should go and mark it on each sheet.
 When you’ve finalized where you want pictures to go, hammer a good quality picture-hanging nail into the wall at the point you’ve marked on your paper cutout. Check to see if your measurement is correct by putting the framed picture on the wall. Does it hang where you want it to hang?

