 You have plenty of newsletter template options within Microsoft Publisher, but if you don’t like any of those, check out the online template collection at Microsoft Office Online.;
, In the Customize box, choose the color scheme you want. Using the same colors that are in your logo or other branding materials is a nice touch for a sense of consistency.
 Choose a font that reflects the feeling your brand wants to convey. Trebuchet works well for a modern, somewhat serious business, while Comic Sans should only be used by fun, silly or youth-oriented businesses.
 You should at least have two pages to your newsletter to make it worthwhile for the customers.
 This creates a dedicated space on the last page of the newsletter for you to print the recipient’s address or stick a sticker onto.
 Put the most interesting stories and facts about your company on the front page. Also include teasers of stories that are inside (kind of like a magazine cover teaser). You should also include a Table of Contents box on the first page so that readers know where to turn for the most interesting stories. As time passes, looking for good article topics to include on your newsletter can be quite a challenge. To maintain the interest of your readers, it is important to "use different types of articles on each issue to keep your newsletter feeling fresh and new. To maintain consistency, be sure to include a few sections which readers can count on each mailing such as a profile, tips, and updates section."

, A small Picture toolbar will pop up. Click on the Insert Picture icon to the left on the toolbar. Navigate to the picture you want to insert, and press Insert.
 Change the Publication name to whatever name you’d like. “Newsletter” with the send out date is a good choice.
 Choose the better scheme you’d like. You can change the layout from one to two to three columns as you like.
 You can either have the printer print your customer addresses on the back page of the newsletter and mail out your newsletters, or you can have the printer send the printed newsletter to you to address.
 Include these letters in your next edition.
, When that date comes, attach the newsletter to the email announcing your newsletter. If you want to use a newsletter/email all-in-one software so that you don’t have to attach the newsletter.

