 Lemon juice has be used as a natural bleaching agent in hair for a very long time. This is how it works: the citric acid in lemon juice opens up the hair cuticle and pulls out pigment, leaving hair stripped of color.


Mix half a cup of fresh squeezed lemon juice with half a cup of water and pour into a spray bottle. Spritz the lemon juice mixture into damp hair, then sit outside in the sun for 30 minutes, as the sunlight activates the citric acid.
After 30 minutes (and no longer) rinse the stick lemon juice from your hair and use a deep conditioning treatment, as lemon juice can be very drying on your hair and scalp.;
, Honey is a natural lightening agent, while olive oil helps to nourish your hair, making this a less damaging lightening treatment than most.


Add 1/4 cup of honey to 1/4 cup of olive oil and stir until well combined. Use your hands to work the sticky mixture into damp hair, ensuring even coverage. Cover your hair with a plastic shower cap or some cling wrap.
Leave the honey and olive oil mixture to sit in your hair for at least 30 minutes -- the longer you leave the mixture, the lighter your hair will be. When you're ready, rinse the mixture out in the shower -- it make take a couple of shampoos to get the sticky honey out of your hair.
 Chamomile flowers contain natural compounds that help to lighten blonde hair, making chamomile tea an easy and effective treatment.


Boil a pot of water, then place five chamomile teabags to steep in the pot. When the water has cooled completely, remove the teabags and pour the cold tea over your hair (preferably in the shower).
Allow the chamomile tea to sit in your hair for about half an hour before rinsing. Like with the lemon juice, the chamomile will work more effectively if you sit in the sun for a while as it dries into your hair.
 To add some caramel blonde tones to your hair, you can use cinnamon in a nourishing and delicious-smelling treatment.


Take a teaspoon of cinnamon (from a new jar to ensure it hasn't gone stale) and mix it with a generous handful of your regular conditioner. Work the conditioner through your hair, using a comb to ensure that it's evenly distributed.
Cover your hair with a plastic shower cap or some cling wrap and leave the cinnamon condition to sit in your hair for several hours, or overnight if possible. Wash the cinnamon out in the shower with shampoo.
 Rhubarb adds a yellowish tint to hair, which is good for people with darker blonde hair. It's best to use fresh, in-season rhubarb during the summer months.


Take two stalks of rhubarb, wash them, then roughly chop them into small chunks. Add the rhubarb chunks to a pot of cold water, then bring the pot of water to the boil over a medium heat. Once boiled, remove the pot from the heat and allow the water to cool completely.
Once the water has cooled, strain the out the rhubarb piece, then pour the water over your hair. Leave the rhubarb water to sit in your hair for 10 to 15 minutes (while sitting in the sun, if you like) then rinse out with fresh water.
 Baking soda can be used to strip chemical build-up from the hair while also helping to lighten blonde hair over time.


Take the baking soda into the shower and sprinkle it over your hair once it's wet. Use your fingers to work the baking soda into the hair. It should form a paste-like consistency when mixed with water.
Use this baking soda treatment to clean your hair (instead of using shampoo) at least once a week. Your hair will gradually lighten over time.



Take 5 to 10 tablets from a bottle of vitamin C supplements and crush them up using a pestle and mortar until they form a fine powder.
Add this vitamin C powder to your regular shampoo and wash your hair as normal. Do this once a week to gradually lighten your hair over time., Vinegar has been discovered as an effective hair lightener -- apple cider vinegar in particular.


Although it's possible to apply vinegar to your hair straight from the bottle, this can be very drying and damaging for your hair. Therefore, it's better to dilute the vinegar to half strength with water first.
Pour the diluted vinegar over your hair and leave to sit for at least 15 minutes before rinsing out and shampooing. Repeat once a week for a gradual lightening effect.

