 This is one of the most important steps in reducing bloat because it has an immediate effect on the way that your kidneys control the water balance in your body.Too much salt may cause the body to retain water leading to bloating and swelling.







Avoid processed foods.
Most processed meats, prepackaged snacks, frozen meals, and canned foods are high in sodium.


Stop salting your meals
The American Heart Association recommends consuming less than 1500 mg of sodium each day, or about 1½ tsp (7 mL).Salting your food makes it easy to go over this limit.


Avoid no-sodium diets
Your body requires small amounts of sodium to function.;
, Potassium is an essential mineral in the diet that's responsible for fluid balance in the body. Low amounts of potassium (although rare) may cause unnecessary fluid retention.Focusing on potassium rich foods may help your body release excess water.








Fruits:
apricots, banana, cantaloupe, dates, kiwi, mango, oranges, papaya, avocado


Vegetables:
acorn squash, carrots, artichokes


Legumes:
dried beans, peas, lentils


, A low-fiber diet may cause constipation which can lead to bloating, abdominal distention and weight retention.Women should consume 25 g fiber daily and men should consume 38 g of fiber daily.Eating a variety of fruits and vegetables can help increase your fiber intake and reduce excess water weight by relieving bloating from constipation., Some foods contain probiotics naturally and may help reduce gas, bloating or abdominal distention. These good bacteria help regulate your GI system and may prevent or decrease side effects common with constipation.Keeping your GI system healthy and managing any constipation can help alleviate bloating, stomach cramps and abdominal distention.
Foods that contain probiotics include: yogurt, kefir, miso, tempeh, kimchi, sauerkraut and pickles.

If you dislike these foods you can also try taking a probiotic supplement daily.
 A low-carbohydrate diet may help you lose excess water weight quicker than a low calorie diet alone. Limiting the amount of carbohydrate rich foods (both refined and 100% whole grains) you eat can help you drop a few extra pounds of water weight fairly fast.


Limit these high-carb foods: bread, rice, pasta, crackers, tortillas, bagels, muffins, pastries, English muffins, quinoa, sweetened beverages and desserts. Both refined and complex carbs affect your body the same way.
When you eat carbohydrates, your body uses some as immediate energy and transforms the rest into glycogen — the body's storage form of carbohydrate. As your body stores glycogen, it also brings water with it.This can cause weight gain and fluid retention.
When you limit the amount of carbohydrates you consume, your body relies more heavily upon the glycogen stores in the body. When the glycogen is used for energy, water is also released, causing a small decrease in your weight., You may be retaining water because you haven't been drinking enough of it in the first place. Mild dehydration causes your body to hold onto water since there isn't adequate amounts being consumed.Drink at least 64 oz or about 8 glasses of water daily.This is just a general rule of thumb, but a good baseline to aim for. On days you're feeling more bloated or feel that you're retaining fluid, you may want to increase this amount.
Other beverages that may help reduce water retention include dandelion tea, green tea, and water with a squeeze of lemon.
Adequate hydration may also relieve any constipation you may be experiencing, as infrequent bowel movements are a common culprit of that bloated or puffy feeling.
 Although both alcohol and caffeine are natural diuretics, they may easily lead to low-grade dehydration. When the body is dehydrated it has the tendency to retain fluid until adequate hydration status is reached.Limit all caffeinated beverages including: coffee, black tea, and energy drinks.
Alcohol can worsen dehydration quickly. Even though it's safe for women to have one glass daily and men to have two glasses daily, it's wise to discontinue all alcohol while monitoring excess water weight.