 Jumping on a scooter is a little easier than jumping on a skateboard or snowboard, because you have handlebars to help you pull the scooter up. Still, you’ll want to know the basic jump backwards and forwards, because it’s the basis for other tricks. This trick is also called a bunny hop due to its simplicity., Stance is very important when performing a jump, because you need solid footing to push off of the ground. Your back foot will become your kicking foot, and your front foot will hold your weight. Which leg you choose depends on your own comfort and stability.Put your non-dominant foot on the front of the deck, facing straight towards the handlebars. This foot is your supporting leg, and holds the majority of your weight.
Your back leg is your pushing leg. When you’re not using your back foot to push off, rest it on the deck next to your front foot or a bit behind it, facing out at a 45 degree angle.
 Get a little bit of speed by pushing yourself forward with your back foot. Having some speed while learning the basic jump is important, because the more momentum you build going forward, the more you’ll be able to translate that momentum into height., Place it beside your front foot or behind it. This will depend on how long your deck is, or which version feels more comfortable. Make sure that your stance is stable and that you are still moving at a moderate pace., Continue to hold the handlebars while bending at the knee. The lower you get to the ground, the more upward “springing” action you’ll get when you jump up. Maintain your stable footing with your front foot facing forward and your back foot next to it or just behind.
 Kick upwards with both feet, jumping as high as you can. Continue to hold onto the handlebars, and make sure that they’re still facing forward. Keep your feet in their same positions, and don’t move them.
 If you’re already maintaining a good grip on the handlebars, the scooter should come up off the ground as the rest of your body does. Keep holding them tight and pull the bars up as you launch into the air.To get more height, pull the handlebars up further and draw in your knees. This extra momentum will help you get a little more air and clear obstacles.
 Let gravity pull you back down to the ground. Keep your feet in their places on the deck, then bend your knees as you hit the ground to absorb the shock of the landing. Continue riding forward, and adjust your handlebars if you accidentally moved them during the jump.