 Underline keywords that should be reflected in your resume. Highlight all the experience or qualifications you should be addressing.;
, Sending out a general marketing resume is like planning a marketing campaign without considering your audience.


You should research the industries and clients that the marketing agency or business works with. You will need to tailor both your resume and your portfolio to the ideal client.
You should try to determine who will be looking at your resume. If it's a hiring manager, then you are probably seeking work at a larger company where professionalism, leadership and experience are important. If you are addressing it to a small business manager or owner, then you should try to show how versatile you are and use layman's terms as well as marketing terms.
 Write down your qualifications and the benefits the company would receive by hiring you. Most resumes focus on skills, but your resume should contain a value proposition that is unique to you.
 Instead of cutting and pasting, try to think of each marketing resume anew, according to the audience, qualifications needed and your value to the specific job. The following are good guidelines:


Format your resume in a way that will show your value. If the company's communications are stylized, try designing an original format. If the company is very traditional, use traditional formatting, like Times New Roman 12-point font.
Use a structure that communicates your value proposition. Most professionals with experience will want to use a chronological structure; however, functional resumes, that list experience by skill, may respond better to other types of resumes with strict qualifications. If you have any gaps in your work history, choose a functional format.
Consider a guerrilla resume. In the same vein as an infographic, more and more people are using new formats to stand apart from their competition. Creative marketing professionals, such as website designers, graphic designers and copy writers, may appeal to innovative companies by creating a website resume, placing your resume on a product that the company works or another concept completely unrelated to traditional resumes. Do an Internet search for "guerrilla resumes" to see what people have tried. Remember that there is extra risk in trying something unusual when applying for a job.
 It is important to reference as many important concepts you have noted in your research. Revise your prose so that it showcases relevant industry and client experience, as well as general skills.
 Many people focus on qualifications and skills rather than accomplishments. Make sure that you are proving your value as well as stating it.


Filling your resume with skills instead of accomplishments is like presenting features instead of benefits when marketing a product.
You may need to do some research on how your marketing has led to sales. If possible, do some reports to get the examples that will impress a hiring manager. If possible state a percentage increase in sales, the number of new clients added and the specific rise in profits.
 Each word should be selected for its meaning and power.


Consider using the following verbs in your marketing resume: authored, directed, doubled, enhanced, generated, initiated, maximized, engineered, orchestrated, structured, spearheaded, analyzed, boosted, evaluated, illustrated, produced, surpassed, planned, strengthened and launched.
 The resume should entice a company to ask for your portfolio and an interview, so it should be succinct. Make sure you are focused on 1 message, how well you are suited to the job.
 This is the most important marketing material you will create, because it has the potential to change your life. Ask another marketing professional to critique it in order to make it stronger.

