 This method is ideal for round-bodied fish, such as trout.If you have a flat fish, such as flounder or sole, click here.
 Make your cuts at a downward angle. Always cut from just behind the fin and towards the head. Do not cut through the spine. These are the three cuts you will have to make:


Cut from behind the side fin down to the gills.
Flip the fish over and repeat the same cut on the other side.
Turn the fish onto its back. from the two underside/pectoral fins down to the throat.
 Hold the fish by the head with one hand and the body with the other. Snap the head off using a twisting motion. Pull out any guts that come with it and toss them out.
 Cut from the neck all the way down to the tail. Stick to one side of the back/dorsal fin. You will need to make at least two slices: the first one to pierce the skin, and the second to slice through the flesh. Keep going over the cut until you reach the bones and peel the meat away.
 Stick the knife into the slit and start sawing down towards the tail, keeping the knife between the flesh and the ribs. Try to cut all the way down to the belly. Stop when you are half-way to the tail.
 Place your hand on top of the fish and continue sliding the knife down towards the tail. Always the knife between the ribs and the flesh.
 Flip the fish over. Make another cut along its back, to the other side of its back/dorsal fin. Once you get to the bones, use your knife to slice the flesh away from the ribs.
 When you look down at the fillets, you may notice some skin and leftover guts, especially towards the belly. Trim around them using your knife. Toss the trimmed skin and guts out.


At this point, you can also discard the rest of the fish body, including the head, spine, and guts.
 The pinbones are small bones embedded into the fish fillet. If you run your finger horizontally down the middle of the fish, you may feel some sharp bumps. These are pinbones. It would by a good idea to remove them. There are two ways to do this:


Use some tweezers or pliers to pull the bones out, one by one.
Use your knife to cut a long slit to either side of the row of bones. Use your fingers to peel the strip away from the skin.
 Place the fish skin-side-down on the cutting board. Place the knife blade close to the tail. Cut at an angle away from you, keeping the knife between the skin and the meat. Use a sawing motion while pulling the tail towards you.
 Gently massage the flesh to get rid of any scales and guts.