 The introduction is comprised of three parts: the hook, the main points, and the thesis statement. The first part, the hook, should be a way to draw your readers in and to have them read the rest of your essay. The hook should relate to your main point and should get your readers engaged so that they want to keep reading. Here are some examples of hooks:The rhetorical question. Asking a question that helps draw the readers into the central debate you're discussing can help get their attention. For example, an essay that supports gay marriage can start with the question, "Shouldn't any person be able to marry the person he loves?"
A shocking statement or statistic. Starting with a shocking statement or statistic relevant to your topic can help get the reader's attention. For example, if you're writing an essay about depression among college students, you can start with a (research-based) statement like, "Over 10% of college students are currently suffering from depression."
An anecdote. Starting with a short anecdote relevant to your thesis can help draw your readers in. For example, if you were writing an essay about the difficulty of being a single mother, you could start by saying, "Jane was struggling to make ends meet while trying to take care of her son, Randy."

, Once you've hooked your readers with a strong statement, it's time to spend at least one sentence or two describing each main point, so that your readers know what to expect. For example, if you're writing an essay with the following thesis statement: "The Great Gatsby's three central themes are loneliness, the corruption of wealth, and the loss of great love," then you should spend one sentence describing the loneliness in the novel, one sentence describing the corruption, and another statement describing the loss of great love.
 Once you've hooked your readers and stated your main points, all you have to do is state your thesis. It tends to work best as the last sentence in the introductory paragraph, though sometimes the essay can be successful if you place the thesis earlier in the introduction. The introductory paragraph and the thesis should work like a road map to the rest of the essay, so that the reader knows what to expect in the rest of the paper. To recap, a successful start to a college essay, or an introductory paragraph, should include the following:


A "hook" to get the reader's attention
A brief discussion of the main points that will be covered in the body of the essay
The thesis statement

