 The cheapest trackers are fairly large magnetic boxes. Not all devices are this obvious, though. In some cases the only sign is an out of place wire. Unless you're very familiar with your car, keep the manual handy to stop yourself yanking out a vital part.;
, Get on your back and shine your flashlight onto the underside of the car. Most trackers link to GPS satellites, and won't function deep under your car where metal blocks the connection.Focus on the perimeter of the underside, looking for suspicious boxes, taped-on objects, and antennas.


If you see something odd, give it a light tug. Most tracking devices are magnetic and will detach easily.
Check the gas tank first. Its large metal surface makes it an easy spot to attach a magnetic device.
 Check under the plastic guard of each wheel well, especially if it feels loose or bent. Any tracker should be obvious here — your car did not come with any weird boxes in this location.


If someone had extended access to your vehicle, you could remove the tires and check behind them, but it's not too likely a location. If you do look there, be aware that some brakes have a wired sensor behind them that is supposed to be there., The front and rear bumpers are the last common exterior locations to place a cheap tracker.Check behind them anywhere someone could slip in a device.


A device under the front bumper may be wired to the car's electrical system. Always compare the wiring to the manual before you remove anything.
 This is only a feasible location in two scenarios. First, an SUV or other tall vehicle can host a device perched in plain sight. Second, a sunroof can hide a small device inside the retraction slot.
 The front of a car is a hot, solid metal box regularly inspected by the driver. This makes it a terrible spot for a tracker. It's not impossible, but the average jealous partner or paranoid neighbor is unlikely to try this. Give it a quick glance and move on to the interior.


Out of place wires to the car battery may lead to a tracking device. Compare the wiring to your manual's diagrams before jumping to conclusions.
 Unzip seat cushions and headrests if possible. Look under any removable parts.
 Shine the flashlight up onto the underside of the seats. Note that some seats have heating mechanisms built in. Compare the appearance of the two front seats to find anomalies.
 On most models, you can unscrew the glovebox compartment, plus the panel underneath the steering wheel. Look for a loose wire that isn't taped or tied to other wires, and try to trace it back to its source. Run your fingers on the underside of the dash to feel for an antenna that's been glued or taped on., Remember that most trackers cannot receive signals through metal. Focus on areas directly underneath the rear window before checking metal trunks. Remove the spare tire and check the well thoroughly.
 If you still haven't found a tracker, chances are good there isn't one. If you're still suspicious, hire someone to sweep the vehicle again. Try these professionals:


A car alarm installer that sells GPS trackers
A mechanic with experience finding trackers
A private investigator

, Devices that actively transmit your location can be pinpointed with handheld detectors. (Some devices store info for later retrieval, and can hide from these sensors.) If you're willing to pay a significant price, look for a company that sells Technical Surveillance Counter Measures (TSCM).The tracker may only transmit occasionally and/or when the car is moving, so test while your friend is driving somewhere remote. (Nearby cell phone transmissions can interfere with the device.)