 Know the restrictions that apply to your license and permit. Most permits require that you are accompanied by a legal driver over 21 years of age. Most licensees face a probationary period when they cannot drive with minors in their car. Make sure to follow these rules closely, or you could end up facing a delayed or removed license.Driving laws vary by state, so check your local Department of Motor Vehicles website for details.
Carry your paper permit, paper temporary license, and final license with you when driving. This way you can show them to a police officer upon request.
 Aim for at least 30 to 50 hours of supervised driving time after you have your license in hand. This lets you continue to learn and safely make mistakes while being watched over by a more experienced driver. Ask your parents to help out or reach out to a family friend. Vary your practice sessions by driving in all conditions and at different times of the day., After you’ve received your license or permit, you can still take classes to improve your skills on the road. Contact your local police department to ask if they are currently offering any courses. Some non-profits and companies, like UPS, hold classes for teens, too.These classes are often offered free of charge and you get to practice with the newest technology, like driving simulators., Many cities or counties require that new teen drivers follow a curfew for the first few months up to a year. To find out the exact restrictions, check with your police department. Even without a formal curfew, it is a good idea to limit your night driving to emergencies only until you have a few years of experience.When you do drive at night or even at dawn/dusk, use your headlights. This makes it easier for other drivers to see you., Heavy rain, snow, sleet, or fog can test the best driver. Check the forecast before you leave on a drive and if the weather looks bad, delay your trip until it clears. If you have to go, then triple the space between you and the car in front. Remember that you can always pull over to a safe spot if you need to.Don’t activate cruise control if the roads are slick. It will delay your reaction time and give you less control over the vehicle., Sit down with your parents and write up a driving agreement. This document can apply to all drivers in the household, not just you. It should address issues such as cell phone use, practicing good driving skills, and how to react in dangerous situations. Have everyone sign the contract and agree to celebrate every six months that it is followed.If you are a responsible driver, but your parents are worried about your safety, signing a contract is one way that you can offer them some reassurance.

