 If you are a landlord, employer, or credit, medical, or insurance provider, the Fair Credit Reporting Act requires that you hire a Consumer Reporting Agency (CRA) to perform the background check for you.Thus, if you intend to perform a background check for one of those reasons, you should ensure that the service you employ is a licensed CRA.


Typically, an investigator will search for the subjects address history, state court records, federal court records, and prison system records. Investigators gather this information by contacting government institutions or referring to subscription-only databases like LexisNexis or PACER., Under the Fair Credit Reporting Act, you are required to get your subject's written consent before you hire an outside investigator to perform a background check.Give the applicant written notice of your intent to perform a background check with a space for him or her to sign affirming his or her consent.
 If you decide instead to hire a local investigator or service, verify beforehand that they are licensed to perform background checks in accordance with the FCRA.


You can find a list of employment and tenant screening services compiled by the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau at http://files.consumerfinance.gov/f/201501_cfpb_list-consumer-reporting-agencies.pdf.
You can also search for accredited CRAs through the National Association of Professional Background Screeners by visiting https://portal.napbs.com/i4a/member_directory/feSearchForm.cfm?directory_id=9&pageid=3304&showTitle=1.
 State and federal law controls what information you can uncover and how you can use it. Under federal law, there is no time limit for conviction records, but arrest records over 7 years old cannot be included in a credit report unless your applicant has applied for a position where the annual salary exceeds $75,000.Additionally, you must notify the applicant if you base your decision not to hire him or her on the information in the report.Your state law may impose other restrictions. You may be prohibited from asking about arrests that did not lead to a conviction, old convictions, and crimes where the criminal conduct is not related to the responsibilities of the position.You can look up state law on the use of arrest and conviction information at http://www.nolo.com/legal-encyclopedia/state-laws-use-arrests-convictions-employment.html.
 If you decide not to hire someone based on the information you discovered through the background check, you must notify the applicant of this fact.To do this, you should:


Tell the applicant that the background check returned negative information;
Disclose which agency performed the background check;
Give the applicant a copy of the form titled “Summary of Your Rights under FCRA,” which you should have received from the CRA, and is available at https://www.consumer.ftc.gov/articles/pdf-0096-fair-credit-reporting-act.pdf; and
Let the applicant explain or rebut the information in the background check.

