 Planting pots can be found at most major department stores or home and gardening stores. Plastic planting pots are the easiest to use for this project because the shells will adhere easier to the plastic than clay or terracotta, which require a hot glue gun to hold the shells in place.Spraying a spray cement sealer may also help your shells stick to your pot when using ceramic, clay, or terracotta pots.
Painting your pot allows you to create a different look for the spaces in between the shells, where the pot's color can be seen.;
, Rinse and clean your shells so that there isn’t any leftover sand or dirt in them. Once the shells are clean, leave them out in the sun to dry or wipe them down with a dry rag., Lay out your shells so you can get a visual for what they might look like on your pot. You can use any kind of shells and ones that differ in size and shape. Using different sorts of shells will make your planter more unique and eye catching.Try to think of different designs that you can create using different types and sizes of shells.

For instance, if you have long, thinner shells, you can arrange them in a star position.
A common seashell planter idea is to get shells of about the same size and cover the entirety of the pot.
 Starting from the bottom, begin to apply your seashells to the pot using a hot glue gun to hold them in place. Use your hot glue gun to put a dab of glue on the bottom of the shell then apply it to the pot. Once they are held in place, you’ll want to reinforce the shells by using a stronger glue, like Gorilla or super glue, to hold the shells in place for the long run. Drip the glue on the sides of the shell so that it adheres to the pot.

If you only use hot glue, then your shells will slide off when it gets hot outside.
Hanging your seashells upside down will prevent them from gathering water inside and attracting bugs., This is an optional step if you want to increase the longevity of your seashell planter and ensure that none of the shells fall off. Apply sanded grout that you’ve purchased from an arts and crafts store over the surface and in between the cracks of the shells on your planter. Allow the grout to set for 20 minutes, then use a warm rag to wipe down any excess grout on top of the shells or in between the cracks., If you don’t allow your glue to dry, the shells may come off your seashell planter. Once the glue on your planter is completely dry, you can place it outside in your garden, or inside depending on what kind of plant it is.