 The prevalent philosophy on attracting abundance encourages that you focus on what you do have, rather than what is lacking in your life. For example, instead of focusing on not having reached your monetary goals, acknowledge the things you already possess, such as a roof over your head, food in your refrigerator and your good health.;
, Being thankful for what you already possess allows your energy to flow in the direction of creating and attracting more good things. This concept stems from the belief that what you focus on tends to expand, which makes a fixation on what is lacking in your life counterproductive for achieving your goals of attracting abundance.


Keep a gratitude journal. To encourage a feeling of thankfulness, write daily in a gratitude journal. List specific things that you are grateful for, such as the health of your children, the opportunity to serve in your community, the sun being out or the money in your bank account.
 Keep your thoughts and conversations on discussing new ideas and steps for creating abundant possibilities.


Limit negative conversations about impossibilities, problems and financial problems. Constantly discussing what you do not have or your life obstacles drains you of energy that you can put into new projects and creative ventures to help you attract abundance.
 Specify your goals and the steps for achieving those goals. For example, your goal may be to generate wealth so that you can share it with your family, friends and others who need it.


Detail exactly how you will achieve your goal. For example, you might invest in real estate, work a second job or get a degree in a more lucrative field.
 Allow yourself quiet moments throughout the day when you can relax and clear your mind of stress and worries.


Focus on your breath. Breathing deeply and slowly helps you relax and allows your mind to unleash excessive mental chatter.
Choose a mantra to repeat during meditation. The mantra can represent a specific goal or a way of reaching your goal. For example, if fear is a constant struggle, a mantra of "I choose to be courageous" will help to empower you towards achieving your goals of abundance.
 Addictive substances, Internet time wasters, negative people and unproductive pastimes are examples of things and activities to avoid if you want to attract more abundance in your life.

