 Keeping your hair clean is a must, but washing it too frequently to accomplish this task may actually be thinning your hair. Each wash rinses out scalp-borne nutrients, causing your hair to become brittle and break. Instead of daily washes, try to keep your shampooing routine to only two or three times weekly.


Invest in a dry shampoo for in between washes to keep hair looking clean.
Use conditioner every time you wash your hair to restore moisture.;
, Most shampoos and conditioners contain harsh detergents that dry out hair, causing breakage. In addition to minimizing the total amount of washing you do, find a sulfate-free shampoo. When possible, use products that contain all natural or organic ingredients.
 These tools can burn ends of hair, causing split-ends and breakage. When possible, avoid using a blow dryer, flat iron, or curling iron; minimize their use to once a week.


Let your hair air-dry when possible, and save styling tools for special occasions.
If you don't like the way your hair naturally dries, apply frizz-fighting products to wet hair so that hair dries smoothly.
If you absolutely must use styling tools on a regular basis, use a heat-protecting product like argan oil and apply it to your hair right before styling.
 We all love to color our hair, but some bleach and other chemicals can have a drying-out effect that, when coupled with styling tools, can cause serious damage to your hair. Avoid using these harsh chemicals on your hair, referring to more natural means of lightening or coloring your strands, or try using vegan hair dyes, such as Manic Panic.
 Brushing your hair regularly is great for the overall health of your mane, as it spreads the natural oils created by your scalp to the ends of the strands, fortifying your hair. However, brushing can be damaging if done incorrectly. Use a wide-tooth plastic comb to brush out your hair, instead of a bristled brush (round or flat).


Avoid brushing your hair while it’s wet, as this is when your hair is most fragile and prone to breakage.
Try to brush your hair once a day to spread out the oils and stimulate the scalp.