 The size of your makeshift white board is completely up to you. However, the types of material you will be using to create the white board often come in 4'x8' sheets, so, if you need something larger, you will need to plan to buy multiple sheets.;
, Melamine is a fiberboard sheet that has a hard plastic-like coating on one side. Sometimes, these sheets are textured to look like tile, which can be a plus in certain situations (like if you need to organize your information into squares), but, usually, this just gets in the way. So, you'll probably want to choose a sheet with a smooth finish, since they generally erase easier and look better when written on.
 Alternatively, try one of these thinner polymer materials to make a transparent dry erase board. Both are available at most local home improvement stores. Of the two, Lexan is preferable because it is about 1/2 as thick as plexiglass, weighs less, doesn't shatter during drilling, and has a nicer, "glassier" finish than plexiglass. However, Lexan is the more expensive choice.
 Regardless of the material you choose, your board will be very thin (only about 1/4" - 1/2" thick). Because of this, it will be somewhat bendable or flexible. This isn't a problem if you plan to attach your board directly to a wall with glue - in this case, the wall behind the board will provide support while you're writing. However, if you need to be able to move your board around, buy a backer board to glue it to for added stability.


The material of your backer board can be virtually anything - cork-board, wood, and even additional sheets of your board's base material work well.
 If your board needs to be smaller than 4'x8' (or other dimensions you may have bought it in), then you will need to cut it. If you don't have the right tools to do this on your own, don't worry - a lumberyard or home improvement store will be able to cut it for you. If you're cutting the material on your own, move the saw slowly through the material. Rushing can cause plexiglass, lexan, and melamine to chip very badly.


Be sure to have the backer board cut as well if you are using one.
 to hang your board. Don't forget that a dry erase board is only any good if you can hang it on the wall! In terms of which hanging methods to use, there are no right answers - anything that keeps the board steady on the wall so that you can comfortably write on it is fair game! Gluing, nailing, or screwing the board to the wall is a semi-permanent solution, while hanging it on hooks allows it to be easily removed.


Note that this type of board works best with smooth walls when gluing the board directly to the wall. If your wall has bumps or texture, there may be a few millimeters between the wall and board, which can make the board unstable when you write on it.
You may also want to dress up your board with some trim or a "ledge" to hold your markers - it's up to you.
 Congratulations! Your dry erase board is ready to use to your heart's content. If you're going to use the board for the same thing every day, you may want to split the board into subsections as needed. For instance, if the board is be going to be used to keep track of your schedule, you might want to divide it into "days" and "weeks" (and so on).


If you'd like to sub-divide your board, try using automotive pin striping (available at an auto repair store). Black pinstripe comes in two sizes, 1/4" and 1/8", which work well for a bold, yet uniform effect. Pinstripe is available in many colors, sizes, and patterns.

