 Wash with soap, use a specialized plastic cleaner, or soak the plastic in isopropyl alcohol to clean.Dry thoroughly.


Avoid touching the piece with your bare hands afterward, to minimize oil residue.
 Briefly sand the plastic with 120-200 grit sandpaper to create a rough surface for the glue to bond to. Steel wool or emery cloth will also work, but remember it only needs to be rubbed briefly.
 Two-part "epoxies" require two ingredients to be mixed together to activate the adhesive. Read the instructions on the container carefully, as there are many types of epoxy and each requires a certain ratio of the two ingredients. Some of them can be used for several hours after mixing, while others require application within a few minutes.


See Selecting a Glue to learn which type of glue to use. You can skip this step if you are not using a two-part adhesive.
 Use a small brush to apply an even layer of adhesive to both surfaces where they will be attached. For tiny pieces, such as a broken piece on a plastic model, you can use the tip of a needle instead.


If you are using a solvent cement (not a poly cement or plastic cement), you should clamp the pieces together first, then use an applicator bottle to put a thin line of solvent cement along the edge between the pieces, where it will be drawn between them.If you are using it on plastic pipes, see Gluing Plastic Pipes instead.
 Press them together to get them in place and remove air bubbles. Don't push so hard that the adhesive oozes out of the joint. If it does, wipe away the excess unless you are using an acrylic cement, which should be left to evaporate.
 Use a clamp, vise, masking tape, or rubber bands to hold them firmly together. Read the instructions on your adhesive container to know how long to leave them in place. Depending on the type and brand of adhesive, the bond could take anywhere from a few minutes to 24 hours to develop.


Many plastic adhesives continue to "cure", or develop a stronger bond, for days or even weeks after application. Avoid applying stress and heat to the glued piece for at least 24 hours after application, even if the bond seems strong.

