 If you're using creams and products dedicated to wart removal, make sure to only use them on the wart itself. If you get them on unaffected areas, it's no party. Your skin can blister, redden, swell, and otherwise add to your laundry list of woes.


That being said, make sure you have genital warts before you go treating these as genital warts! Applying apple cider vinegar to your genitals and spending the night moaning in a fiery agony is not the price you should pay for a particularly bad ingrown hair.
 If you do, you risk bursting the warts open, causing the virus to spread and more warts to spawn. Now there's a pretty picture. Try the oatmeal bath, a bath with calming bath salts, or applying a cold compress to relieve the itching.Spreading the virus is a concern you should have. Consider washing your under garments separately and in hot water, along with not wearing the same ones for longer than 6-8 hours., A moist environment is a breeding ground for bacteria. If you don't dry the area, you could be exacerbating the problem. Allows thoroughly dry down with a towel or use a blow dryer. If the warts are dry, they'll heal more quickly.If you do use a blow dryer, use the low heat setting. You don't want to hurt yourself!, As with any infection, your body has to fight it off. In most cases, HPV will actually go away on its own.However, if you choose to do nothing, your case may get much, much worse before it goes away -- if it goes away. Cover your bases and keep your immune system top notch.


Eat a healthy diet. That means loading up on fruits, veggies, whole grains, and getting plenty of vitamins and minerals. The better you feel, the quicker your body can restore itself.
Take efforts to ward off sickness by always washing your hands and keeping good hygiene. The fewer viruses your body has to fight off, the more it can concentrate on the issue at hand, clearing up the warts sooner rather than later.
 The absolute best way to treat genital warts is through a prescription, like Aldara, Efudex and Podofilox.These are proven to fight off warts in a safe and timely manner. What's more, your doctor is a wealth of information on how to handle the whole situation -- mentally and emotionally, this circumstance can be very draining.


Furthermore, there are still no medical claims that have approved these home remedies. A visit to the doctor is highly recommended because even when you are successful in getting rid of the genital wart, there is no guarantee the virus is completely gone.

