 This will be for your horizontal stripes. You can use solid colored duct tape or patterned duct tape.;
, This will be for your vertical stripes. To make a more interesting looking bag, use a contrasting color. It would not be a good idea to use patterned duct tape for this, because it will make your bag look too busy.
 This will make a crease, which you will later use as a guideline. Use the same color as your long, vertical strips., Make sure that the vertical strips do not go past that creased guideline you made earlier. Also, make sure that the vertical strips are placed side-by-side so that their edges are touching. You will have an inch or so of excess duct tape to either side of your vertical strips, which is fine.
 If you'd like, you can trim off any excess tape at this point.
 Weave the strips over and under, from one side to the other. Every so often, push your horizontal strips down so that there aren't any gaps.
 It might be a good idea to do this every couple of inches to keep your work neat. To prevent any gaps, overlap each strip by ¼-inch (0.64 centimeters). You can use the same color or pattern as your horizontal strips, or you can use the same color as your vertical strips.


The lining adds extra security to your bag. It will prevent items, like pencils, from poking through the weaving and falling out., Run the tape along one of the longest edges, with half of the sticky side out. Flip your weaving over, and fold the rest of the tape down. Repeat this step for the other side.


Match the color to your vertical strips.
 For this, you can simply cut a 12 to 14-inch (30.48 to 35.56 centimeters) long strip of duct tape, and use it to cover the last, raw edge at the top of your weaving. Alternatively, you can also cut the top into a slightly rounded shape, and then cover the edges with duct tape. This will create the flap part of your purse., Use the same color as the vertical stripes on your bag.
 Overlap the long edges by ¼-inch. This will make one side of your duct tape sheet.Putting the tape sticky-side-down prevents the tape from sticking to your fingers while you work, making things easier., Remember to overlap the long edges by ¼-inch (0.64 centimeters).
 Cut the narrow edges down until the sheet is 8 inches (20.32 centimeters) long. Then, cut down the long edges at an angle until the sheet is 2 inches (5.08 centimeters) at one end, and 4 inches (10.16 centimeters) at the other end.


Repeat the first few steps to make another trapezoid sheet just like this one.
 Be sure to use a color that matches the edging and side panel. For extra security, flip the bag over, and place a strip of tape on the back of the seam.


Repeat this step for the other side of your bag.
If you cut one of the narrow ends of your weaving into a rounded shape, make sure that you start from the other end.
 Place a strip of tape (about 8 inches/20.32 centimeters long) over the edge of the 8 rows that you counted earlier, so that half of it is sticking out over the edge. Fold the side flap and the woven material towards each other until the edges meet. Press the tape onto the side panel of the bag. If you'd like, you can add another strip of tape on the outside of the bag.


Make sure that you are using the same color as your edging/side panel.
Repeat this step for the other side of the bag.
You'll notice that the weaving is longer than your side panels. This is fine; your purse closes with a flap!

, You can use the same color as your lining, or a contrasting one.
 You might find it easier to place the strips sticky-side-down. This way, the tape won't stick to your fingers as much, and make it easier to work with.
 Remember to overlap the edges by ¼-inch (0.64 centimeters). Try to be as neat as possible, especially along the long edges. Don't worry if the narrow, side edges are messy.
 Be sure to trim the tape off on both sides. This will get rid of any unevenness.
 This will give you a cleaner edge. You can use the same color as your sheet, or a contrasting on.
 Cut 2 strips of tape, about 6 inches (15.24 centimeters) long, and use them to tape down the side edges of your pocket. Make sure that the tape does not go past the top of your pocket, or it won't open all the way. Cut another strip of tape, and use it to tape down the bottom edge of your pocket; make sure that it covers the tape you used on the sides as well.
 These will become your strap, so you can make it as long as you'd like. The color can match either the vertical or horizontal strips you made earlier.


Consider measuring the shoulder strap of your favorite bag, and using it as a guide.
 To keep the strip steady, you can tape it to your table at either end with small pieces of regular tape., Each of these strips will be hanging half-way over the edge of your first strip. They should be touching in the center of your first strip, but not overlapping.
 You should now have a 2-inch (5.08 centimeters) wide strip made out of duct tape. At this point, you can trim off any unevenness at either end.
 Be sure to apply tape to both the inside and the outside of the purse.
 Find the center of the top flap of your bag, and place a Velcro dot or square. Find the corresponding spot on the body of your bag, and place the matching Velcro dot or square on it.

