 For some of you unlucky enough to spawn in areas like, say, the desert or the middle of an ocean, you might find it difficult to find pigs. According to the source code of the game, pigs spawn on top of grass blocks. Which means that biomes like Deserts, Extreme Hills, and Mesas won’t host any delightful oinkers in the vicinity. Places full of snow also don’t spawn them, but “cold” places with blue grass and snow when you climb up do. Move to greener areas like Forests and Plains. Just make sure you explore each area thoroughly, in case you miss some areas leading to goodies or resources.;
, Pigs also spawn in sunnier places, making Plains and its cousins the best place to search for them, with the Forests a close second. Roofed Forest biomes alternate between being dark and light, so don’t rely on that area to find pigs.
 Once you’ve found a nice wide, open grassy area, keep an ear out for walking sounds and oinking, and watch for vague pink shapes in the distance. You can, of course, kill the pig you find, but where’s the fun in that? You’re here to RIDE PIGS!

, Before fulfilling your dreams of pig-riding, you’ll need a saddle. Saddles are pretty uncommon in Minecraft, and can’t be crafted by the player. They have to be found or traded for.
 When you go exploring above and underground, you’ll sometimes find specially generated areas with some resources for your taking. Saddles have a chance of being found in most dungeon-type areas and inside the blacksmith’s house in villages.


Dungeons include Strongholds, the Nether Fortress, Desert and Jungle Temples, Abandoned Mineshafts, and End Cities.
Blacksmith houses basically resemble “clean” stone building with an open “forge” in a pool of lava and some furnaces, and a small interior “workshop” that includes a chest of loot.
 Fishing is a simple activity where you cast out the line, wait for a bubble trail to appear towards your lure, and immediately reel it in once the lure is tugged on. If you time it right, you’ll either get nice juicy fish to eat, some random “junk” to use, or rare items like Enchanted Books, Name Tags, and Saddles!


To cast your line, right-click or press LT/L2 while facing a body of water. Reeling it in uses the same controls.

Click here for instructions on creating a Fishing Rod.
Fishing can take anywhere from a few seconds to a few minutes. Saddles are part of the “treasure” category of items found by fishing, and the overall chance to even acquire a treasure is about 5%. It might take a while before you can receive one, depending on how lucky you are.
For more experienced players, having a fishing rod enchanted with Luck of the Sea III would improve your chances of getting rarer items to 8%. This will not immediately assure you’ll get a Saddle, however, but simply improves your chances to get “treasure” items.
 If you’re lucky enough find a village, a leather worker villager (one of the possible “jobs” of villagers with white aprons) will sometimes be partial to trade you a Saddle for about 8-10 emeralds (the currency of villagers, acquired by trading) apiece as a third-tier trade. You can unlock these trades by trading with them at least two times.
 Now it’s time to suit up mister piggy for your riding pleasure! This is done by right-clicking (PC) or pressing LT/L2 (console) on your piggy while you have the Saddle selected. The pig will then have a spiffy little saddle on its back, perfect for riding!

, Now it’s time to ride the pig! You can press the same buttons you used when equipping the saddle to get on the pig.


Crouching (left-Shift on PC and holding R on Xbox) would dismount you.
 Now you just sit back and watch your character be dragged everywhere by a single pig. You can’t steer the pig at all without a bit of help, so sit back, relax and let him move.


There’s a special item you can craft called Carrot on Stick. Place a Carrot and a Fishing Rod beside each other on any crafting grid. Equip it, select it, and you can then steer or guide your pig-steed up until the carrot runs out, leaving you with a fishing rod.
Carrots are quite uncommon, but once you have them you can renew them infinitely by planting them. Carrots are also rare drops from Zombies but can also be found in villages as crops. You can also use Carrots to tame and breed pigs.

