 Have a special place to record information about your growth. It’ll be a fun project, and you’ll always know where to look to see how much progress you’ve made.;
, Have a parent or sibling help you measure yourself. Take off your shoes and stand with you back against the wall so you’re standing up straight. Use a tape measure to measure from your toes to the top of your head. Hair doesn’t count! Write down your height in your notebook in inches or centimeters.
 Pick a special day of the month – the 1st, the 15th, anything. Remeasure yourself the same way as the first time on that day and record your new height in your growth journal.


You might not see a big difference from one month to the next. Look back over several months to really see how much taller you’re growing.
 Use your family scale to weigh yourself, and write down what you weigh today. If you don’t have a scale at home you can find one at your school’s gym or nurse’s office, your doctor, or probably your local YMCA. Measure once a month and write down your weights as they change.


It’s really normal and healthy for both boys and girls to put on more weight as they get taller. Don’t be upset about your weight, but do make sure you’re at a healthy weight for your height. Your doctor can check this.
 Every time you buy a new pair of shoes, write down what size they are in your growth journal. Your feet will definitely grow big along with the rest of you.


Feet can grow fast! Make sure you check your size before buying shoes. You might have gone from a size 6 to a size 8!

, Whether it’s small to medium, size 4 to size 6, or going from shopping in the Junior’s section to the adult section, write down your new clothing size when you go shopping. Remember that sizes do vary between brands, but you can certainly watch for trends and focus on brands that you wear pretty consistently. Always try things on when you’re growing to make sure you don't buy the wrong sized clothes.
 Girls, you might notice that you need to start wearing a training bra, or that you can switch from a training bra to a bra with sizes like 32A. Picking the right bra can be challenging, so it’s okay to ask your mom or a sales lady at the store to help you measure and choose the correct size.
 Other than actually weighing and measuring, you can keep track of how you’re growing by trying to achieve new accomplishments as you get bigger and stronger. Try riding your bike without training wheels, reach for that highest kitchen cabinet you could never quite reach before without a stool, race your older sibling and see how much faster you've gotten. Keep a section in your notebook where you can record your accomplishments.


Older boys and girls who play sports or lift weights can set new athletics goals. Can you run a mile faster now than a year ago? Can you do more pull ups or lift more weights? It’s not always a direct relationship between growth and strength, but it’s usually a good indicator. Just be careful with weights and exercise if it's new to you.

