 There are two ways you can go about this. You can base your costume off of an existing Katy Perry outfit, or you can create your own Katy Perry-inspired costume. If you are going to recreate a specific outfit, follow the tips in this section, or take a look at one of the other methods.


Have lots of reference pictures printed out or saved online.
Try a theme. A lot of Katy Perry's looks include cats or candy.;
, Katy Perry is known for her bright, colorful, and unique patterns.Most of her looks feature a 19050s, style dress with a full-circle skirt, but she also has worn A-line dresses and tube dresses as well.


You can always modify the dress by gluing wrapped candy to it, such as: Lollipops, Tootsie Rolls, and Smarties.Use stencils and fabric paint to add a large cookie, cotton candy, or peppermint candy print., The higher the heels are, the better, preferably at least 4 inches (10.16 centimeters). If you aren't comfortable wearing heels that tall, you can try regular heels or even Mary Janes, but keep them bright and colorful. Here are some colors and styles to look for:


Clear shoes, preferably green.Pink, glittery Mary Janes.Bright, solid colors.
 Katy Perry had her hair in almost every color imaginable. Her most memorable hair colors were blue, purple, and pink. Most of her hair styles were simple, shoulder-length cuts with straight bands that end just above her eyebrows. She also wore lots of vintage styles inspired by the 1940s and 1950s. Here are some suggestions:


Wavy, dark purple, shoulder-length wig with a side part and no bangs.Shoulder-length lilac wig with the bangs rolled in a 1940s or 1950s fashion.Wavy-curly blue wig that falls past your shoulders with straight, full bangs.Green wig, shoulder length, with blunt bangs.
 Katy Perry's looks are bright and colorful, and no two outfits are alike. She seems to have a certain go-to look for her makeup, however, that focuses on shimmer, bold eyeliner, and thick, heavy falsies. Here's how to get the basic look:Cover your lid with neutral eyeshadow (preferably beige).
Add grey, silver, or gold into the crease.
Cover the lid with sheer, shimmery gold shadow or shimmering dust.
Apply thick, bold eyeliner to your upper lid. If you can, do a cat-eye or wingtip.
Apply winged faux lashes—the thicker and heavier, the better!
Keep the rest of your makeup subtle with pink blush and pink or red lipstick.
 Your accessories should reflect the theme, color, and patterns of your outfit. Does your outfit have a lot of candy on it? Pick a chunky bangle with candy cane stripes on it! Can't decide? Grab a microphone or a pair of cat-eye sunglasses! Listed below are some ideas to get you started:Cat-eye sunglasses
Microphone (handheld or head)
Thick, colorful bangle bracelets
A headband with hearts on it. Nab it during Valentine's day!Pink tights or thigh-high stockings., Trace two small, Styrofoam rings onto a yellow-tinted sponge, then cut the circles out. Hot glue the circles to the top of each ring, then trim the edges to make them curved., Place some white spackling into a mixing bowl. Stir in a few drops of light pink acrylic paint to make it pink. Stuff the "frosting" into a piping bag fitted with a large, open-star tip. Pipe it onto the cupcake base., Top each cupcake off with a red pompom. Add some sprinkles or colorful seed beads. Glue a strip of light blue felt or crepe paper around the Styrofoam base to hide it., Coat the inside of each cupcake with tacky glue, fabric glue, or any other strong glue. Press the cupcakes onto the cup part of each bra, then let the glue set.Finish off the look by gluing a small, pink bow between the two bra cups, if desired.


You can also use a bikini top instead.
 They should be fitted and slightly high-waisted. If you can't find a pair of glittered or sequined shorts, you can instead wear regular blue shorts or blue jean shorts.
 If you can't find any, get a pair of regular pumps, then coat them with decoupage glue (ie: Mod Podge) and pink glitter. Let the glue dry, then apply another layer or two until you have an even coverage.


The higher the heels, the better. If you aren't comfortable with this, you can wear regular heels or even flats—as long as they are pink and glittery!

, The wig should reach past your shoulders, almost to your elbows. Try to find something that is straight at top, and curly or wavy at the ends. The wig also needs to have straight, blunt-cut bangs.
 Apply your overall foundation as you normally would, and then do basic eyeshadow using a silver color scheme. Add some false black eyelashes and bright pink lipstick.
 Katy Perry did not wear many accessories for this costume. Her main accessory was a headband with a large, blue heart attached to it. To re-create this, cut a large heat out of blue craft foam, then coat it with glue and blue glitter. Hot glut the heart to a headband, preferably a blue one.
 You will need a white, knee-length dress to use as your base. You can use an old dress as a base, or buy one from a thrift store or on sale. Here is how you can make her dress:Cut 8 to 11 large circles out of white construction paper. Vary the sizes a bit.
Paint the circles with red paint to look like peppermints.
Coat the red areas with glue, then add red glitter on top..
Secure the peppermints to the dress with glue, Velcro, safety pins, or double-sided tape.
 The styles that work the best for this are character dance shoes or Mary Janes. The heel should be between 2 and 3 inches (5.08 and 7.62 centimeters) tall. If you can't find red, glittery heels, you can make your own by coating them with glossy decoupage glue (ie: Mod Podge), then adding red glitter.


You will need several layers of decoupage glue and glitter. Let each layer dry before doing the next.
Seal your shoes afterwards with a final coat of decoupage glue.
 Look for a wig that falls past your shoulders. It can be straight or wavy, but it should have straight, blunt-cut bangs., Keep your eyeshadow simple, with silver or grey in the creases. Make your eyeliner bold, with cat-eye or wing tips. Apply thick, heavy false lashes and a touch of pink blush. Finish the look with pink lipstick.
 Get a pair of red gloves, preferably made from pleather, vinyl, or fake leather. Cut the fingers off so that they end at your first finger joint (about 1 inch/2.54 centimeters) long. You can also add a thick, white bangle with red candy stripes on it.Katy Perry also wore nude, shimmery tights with rhinestones on them.
 Pull apart pink, blue, and yellow plastic Easter eggs. Discard the top halves and glue the bottom halves to the dress with super glue, hot glue, or fabric glue. Do 2 rows of pink, then 2 rows of blue, then 2 rows of yellow. Repeat the pattern, if needed. Be sure to leave some space between each "dot" so that the white dress is showing, just like the candy.If you can't get plastic Easter eggs, you can cut Styrofoam balls in half, then paint them hot pink, bright blue, and yellow instead. Don't use super glue on these.
You can also use clear, plastic DIY ornaments instead—the kind that you pull apart into two halves. Paint them on the inside rather than the outside.
If the dress is stretchy, have somebody glue the dots onto the dress while you are wearing it.
 Get some white, pumps with high heels, at least 4 inches (10.16 centimeters). Decorate them with candy dots (keep them in two rows of pink, 2 rows of blue, then 2 rows of yellow). You can also use puffy paint, regular paint, or buttons.


Don't like wearing high heels? Wear a different pair of choose, but keep the same theme: white with pink, blue, and yellow dots.
 The wig needs to fall past your shoulders, close to your elbows. It can be wavy or straight, but it would be better if it is straight at top and curly on the bottom. The bangs should be cut straight across.
 Use a silvery-grey eyeshadow, and thick, heavy eyeliner. Add a cat-eye or wingtip to your eyeliner, then put on a pair of thick, heavy falsies. Finish off the look with a touch of pink blue and bright pink lipstick.
 Katy Perry did not wear many accessories for this costume. She wore two bracelets made from large, chunky white or pastel-colored beads. You can try to find or make similar bracelets, or skip them entirely; the outfit is memorable as it is.

