 After looking at your goals and the skills or personalities you need, decide what gaps if any remain. Do you have all the goods in house? Or is there a talent or skill that you’ll have to find elsewhere?


Depending on the situation, start to think about how to assemble your leadership team. You may have already identified potential members within your company. You may be able to move them into your team or to groom them for their role.
Hiring from outside may also be an option. If you know what kind of specific skill or personality you need, and do not have it in house, consider conducting a search with HR.
Keep in mind that some gaps (skills or competencies) can be filled through training. In other cases, you may be in need of a natural talent that can’t be taught.
 You’ll need to find skills and people that complement each other to form a cohesive unit. Think of great “teams” from books or television. How did the “A-Team” work? B.A. Baracus was the muscle, Hannibal was the brains, Murdock had technical skills, and Face could talk his way out of anything. Together they worked. Your team should aim for the same.


There are different kinds of complementarity. You might want a team that divides tasks or expertise. Or, you can complement each other through your natural roles or ways of thinking.One member of your team might be able to motivate employees while another is good at seeing the big picture, for example. Yet another may have years of experience in customer service management, which is a valuable asset.
Try to be aware of how your team will work together. Bill Gates and Steve Ballmer led Microsoft for years, for example, with Gates focusing on vision and product creation and Ballmer on sales and marketing. Each played to his strength as part of a unit.Consider diversity, too. People with different ethnic, cultural, or gender backgrounds will bring fresh ideas and perspectives. Studies show that they make more creative and dynamic groups.Keep the organization’s goals in mind, all the same. However diverse, try to make sure that your team shares the same vision and overall worldview. A customer service team should all agree that customers are valuable, for example. Someone who thinks otherwise will only hinder your efforts., If you are looking to hire, you’ll need to conduct a thorough search for the right person. The first step is to advertise. You should already have a good sense of what skills you want. Now, the trick is to put it on paper.


Have an ideal candidate in mind. Knowing what skills you need in a new hire and the kind of person you want in advance will streamline the search.You may want someone with a background in IT and management, for example. Good, but how much experience should they have? Is 2-5 years enough? Or do you want more? How much are you willing to pay her?
Come up with a job title and a concise description of your ideal hire. Having a title like “Customer Service, Inventory and Logistics Manager” tells candidates what they need to know in clear prose. You should also be able to describe the candidate’s traits in three or four concise sentences.
Write these traits out beforehand to include in the advertisement. For example, “5-10 years working in supply chain management. Shows great analytical and problem solving skills. Highly self-motivated. Thrives in a high-pressure, fast-paced workplace.”The format of a job ad lists the title and description, including tasks and location and perhaps a bit about your company. It then list qualifications like years of experience or a degree, followed by personal traits that you desire. Finally, you might say a few words about how much you intend to compensate the employee or what benefits they will enjoy. Use sub-headings to separate these sections. Be specific, as well, to pare the pool of applicants., Once you’ve got things paper, look for venues to place the advertisement. Keep in mind that you are looking for management, so the venue should be reputable and visible to professionals. Craigslist is not an appropriate option.Try a business networking website like LinkedIn, which has some 150 million members.
Alternately, consider posting the advertisement on job search websites like Monster, Indeed, or CareerBuilder. If your company is on social media, you might also Tweet the ad or post it on your company Facebook page.
Old fashioned print media can still work, too. Advertisements for elite positions might be placed in business publications like the Wall Street Journal, for example, or professional journals.
 Winnow the responses to your ad to create a well-qualified pool of interviewees. Throw out applicants who aren’t qualified, don’t have enough experience, or don’t seem like a right fit for the job or your company. Then, conduct phone or in-person interviews with the rest.


It’s possible to narrow your pool apart from looking at skills. For example, some companies use personality profiles or aptitude tests to pre-screen candidates.How many people should you interview? You don’t want a candidate pool that’s too big or too small. Some recruitment agencies suggest about 3-5 candidates for a first round, with 2-3 in a second round. More than this may mean that you are not vetting candidates enough before the interviews.Compile a list of questions and “required attributes” for the position, before the interview. Use these to assess potential and interest. For example, for a logistics job, explain your company’s supply chain and ask the candidate to identify its strengths and inefficiencies.Involve a few others in the interviews without being overwhelming. Since you are looking to hire a colleague, try to involve at least some other members of your leadership team in the process.
 Apart from complementary skills and expertise, you should also aim for a team that can fulfill its tasks efficiently.The interview is a chance to vet candidates for these “soft attributes.” Are they fit to lead? Are they comfortable in a managerial role? Do you think that they will work well together?


Despite being skilled, some employees are just not cut out for leadership. If a person doesn’t like being in a leadership role, she is more likely to be disengaged. This could lead to problems in the group as a whole.
Pay close attention to personality. Your team must be able to channel disagreement productively. Try to recruit members who respect each other, who can handle and give criticism, and who will add to rather than undermine the group dynamic.It can be hard to balance personalities in a group. Too many big egos will lead to clashes, while too little ego will make it hard to have an open, honest dialogue.

