 Take off your clothes and place them in a plastic garbage bag, if possible. Wash your clothes separately from anything else as soon as possible.;
, You can apply rubbing alcohol to your skin to dissolve the poison ivy or poison oak oils. Because the toxic oil from the plant seeps into your skin gradually, adding rubbing alcohol to the area will prevent the further spread. It won't provide immediate relief, but it will stem the spread. You can also use an over-the-counter cleanser like Tecnu or Zanfel.
 Never use warm or hot water, as this will open your pores and allow more of the toxins to sink in. If you're able, keep the affected area under cold running water for 10-15 minutes. If you're outdoors in the woods when you're exposed to poison ivy or poison oak, then you can rinse your body off in a running stream., Regardless of the location on your body, make sure that it was thoroughly rinsed with water. If you touched the area on your body at all or the poison affected your hands, scrub under your fingernails with a toothbrush in case any oil from the plants was deposited beneath them. Throw the toothbrush away after you're done.


Use a dish soap that is used for oil removal to rinse the area of your rash. Because the toxins have been transferred to your skin in the form of an oil, using an oil-obliterating dish soap may help to reduce the spread of the rash.
If you use a towel to dry yourself after washing the affected area, be sure to wash the towel with the rest of your exposed clothes immediately after use.
 Even though the rash is not contagious, you could break the skin and allow bacteria to enter the wound. Don't touch or pop any blisters that may form, even if they are weeping. If necessary, cut your nails short and cover the area to keep yourself from scratching it.
 Apply cold compresses or apply an icepack for 10 to 15 minutes. Make sure that you don't apply ice directly to your skin; always wrap your ice pack or compress in a towel before application. Also, allow the area to air dry instead of rubbing it with a towel if you get your rash wet.

