 How long the wires are will depend on how big you want your cloud to be. You will be folding these wires into a ring, so keep this in mind. Make sure that all of the wires are the same length.;
, Take your first wire, and overlap the two ends by 1 inch (2.54 centimeters). Twist the ends to hold the ring together. Repeat this step for the other wires.
 Hold one right horizontally. Hold the other ring above it, vertically. Slight the vertical ring into the horizontal one halfway. Your two rings will make a cross.
 You can do this by putting beads of hot glue on the joints between the two rings. You can also tie the joints together with some more wire. Be sure to tuck any sharp ends into the wire "orb."

, Slip the third ring over your frame at a left angle. Secure it to the joints between the other rings with hot glue or more wire. Repeat this step with the fourth ring, but insert it at a right angle. These two new rings should form an X.
 Pull off a long strip of polyester stuffing. Draw a squiggle of hot glue across it, then wrap it over your frame. Make sure that it covers at least two rings.


Work quickly. Hot glue sets fast.
 Keep doing this until most of your frame is covered. Be careful not to wrap the frame too tightly, or your will distort it.
 Once you have most of your cloud covered, pull out smaller tufts of polyester. Draw a swirl of hot glue, then press it against the cloud.
 If your cloud looks too much like a ball, gently pull here and there on the tufts to bring them out. This will make your orb look more lumpy and cloud–like than like cotton candy. Don't pull too much, however, of the polyester stuffing won't hold together.
 Cut a long piece of fishing line. Dig through your cloud until you find a joint between two wire rings. Tie the fishing line to the joint.
 Get some tape and tape your hanging cloud to the ceiling. For a stronger hold, screw a ceiling hook into your ceiling. Tie a loop into the end of the fishing line. Slip the loop over the ceiling hook.
