 If you don't want to take over-the-counter pain cough suppressants or pain relievers, you can use natural compounds to similar effect.


Consider using menthol--the active chemical in mint--to relieve your throat symptoms. Keep a package of Altoids with you, or gargle with mint-flavored mouthwash, and use the mild numbing effect of the menthol to soothe your pain.
Consider using honey as a cough suppressant. Researchers have tested it against dextromethorphan and found honey even more effective. This trick may be especially useful for treating children who refuse the taste of over-the-counter cough suppressants.Be careful not to over-use honey, however, as the sweetness that suppresses coughs may also weaken the immune system in large doses.
 Place a small dab of mentholated salve under your nose to help open breathing passages and help restore the irritated skin at the base of the nose. Menthol, eucalyptus, and camphor all have mild numbing ingredients that may help relieve the pain of a nose rubbed raw., Support your immune system with vitamins, herbs, and other natural aids: vitamin C, zinc, garlic, ginseng, echinacea, etc. Consider taking a multivitamin for general support. These supplements will not magically cure your cold, but they may strengthen your body and enable it to fight the infection more effectively.You can find immune-support supplements in health-food stores and many grocery stores. Research the effects of any herbal supplement before you put it into your body--but know that these herbs and vitamins typically aren't nearly so potentially hazardous as many over-the-counter pharmaceuticals.Echinacea has been touted as an "immune stimulant", but its supposed ability to prevent or reduce the severity of colds is disputed within the medical community. Laboratory tests have shown garlic working against bacteria, viruses, and fungi, although further research is pending. A number of small studies—and staunch practitioners of eastern medicine—suggest that ginseng can powerfully stimulate immune function.
 Hot liquids help relieve nasal congestion, prevent dehydration, and soothe the inflamed membranes that irritate your nose and throat. Hot tea, hot soup, hot water with lemon juice or hot herbal tea are good choices. Make sure that the liquid isn't uncomfortably hot, or else you may scald your throat and put yourself into even greater discomfort.If you're so congested you can't sleep at night, try a hot toddy, an age-old remedy. Make a cup of hot herbal tea. Add one teaspoon of honey and one small shot (about 1 ounce) of whiskey or bourbon. Limit yourself to one. Too much alcohol inflames the sinus membranes, which is counterproductive if you're trying to treat a cold.
 Gargle at least once each hour with 1 tsp (5 g) of salt dissolved in 8 fl oz (240 mL) of warm water to reduce swelling and relieve your discomfort. If you have post-nasal drip--mucus running down from the back of your nose into your throat--gargle often to prevent more throat irritation.Consider gargling with apple cider vinegar.The high levels of acidity can kill bacteria in your throat--plus, apple cider vinegar helps boost your immunity by increasing your white blood cell count, and it is a natural expectorant that kills bacteria and loosens phlegm.
Consider gargling with antibacterial mouthwash. The mouthwash may not relieve your symptoms, necessarily, but it will kill some of the bacteria in your throat so that the germs propagate more slowly.
 You can buy reusable hot packs at a drugstore, but you can make your own at home. Take a damp washcloth and heat it for 30 seconds in a microwave. You can also run hot faucet water (or pour hot/boiling water) over a washcloth until it is thoroughly soaked. Before you apply the hot pack to your face, make sure that it isn't going to scald you.
 Blow gently so that you don't irritate your sinuses or disturb your inner ear--hard blowing could cause nosebleeds and ear infections. Try holding one nostril shut and blowing out of the other, then switching nostrils.


Blow your nose into your hands during a hot shower, and let the water wash away any mucus. This is a great way to completely--if temporarily--clear your sinuses.
Consider using a fresh roll of toilet paper as a cheap alternative to tissues. Keep the roll near you in case you need to wipe your nose, blow your nose, or sneeze.
 Prop your head on one or two extra pillows; make sure that they're clean. You may become congested at night as fluids flow to the back of your throat, especially if you usually sleep on your back. Consider sleeping on your side or your stomach to keep your throat and nose open.

