 If you're already logged into Instagram, doing so will open your Instagram Home page.


If you aren't logged into Instagram, type in your username (or phone number) and password and tap Login.
 It's in the bottom-center of the screen.
 You should see this option in the bottom-left corner of the screen.
 It's the center option in the group of three icons that are on the middle-right side of the screen. Tapping this icon will open Layout.


If you don't have Layout yet, tap Get Layout at the bottom of the screen when prompted. Doing so will take you to Layout's page in the App Store where you can download it.
 You can select up to nine photos in Layout.


If this is your first time using Layout, tap OK when prompted to allow Layout access to your phone's camera roll.
 You'll see these options at the top of the page.


Layout types include displaying photos side-by-side, on top of one another, or various other options

, Doing so will change which portion of the photo is displayed in a Layout frame.
 Doing so will change how much of one photo is displayed while proportionally compressing the other photo(s).


Depending on how many photos you've chosen, you may have one or multiple dividers.
 You have several options at the bottom of the Layout screen:



Replace - Replace the photo currently surrounded by a blue outline with a different photo from your camera roll.

Mirror - Flip the selected photo along the vertical axis.

Flip - Flip the selected photo along the horizontal axis.

Borders - Add or remove a white line between the photos.
 It's in the top-right corner of the screen. Doing so will open your photo collage in Instagram.


Tapping Next will also save your collage to your phone's camera roll.
 If you don't want to add a filter, skip this step. Filters are arranged at the bottom of the screen.
 It's in the top-right corner of the screen.
 This option is in the top-right corner of the screen. Doing this will share your collage of photos to your Instagram page.

