 It is rare for anybody to achieve a 9 streak, so it is foolish to put on anything higher than a harrier strike. A lot of the time it is most rewarding to put on a 3, 4 and 5 streak combo, with care packages on large maps and instant streaks like the counter UAV on small maps. If it is a map without a lot of buildings, take Wasteland for example it would be smart to use killstreaks like precision airstrike harrier airstrike and sentry guns.
 In Search and Destroy, stealth is your best bet for success. For this reason a silencer is very helpful, as is a heartbeat sensor. Cold Blooded also comes in great handy when the enemy launches their UAV's; just be sure to stay away from your non-cold blooded teammates as they will give away your position. Ninja Pro is a lifesaver, particularly as most people realize that you will hear your enemy long before you see them in S&D. A very effective class to use is an ACR with a silencer and heartbeat sensor (the ACR has 100% accuracy) akimbo M9 Raffica's with silencers(for close encounters) combined with Bling Pro, Cold Blooded Pro and Ninja Pro.;
, In most MW2 gametypes it is not so important to pay attention to potential camping spots and exposed areas; if you die, then you can simply respawn and take revenge. In Search and Destroy, there is no such option. hug the walls whenever possible, crouch while moving around to limit your own noise levels and don't constantly aim down your sights, as this limits your view range and reaction time.
 The introduction of the perks Lightweight and Marathon means that it is now possible for your team to be flanked in a round within the first 15 seconds. Never think that your position is foolproof and secure; the likelihood is that you will be in for a rude awakening. Again, constant vigilance is the key.
 The majority of the time, a Search and Destroy round is won by a very effective camper, usually a bomb defender. You might think that it sucks, but it works, mostly due to the no-respawn nature of S&D. An effective camping spot is never obvious, keeps your avatar's profile to a minimum and is not repeated in subsequent rounds.
 This is the small skull which appears above a teammate's location when they have died. the weapon that was used to kill them should also be paid attention to; if it's a sniper then the enemy is most likely nowhere near them, a knife means that the enemy is still around their location. Plan your actions accordingly.
 The first thing that most FPS players look for is enemy movement. This means that if you don't move, you will be completely invisible at first glance. It will surprise you how easily you can blend in to long grass and get the jump on unaware enemies at very close range, particularly if you have a ghillie suit on. This is the principle used behind the ninja defuse, which you can see multiple examples of on Youtube.
 This point applies to most gametypes but is particularly poignant in Search and Destroy. If you find a tactic that works, stick with it, no matter how annoying it is. Nowadays a lot of people consider conventional sniper use, or 'hard-scoping,' nooby, instead favoring the quick-scoping approach. The same is said of camping and the use of a heartbeat sensor. These 'rules' are only ever invented by people too stupid to find ways to beat them. If you want to run around with akimbo model 1887s, that is your choice; don't let anybody tell you otherwise!

