 This is single most important thing to relieve kidney pain. You should drink between two to three liters of water per day when healthy, but you may need more to help you pass kidney stones.Water helps wash away bacteria and dead tissues from the kidney. Stagnant urine is an excellent medium for bacterial growth. By drinking plenty of water, you can create a continuous flow of water through the kidney which prevents bacteria from growing and multiplying.A small kidney stone (<4mm) may also be passed spontaneously with urine if the flow is adequate.
Limit your intake of coffee, tea, and cola to one to two cups per day.;
, Sometimes bed rest can be helpful in reducing pain.If your pain is caused by a kidney stone or kidney injury, excessive movement or exercise could cause your kidney to bleed.Lying on your side could aggravate your kidney pain., A hot pad or warm cloth may be applied to the site of pain for temporary relief. Heat improves blood flow and reduces nerve sensation, both of which reduce pain. Heat may be particularly helpful if your pain is caused by a muscle spasm.Do not apply too much heat, as this could cause burns. Use a heating pad, soak in a hot bath, or use a cloth that’s been soaked in hot (but not boiling) water.
 There are some over-the-counter painkillers that can fight kidney pain. Acetaminophen/paracetamol is commonly recommended for pain caused by infections and kidney stones.Consult with your doctor before taking any pain medication, as some can increase kidney problems or interact with other medical conditions.Do not take high-dose aspirin. Aspirin can increase the risk of bleeding and can worsen any vascular obstruction, like a kidney stone.
NSAIDs can be dangerous if you have decreased kidney function. Do not take ibuprofen or naproxen if you already have a kidney condition, unless it's recommended by your doctor., Antibiotics should be used if you have any kind of urinary tract infection. Kidney stones can cause stagnant urine to get backed up in the kidney, which in turn causes bacterial growth and may lead to an infection. If this is the case, your doctor will prescribe you with an antibiotic.Common antibiotics used in this type of infection are Trimethoprim, Nitrofurantoin, Ciprofloxacin, and Cefalexin. In mild to moderate infection, men should be treated for 10 days while women should be treated for three days.
Always take the full course of antibiotics prescribed to you, even if you begin to feel better and your symptoms disappear.
 However, excess vitamin C gets converted to oxalate in the kidney. This oxalate can then turn into a stone, so avoid getting excess vitamin C if you are prone to developing kidney stones, or have a history of stones in your family.People who are prone to developing calcium oxalate stones should limit their consumption of oxalate rich foods such as beets, chocolate, coffee, cola, nuts, parsley, peanuts, rhubarb, spinach, strawberries, tea, and wheat bran., Cranberry juice is an amazing natural remedy for kidney and urinary tract infections. It starts to act within eight hours of consumption by preventing bacteria from increasing and colonizing. It also helps to dissolve struvite and brushite kidney stones.Avoid cranberry juice if you have an oxalate stone, as it contains significant amounts of vitamin C and is high in oxalates.

