 Let them know how owning a horse will help you grow as a person. Teach your parents about the benefits of horse ownership. Educate your parents by saying things like:


"I'll be more relaxed. Horse ownership has been known to reduce stress."
"The challenge involved in training my horse will drastically improve my creativity."
"Being responsible for my own horse will help me build character."
"Bonding with my horse will help me form a kinship with nature." , Tell your parents where you will keep your horse. Also, make them aware of everything you'll need to get started.


Tell them about options for storing your horse. Say "Keeping my horse at home would reduce my travel expenses and allow me to spend more time with it but boarding my horse would mean that I could leave town and know that a professional would be there to take care of it." Include supplies like hay, tack and grooming equipment.
Include medical care and vaccinations.
 Tell your parents what you plan to do with you horse. Will you be showing your horse? If so, let your parents know what that entails.


Say "If I show my horse, I'll need to travel with it and groom it more often which could add to my expenses. However, I could braid other people's horses at shows to help pay for my own."

, If you plan on keeping your horse at home, decide who will take care of it when you inevitably have to leave town. Show your parents that you've covered all your bases.


Look up horse care providers in your area.
 Say "I may not have enough money to maintain my horse on my own but I would be glad to do extra work around the house to help pay you back."


Mow the lawn.
Walk the dog.
Take your siblings to school.
Paint the house.
 Let them know that if owning a horse proves to be unworkable, you can always sell the horse. Show your parents you understand how to sell your horse.


Describe how factors like age, height and temperament affect the value of your horse. Say things like "A young athletic horse could fetch a good price from someone looking to take it to shows, but an older even-tempered horse could be worth more to someone looking for a reliable horse for their children to ride." Assure them you know about advertising horses and how to talk to potential buyers. Tell them "If we do have to sell the horse, I know how to groom it and take the best pictures and videos of it to advertise it to buyers and get the best return on our investment possible."

, Find out what their worries are and see if you can put their minds at ease. Put the ball in their court.


Ask them "What are your main concerns about me owning a horse? Is there anything I can do for you to make you feel more comfortable helping me purchase one?"

