 One of the most important things you can do is to let people know about the stalking. Sharing your concerns with people you trust will gain you a much-needed network of support. These people will also be able to keep an eye out for you and help keep you safe.Tell people you trust, such as family members, close friends, teachers, co-workers, or those in your religious community.
You also may want to inform people in protective roles at your school or work about your situation. For example, consider informing your school principal, university official, or security company at work.
Show people the stalker’s picture or give them a detailed description of their appearance. Let them know what they should do if they see the person. For example, “Please call the police right away if you see him. And please text me so I can stay away.”

, Ask your friends not to post any information about your whereabouts or post any pictures of you. Consider deleting your account entirely, or severely restricting its use.


Your stalker may be using what you post on social media to track you down and learn about your day-to-day activities.
If you know the stalker and their online identity, block them from being able to access your accounts.
 Come up with a plan that you can quickly put into motion if you feel you are being threatened. This plan may include knowing a safe place to stay, having important documents and phone numbers at your disposal, or signaling people in the event of an emergency.You may wish to have an emergency bag packed if you find you need to leave quickly with necessary papers and supplies.
Consider informing family and friends of a code word or phrase that indicates that you are in danger and not able to speak freely. For example, you could decide that “Do you want to order Thai food tonight?” is your signal for your friend to call 911 on your behalf.If you have children, help them know of safe places to go and people to talk to if you or they find themselves in danger.

