 Programs like medicaid and WIC, can help to cover medical bills, food expenses or anything associated with the baby. If approved for the assistance, you will get a weekly allowance to spend on necessities that will make the pregnancy easier to handle.Oftentimes, there is additional support for teens through planned parenthood centers that help them find jobs, finish high school, and go to a vocational school or college.
 Having a baby does not mean that you have to marry the father. Before you make any decisions about moving in with the father, or getting married, talk to your family and get their input. They will help you make the best decision for you and your baby.


Being raised in an unloving or resentful marriage, can be harmful to your child's emotional development.
You and the father may decide to raise the child together, without getting married. This is called joint parenting, and it allows you to come up with a system that meets both of your needs, as well as the baby's needs.
 The dreams you once held for your future may have to be set aside for awhile, or change slightly, but they don't have to disappear. There should still be a goal to work towards. Whether that is staying in school, getting a job, or starting trade school, talk to your parents and figure out what your plan for the future now looks like.Graduate from high school. Having an education will help you become independent and allow you to support your child.
 If you decide to raise your child, learn about all the ways your life is going to be different. You will need to prepare financially, mentally, and socially for your new baby. There will be a lot of new things for you to learn about child care, and you need to be responsible about it. Pregnancy resource centers will help you plan for your future, so that when the baby comes, you will be prepared.


These centers will talk to you about how much time you will need to dedicate towards your baby, and how much money your baby will cost you every week.
The more you plan for your baby, the better off you both will be.
 If you decide not to raise your child, consider seeing a therapist to help you through this time. Whether you decided on having an abortion, or you chose adoption for you child, you may experience a heavy, emotional loss. It is important for you to realize that things might be hard for a while, but with help and support, you can get through this experience.

