 Nobody likes a girl who doesn't hold up a decent conversation, or is snotty and rude. Ask him what he likes, Just simple questions like: "What's your favorite brand food?". Be yourself and act kindly around other people. Even if you dislike certain people, act neutrally towards them without any hints of disdain. If you pull off a neutral act to everyone that isn't your friend, you will gain respect and people will start to look up to you.


Be a social butterfly. Mingle with different groups - don't just stick with one! Invite those that sit alone to sit with your group, as long as your friends are fine with. become an outcast just to accompany another outcast. You want to be kind!;
, This may seem shallow, but boys are actually attracted to pout lips and blushing cheeks. Flattering clothes, cute makeup and a fit body are highly recommended. However, not all of these things are necessary in order to win a guy over. Simply wearing clean, appropriate fitting clothing and a little natural looking makeup should be good enough. Exercise and take showers daily, wash your hair at least three times a week, and clean your face every day.


Wearing comfortable but flattering clothing will boost your confidence and give you a casual, comfortable look. Both you and your crush will be comfortable!
It doesn't matter if you aren't the slimmest girl on the block. Just wear flattering clothes and it does a world of difference.
Makeup, will give you an unflattering appearance. Makeup should add a "I'm cute and don't need makeup" look.
High inappropriate clothing that reveals too much is unflattering and will kill your reputation, not to mention your integrity and appearance! It is best to have a modest appearance! (boy's are looking for a modest girl)

, Guys dig confident girls, but be sure you aren't over-confident! Be proud of who you are and it will show, adding a glow to you. If you have no confidence in yourself, it will definitely show and downgrade your whole act.
 This article cannot stress this enough! It's pointless having a relationship if it only centers on you, so take a break and listen to other people's feelings. Let the guy have his chance in the conversation; normally, people enjoy talking about themselves unless if they're shy. Even if the guy you're trying to win over is shy, that doesn't give you permission to hog the spotlight. You just have to be a little more gentle with the questions and flirting!

, This doesn't mean drunk-at-a-party funny, but it means to crack jokes and smile as much as possible. Avoid the plastic, forced smiles and stick with the natural, beautiful smiles. Be sure the jokes you tell aren't corny or dumb. Make sure they actually are down-right funny!

, Too much flirting will probably scare him and make you look desperate, while too little flirting won't press the hint in deeply enough for him to realize and remember it.

