 Let’s be blunt here. One of the main things – if not the signature thing - that Kate Upton is known for is her cleavage. Kate is very well-endowed, and her breasts are full and natural looking. If you don’t have large breasts, you won’t look like Kate Upton.


You should ask why you really want to look like anyone else, but, if you’re determined, and you’re not naturally as endowed as she is (frankly, almost no one is), then you could use an old beauty pageant trick, and tape your breasts. Use surgical tape or sports strapping tape.Put one end of the tape under your left armpit. Pull, and lift your breasts together. Bring the tape under your breasts to the right armpit.
Stand upright, and push your breasts together. Take another piece of tape, and apply it from the outer side of the left breast over the nipples and through to the outer part of the right breast. Apply another piece of tape above that one to reinforce it. You can also put a strip of tape under the breasts to lift them.To obtain the cleavage look that Kate is well known for, you could also try purchasing a push-up bra with padding. You can put silicon chicken cutlets in the bra to boost cleavage.;
, The thing about Kate is that she is healthy and fit, but she still has curves. She has endured her share of body-shaming by people used to stick-thin models.


Embrace your curves with confidence. Kate does. In that way, she is a positive role model for women who come in all shapes and sizes.
Don’t work out so much that you sand off and lose your curves. Kate does not have a gaunt look. However, her body is toned. She enjoys circuit training routines that focus on a combination of upper body, lower body, compound and sprint exercises. In circuit training, you complete a circuit, rest for 60 seconds, and then move on to the next circuit.Kate enjoys Pilates, Yoga, martial arts, and Zumba. She usually uses an exercise program that contains a mixture of those programs. Try doing squats and dead lifts., Kate stays fit with a healthy diet that doesn’t allow for junk food. She is known for avoiding red meat.


You will find Kate eating oatmeal and salad. She has also said that she eats scrambled eggs with spinach for breakfast, quinoa with grilled chicken and grilled vegetables, and grilled salmon.
Her diet avoids processed carbs like white bread, white rice, and white pasta. If she’s hungry for a snack, she reaches for a protein bar or 10 raw almonds.