 In palmistry, it is thought that:


For females, the right hand is what you're born with, and left is what you've accumulated throughout your life.
For males, it is the other way around. The left hand is what you're born with, and the right is what you've accumulated throughout your life.
That being said, you can also choose whichever hand is dominant to be your present/past life hand (the non-dominant hand would then be your future life hand).

There are different schools of thought on the matter. Some say the left-hand shows potential and what could be -- not necessarily what will be. And a difference in the hands could mean one is or is about to take action when it comes to their lives, changing it.;
, There may be breaks in them or they may be short, but at least three of them are there.


(1) The heart line
(2) The head line
(3) The life line
(4) The fate line (only some people have this).
 This line can be read in either direction (from the pinkie finger to the index finger or vice versa) depending on the tradition being followed. It's believed to indicate emotional stability, romantic perspectives, depression, and cardiac health. The basic interpretations are as follows:

Begins below the index finger - content with love life






Begins below the middle finger - selfish when it comes to love






Begins in the middle - falls in love easily






Straight and short - less interest in romance






Touches life line - heart is broken easily






Long and curvy - freely expresses emotions and feelings






Straight and parallel to the head line - good handle on emotions






Wavy - many relationships and lovers, absence of serious relationships






Circle on the line - sadness or depression






Broken line - emotional trauma






Smaller lines crossing through heart line - emotional trauma







, This represents a person's learning style, communication approach, intellectualism, and thirst for knowledge. A curved line is associated with creativity and spontaneity, while a straight line is linked with practicality and a structured approach. The basic interpretations are as follows:

Short line - prefers physical achievements over mental ones






Curved, sloping line - creativity






Separated from life line - adventure, enthusiasm for life






Wavy line - short attention span






Deep, long line - thinking is clear and focused






Straight line - thinks realistically






Donuts or cross in head line - emotional crisis






Broken head line - inconsistencies in thought






Multiple crosses through head line - momentous decisions.
 This begins near the thumb and travels in an arc towards the wrist. It reflects physical health, general well-being, and major life changes (for example, cataclysmic events, physical injuries, and recolation). Its length is not associated with length of life. The basic interpretations are as follows:

Runs close to thumb - often tired






Curvy - plenty of energy






Long, deep - vitality






Short and shallow - manipulated by others






Swoops around in a semicircle - strength, and enthusiasm






Straight and close to the edge of the palm - cautious when it comes to relationships






Multiple life lines - extra vitality






Circle in line indicates - hospitalized or injured






Break - sudden change in lifestyle







, This is also known as the line of destiny, and it indicates the degree to which a person's life is affected by external circumstances beyond their control. It begins at the base of the palm. The basic interpretations are as follows:

Deep line - strongly controlled by fate






Breaks and changes of direction - prone to many changes in life from external forces






Starts joined to life line - self-made individual; develops aspirations early on






Joins with the life line around in the middle - signifies a point at which one's interests must be surrendered to those of others






Starts at base of the thumb and crosses life line - support offered by family and friends.
 Each hand shape is associated with certain character traits. The length of the palm is measured from the wrist to the bottom of the fingers. The basic interpretations are as follows:



Earth - broad, square palms and fingers, thick or coarse skin, and ruddy color; length of the palm equals length of fingers

Solid values and energy, sometimes stubborn
Practical and responsible, sometimes materialistic
Work with their hands, comfortable with the tangible



Air - square or rectangular palms with long fingers and sometimes protruding knuckles, low-set thumbs, and dry skin; length of the palm less than length of fingers

Sociable, talkative and witty
Can be shallow, spiteful and cold
Comfortable with the mental and the intangible
Does things in different and radical ways



Water - long, sometimes oval-shaped palm, with long, flexible, conical fingers; length of the palm equals the length of fingers but is less than the width across the widest part of the palm.

Creative, perceptive and sympathetic
Can be moody, emotional and inhibited
Introverts
Do things quietly and intuitively.



Fire - square or rectangular palm, flushed or pink skin, and shorter fingers; length of the palm is greater than length of fingers

Spontaneous, enthusiastic and optimistic
Sometimes egoistic, impulsive and insensitive
Extroverts
Do things boldly and instinctively.
 That's what the fleshy bit below your fingers are called, on the opposite side of your knuckle. To make them visible, cup your hand just a bit. Which one is the largest?


A high Venus mount (the one under your thumb) indicates a predisposition for hedonism, promiscuity, and the need for instant gratification. A non-existent Venus mount indicates little interest in family matters.
The mount under your index finger is called the Jupiter mount. If this is well-developed, it means you are dominant, possibly self-centered, and aggressive. A lack of one means you lack confidence.
Under your middle finger is the Saturn mount. A high mount shows you're stubborn, cynical, and prone to depression. If it is low, it's an indicator of superficiality and disorganization.
The Sun mount is under your ring finger. You're quick-tempered, extravagant, and prideful if you have a high Sun mount. A low Sun mount means you lack imagination.
The Mercury mount is under your pinkie. If it's protruding, you talk too much. A low mount means the opposite -- you're shy.

None of this is based on science. And your hands are known to change throughout time. Don't take any of it too seriously!



, Relative to the size of the body, some say that small hands are active and don't dwell on thinking about what to do. Large hands are on those who are contemplative and slow to action.Remember, this is relative to the body. If you're 8 feet (2.4 m) tall (2.4 m), you're going to have bigger hands than a 4-year-old. It's all proportional.
What's more, long fingers may be an indicator of anxiety, in addition to being well-mannered, good looking, and delicate. Short fingers are found on those who are impatient, highly-sexed, and creative.
Long fingernails, on the other hand, mean you're kind and a good secret-keeper. Short fingernails mean you're critical and sarcastic. If they're almond-shaped, you're sweet and diplomatic.