 Quitting smoking is difficult, and it varies from person to person. The choice of a quit-smoking aid is a personal choice based on your level of comfort, your daily activities, your level of withdrawal symptoms, and even your history with smoking. You are significantly more likely to quit smoking if you use a quit-smoking aid.For example, if this is your first attempt to quit smoking, you may want to try a combination of over-the-counter Nicotine replacement therapy (NRT) along with support from a professional. If you have tried to quit smoking before, you may want to consider a prescription medicine this time.
Remember, medications alone will not help you quit smoking. You need to develop a quit smoking plan to help. Also, be aware that using medications won't make quitting smoking easy.;
, Though many NRTs are available without a prescription, you should always consult your doctor before you quit smoking. Since quitting smoking is an individualized process, your doctor can help you choose the right combination of treatments for your particular situation., Nicotine replacement therapy (NRT) medications help by providing you with a small dosage of nicotine. This helps with nicotine cravings and withdrawal symptoms. As you progress, you get lower dosages of nicotine until you are completely off. This helps you gradually get off nicotine.NRT only gives nicotine, not the other chemicals in cigarettes.
NRT are the most commonly used quit-smoking aids. They can be used in combination with other quit-smoking aids or used alone.
NRTs come in the form of gum, lozenges, patches, inhalers, and sprays. Except for the patch, you can use them multiple times during the day, whenever you have a craving. You generally use them for two to three months.
You do not have to have a prescription for most NRTs. However, you should still discuss using them with your doctor before you start taking them. Consult your doctor or pharmacist if you are considering combining NRTs.
 The other quit-smoking aid available is prescription medication. Prescription medications help reduce cravings and withdrawal symptoms. Unlike NRTs, they do not contain any nicotine.Prescription medications are helpful if you cannot take NRTs, or if you have tried NRTs and they did not work for you.
Some prescription medications can be used with NRT.
You take one pill a day. You generally take these medications for three months.

