 They will feel more secure from the confinement. Giving them a more solid ground to stand on will also help them feel stable. When you crate your dog they are less likely to suffer from motion sickness, nausea or vomiting.Most pet-supply stores carry dog crates. When buying a crate for your dog, make sure it is big enough for them to lay flat on their side for comfort, stand up, and turn around. Don't pick out a crate that is too big, however, as your dog still needs a sense on confinement for comfort. Use a larger crate with an adjustable divider if you are training a growing puppy. If you have a small dog that you like to bring with you everywhere you go, consider a smaller, easier to carry carrier made with luggage-grade nylon. These beds are not only comfortable, but easy to travel with. Frontgate, Sherpa, and Pet Life are just a few brands that make these.
Train your dog to associate positive things with the crate. Put treats and/or toys in the crate and encourage them to enter. Some dogs may need to slowly warm up to the crate. If your dog refuses to go in, place a treat in the back as far as he is willing to go. Once they are comfortable with doing that, feed them their next meal inside the crate with the door open. Not all dogs are going to trust the crate right away so encourage them and be patient.Your dog will appreciate comfortable towels or blankets placed in the crate. Keep a few extra on hand to easily change the old ones out if your dog gets sick.
 An empty stomach means they won't have anything in them to vomit up if they get queasy. Give them water to keep them comfortable.If your pet cannot handle going that long without food, make sure they eat as little as possible before the car trip.
 This gives your dog a chance to get out of the car and roam around. Your dog will also have a chance to eliminate if they need to. Fresh air will also help ease any of your dog’s nausea.
 Make sure your dog has their favorite toy or blanket to provide comfort during the trip. Having a familiar smell may help calm their nerves. It may also help to have a trusted human friend sit with your dog to help hold and comfort them if they become upset.
 The fresh air will help them cope with the movement. Only leave the window open a little so your dog doesn't fall or jump out of the window. You can also keep it cool by turning up the air conditioning., Your dog may experience less movement up front and be less likely to get sick. They should be strapped in with a dog safety belt or harness to keep them safe. Great Choice, Kurgo, and Solvit are a few harness brands to try. Position your dog on the vehicle seat before placing the harness on. The seat belt buckle should go through the twin loops on the back of harness. After secure, buckle in place. Different brands may work differently., Try having a passenger distract your pet with a toy. A favorite toy may be just what your pet needs to distract them from their surroundings for a while. You may even want to present them with a new toy to keep them extra interested.


If your dog listens and plays well make sure to reward them with a special treat for good behavior!

