 Stretching every day is essential to becoming flexible enough to do a scorpion. Spend 10-20 minutes stretching your back, legs, and arms every day. To prevent injury, be sure you begin with gentle stretches before moving into more extreme stretches.
 A backbend is a great exercise to do when you’re working up to a scorpion, which requires an extreme back arch. A backbend stretches your back and is a good warm up. To do one:Begin by standing with your legs shoulder-width apart.
Raise your arms above your head with your hands flat so they are parallel with the ceiling.
Slowly bend backward and push your thighs forward. Make sure to keep your arms locked as you move closer to the ground.
Plant your hands and keep your feet firmly in place when you reach the ground. You should be looking in between your hands.
 Lay on the ground on your belly and bend your knees so that your toes are pointing toward you. Lift your torso off the ground, and reach back to grab your toes. Hold the stretch for 30 seconds, then slowly release it and lower your torso and legs back to the ground., Mastering your splits will help prepare you for a scorpion. Practice both the side split and the front split to ensure your legs are as limber as possible.For a side split, stand with a wide, straight-legged stance. Spread your legs slightly more than shoulder-width apart, and lower yourself down to the ground.
For a front split, put one leg out in front of you, and one leg behind you. Place your hands on the floor and slowly slide your front leg forward until your reach the floor, keeping your toes pointed.
For an additional challenge, when you’re in the front splits, bend your back knee so your foot points toward you. This will help you achieve your scorpion.
 Lay flat on the floor on your stomach. Place your palms flat on the ground underneath your shoulders, and flex your feet so that your toes are touching the floor. Keep your abs tight and raise your body off the ground, so that your weight is resting on your hands and feet. Be sure to keep your back straight. Try to hold the plank for 30 seconds., Doing yoga increases both your balance and your flexibility. Look for a cheap or free class in your area, and sign up. Follow along with the instructor, and ask them to make sure you are using the right technique. You could also get a yoga DVD or follow along with online tutorials., A great way to improve your balance is to use a balance beam. Walk along the beam and practice keeping your center of gravity over the beam. Keep practicing until you no longer need to hold your hands out for support and can walk the entire length of the beam in under 6 seconds., Work up to balancing on one foot for a minute. Use a little support if needed. Then switch, and balance on the other foot. It’s important to exercise both sides so that one side doesn’t become weaker than the other., Stand on the board with your feet shoulder-width apart. Tighten your abs and rock backward, forward, and side to side. Keep trying until you can balance for one minute or longer., Stand with your hips and knees apart, your arms out, back straight, and abs tight. Bend your knees and hips, slowly lowering yourself until your thighs are parallel to the floor. Rise back up slowly, squeezing the muscles in your backside. Repeat the desired number of times., Those who do tai-chi have incredible strength and balance. Do an Internet search to find a class in your area, or look for a personal instructor. Focus on your breathing and balance while following along with the moves., Ballet dancers also have amazing balance. Find online tutorials and videos, or sign up for a ballet class. Not only will you improve your balance, you’ll also increase your flexibility and learn new moves., You should be facing forward, with your arms at your sides. If you are attempting the scorpion for the first time, you may want to have a spotter there to assist you, or stand near a dresser or other flat, stable surface you can use for balance., Bend your leg backward at the knee so that you can reach your foot. Use the hand on the same side of your body to grip your foot (e.g., if you are bending your left leg, grip it with your left hand). Keep the knee on your other leg locked for stability., Use your leg muscles to stretch your leg as high as it will go behind you. Don’t use your hand to pull your muscles, just use it to guide your foot into the correct position., As your leg raises higher, turn the elbow on the hand gripping your foot outward so that it points forward, in front of your head., Reach behind you and grab your foot with your other hand, so that both hands are now holding your foot. Your elbows should be above your head, pointing in front of you., Try to push your leg as high as it will go. This is the scorpion.
 If you can’t quite reach your toes yet, use a sports band to help you stretch. Hold the band in both hands behind your legs like you would with a skipping rope. Put the band around the top of one foot (near your toes) and pull your leg up behind you.

