 You can find out whether or not online property tax payment is available in your county by visiting your county's treasurer website. If online payment is not an option, you will have to pay your property tax bill through the mail or in person.


Links to each of Washington's county websites can be found on the Washington Department of Revenue website. Links are posted to both the assessor and treasurer pages for each county.;
, Counties that offer online payment will require you to enter your parcel number to view and pay your bill. Many counties' websites have a built-in tool for looking up your parcel number by street address, while other counties allow you to find your parcel number on a map. Parcel numbers in Washington are usually 10 digits long.


Note that if you live in a multi-unit building, both the building and your individual unit will have their own parcel number. Make sure to take note of the number for your own unit.
 Navigate to the web page on your treasurer's site that allows you to log in to view your bill. Enter your parcel number to log in. You can then view the amount of your bill that is outstanding. You will have the choice of paying the first half of your bill (due in April), the second half (due in October), or both.
 Most counties in Washington offer property tax payment through 2 options: credit card payment or "e-check." Processing fees are assessed for both payment methods. The fee for processing a credit card is usually much larger, because it is expressed as a percentage of the transaction amount rather than a flat fee.


To pay by e-check, you will need your checking account number and bank routing number. These numbers can be found on your personal checks.
If you wish to avoid paying these processing fees, you will need to pay your bill in person or through the mail.
 Enter your payment information and submit your payment using the online form. Note that online payments may take several days to appear both in your bank statement and on the treasurer's website.

