 To help relieve nasal stuffiness, you need to let the sinuses drain as much as possible. This is easier with thin mucus, which makes it easier to blow the mucus out and then easier to breath. To help thin the mucus, drink as much water as possible. During the day, drink at least nine to 13 8-ounce glasses of fluids., A Neti pot is used to help rinse mucus from your nose. To help you sleep, do this about one hour before bedtime.To use a Neti pot, fill it with a store-bought saline (salt) solution. Then, bend forward over a sink, turning your head to one side and putting the tip of the pot right against your nostril. Slowly pour the solution through the top nostril as you breathe through your mouth and wait for the solution to come through your lower nostril. It should take a few seconds. Repeat on the other side by turning your head to the opposite side.


After you are done, gently blow your nose to clear out all the solution and mucus.
You can make your own saline solution using either distilled or boiled water (never use tap water that hasn't been boiled for at least a minute). In a separate bowl, add one cup of very warm distilled water. Do not use water that is too hot because it can damage the delicate nasal tissues. Add 1/2 teaspoon of finely ground unprocessed sea salt or table salt to the water.Stir in the salt to make it dissolve.
 Using steam can help clear your sinuses before you go to sleep and can also help treat the underlying inflammation or infection. Steam can also help open up the nasal passages and help thin out the sometimes thick mucus and allow the mucus to drain out of the sinuses.


Fill a 1-quart pot with water and boil for a minute or two. Remove the pot from the heat.
Cover your head with a large, clean cotton towel and place your head over the steaming pot, keeping your face at least 12 inches away from the water. Close your eyes. Breathe in through your nose and out through your mouth for five counts and then in and out through your mouth for two counts.
Repeat for 10 minutes or as long as the water is still steaming.
Try to blow your nose during and after the treatment. You can do this every two hours or as often as your schedule permits.Add an essential oil to the water for an added bonus to the steam. Add one to two drops of any of the following essential oils: spearmint, peppermint, thyme, oregano, lavender, tea tree, or sage.
If you don’t have the essential oils, substitute ½ teaspoon of dried herb per quart of water. Once you add the herbs, boil for another minute, turn off the heat and move the pot to a comfortable area and begin steaming.