 Some emails are cool because they're kooky and unique. Others are cool because they're simple, classy, and professional. Still others find an engaging and original way to express your interests. You'll need to decide what you want your email address to say about you.


A kooky email address could be anything from random words to a few of your basic interests. It could be "kangaroogirl@example.com" or "caffeine.fiend.17@example.com" or "green_eggs_and_bacon@example.com".
A personality-based address might be something that speaks to some of your deepest interests or values. For instance: "mellow.cello@example.com" or "because.its.there@example.com". The goal here is to make people smile and show them what makes you unique.
A more professional address might be something that uses your name or your business in an interesting-sounding way. If your name is Billy Bones, you could use "bbones@example.com". If your name is Catherine, you could use "cath.arsis@example.com". Bear in mind that a professional email address should include your name or business name, and it shouldn't be as wild as your personal email.;
, Think about what you're interested in (and what you want people to know you're interested in), and try to incorporate these things into your email address. If you play guitar, for example, you could use the word "guitar" in your address. If you love strawberries, you could be "strawberry.girl".


Think of a word that sounds interesting before or after your interest, and combine the two to form your email address. For example, if you choose to incorporate your love of guitar into your email address, you could use "guitardude97" or "guitarjams".
Be aware that your interests may change. Try to choose something that you think you'll love for a while – not just the flavor of the week.
 It can be your initials, last name, first name, middle name, even full name. Since you want it to be cool, try to pair it with something else that describes you – such as your interests.

