 While holding a rifle properly may seem straight forward, it may require a fair amount of practice to do it well. In order to allow yourself to fire accurately and consistently, don’t adopt a comfortable position and then try to point the rifle at the target, instead focus on finding your natural point of aim. You can find your natural point of aim by first determining the most stable position that you can be in to hold your rifle as still as possible. Use bone structure to support the weapon instead of your muscles. While your natural point of aim may not be comfortable, it should be a position you can remain in for a few minutes at a time.You will have a different natural point of aim for each shooting position, but while zeroing your rifle, you should use either the prone (laying down) or a seated position, preferably with a table to support the weapon.
Once you find your natural point of aim, adjust the direction your entire body is pointed instead of just adjusting the weapon. Think of yourself like a life sized green plastic toy soldier. You have to turn the toy to aim downrange, not the weapon.
 When firing your rifle downrange, you need to focus on your breathing to ensure you don’t accidentally affect the flight path of the round by shifting the weapon slightly as you breath. Pay attention to your natural breathing cadence, then fire the weapon during your natural respiratory pause.The natural respiratory pause comes at the end of an exhaled breath. After you exhale, pause for a second before inhaling.
Fire your weapon during that brief pause between exhaling and inhaling.
 Simply pulling a trigger can actually reduce the accuracy of your weapon. Instead of pulling the trigger when you want to fire, slowly squeeze it. When the weapon fires, do not release the trigger right away, but hold it back for a split second instead. Practicing these habits will prevent you from jerking the weapon slightly when pulling the trigger. Zeroing your rifle requires consistency, so squeezing the trigger the same way each time you fire will help you zero it more quickly and accurately.Use a steady and consistent amount of pressure as you squeeze the trigger to avoid jerking the weapon.
Try holding the trigger back for a short one count after you fire each round.
 Follow through coincides with the final portion of trigger control, where you maintain your firing movements for a short time after the round leaves your weapon. Do not pull the trigger and then quickly adjust your positioning. Instead, slowly squeeze the trigger, allow the weapon to fire and remain still with your head in place, looking through your sights and with your finger still in the pull position.Follow through ensures there is no movement in the rifle as you fire the round. Any movement, no matter how slight, can affect the flight path and accuracy of the round.
Take a breath before moving after firing each round.
 Accurately aiming is based entirely on your ability to establish good sight picture, and when using iron sights, establishing front sight alignment. Sight picture is the term used to describe how you see the target through your rifle sights. If you are using sights made up of a front sight tip and rear sight aperture, make sure the front sight tip aligns perfectly with the rear component of your sights. Misalignment means the weapon is not pointed straight at the target. When using red dot or magnification sights, you only need to focus on achieving good sight picture.Proper sight picture involves aligning the sights so you can see the target beyond your sights. Instead of focusing on the target, focus on the front sight tip or reticle on your lens, with the target blurred but visible behind it in your vision.
In all firing situations, establishing good sight picture is the most important element in accurate shooting.

