 Tick preventative oral medications – usually in the form of pills – are available over the counter or from your vet. These pills target ticks at all stages, including eggs, larvae, pupae, and adult ticks.


You'll need to give your dogs this medication regularly, usually once a month. Check the packaging or talk to your vet to make sure you know the proper dosage and frequency.
Giving your dogs oral medications also prevents any children or other pets from coming into contact with the medication.
 Spot-on treatments usually come in liquid form, and are available online, over the counter at a pet store, and from you vet. However, only use products that are licensed to kill or repel ticks. This means they have been proven effective and will provide your dogs with the best protection. This type of medication should be applied at base of your dog’s neck or between their shoulder blades.


This type of medication is also applied monthly or once every two weeks depending on the product. You should consult with your vet about whether a spot-on or oral medication is better for your dogs.If you use a spot-on treatment, make sure your kids or other pets don't come into contact with it.
 Tick sprays are applied topically and work much more quickly than an oral or spot-treatment. Apply the spray all over your dogs' bodies.You can use tick spray in conjunction with most tick medications, but always make sure that you check both sets of packaging for contraindications.
It’s a good idea to use tick spray after you’ve come in from a long walk.
When you use the spray, be sure to avoid your dogs' eyes, nose, and mouth.
 Powders can also be applied topically on your pet to get rid of ticks. As with an anti-tick spray, you should apply the powder all over your dogs' bodies. You’ll need to select a powder that is specific to the age and size of your dogs.


Take care to avoid inhaling the powder yourself or letting your dogs inhale it.
 Tick dip is a concentrated chemical which can be applied with a clean cloth, sponge, or cotton swab on the skin and fur of your dogs, after diluting the dip with water. The dip doesn’t need to be rinsed off, but should instead soak into your dogs' skin.


Don’t use dips on very young dogs (younger than four months), or pregnant or nursing dogs.Some dips are also not suitable for certain breeds, such as Chihuahuas, so always check the label first.

