 Before you look for a publisher or an agent, make sure you have a final manuscript to shop around. It is rare for first time authors without a strong publishing track record to sell a novel or memoir based on an idea or proposal.Many writers have great story ideas or a partial manuscript. But it almost never a good idea to pitch your work to a publishing professional when your manuscript is still at an early stage.
Seek out a writing critique group or mentor who can offer constructive feedback to help you revise and edit your work.
Its important to be confident and happy with the final manuscript before you submit it for publication. So don’t rush into publishing your work until you feel it is at its best state.
 This will help to convince a publisher to contract you to write the book.To create a book proposal, research the market for your idea. Build a business case for why your book will sell and why you are the best person to write it.
Research other comparable titles or writers who examine the same topic or issue. Make sure your take on the material is unique but doesn’t break all the rules of the genre. Avoid confusing the potential audience for the book.
 Familiarize yourself with the Big Five publishers, as well as mid-size and small presses. Look up the titles listed on the websites for these publishers to get a sense of the type of writing and content they publish.The Big Five are the major book publishers in the United States. They are: Penguin, HarperCollins, Hachette, Macmillan, and Simon & Schuster. All five publishers have their headquarters in New York City.Mid size publishers like Tin Houseand Graywolf Pressare great smaller publishers.
Another great resource is PublishersMarketplace.com, which announces upcoming book deals. This resource can also help you get a sense of what the current landscape of commercial publishing looks like.
 Commercial viability means how valuable your book may be to certain audiences. Some books are “big” books that work well for the Big Five traditional publishers. Other books are “quiet” books that work well for mid-size and small presses. Its important to remember that not every book is a good fit for a New York publisher. To find the right fit for your work, you need to be honest about your work’s potential.The Big Five usually publish genre writing. Such as: romance, mystery/crime, thriller, fiction, fantasy, and young adult.
Usually, a New York publisher will only sign a nonfiction book if they expect to sell at least 10,000-20,000 copies.
The Big Five may have a harder time selling books like exceed 120,000 words, depending on the genre. They also rarely publish poetry, short stories or essay collections. Unless the author is a known writer or has a solid audience base.
The Big Five also might not accept memoirs with common story lines that do not have a unique angle to the story. They also may not be as open to literary and experimental fiction.
If your work doesn’t seem like a good candidate for a New York house, don’t despair. There are many mid-size publishers and small presses that might show interest in your work.
 In today’s market, literary agents sell about 80 percent of the books acquired by New York publishers. These agents act as experts in the publishing industry and have inside contacts with specific editors.They also know better than writers what an editor or publisher would be most likely to show interest in or buy. If you want to publish with one of the major New York houses, you will likely need an agent.
An agent should negotiate the best deal for you and ensure you get paid. They should also be the go between you and the publishers. The best agents are career advisers and managers. Usually, agents only get paid when they sell your work. They receive a 15% commission on your advance and your royalties.
When looking for an agent, it's a good idea to make a long list of possible agents. Rank the agents based on the ones you want to work with the most and the ones you would settle for. To find a list of literary agents, look at Writers Market, Publishers Marketplace, and Agent Query.Avoid agents who charge fees. Agents take on clients based on the size of the advance they think the publishers might offer for a book.
If you are writing for a niche market (e.g. soccer moms, vintage cars) or have an academic or literary work, you may not need an agent. As well, if your work does not command a sizable advance, at least 5 figures, you may not be worth the agent’s time.
 The most common materials you will need are:


A query letter: a 1-page pitch letter that gives a brief description of your work.
A novel synopsis: a brief summary, usually no more than 1-2 pages of your story, from beginning to end. If it is a synopsis of a novel, it must reveal the ending.Nonfiction book proposal: usually rather long, complex documents, about 20-30 pages.A novel proposal: this usually refers to your query letter, a synopsis, and perhaps a first chapter. Keep in mind there is not an industry standard definition of a “novel proposal”. The publisher should explain their expectations of a novel proposal.
Sample chapters: send sample chapters from the beginning of your novel or memoir. Don’t select a middle chapter, even if you think its your best. For nonfiction, usually any chapter is acceptable.
 The query letter is a time-honored tool for writers seeking publication. It is like a sales letter that tries to persuade an editor or agent to request a full manuscript or proposal. You need to seduce the editor or agent into loving your work through a well written query letter. Make sure your query letter includes:Personalization: customize the letter for the recipient. If you are sending a letter to a big New York publisher, you should be formal and use correct grammar, spelling, and punctuation.
What you’re selling: explain the genre/category of your work, give a work count, and the title of the work.
A hook: what will keep the editor or agent engaged in the letter, and by extension, your work? Keep the hook 100-200 words long for a novel query. Introduce the protagonist, their conflict and the stakes of the story (or the choices the protagonist has to make). Always include a detail that will get your reader to care about the story enough to request a manuscript.
Your bio: this is sometimes optional for uncredited fiction writers. Keep it short and sweet.
A thank you and closing statement.
The blog Query Shark, run by literary agent Janet Reid, offers feedback and critiques on query letters. It also has an archive of over 200 real query letters. Look at examples to get a sense of query letters that work and letters that miss the mark., You will likely get one of three responses back:No response at all: usually means a rejection from the editor or agent. But you can re-send the query letter just to be sure. If you receive no requests from any editors or agents for more pages of your work, you may need to revise your query letter.
A request for a partial manuscript and maybe a synopsis.
A request for the full manuscript. If you get a rejection once the editor or agent reads more pages, there may be issues in your manuscript or proposal.
 Some authors get rejected hundreds of times before they finally get a request for more material or sign on to a publisher. So, if you have put years of time and effort into a project, don’t abandon it after the first rejection.Instead, look at your rejection slips for patterns about what’s not working. Rejections can work as lessons to improve your writing. Getting rejected can also help you reconsider the editors and publishers you are querying.
Keep in mind some manuscripts need time to develop. There may not be a market for the story or there may not be a way to revise the work to make it more successful.
Most authors don’t sell their first manuscript. But they might sell their second, third, or fourth manuscript. Every manuscript, and every draft you write, can only make you a better writer.