 Apprenticeship applicants in Kentucky must be at least 18 years old, have a high school diploma and pass a drug test. An apprenticeship is required to obtain an electrician license in Kentucky.
 An apprenticeship provides classroom instruction and paid on-the-job training for aspiring electricians. Most apprenticeship programs take 3 to 5 years to complete, and cost between $400 and $1,000 a year. Most apprentices are paid about 50 percent of the market rate during on-the-job training. Upon completion of an apprenticeship, students are qualified for both construction and maintenance electrical work. There are several options for apprenticeship programs in Kentucky.


Choose a union apprenticeship program. Electrical unions like the National Electrical Contractors Association (NECA), International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers (IBEW) and National Joint Apprenticeship and Training Committee (NJATC) offer apprenticeship programs. Each union sponsors aspiring electricians through its apprenticeship program, and then requires membership in the union upon completion of the program. Each union provides career placement assistance and continuing education opportunities. Union apprenticeships are offered throughout Kentucky.
Select a state sponsored apprenticeship. Kentucky offers several state sponsored apprenticeship opportunities. Often funded by workforce development initiatives, the state sponsored programs provide classroom and on-the-job training. Participation in a state sponsored program may require you to relocate to the apprenticeship site in Kentucky. Candidates may apply for state sponsored apprenticeships in Kentucky through the Joint Apprentice Training Program, headquartered in Louisville.
Consider an online electrician program. Online apprenticeship programs provide the opportunity for students to complete classroom training online. The online programs match students with local apprenticeship programs for on-the-job training. Ensure the online electrician program is accredited by the Kentucky Apprenticeship Council or the training hours may not be applicable to licensure.

