 Lay a plastic shopping bag on a flat surface. Smooth out any wrinkles or folds with your hands. Use a ruler and a permanent marker to measure and mark a square with side lengths of 12 inches (30.5 cm). Use a pair of scissors to cut along the lines.The size of a parachute sail determines the rate at which it falls. The smaller the sail, the faster it will fall; the larger the sail, the slower it will fall. Determine if you would like your parachute to fall quickly or slowly.
 Unwind a spool of string and cut off a strand that is approximately 1 foot (0.30 m) long. Unwind more string. Lay the cut strand next to the unwound string as though it were a ruler. Cut a second strand the same length as the first. Cut 2 additional lengths of string in the same manner., Place 1 string diagonally in the top left corner of the sail—lay approximately ½ inch to 1 inch (2.5 cm) of string on the top of the sail. Attach the string to the sail with a piece of scotch tape. Attach 1 piece of string to each of the 3 remaining corners in the same manner., Collect the 4 strings together 3 to 4 inches from the bottom. Tie the strands together in a knot. Select an object to attach to the parachute, such as a rock, an action figure, or paperclips. Use the 3 to 4 inch (7.6 to 10 cm) tails to secure the object to the parachute., Once you have put away all of your tools, it is time to try your parachute. The ideal launch zone is located considerably high from the ground, such as the top of a bunk bed, over the railing of your stairs, or from the top of your favorite slide. You may also experiment with your parachute by throwing it up in the air from where you are standing. Select your launch zone. walk or climb to the top, and launch your parachute., Does your parachute appear to be falling too quickly? Or, is it moving towards the ground a slow rate? If you wish to change the speed of you parachute you can alter the weight or the parachute sail.If the parachute is moving too quickly, the weight is too heavy or the sail is too small. Try attaching a lighter weight object, such as a paperclip chain or even a feather, or create and attach a bigger parachute sail.
If your parachute is moving too slowly, the weight is too light or the sail is too large. Swap the light weight object for something heavier, such as an action figure, or create and attach a smaller parachute sail.Feel free to experiment with different weights and sail sizes.

