 In your household, the way in which you perceive education influences how your children see it. If you care about lifelong learning, your enthusiasm for it will be evident in all that you do and say. Your enthusiasm for learning sets the tone in the household and ensures that the tools for learning are always available. Your role is vital in encouraging and praising your children for the self-directed learning achievements that they make.;
, More than anything else, your role is about asking questions that prompt learning journeys. By asking questions, you invite your children to wonder and to ask the same questions in ways that allow them to set off and discover the answers that they don't yet have. Asking questions teaches children that there is no such thing as a stupid question and that it is through questions that we learn more about each other and our world. Any time that nobody in your household has the answer to a question, there is a perfect opportunity to have the children learn what they can about the matter and then tell you what the answer is.


Help your children to formulate questions themselves. Through your example of being a question-asker, they will learn to process the things they don't know as a challenge to find out and not be afraid to ask questions too.
Questions help to inspire the curiosity of your children and encourage them to engage in learning. Teach them not to be afraid of the unknown or a lack of knowledge.
 SOLE is an opportunity to participate in your child's learning. It doesn't replace schooling; instead, it teaches how to bring learning to life wherever a child is, and reinforces school learning. By being prepared to actively encourage learning in your home environment, you help your children to develop a lifelong love for learning and you also help your children to feel comfortable about sharing ideas and information with others. Most of all, it is about teaching children that learning is enjoyable, not a chore. And you'll be learning too, as you see your children discover things for themselves and bring the learning back to you.
 You might want to set up a SOLE activity for your own children. But you might also like to set one up for their friends or for neighbor's children as well. Consider asking other children if you have the space as this will help to ignite the love of learning beyond your home space too and can show all children that learning is fun.

