 Novelty knits are often worn as a shirt or other top with elaborate designs, illustrations, or vibrant colors. This can be great for something like a silly sweater party. Novelty Christmas knits are popular around the holiday season. You can also look for things like novelty knits in vest form, or jumpers, turtlenecks, and cardigans.If you decide to wear novelty knits as the top of your outfit, think about the rest of your outfit. Many novelty knits are chunky and will not look great with baggy or chunky pants.;
, If you want something a little subtle, colorful knit socks can be fun. They can be used to spruce up an otherwise neutral outfit. For example, pair brightly striped novelty knit socks with a conventional suit and tie. This will add a little fun to an otherwise standard outfit.Brightly colored novelty socks pair well with neutral colors. They can brighten up a duller outfit.
 Novelty knit hats can be any variety of unusual or unconventional hats. They may have bright colors or dramatic patterns. They may also be knitted into the shapes of animals, such as a hat with dog ears or cat ears. A novelty hat can be a fun addition to an outfit, especially during the colder months.
 Novelty hats and mittens can be great for the winter months. Novelty scarves and mittens may be in the shape of animals or have unusual illustrations knitted onto them, such as food and drinks. These can be a fun way to add some novelty to your outfit during the winter.Some novelty scarves and mittens are decorated with Christmas themes, which can be great for a Christmas party.
 Some stores sell knitted watches. This can be fun if you just want a subtle splash of novelty knits for your outfit. As knitted watches are unconventional, they can be viewed as a novelty item added to your wardrobe., Look for knitted shoes. Sometimes, sandals are sold with knit straps. If you want to add a small touch of fun to your outfit, opt for knitted shoes. They will not be the focus of your outfit, but add something a little quirky to your attire for the day.Like novelty knit socks, knit shoes look great with an otherwise dull, neutral outfit.
 When wearing novelty knits, be aware of the rest of your outfit and how it looks with your knits. Make sure to coordinate with things like color and pattern.You do not have to match color with novelty knits. In fact, it may be better not to. Instead, choose complimentary colors. For example, pair a purple novelty knit hat with a yellow shirt. This will make your outfit more striking, calling attention to the novelty of your knitted garments.
Think about pattern as well. Many novelty knits have intense patterns, like colorful stripes. It's best to choose solid colors instead of patterns elsewhere in your outfit to avoid an overwhelming look.
 Try to keep the contrast solid throughout your outfit. For example, if you're wearing a novelty skirt with a cardigan and undershirt, be aware of the amount of contrast between colors on the top of your body. If your cardigan and undershirt are different shades of one color, do not wear a knit skirt in a dramatically different color. Instead, opt for another low contrast color for your lower half.For example, say you're wearing a lavender cardigan over a purple tank top. Go for a knit skirt in another shade of purple or a neutral color like cream or white.
 Novelty knits are often very chunky. This can be a fun look, especially in the winter months. Chunky knits pair well when worn with lighter clothing.Wear a chunky novelty knit turtleneck with leggings or fitted jeans.
Wear chunky novelty knit socks with fitted jeans or a tighter skirt.
 Be aware of the different textures you're using. In general, do not pair knits with other knits. Knits pair well with textures like leather, suede, and denim.Try wearing a novelty sweater with leather pants.
Pair a novelty skirt with a leather or suede top.
 Work on pairing different patterns side by side. If you're wearing something like a houndstooth top, for example, pair it with a solid-colored skirt or top. Too many patterns can create an overwhelming look. This is especially true when dealing with novelty knits, which tend to have dramatic patterns., Always be aware of bulk when wearing novelty knits. Novelty knits often come in the form of chunky sweaters or turtlenecks. Remember to pair chunky knits with slimming clothing., If you're wearing a lot of novelty knits, skip the knitted footwear. Knitted sandals paired with a knitted top, for example, is a bit of overkill. Instead, opt for regular shoes with a knitted top.In general, go for somewhat neutral footwear. Opt for neutral colors, like a pair of black shoes, over anything bright or dramatic.
 Make sure the occasion is appropriate for novelty knits. They may not be a great choice for a formal event or fancy restaurant with a dress code. You should also generally avoid novelty knits at the office unless your office has a very casual atmosphere.