 You should give yourself ten to fifteen minutes before a presentation to warm up your voice and prepare your vocal chords for some fast talking. You can do this by doing some common warm up vocal exercises, including:Close your lips and force air between them until you make a horse-like noise. Your lips should vibrate together and make neighing sounds or noises. This can help to loosen up the muscles around your mouth.
You can also do face stretches to get the muscles in your face ready for fast talking. Do this by trying to get your mouth, nose, and eyebrows as close together as possible. Then, try to get them as far apart as possible. Stick your tongue out while you do this.
 You can determine how slow you speak by recording yourself talk out loud. You may set up a tape recorder and record yourself as you pretend to present your speech in front of a mirror.Listen to the playback of your presentation and note if you slow down in particular areas of your speech. Focus on speeding up your delivery in these spots the next time you practice the speech.
You should also be on the look out for any filler words, such as “um” or “ah”. Try to remove them the next time you practice the speech. Focus on saying the word before and the word after the spot where you used a filler word so you are not prone to using them.
 You may also notice that you are stumbling over certain words when you read your speech out loud. You should consider replacing terms that are tricky for you with simplified terms or terms that you are more familiar with. This will also allow you to speak faster, as you will not have to consider unfamiliar words when you present your speech.For example, you may replace a term like “utilize” with the more simplified term, “use”. Or, you may replace a more academic phrase like “let me solidify my point” with a more simplified phrase, “let me demonstrate what I mean”.
You may also notice that certain sections of your speech appear wordy or long winded. You may decide to cut out certain words and revise the speech so it is shorter and easier to say. Often, shorter is better for speeches and talks.
 You can also use other parts of your body, like your hands, to help you maintain a steady speaking pace. You may gesture with your hands to highlight a point or walk slowly back and forth across the room to emphasis your speech. Use your hands and your body to help you keep up a certain rhythm and pace to your speech.You should also demonstrate positive body language when you are giving a presentation or a speech. This means maintaining eye contact with your audience and positioning your body to face your audience.