 Movement of the animal's head could create an undesirable situation when trying to properly apply a tag or button. This could result in injury to either the person or animal or both, and may also result in improper tagging of the animal.


For cattle the best equipment to use is a chute with a head gate, or even a squeeze chute. Place a halter, and/or nose lead or ring on the animal and tie the lead rope to the side of the head gate tight enough so that it impedes the animal to move its head as you apply the tag or button.
For young calves, a head gate is not needed. Simply putting the calf on its side by bending over the calf, grabbing the flank and neck and hoisting it onto its side, then pinning it with your knee on its neck is sufficient when tagging it.

Tagging should be left for last when you have the calf on the ground, since the applicator often will cause a calf to become a bit more vocal than you like, particularly when its momma is close at hand.

;
, Tags should be applied in the middle third of the ear between the upper and lower ribs. It is important, when using electronic identification (EID) or Radio-Frequency identification (RFID) tags or buttons, to apply the visual panel or male portion on the outside-back part of the ear and the button or tag, which is the female portion, on the inside of the ear.


Also make sure that the last few digits of visual panel matches with the digits on the button or tag.
 Use rubbing alcohol or a disinfectant solution to clean the jaw and pin portion of the applicator before and after use. You should also clean the tagging area of the animal's ear.
 The visual panel stud must be inserted completely onto the applicator pin and the panel/button portion placed under the opposite clip.


Often a new tagger applicator will have a sticker or indentation on that tagger telling which end is which when placing the parts of the tag on. If not, the best rule of thumb to go by is that the point part goes over the pin and the tag or button on the other end. Also make sure the front of the tag or pin is facing away from the male end of the stud, not towards it. Thus is much easier to remember if you have bought tags that already have a bar-code and number on them.
 This must be done before you tag. Simply close the jaw of the applicator to the point where to the two halves just meet. The stud should be in line with the hole of the button or tag.
 Firmly and quickly close the applicator and release. You will hear a loud click when the stud goes completely into the hole, and upon releasing the tagger the tag or button will have stayed in place.
 This is to verify that it's correctly, comfortably, and securely positioned. Once satisfied, you may want to record the number of that particular animal for future reference.
 Quite often a producer will need to have a button in one ear and a tag in the other. Some will go as far as placing one tag in each ear. Regardless, you have the option to put in as many tags or buttons as you feel necessary.
 Once the tag or button is in, it should stay there for years to come. Note that buttons tend to last longer than tags.

