 The first signs of astrocytoma are usually signs of general illness, including headaches, nausea, and vomiting. Additionally, a person with astrocytoma can have double or blurred vision and loss of appetite.These symptoms can indicate a variety of health issues and they should be taken seriously if they do not go away after a couple of days.;
, A brain tumor can change your personality and your behavior. If you or someone you know has a sudden change of personality that cannot be explained for other reasons, it may be due to a brain tumor.Part of these personality changes may be related to problems with memory, confusion, and decline of brain function, which can also be a symptom of astrocytoma., Along with personality changes, your physical ability may change as well. For example, your ability to move your limbs may be reduced or you may gradually lose the ability to speak.You could experience difficulties with your ability to speak.
You may also experience changes to your vision, including blurred vision or loss of vision.
Changes in physical ability are likely to be gradual.
 Astrocytoma can cause seizures, which usually present as small tremors or twitching in the face, arms, and legs.They may range in severity, from barely noticeable to extremely aggressive.


Along with seizures, astrocytoma can also cause numbness in the face, arms, and legs.
 Astrocytomas occur in males more often than in females and they are more likely to occur in those over age 45.While the cause of astrocytoma is not known, there may be a correlation between exposure to radiation and tumor development in some cases.There is a type of astrocytoma, pilocytic astrocytoma, that is more common in children and young adults. This is the most benign type of astrocytoma.
 If you are experiencing any of the symptoms of astrocytoma, you should see your doctor for an examination. Your doctor will most likely ask you in detail about your symptoms and when they started. The doctor will then give you a physical exam.If you have any of the symptoms associated with astrocytoma that should prompt you to see a doctor.
If your doctor suspects cancer, they may refer you to an oncologist. An oncologist is a doctor that specializes in cancer treatment.
 If your doctor suspects a brain tumor, they will do imaging of your head and spine. In most cases, magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) is done. It is a sensitive and reliable way of detecting brain tumors.Your doctor can also do a CT scan. However, this imaging process shows less detail than an MRI.
Your doctor has been trained to read the MRI results and they should explain what they find to you.
 Once your doctor spots what they think is a tumor, they will need to do a biopsy to confirm a diagnosis. The biopsy will allow the doctor to get a small piece of tissue from the mass they have detected.Once the biopsy is done the tumor will be graded. This means that the tumor specimen will be looked at through a microscope and it will be assessed.
 While medication cannot eliminate the cancer, it can help to minimize or control the symptoms. There are a wide variety of medications that can be prescribed, depending on what your symptoms are, but they usually include anti-epileptic medication (Keppra) and steroids (Decadron)., Surgical treatment of astrocytoma can be used to remove the mass or to relieve pressure caused by the mass. It is usually done with more severe tumors. You will need to consult with a brain surgeon to determine whether brain surgery is viable. Whether surgery is recommended, or even an option, is dependent on the tumor's location and severity.For large tumors, surgery is not done with the intention of completely eliminating the cancer. The nature of astrocytoma, and how it invades surrounding normal-looking cells, makes it impossible for surgery to eliminate it completely.
 Once the condition is confirmed, radiation is likely to be recommended. It can be administered to the whole brain or to specific areas of the brain, depending on what your doctor recommends.In some cases, those with low-grade tumors do not get surgery but have radiation instead.After radiation is done, it is usually followed up by a round of chemotherapy.
 After you undergo treatment you will likely need to take medication and allow your body to recover from the treatment. Follow your doctor's recommendations for aftercare and how long you need to take off of work or physical activity.


Part of aftercare is keeping abreast of the status of your condition. Get regular medical exams and let your doctor know if your symptoms return or change.

