 Waiting until the last minute to create artwork can often be disastrous and you may find yourself creating something that you are not proud of and that will not be evaluated favorably by your professors and peers. In order to create the most quality project possible, as soon as you are aware of the assignment, begin scheduling staggered deadlines for yourself to complete various stages of the project.


Use a calendar or planner, either paper or online, to set deadlines for yourself so you remain on task. Breaking the task up into smaller parts can make it feel less overwhelming and can ease your stress both during the semester and on the day of the critique.;
, If you have a well thought out “why” to your work, what it depicts, its purpose, and your thought process in creating it, you will fare much better in the oral aspect of your critique. A strong sense of knowledge and awareness of a piece that you created will be particularly helpful if your art is not its best on that particular project.


Write down some bullet points on a note card or keep some thoughts in your mind to help begin and further along the discussion.
If your project is a collection of pieces, be sure that you are prepared to articulate how they are related and interconnected.
 Your professors and instructors have an expansive knowledge of art and technique and are often more than willing to help should advice be solicited. Consult with them if you have any concerns or hesitations about making major decisions about projects.


For instance, if you are confused about an assignment, you might want to reach out to your professor via email and ask something like, “Is there a specific painting technique we are required to use?” or any question related to the topic at hand.
 In stressful situations, the body can often tense up, making you forget to breathe, which can lead to greater levels of anxiety and stress. You will be better able to cope with the intensity of the moment and to discuss and defend your work if you are breathing properly.


One quick breathing exercise that you can do before, during and after the critique is as follows: breathe in deeply and slowly through your nose, filling your lungs; pause for three seconds and then exhale slowly through your mouth with your lips slightly parted.
 If you've made decisions for a specific reason, explain them in an articulate and meaningful way. If your reasoning for employing a certain design or technique is important, share that information. Don’t allow others to believe that your decisions were random or arbitrary if they were intentional.


For example, if a classmate or your professor refers to your color choice as “random,” you might want to speak to how the color you choose is symbolic and has a deeper meaning; for instance, the color “red” might symbolize passion, blood, or war.
 It can be difficult to hear people pick apart your work, but remember to listen to reactions and opinions. They can help you further develop the piece and make it more successful and help you to develop your skills as an artist.It can be helpful to ask for clarification if you are confused about a certain point.
If you still feel that a rebuttal to a comment is necessary, search for something in the speaker’s critique that you can agree with while respectfully disagreeing with their larger point. For example, you might say, “I do agree that my brush strokes in that area could have been more precise, but I do not think that a change in scenery would convey the message that I sought to portray.”

, Though you should certainly speak to the strengths of your work as well as your design process, allow for a thorough critique from others. You will want to receive feedback on your craft so that you can improve your work.


Don’t interrupt anyone as they are critiquing your work, but rather listen as intently as possible.
 Critiques can be a bit of a whirlwind and it is easy to forget names of artists, suggestions and reactions. Often times, you will receive so many comments and suggestions that it would be impossible to remember them all, therefore, having everything written down will help you as you incorporate relevant suggestions later.


The experience can be an overwhelming one, so try not to dwell too much on the details in the moment, but revisit them later in your notes instead.
 It is more likely than not that most of those offering critiques are truly trying to help and are not doing so maliciously. Don’t take their comments as being inherently negative, but rather use the collective knowledge and strength in the room to your advantage later when editing your project.


In addition to not overreacting to negative critiques, you should also not allow positive feedback to overinflate your ego. A positive critique is always welcome, but too much confidence can make you lazy with future projects. , Talk about it with someone if you need to vent, sort out your thoughts, or celebrate. You may want to discuss the information with classmates who have endured similar critiques or with fellow artists in general. Make sure that you consider both the positive and the negative critiques offered.


Use the notes taken during your critique to think critically about your work. Read over them carefully and thoughtfully and begin to ponder on how you can synthesize these critiques to create a stronger project.
 Don't feel like you have to listen to everything everyone says, as this is very likely impossible as many may have conflicting ideas on how to improve your work. From the feedback you receive, pick and choose which ideas appeal to you and make any alterations to those suggestions that you deem appropriate.
 Now you’ll want to begin actually improving upon your work and incorporating the new approaches that you see most fit. Creating a project that successfully and strategically synthesizes good feedback will result in a stronger piece of artwork that will likely be critiqued even less.


For example, if you agree with certain feedback presented about your project, you will want to incorporate these improvements. Someone may have suggested that you lighten up the work using more pastel colors, so you could employ this in your art to create a stronger and more pleasing aesthetic.

