 If you don’t have Aviate yet, you can download it for free on Google Play.;
,,


A pop-up will appear asking you to select which launcher to use.
,


You can also select Just Once if you want to keep the default home app as the launcher, but you will need to make this selection every time you want to use Aviate.



Tap a wallpaper from the bottom scroll display.
Tap the checkmark icon in the upper right corner.
 Aviate will present you with a list of the apps you have installed on your device to place on the homepage for quick access.


Tap Tap to choose your favorite apps.
Tap app icons to select them. Select apps will display a green checkmark icon on them.
Tap Save.



Tap Get Started.
Tap three Feeds. You can pick from various categories like news, comedy, science, weather, or more.

Three is the default minimum to create a Feed list. You can tap Card Feeds at the bottom to change these Feed sources later.


Tap Done.
 Collections are app categories used to group apps together for easier access (such as Cooking, Transit, Productivity, Music, etc.).


Tap Add Collections.
Tap five Collection icons to select them. Selected Collections are highlighted in green.

Five is the default minimum for number of Collections, but you can add or remove them from the Collection page later.


Tap Next.
 The screens in order from left to right are: the Feeds screen, the home screen, the Collections screen, and the A-Z app drawer.



Tap the down arrow on the top right corner of the Collection name to expand a Collection and view a full list of apps the Collection contains.



Tap and hold the app icon until the delete icon appears at the top.
Drag the icon to the delete icon and drop it there. The app will only be removed from the Collections, not uninstalled.
 You can tap the light bulb icon in any collection to see suggestions for apps to add.


Swipe to the right to take you to the a to z app drawer.
Scroll down until you find the app you want to add to the Collection.
Tap and hold the application to select it. You will be automatically switched to the collections screen.
Drop the app icon on a Collection category you want the app to be sorted in.



Tap Add a Collection. This is at the bottom of the Collections list.
Tap a Collection name. Aviate will automatically populate a Collection with relevant apps. For example, if you select the “Entertainment” Collection, apps like YouTube or reading apps will be added by default.



Tap and hold a category.
Tap the trash can icon in the upper left corner.



From your home screen, swipe to the left twice to access the A-Z apps drawer.
Scroll through the list to locate the app you want to add to the home screen.
Tap and hold the app
Drag it to the left edge. You will be switched to the Home screen.
Drop the app. The app will be placed along the bottom list of apps.



Tap and hold a blank area on the home screen. This brings up the customization menu
Tap Add Widget.
Scroll down to find the widget you wish to add.
Tap the a widget from the list to add it to your home screen.

You can tap and hold some widgets to adjust its size, but only some widgets are able to be resized.



Tap and hold an app until the delete icon appears at the top of the screen.
Drag and drop the app icon onto the delete icon. The app will be removed from the home screen, not uninstalled.



Tap and hold the widget until its blue borders appear
Tap the trash can icon in the upper left corner.



Tap and hold a blank area on the home screen
Tap the Add Wallpaper.
Tap Categories to browse preset wallpapers by category.
Tap My photos to browse your gallery for a wallpaper.
Tap a wallpaper to select it.
Tap the checkmark icon in the upper right corner.



Tap the search bar at the top of the screen. This appears on the Home, Collections, and A to Z app page.
Enter a search. You can search for apps, URLs, news feed content, and more.

A list of popular search terms will appear below the search bar when it is selected.


Tap the Microphone icon to search with speech.
Tap Search on the keyboard.
,, These locations are used to give more accurate data on the Feeds page.


Tap Set home and work.
Tap Home.
Enter and address. You can also drag and drop the pin on the map.
Tap Set home location.
Tap Work.
Enter and address. You can also drag and drop the pin on the map.
Tap Set work location.



Tap Set icon pack.
Tap an icon set from the list. If you do not have any other icon packs, tap Get more icon packs to be redirected to the Play Store to download some.

Toggle the search bar:

Tap Aviate Search Bar.
Tap On or Off. On will have the search bar appear on every page, while Off will only use the search bar on the Feeds page.


Set search filters:

Tap Safe Search.
Tap Strict, Moderate, or Off. Each setting determines how much sexually explicit content is filtered from your search results.


Modify search history:

Tap Search History to view your current history.
Tap Collect Search History.
Tap On or Off. Choosing off will stop your search queries from being logged in the history.
Tap Clear Search History.



Tap Create Shortcut.
Tap a shortcut. Depending on your selection you will be redirected to that app to pick the shortcut path. The shortcut will appear in your app list and can be added to the home page manually.

Enable Badge Notifications. This allows for small notification icons to the app icon on supported apps.
Tap Color Search Bar. This will auto adjust the color of the search bar based on your wallpaper selection.
Tap Home Screen Animation. This will change the animation when you swipe between pages.

