 At least a few weeks prior to beginning your whitening regimen, switch out your regular toothpaste for a tube of desensitizing toothpaste. Brands like Sensodyne, for example, work to make teeth less sensitive to outside factors, like extreme cold, and even the chemicals present in whitening gels.Since whitening gels can soften your enamel and cause sensitivity, this is a way to be proactive and keep your teeth from being too sensitive during and after your whitening process.
Fluoride gels are also a good treatment for enamel protection and remineralization, but make sure you do not swallow the gel.;
, Each time you are ready to use your whitening gel, make sure you thoroughly brush and floss your teeth before you begin. This will clean the surface of your teeth and allow the gel to penetrate the enamel more effectively without leaving any stains.Maintain good brushing and flossing habits, even after you finish your whitening process. This will keep your enamel strong and your teeth healthy, as well as help maintain your new, brighter smile.
 You want to make sure not to overfill the trays. A thin line of gel along the inside of the tray should be enough. Some dentists recommend about 10 – 12 drops of gel, but make sure you follow any specific instructions included in your kit, or given to you by your dentist.If you took home a kit from your dentist’s office, you may have found trays inside that need to be molded to your teeth. Follow the instructions with the kit, or have your dentist help you with these molds.
 Generally, you will need to wear your whitening trays for about two to three hours each day during the whitening process. Choose a time of day when you won’t need to eat or drink for a few hours. Some dentists may advise you to wear the tray overnight. Check the specific instructions in your whitening kit, or ask your dentist if you aren’t sure.If you experience gum irritation during the time you’re wearing the trays, it may be due to excess gel, or a tray that hasn’t been properly fitted. See your dentist if you experience this, as damaging your gums may lead to serious problems of your teeth.
Most whitening processes take about 14 days to reach the results you’re looking for. Skipping days during the process could result in not achieving the best results possible.
 After you’ve worn your trays for the allotted amount of time, carefully remove them. Use your finger or a clean washcloth to wipe off any remaining gel or residue on your teeth after removing your trays, and rinse your mouth with water.Be careful not to accidentally swallow too much of the gel, as it contains chemicals that can be harmful in large amounts. Promptly rinse your mouth and wipe excess gel from your teeth after removing your trays.
 During and after the whitening process, stay away from things that can stain your teeth. Coffee, cigarettes, and wine are examples of things to avoid in order to keep your teeth as white as possible for as long as possible.You may also want to avoid acidic food and drinks while whitening, as well. The acid in things like citrus fruits and soda pop could potentially weaken your enamel, which may, in turn, cause the whitening process to be less effective. You may also be especially sensitive to acidic food and drinks while whitening, which can make consuming them a bit uncomfortable.
 Before taking on a whitening routine, you will need to see your dentist to make sure you are a good candidate for whitening or bleaching. There are some dental health factors that might cause whitening processes to be less effective, or even harmful for you. For example, if you have any crowns, veneers, or otherwise fabricated material on your teeth, whitening and bleaching agents will not work effectively on these areas.Certain gels that contain chlorine dioxide can actually be very harmful to the enamel on your teeth. A dentist will be able to guide you to whitening products that are safe and effective.Further, there are clinical cases of internal discoloration or enamel mineralization defects you may not be aware of, so whitening may not work or worse, it can even harm your tooth structure. Your dentist will be able to tell you if this is the case.
 In many cases, your dentist can do the whitening for you in their office. Or, they can provide you with a kit to take home and use on your own. If you feel like you will need some assistance, or don’t feel comfortable doing it without your dentist’s supervision and advice, it might be best to schedule a few sessions in your dentist’s office.The whitening products provided by your dentist may have the ADA Seal of Acceptance, which means the American Dental Association has deemed them to be safe and effective. Talk to your dentist if you want to specifically use a product that has the ADA Seal of Acceptance., Since whitening gel is made up of many different chemicals, it’s important that you practice caution and safety when using these products at home. Follow all instructions given to you by your dental professional. Do not use the gel more than instructed, or for longer amounts of time, as doing so could cause serious damage to your teeth.Opt for an in-office whitening session if you are not happy with the result, but never exceed the length of whitening treatment at home.
Gum irritation from whitening gels is similar to a chemical burn, as the irritation is a result of the peroxide in the bleach. This is temporary and should subside after you complete the whitening process. You could also be experiencing irritation from an ill-fitting tray. See your dentist for help with this., If you experience any issues with the whitening product while using it at home, be sure to contact your dentist right away. They may be able to adjust the gel to a lower concentration of the bleaching chemicals, which are likely the cause for tooth and gum pain following a whitening session. They can also correct or re-make a tray that doesn’t fit properly, which could be causing discomfort.

