 Facing myeloma is a significant and life-changing challenge. However, you can respond to your cancer diagnosis by addressing aspects of your lifestyle that can be improved. If you are not in the habit of paying attention to your diet, level of activity, and other factors that affect your health, now may be the time to make some positive changes.Caring for your body will not only make you feel better physically, it will also make you happier.
 Some of the best lifestyle changes to start with are those that reduce harm upon your body. In particular, if you smoke, strongly consider stopping. There are many resources to help you do so. Similarly, cut back on drinking alcoholic beverages, especially if you have more than a few drinks per week.Ask any member of your medical team about how to quit smoking, or look online for information and other types of support from organizations like the American Cancer Society.
 The benefits of physical exercise are impossible to overstate. Not only will exercise improve your cardiovascular health, it will strengthen your body and help you maintain a healthy weight. It can also help improve your mood and overall outlook. Exercising will even help you feel like you have more energy by reducing the fatigue you feel.The specific amount of exercise that’s right for you depends on your personal fitness level.
If you haven’t exercised much in the past but want to get started, begin by taking a walk everyday. Walk at whatever pace you are able for as long as you can, and increase the pace or duration of your walk every week or so.
Keep your medical team in the loop regarding your exercise plans, especially when you intend to change them.
 Proper sleep helps support your immune system, so it is important to make sure you get adequate sleep every night. An adult should aim for seven to nine hours of sleep every night., Multiple myeloma makes it more difficult for your body to fight infection. Washing your hands, then, is an important precaution against infection-causing microorganisms. Wash your hands regularly after using the restroom, handling food, or any other situation where you may encounter a higher risk of coming into contact with potentially harmful germs., Your body’s health and well-being is often associated with your mental health. Not only will you face day-to-day stresses having to do with treatment, potential issues may upset you more than you expect. The best way to keep from dwelling on the negative and stressful aspects of your condition is by maintaining an active social support system.Support can come from all sorts of sources. Your family and friends will want to help, and you should let them.
For instance, recruit a different person to cook with for each day of the week, or find a family member that can exercise with you regularly.
Maintain your participation in any social groups you are a part of, whether they are recreational, spiritual, or educational.
 Speaking with others who are in a similar situation as you can be incredibly helpful. This will give you the opportunity to share your feelings with others who know what you’re going through. You may also find helpful resources through others in your support group.These groups meet in person and online. Ask a doctor or therapist about where to find a support group, or search for one online.
 You may benefit from having someone who you can talk to about how you are feeling. For some, this may be a close friend or family member. For others, the ability to talk to a mental health professional, such as a therapist, can help calm you down and provide you with advice about handle day-to-day emotional challenges.