 Lay out your strands or hold them in your hands so they are separate from each other. Use the strand on the far right and pass it under the two strands in the middle.








If it helps you, you can think about labelling the strands from left to right as A, B, C, and D when you begin. Bring the D strand underneath C and B so that the order is now A, D, B, C.Either place your strands carefully on a flat surface or hold them tightly in your hand, as they must remain in order throughout the braiding.
 Take the rightmost strand that you just moved under the two middle strands. Wrap it over one of those middle strands so that it falls in between the two of them.









If you’re using letters to label your strands, you would be taking the D strand and placing it over B so that it is in between B and C. The order from left to right would then be A, B, D, C.
Tighten the strands up toward your end knot so that the braid stays even. Make sure the strands stay spread out in the same way as when you began, even though some will have changed positions.
 Take the strand that’s on the far left and bring it underneath your current two middle strands. This mirrors the same first step you took with the strand on the right.








Your lettered strands were A, B, D, C from left to right after tightening the first side. You will now take the A strand and bring it underneath B and D. Thus the new order will be B, D, A, C.
Remember to keep all strands carefully in place while you braid, whether laying them out neatly on a table or holding them firmly in your hands.
 Hold the far left strand that you just brought under the two middle strands. Wrap it back over so it falls in the between those two strands.









If following letters from the previous step that ended in the order B, D, A, C: Bring A over D so that it rests in between B and D. The new order from left to right will then be B, A, D, C.
Tighten the strands up toward your end knot to keep the braid looking even. Now you have completed this sequence on both the right and left side. Keep the strands separated in the same way as you begun, even though they are now in a different order.
 Continue moving the rightmost strand under the middle two strands and over to rest in between them, then do the same to the leftmost strand. Repeat these motions over and over until you reach your desired length or the end of your material.









If you forget what side you left off on at any point, you can tell which strand to start with because either the rightmost or leftmost strand will appear slightly higher up where it comes out of your braid. This is the strand to move next.Pause occasionally if you are using very long pieces of material for your braid to untangle them at the ends. Ensure that you don’t lose the order of your strands by holding them down with your hand or another heavy flat object while you gently untangle the ends.

