 Your skin, your body's largest organ, is tough and stretches. It has the job of protecting your body from bacteria, viruses, and fungi. When there are cracks and breaks in the skin, this allows infectious agents to access your blood supply. In addition, your skin functions in thermoregulation, or keeping your body temperature at an optimal temperature for functioning.Your skin is sensitive which allows you to feel different types of sensations which are interpreted by the brain. There are no areas of the body that are normally numb, or without feeling, including your feet.
New skin cells are made each day. Your body gets rid of between 30,000 and 40,000 skin cells from all over the body every minute of every day.The dead skin cells are on the top 18 to 23 layers of skin.Your outer layer of skin which consists of dead skin cells is called the epidermis. This area of the skin is very thin in some areas of the body — such as the eyelids — and thicker in others — such as the bottom of your feet. When the old skin cells in the epidermis fall off, new cells are underneath.
 Dry skin is called xerosis. It will appear lighter in color than the rest of the foot and will often feel rough to the touch. You might experience:Itchiness
Cracked skin
Redness
Fissures (deep cracks) in the heel of the foot
Peeling skin
Both the heel and ball of the foot where most of the contact with the ground is made, are at higher risk of becoming rough. This increases the risk of cracking and peeling skin.
 The skin on the bottom of your feet can become dry and rough for a number of different reasons, including:Age: Age and hormonal imbalances caused by aging (due to processes like menopause) cause your skin to lose elasticity and lipids, which increases the risk of dry skin.

Climate: Living in a dry climate can reduce the amount of moisture in the skin and result in dry skin. In addition, air conditioning removes humidity from the air, reducing the natural moisture in the skin. Winter weather is also damaging to the skin.

Skin conditions: Atopic dermatitis and psoriasis are two skin conditions which can develop dry and rough patches where they affect the skin.

Chlorine: Swimming or soaking in highly chlorinated pools can reduce the natural moisture in your skin.

Medical conditions: People who have diabetes often suffer from dry skin on their feet, which increases their risk of infections. Poor blood supply can lead to reduced moisture to the skin cells and increase the risk of complications.If you have diabetes and dry feet, visit a doctor or podiatrist for your foot care needs.
 Prevention is always the best medicine. It is easier to keep your feet well cared for than to reverse the effects of dry and rough skin. Here are some tips for maintaining healthy and soft feet:As you age, take good care of your feet, using the treatments mentioned above.
If you swim consistently in a chlorinated pool, take extra precautions to care for the skin over your feet. Chlorine will remove moisture from your skin and result in dry skin.Shower and bathe only as long as necessary to get clean but not longer. Opt for showers over baths to decrease the risk of reducing the natural moisture in your skin. Always moisturize (with a non-alcoholic moisturizer) after each bath or shower.
If you suffer from atopic dermatitis or psoriasis, take special care of the skin on your feet to reduce the potential for cracked and peeling skin.
If you have diabetes, evaluate your feet every night for breaks in the skin. You can reduce the risk of developing complications related to your diabetes if you practice prevention and care for your feet.