 For this project, you will need: a pair of shorts, rubber gloves, some water, bleach, and a little bit of soap. You will also need a plastic bucket or tub large enough to comfortably fit your shorts. If you do not have any shorts, you can make your own by cutting the legs off of an old pair of jeans.;
, Bleach gives off a strong odor and could make you feel light-headed. The best place to work would be outside, but if this is not possible, make sure that you have at least a window open. Keeping a fan on in the room will give you even more ventilation.
 Although you will be working with diluted bleach, you will still want to protect your skin. Bleach is caustic, and can irritate or burn your skin.
 You will need one part liquid bleach and three to four parts water.How much bleach and water you use will depend on the size of your tub and the shorts. You want the water-bleach solution to be deep enough so that the shorts end up completely submerged once you put them in the tub.
 Make sure that they are completely submerged. If they keep floating to the top, you can pin them down with a heavy object, such as a glass vase or a couple of rocks.
 You can do this by taking the shorts out of the bleach solution and leaving them out in the sun on a bleach resistant surface,or you can simply leave them in the solution for several hours.How long you leave the shorts in the sun or bleach solution depends on how dark the original color was, and how light you want them to become. This can take anywhere between a few hours to over 24 hours.


Consider checking on the shorts every few hours. Bleach is caustic, and it can eat away at the fabric of your shorts. To prevent over-bleaching or ruining your shorts, plan on checking on them every four hours, if possible. The longer you leave your shorts in the bleach solution, the weaker the fibers will become.
 Once the shorts have achieved the lightness you desire, pull them out of the bleach solution and squeeze them to get rid of the extra moisture. If you have left them out in the sun, simply take them out of the sun.
 Gently work some soap into the shorts, and rinse them with cool water until you cannot smell the bleach anymore. The soap will help prevent the bleach from yellowing the fabric., You can do this by setting them out in the sun, or tossing them into the dryer for a few minutes.

