 As a consumer, it’s important that you are familiar with terminology associated with the business or product that you’re looking at purchasing. You may be familiar with the lingo that promotes green technology, such as carbon neutral or low emission, but don’t decide on a product until you're fully aware of what these terms mean. You need to understand their definitions and implications so that you don’t inadvertently buy a misrepresented product.As a consumer, you should also feel free to ask for transparency. If a company isn’t willing or is unable to provide data about their business, opt for a company that will.
 For example, products claiming to be CFC-free (containing no chlorofluorocarbons which are harmful to our ozone layer), even though CFCs were banned altogether 20-some years ago. Think of this as a smoke and mirrors technique.Look into claims that a product or vendor makes. If one claim stands out in particular from others, this might be a sign that you’re wrestling with an irrelevant fact.
As a consumer, you must be diligent in asking questions about a product’s overall environmental impact. For whatever product or service you’re looking to purchase, consider making a short list of questions that you’ll ask every vendor., This happens when a true environmental claim is made, such as recycled, environmentally friendly, or natural, which distracts your customer from the more problematic, overall issue with the product.This is commonly found in contradictory product combinations such as organic cigarettes or “environmentally friendly” pesticides.
As a consumer, you’ll do well to consider the larger, overall implications and repercussions of the product or service that you’re looking at. If you’re concerned about honeybees, for example, herbicides, no matter what claims are made about them, may just not be something you want to look at.
 Sustainable products are positive in the sustainability tripod: environmental health, economic vitality, and social justice. They focus on all three areas, how the three areas interact, and aim to reduce ecological footprints. Green products, on the other hand, only focus on one of the three areas of the sustainability tripod.