 A concert is a great time to break out your makeup and go for a look that is more dramatic than usual. It’s a special occasion and you will want your makeup to both accentuate and add intensity to your features. There are thousands of makeup tutorials available to view on YouTube if you are unsure of what to do or want to mimic a certain look. Simply search for “makeup tutorial” and thousands of results will be at your fingertips.


Apply makeup that will be impervious to sweat. When it comes to hot and sweaty concerts, the best choice for applying makeup is to ditch the liquid foundations and makeup and use powder. If you do use a liquid foundation, use a translucent powder over the top when you are finished applying it to set the makeup. This will prevent it from rubbing off when you start sweating.
Opt for a matte lipstick for a concert. You don’t want to sweat off your lipstick while you’re there. There are plenty of long-lasting matte formulas that will help keep your lipstick intact the entire night. Kat Von D’s line of liquid lipstick is a great example of a high-quality, long-lasting formula.;
, Attending a concert is the perfect excuse to dress to impress. Since music is all about creative expression, you should also feel free to express yourself through your wardrobe choices. When deciding what you should wear, remember to be true to yourself and wear whatever you want.


For a rock concert, you will want a look that is cool and doesn’t look like you are trying too hard. Dark colors will blend in well with the crowd. A leather jacket, some distressed jeans, and combat boots are the perfect way to achieve this!
For a pop concert, think bold yet cute. Wear a dress that is an eye-popping color, such as red, paired with some stylish black heels or flats, and a chunky necklace. Bright colors are great for flashy pop concerts.For a country concert, wear something that is classic country with a contemporary twist. Try a denim skirt or jeans, a top that has some sort of embellishment, such as a fringe or rhinestones, and a pair of snakeskin booties.
If you’re attending a hip hop concert, something laid back and athletic will do just the trick. Many hip hop artists and their followers are into sportswear, so tennis shoes and workout clothes are all the rage. Wear your favorite pair of sneakers with some fitted sweatpants, and a bomber jacket overtop a tank top or t-shirt. You could even wear your favorite pair of workout leggings., Play up your outfit by adding accessories. You can do this by adding a chunky necklace, a pair of earrings you adore, or a funky bracelet--or even all three! You will also want to pick out a good purse or bag for a concert. Use a crossbody purse so that you don’t have to worry about carrying your purse around and dropping or losing it along the way. A concert isn’t a time to be shy--get creative and show off your style.


Choose a hair accessory to accentuate your outfit, such as colorful clips, a headband, or barrettes. A hat may also be a good choice to show off your personal style and give your outfit some flair.

