 Use your trowel to spread a few slabs of mortar around the corner's base of the footing. Spread the mortar 1" deep and 8" wide in the marked area. Continue to spread the mortar to account for the distance of about three to four blocks.
 It is important to lay the corner block down first. Again, use a corner block if they're available. Setting the corner first will ensure an even dispersal of the rest of the blocks.
 Apply mortar to each side of the concrete block using your trowel. You'll need to apply at least an inch to each side. Once applied, position the stone in the desired location. Try to align the corner to the string set up earlier.


Don't apply mortar to outer edge of the corner.
Try not to leave any gaps when applying mortar, or it’ll weaken the bond between the blocks.
 Start laying blocks from the corner or edge of the wall so you can work in one direction.


Apply mortar at the end of the block before you place the block adjacent to it.
 Before stacking more concrete blocks on top of your initial foundation, check if everything is aligned. Use your mason's level by laying it on the first set of blocks. Check both the outside and center section of the bricks.


Tap the blocks for any alignment adjustments while the mortar is still wet.
Do not try to move a block after the concrete has set.
Measure the length and height every two or three layers., Place the mortar 1 inch (2.5 cm) deep and use the same width as the width of the block. You can then spread the mortar so it covers the length of about 3 blocks in the direction that you are laying the bricks.
 Lay the block down on top so the edge of the top block aligns with the halfway mark of the bottom block. You'll recognize the pattern as a standard among the construction sites. The top block will fit in between two bottom blocks.
 If you built fairly high walls, consider adding reinforcements. You can also use reinforcements if the ground pressure on the site is not stable. Place the 1/4" reinforcement rods into the openings with the ends overlapping about 2" or 3".