 Because infants are at higher risk for development of dehydration and malnutrition the two major consequences of diarrhea and vomiting, management must be very prompt in this age group. If your infant is the one who is ill, continue to breastfeed your child. Breastfeeding promotes faster recovery and provides improved nutrition when compared with formula feeding. However, if you give your child formula, you can also continue to feed her this, even if she vomits or has diarrhea., If your child is the one who is sick, do not give her any solid food. Instead, give your child an oral rehydration solution. Give them small amounts to begin with, and increase the amount you give them as they become more able to keep food down., The amount of ORS that you give your child depends on her age. If your child refuses to drink the ORS from a bottle or cup, you can also feed the solution to her using a teaspoon, dropper, or in the form of a frozen popsicle.For babies who are six months or younger, give them 30 to 90 mL (1 to 3 ounces) every hour.Children six months to two years of age should receive 90 to 125 mL (3 to 4 ounces) an hour.Children two years and older can receive 125 to 250 mL (4 to 8 ounces) an hour.The child should be given 5ml to 15 ml every 5 minutes or so. Such small volumes can usually be tolerated, even in children who are vomiting. Use common household measures 5ml equals 1 teaspoon; 15ml equals 1 tablespoon.
If your child continues to vomit, only give her the ORS solution. You can give her one tablespoon every 10 to 15 minutes until the vomiting ceases.
Voiding of dilute urine every 3 to 4 hours in both children and adults is an index of appropriate hydration status.
Frequency and amount of stools may increase over the initial 3 to 4 hours of oral rehydration therapy, but they will start to normalize over the next few hours.
If the vomiting does not stop or slow down, take your child to the hospital.
 During the first 24 hours of illness, give your child the ORS at regular intervals until the frequency of diarrhea slows down.


If the vomiting stops after 24 hours, you can slowly reintroduce your child to other foods. However, only give your child small amounts of the food, be it breastmilk, formula, or regular food.
Because infants are at higher risk for development of dehydration and inadequate nutrition management must be very aggressive in this age group. Infants younger than 1 year of age should be referred to a physician unless diarrhea and vomiting are mild.
 Most children are able to resume their normal diet after 48 hours. Your child’s stool may take approximately 7 to 10 days to go back to its normal consistency. This is because the digestive system takes time to begin functioning normally again., If your child is vomiting or has diarrhea constantly, and this condition does not change, bring your child to the hospital. If your child will not take any fluids, she will be rehydrated intravenously.


Your child will also be given anti-diarrhea medication, as well as medication to prevent her from feeling nauseous.

