 If you’re in a relationship, take money discreetly from your account or out of your paycheck and save it so that you can eventually leave, if you can. Hide the money in a secret savings account or leave it with someone you trust. Overtime, you may have enough saved up so that you can leave the relationship and start a life on your own.


You may have to get a secret additional job in order to save enough money, or if you are unable to take money from your account without it being noticed. Use the guise of volunteering or that you are spending time with your friends and family to cover for the time you are away while working., Contact your bank or that of an elderly loved one and change PIN codes and other personal information so that the abuser doesn’t have access to the money. Additionally, get in touch credit card companies to change the password so that no one can track activity but the designated account holder.


You may also want to remove your partner or others as an authorized user on bank accounts or credit cards so that no one else has the right to withdraw money or use cards., Confront the person you believe is taking advantage of an elderly loved one. Ask the person you think may be exploiting the elderly person to explain any recent big purchases or questionable behavior. If their explanation doesn’t make sense, you should trust your gut and suspicions. Contact the proper authorities to take action against this person.


You might say, “I noticed that Mom has a lot of recent online purchases…Can you explain these?”
Quite often, people who take advantage of the elderly are those who are the closest to them. Adult children or live-in caregivers often have access to the elderly person’s accounts and are commonly those who commit the financial abuse., If you are in a romantic entanglement or the friend or relative of someone who is committing financial abuse, it may be wise to separate yourself from this person. In many cases, it may be difficult to do so because the person may be near and dear to your heart.


If you have trouble becoming estranged from a financial abuses, consult with an attorney or financial advisor who has experience with such matters. You might say, “My husband’s gambling habit has ruined my credit and I don’t know how to handle this situation. What can I do to protect myself financially and stop the abuse?”

