 Click the link provided to do so. You'll need to enter the following information:


A working email address (not your own)
A password
A name
A phone number (not your own)
Your preferred language;
, Uber will send a code to your provided phone number, so make sure you have access to the pertinent phone.
 Your account should now be set up.


You'll need to enter a payment method after setting up your account. This can be the same payment account as the one on your original account.
 In order to use Uber's mobile site to order a ride, you'll need to request permission for your account first. It's a good idea to do this well in advance of your ride since Uber may take up to 24 hours to respond to you.
 You'll do this in the field beneath the "Request access to m.uber" text.


All you need to write here is "Please give my account access" or something similar.
 Uber should process your request and email you when your account has been approved.
 If you aren't already logged in, enter your secondary Uber account email address and password to do so.
,, This should appear in a drop-down menu.
 In this case, you'll probably want an UberSUV or UberXL if they're available.
,,, This should appear in a drop-down menu.
 Your ride should now be on its way.
,, This should be the one to which your actual phone number is linked.
 field.
 You'll want both the destination and your pick-up location to match the ones you entered on the mobile site.
 Your options vary by location, but will include some or all of the following packages:


UberX - The most affordable option for groups of up to four.
UberXL - A larger, more expensive Uber for groups of up to six.
UberSELECT - A more luxurious (and appropriately more expensive) option.
Uber POOL - A cheap, carpooling alternative for frequently-traveled routes. This may not always be available.
UberBLACK - An expensive, high-end luxury service.
UberSUV - A higher-end version of UberXL for parties of up to seven.
UberACCESS - Comprises two separate services for disabled riders: UberWAV (wheelchair-accessible vehicles) and UberASSIST (vehicles with specially-trained staff to help elderly or mobility-impaired riders).
 You should see your default payment option (e.g., PayPal) listed below the Uber options.


To change this option, tap it and then tap Add Payment Method.
 This option will be followed by your selected service (for example, Request UberXL).
 This may take a few seconds.
 This will pop up at the bottom of your screen.
 From this menu, you can:


Review your fare (or choose to split it)
Change your destination
Change your pick-up
Contact your driver

, Note that they may not arrive at your location at the same time.

