 Say its name, if you know it. Pay attention to the cat’s body language while talking to it. If the cat looks and acts normal, it may have calmed down. Be careful, however, if you see continued signs of aggression, such as:A stiffened tail
Ears flattened backwards
Raised fur
A direct stare
Hissing, spitting, mewling, or growling
Swatting, batting, scratching, or bitting;
, Gently stroke the back of its head and down its back. Stop immediately, however, if the cat begins to show signs of aggression again.
 If you fear injury from an aggressive cat, and do not have to immediately pick it up, wait for it to calm down. Watch it from a safe distance until it stops all aggressive body language, and only attempt to pick it up then.
 Using your fingers, lightly grasp its front legs. Raise the cat slowly upwards, and press it gently against your body. Gently hold its chin with your other hand.


Stop immediately and let the cat go if it begins to act aggressively again.
 Carefully put your right arm over its back and under its chest. Hold its front legs with your fingers. Use the rest of your arm to gently press the cat against your body. Hold the cat’s head with your left hand.


Do not attempt this method if the cat is violent. If the cat becomes aggressive in the midst of attempting it, stop and try another technique.
 This may calm the cat and allow you to control it.


You should not use this technique on an adult cat (over 6 months).In many cases, picking a cat up by the scruff of the neck will restrict its ability to breathe and only make it more aggressive.Some experts recommend never picking a cat up by the scruff of the neck., Before picking up the cat, put on long sleeves, pants, gloves, and shoes. Keep your face out of the cat’s reach.
 Approach the cat slowly, from above it, while holding a thick blanket or large towel. Place the blanket over the entirety of the cat.


Do not throw the blanket. The cat will probably react faster than you can act, and escape.
 Attempt to wrap it up like a bundle. Once it is covered (especially its mouth and claws), pick the cat up within the blanket. Clutch it firmly, but do not squeeze it.
 Once you have picked up the cat, you can put it and the blanket in a crate or carrier that is large enough for the cat to move around in and get out from under the blanket. Otherwise, carefully let the cat out of the blanket into the crate or carrier. Close the door immediately, and take it to a vet or animal shelter if necessary.


Alternatively, you can place the blanket-wrapped cat in another room where it will not be disturbed by other people or animals..Wait for it to calm down before handling it further. Tossing a treat inside the room may help.
 These experts are trained in the use of special techniques and equipment (such as muzzles and leashes) that may need to be used in certain cases. 