 Many businesses also make the mistake of assuming that they can do this step. Unless you are trained with graphic design programs, like Adobe Illustrator or InDesign, you should look to hire a professional, so that you ensure you don't cloud the image and waste the money you spent on photography.


Make sure the designer can use photography software, like Adobe Photoshop. This program is often purchased along with the Adobe Creative Suite. It allows you to airbrush, crop, enhance, warp, stylize and otherwise change photographs to fit your advertisement.
In modern advertising the image usually stands out as the focal point of the ad. Since the 1930s, American advertising has embraced the use of large images accompanied by a few simple lines of text. If you have hired a professional advertising photographer to create your image, your graphic designer should consider making the image large enough to convey the message.
The advantage of hiring an advertising photographer to shoot a central image for your advertisement is that the graphic designer will spend less time on the ad. If the graphic designer does not need to create logos, graphics or other complex elements, you can save money on this part of the process.
 The look of photography in modern advertising will depend upon where the ad appears, in print or online.


If you plan to use your photograph as part of an Internet ad, then your graphic designer should focus on creating an instant reaction. Your goal for online ads is to encourage people to click on your ad and drive traffic to your website. Your audience is also slightly younger online than with print advertising. For this type of ad, your photography should have 1 clear image. You may choose to brighten the colors and/or set the image on a white background. The image will do almost all of the work, so ensure that it is clear and creative enough to catch people's attention.
If your photograph will be part of a print ad, then your graphic designer should cater to a slightly older demographic. Print publications, while shrinking in readership, are still seen as higher quality. Focus on creating elegant composition. Your designer may need to turn the photograph into a black and white image, because many newspaper ads run without color. The designer should play with the contrast to ensure the image is clear in black and white, instead of sending a colored ad that will be printed in black and white.
 As long as you save the original version, the graphic designer can warp or distort the image to create an abstract or fanciful look. It is possible to create a stylistic image by making it look antique, cartoon, distressed or hand drawn, to name just a few of the dozens of options available on photography software.
 Make sure you have 3 to 5 people look at it before it is submitted for printing or uploading on a website. Outside opinions can help you to be aware of other messages your advertisement conveys.

