 You may not want to provide a smoking area when entertaining. This could be because of health concerns or a personal distaste for smoking. This is your choice, but you should recognize that your decision may push away some guests. Many people can’t curb their cravings to smoke.


Assure anyone who can’t come because of smoking that you understand. Say, “I’m so sorry you can’t join us, Frankie, but I completely understand. If you feel like swinging by for a few minutes, please know that the doors are always open.”

, If you are not willing to allow people to smoke in or around your home, then you might consider allowing them to use e-cigarettes as an alternative. Using e-cigarettes, or vaping, has become a popular alternative to smoking and it does not produce as much of an odor.


Try telling people that while you do not want anyone smoking in or around your house, you have set up a designated vaping area. You could set this area up in the corner of a room or in your backyard.
 One of the best way to help smokers curb cravings is by keeping their mouths busy. Offering your smoking guests a wide array of different foods and beverages can distract them from cravings and help them have a good time.Provide foods such as fruits, vegetables, dairy products, oats, and brown rice to help curb cravings. Many of these foods can make cigarettes taste bad.Make sure you have plenty of water, which may also help curb cravings.
Avoid too many spicy or sugary foods, which can trigger a desire to smoke., Crunchy foods such as raw vegetables or chips can satisfy and help curb cravings to smoke. Make sure your food spread includes crunchy choices including:Carrots
Celery
Nuts
Sunflower seeds
RadishesBell pepper slices

, Things on which you can suck or continuously chew can act as substitutes for cigarettes or cigars. Keeping a bowl of hard, sugar-free candies and gum may help your smoking guests feel welcome and curb their cravings.Include cinnamon candies and gum in your candy and gum bowl. Some smokers find that cinnamon gum or hard candy curbs their cravings. Be sure to get sugar-free cinnamon options so that the sugar in the candy or gum doesn’t stimulate cravings.
 Toothpicks are another way to occupy smokers’ mouths. Keeping a cup full of toothpicks for your smoker guests can help curb any cravings they may have if you prefer an entirely non-smoking environment. Consider getting cinnamon-flavored toothpicks if you can find them. These may help further curb cravings.