 As an artist, you will be spending long hours honing your craft. Whether you're working at an easel or on a computer, you want to make sure you're as comfortable as possible.


If you work with a messy medium like paint, avoid clothing that is too baggy, especially if it has sleeves. Even if you aren't worried about getting your work clothes dirty, too-loose clothing may end up smearing your work.;
, If you work with anything that can stain, such as paint or ink, you should take precautions to keep media away from your clothes. Cover up with an apron or a painting smock. Make sure it's made of a thick enough material that your media won't soak through quickly.
 Even with taking care and wearing an apron, you are likely to still get the odd splash of paint here or there. Washing immediately may take care of most media on various fabrics, but you are bound to get the occasional permanent stain. Don't wear your best slacks in the studio.
 As a young artist, you probably don't have a lot of money. Instead of pining for designer jeans way out of your price range, learn to build a stylish wardrobe without breaking the bank.


Keep your clothes in good condition. Clothes that last longer will save you money.
T-shirts and jeans may sound like a mundane combo, but you can use your own personal style to stand out. Wear T-shirts of your own design or that are otherwise unique. Wear jeans that are other colors besides the typical denim blue.
A simple, creative way to stretch your wardrobe is to "mix and match" different pieces to create unique looks. Simply switching jackets between two suits will give you two "new" outfits., Second hand shops are the best way to stretch your clothing budget. In addition to basics and run-of-the-mill pieces, you'll be able to find unique styles at an affordable price. Look for quirky, odd "signature" pieces that fit your personality and will make you stand out.


You can find retro and modern styles and then easily mix and match them.
Most thrift shops have one or more glass cases in the front where they display nicer items, often jewelry. These items may be more expensive than typical thrift shop wares, but will still cost significantly less than retail. It's a great place to look for interesting pieces.
 While brand names sometimes mean quality, more often than not you end up paying for the name. As an artist, that's a luxury you are not likely to afford. Besides, how creative can you look when you're dressed just like everyone else?


An exception is to remember which brands actually do make quality clothing that lasts. This type of brand may be a little more expensive but will save you money over time. Keep your eyes peeled for them when thrifting or browsing auction websites.
 Above all, to look like an artist you should dress how you want to. This could mean bright, attention-grabbing getup's that "push the boundaries." Or you may want to keep things casual and monochrome. You may even decide to do both on different days of the week. The choice is yours.

