 The sky's the limit when it comes to making fabric flowers. Use fabric scraps you already have or hit the fabric store to pick out new fabric. Remember that the thickness of the fabric you use will affect the final look of the flower.


To make a flower with floppy petals, use silk, thin cotton, or another thin, floppy material. For stiff petals, choose felt, denim, linen, or another thick, stiff material.
Fabric flowers have more than one layer, and there's no need for every layer to be made out of the same fabric. Make contrasting petals by choosing two or more types of fabric for your flowers. For example, you could choose a plain blue fabric and one with a white background and blue polka dots.;
, Use a pencil to draw flower shapes on a piece of thin paper. The flower can be any shape you want. Create a daisy, a sunflower, or a dogwood flower. Space the petals evenly or create a wilder look by making the petals less uniform. Cut out the shape with a scissors when you're finished.









If you don't want to draw your own stencil, check online for stencils you can print out.
Make more than one stencil if you want contrasting, layered petal shapes. For example, you could make one stencil with large, long petals, and another one with twice as many small, short petals. Layering these two petal types together will create a neat effect.
 Use straight pins to secure the paper stencil, or stencils, to the fabric you chose for your flowers. Make sure each petal is securely in place. Use a sharp pair of fabric scissors to cut the fabric along the edges of the stencil. When you're finished, unpin the stencil and examine your fabric flower shape.









Make as many layers as you want by repinning the stencil to a new section of fabric, cutting it out, and repeating until you have enough.
You can make more than one flower shape at once by folding the fabric and pinning the stencil through both layers of fabric before carefully cutting out the flower shapes.
 Arrange the layers in a stack that shows off the multiple petal sizes and shapes. If you have different sized flower shapes, stack the smaller ones on top of the larger ones.
 Thread a needle with thread that matches your flower fabric. Pass the needle through the center of the flower petal stack, then pull it back through to the other side. Repeat a few times until the flowers are sewn together in the very center of the stack.
 You can end your project there or create a stamen, the middle of a flower, using a button, a bead, a gem, or some other small item. Glue the stamen on with fabric glue or hot glue, or sew it on using the same needle and thread.








