 Hitting a tweener should only be used in certain circumstances. The only time you should consider using the shot is when you have come to the net, but your opponent hits a lob over your head. When running back, you may realize you have no chance of running past the ball, turning around, and hitting it normally, in which case you plan the tweener.


If you do have a chance to run past the ball and hit it as a groundstroke, you certainly should do so. Taking the time to look at the court before hitting it is much better than gambling to hit the ball with your back to the court.;
, If you are devoted to hitting a tweener, run as fast as you can over to the ball. If you are a rightie, run slightly to the right of the ball. If you are a leftie, run slightly to the left.
 If you are not familiar with this grip, hold the racket with a Continental grip (serves, volleys), and then move your hand less than 90 degrees counter-clockwise for righties, clockwise for lefties, looking from the top of the racket. It may feel strange, but other grips will induce too much spin or not provide enough lift to clear the net. It should look as if you are going to shovel up the ball.
 By the time you reach the ball, (for righties), you should still be to the right of the ball with your right leg on the ground while your left leg is rising. (Opposite for lefties). Begin to lift your racket. You should reach the ball when it is about knee level.
 This should push you to the left (right for lefties) enough to be once again centered with the ball, and forward enough so that the ball is almost behind you. The ball should also be dropping past your knees. Begin to swing.
 Getting your swing right will be the most difficult part of the tweener. When you are still striding with your left (right for lefties) leg, your legs should be far enough apart to swing your racket down and flick your wrist at a neutral forehand speed and catch the ball almost below shin level and just slightly behind you. Thanks to your grip, you should have an open face when hitting the ball, lobbing it up above the net.
 If your shot makes it over, you may still have to fight, so put your racket up and assess the situation as fast as you can

, It's all about adjustments and seeing what works best for you. Try tossing the ball in the air lightly a few feet in front of you and trying to get just the motion right. Then try tossing the ball higher and farther away. When you feel more or less comfortable with that, try hitting the ball high with your racket and hitting a tweener with it.
 If nothing seems to work, pick out any way you could possible fix your execution or setup.
 If you hit the ball with the lower part of your racket (higher part when it is behind you), the ball will not travel far enough and you may tend to hit the ball with your frame.
 It may seem unimportant, but the direction of your body is critical to the direction of your shot.
 If you are hitting it well, but the ball goes in the wrong direction, try adjusting your grip or ever changing your entire body direction when you are running into the ball.
 You may have to bend over a bit and/or extend your arm all the way to really get under the ball. The most common mistake aside from completely missing the ball is hitting the ball flat, which just sends it straight into the net or the ground.
 If you are consistently missing the ball completely (you may think that it isn't possible, but it happens a lot), adjust where you swing or the way you step through the ball.

