 If you have ADHD, organizing is difficult. This spans from keeping a tidy desk to keeping track of tasks that need to be completed. It helps to plan ahead of time so that you know what tasks you will be doing today and write it down. Three helpful tips for staying on track for the day are:Make decisions in a reasonable time. This might even mean setting a timer.
Keep your to-do lists short. Once you finish all of the tasks on your list you can start another one.
Remember that your time is a finite resource. Do not try to take on every project or responsibility that is offered to you.;
, Task initiation is another executive function that is affected by ADHD. This means that it is difficult to get started doing ― well anything. Some find it helpful to start with easy tasks to build “flow” and then tackle harder tasks. Alternatively, some people with ADHD find it easier to tackle the hard task first, when you have the most available attention span. You should explore both methods and see what works for you.For example, if you find it easier to tackle small tasks first, then try answering some emails or taking care of some quick paperwork. If you find it easier to tackle big tasks first, then start your day by putting in some work in on a major project or upcoming presentation.
 Everyone has had the experience of starting a project and being so consumed that it takes twice as long as you expected. If you have ADHD this can easily be every project if you aren’t careful. Avoid getting too caught up in the details and allot yourself a specific amount of time to do each task for a day ahead of time.You might also underestimate the amount of time that it will take to do a task, so allot yourself more time than you think you’ll need. This way the goals you set will be attainable. For example, if you think you will need about an hour to complete a task set aside an hour and a half.
 Ironically, you may find it hard not only to start a task, but also to finish one. Once a task is too mundane or too difficult, you quickly lose interest and move on to a more entertaining task. Do not fall into this trap as it leaves you with several “loose ends” and nothing actually completed at the end of the day.One good way to complete boring tasks, such as folding clothes, is to have a “body-double.” This is another person who is doing some other task alongside you, but not talking to you or distracting you. The fact that they are working diligently will help keep you focused., With words like “attention deficit” in the name, it is easy to see that you might be distracted easily. Turn your email notifications off and check it at designated times and put away your phone if possible. You should also consider using noise cancelling headphones or another means of “tuning out” the outside world. This will help you avoid being drawn to every little noise or source of possible entertainment., Exercise is a great way to burn energy and to release endorphins that make your brain “happy.” This will help you concentrate when you need to. It is also a good idea to move to an empty conference room or other private space in the office so that you can stand up and move around the room a bit while you work.