 For optimal grilling, each filet should be at least 1 inch (2.54 cm) thick. Look for fillets that have brightly colored skin, clear eyes, clean gills, and very little "fishy" odor. If you are purchasing filet, make sure there is no excess water in the packaging. Press against the flesh of the filet--it should be firm and spring back quickly.When selecting tilapia filets, the easiest indicator of freshness is the smell. Most seafood has a scent that should remind you of the sea. There is a difference between the sea smell that is fresh and fishy, and the bad fish smell that is musky and overly-fishy. Avoid the latter.
If fresh tilapia is unavailable in your area, frozen filets will work fine. Frozen tilapia should also be odorless and packaged in a moisture-proof container. If the filets show any white or dark spotting, they were not packaged properly and should be avoided. The same is true for dry or icy spots.;
, Only refrigerate your tilapia if you are using them in the next one to two days. If you must wait longer, the filets should be frozen at a temperature of 0 degrees Fahrenheit (-18 degrees Celsius).


If you choose to freeze your tilapia, or buy pre-frozen fish, make sure to thaw your tilapia filets in a refrigerator for a minimum of 24 hours before grilling. Doing this will promote a fresher taste and texture.
 Wash the fish in in cold water. Using warm or hot water could promote bacterial growth and make you sick. Pat the fish dry with a clean paper towel before seasoning.
 Apply a light amount of olive oil on both sides of each filet just before cooking. Season the filets according to the recipe of your choice. For a fresh, healthy way to eat tilapia, apply olive oil and then sprinkle the fish with salt and pepper. Other common seasoning combinations for tilapia include:


Lemon and garlic: Mix lemon juice with melted butter or olive oil. Add fresh or powdered garlic to the mixture, along with salt and pepper (season to taste.) Apply the mixture to both sides of the fish.
Soy sauce and Chinese five-spice powder: Dust both sides of the fish with the five-spice powder. In a separate bowl, combine equal amounts of soy sauce and brown sugar. Marinate the fish in the mixture.
Cumin, garlic, and lime: Blend cumin, garlic, and lime in a bowl. If you want to add a zing to your fish, add some chili powder.

