 Organize small and large birthday parties, anniversaries, school events and community events. You should have a passion for planning functions if you are going to work in event planning.;
, Whether you are inspired by planning your own wedding or enjoy attending weddings, you have to be ready to "think wedding" most days of the year. Decide if you can immerse yourself in all aspects of a wedding from formal wear to catering to stationary and everything in between.
 Search for certificate or associate's degree programs in your area. You may be able to attend an intensive course or conference specifically in wedding planning.


Education is not necessary to become an event planner. Most people earn clients by showing their portfolio of past events. However, it may be valuable to show a prospective employer that you have received formal training in wedding and event planning.
 This need not be on a wedding event, necessarily. However, at least 1 year of experience in event coordinator will make you eligible for most wedding planner assistant jobs.
 Doing a job shadow is helpful for 2 reasons: you can get an up-close view of the daily work involved and you can develop contacts in the industry. Choose 1 of the avenues to find a job shadow opportunity.


Ask a wedding planner that you know if you can job shadow them for a day or a week. If you have some open time in your schedule, you may request an unpaid or low-paid internship for a few months in order to learn the ropes.
Look in the phone book for local wedding planners. Although you may feel uncomfortable calling someone you don't know and asking to shadow them, you will develop contacts in the industry by doing so. Ask if they take on interns as well.
Post an ad on Craigslist requesting an internship. If possible, take more than 1 internship to gain more contacts in the industry. Getting a job with a wedding planner is often easier by word of mouth than by job posting.
Go to a mentor site, like PivotPlanet. This job search site allows you to sign up to speak with a wedding planner by web conference. You can set a number of dates to check in and ask questions about jobs, the industry and tips on getting started.

