,, If you feel the speakers in the video are progressing fast, this is a big improvement. However, it is always a good practice to include transcripts of videos that employ conversational or commentary elements heavily.
, For example, if the video is speaking about the solar system, most likely the terms "light year, planet, sun, moon (as a celestial body), galaxy ... etc will be mentioned. Adding Wikipedia events for the pages of these terms might be a great informational addition to your video.
 Seeing what others are tweeting about a certain topic at the moment, in real time, might be very useful to viewers.
 The following are some suggestions of what you might do (thus, all are optional)


Add pictures of the people mentioned that appear, for example, at the corner of the video when their names are mentioned for the first time in the video.
Add Wikipedia events when the names are mentioned to the Wikipedia article talking about the celebrity or public figure.
Add a Twitter event with the name of the celebrities as the search term. You can add multiple Twitter events, one for each personality, and manage it so that only one of them appears at a time in the video.
Add popup or text events with links to the personalities' websites whenever they appear or are mentioned.
Add a brief description about each personality when it is mentioned

, Examples include:


Traveling and tourism videos: add maps to the mentioned countries, places and landmarks. Also create travel paths and add them.
Places where public figures have their main spot of influence (the state a congress senator is representing, the village where a celebrity was raised, etc)
A map of the areas mentioned in a newscast.
 For example, you can add text and popup events in top layers and add other more active elements in lower layers to add text to the components. For example a newscast reporting an accident might use a map of the general are of the accident, with text on top of it describing how the accident took place. It might even include a link to the website article about the accident in the news caster's blog!

