 Measure 1/2 cup (100 g) of pearl barley into a small saucepan. Pour in 1 1/2 cups (355 ml) of the reduced-sodium chicken or mushroom broth and turn the heat to high, so the liquid boils. Turn the heat to low and put the lid on the pot. Simmer the barley for 30 to 35 minutes.The pearl barley should become tender and the liquid should cook out.
 Boil 2 cups (473 ml) of water to boil and pour it into a bowl with 1 ounce (28 g) of dried porcini mushrooms. Let the mushrooms soak for about 20 minutes, so they become soft. To drain the mushrooms, set a mesh strainer over a bowl and lay paper towels in the strainer. Pour the softened mushrooms into the strainer, so the liquid strains into the bowl.You'll want to keep the liquid and add it to the soup later.
 Melt 2 teaspoons of butter with 1 tablespoon of extra-virgin olive oil in a Dutch oven or soup pot. Turn the heat to medium-high and mince 4 medium shallots. You should get 1 cup of minced shallots. Add the shallots and saute them for 2 minutes. Stir in 8 cups (20 ounces or 600 g) of sliced white mushrooms. Continue sauteing the mushrooms and shallots for 8 to 10 minutes.The mushrooms will release liquid and then begin to turn brown.
 While the sliced mushrooms and shallot are sauteing, you can finely chop the softened porcini mushrooms. You'll also need to finely chop 2 stalks of celery. Add the porcini mushrooms, celery, 1 tablespoon of minced fresh sage, 1/2 teaspoon of salt, and 1/2 teaspoon of freshly ground pepper to the soup pot. Continue to cook the soup over medium-high heat.If you don't have fresh sage, you can use 1 teaspoon of dried sage.
 Stir 2 tablespoons of all-purpose flour into the vegetable mixture and cook it for 1 minute. The flour should coat the vegetables. Slowly stir in 1 cup (236 ml) of dry sherry.Most of the sherry will cook off quickly and the remaining liquid in the pot will be thick.
 Pour in the soaking liquid that you saved and add the rest of the broth (3 cups or 709 ml). Turn the heat up to high, so the soup begins to bubble vigorously. Turn the heat back down to medium, so it bubbles gently. Simmer the soup with the lid off for 15 to 20 minutes.You'll need to stir the soup occasionally to keep it from sticking.
The soup should become thick.
 Add the cooked barley to the soup pot and let the mushroom barley soup cook for another 5 minutes. Turn off the heat and stir in ½ cup (115 g) of reduced-fat sour cream. You can top the soup with ¼ cup (10 g) of minced fresh chives right before you serve it.Avoid cooking the soup after you've added the sour cream. The sour cream could separate.

