 The more cats, the more people that will come.;
, Include details and pictures in them to attract people.
 Make small signs that might attract people. Create notes that people can take to be informed about updates.
 About 7 would be good. There needs to be a person at the cash register, people finding stray cats, and if you'd like, people could be passing out updates and news along the streets., Buy cat supplies as well for the customers to take too. Make sure there is an appropriate amount of space for your cats and supplies., For example, Saturdays and Sundays only or from 2:00 PM to 4:00 PM every day. Put a sign up that states whatever time you are going to start and end. Make sure the whole group has time for it and agrees on it.

Try doing it at a time when people are most active so more people will come.
 Make sure they aren't rabid or have any diseases. Trap them in safe traps and put them in a carrier to take to a vet. After a checkup, give the cat a bath or parasite medication in case they have fleas, worms, etc.


Help each cat to be healthy before giving them away or selling them. That's what a pet rescue is about, after all. That way, more animals won't get sick from the cat, and people will want to buy it.
 Then the city animal control would pick up the animal to be euthanized.


Ask about free and reduced cost services - there are vets in the USA who specialize in vaccinating, neutering and spaying at a reduced price in a program supported by grants and donations. And, then only in the case that a cat is brought there in a safe trap early (about 7:00AM), it will be vaccinated and spayed or neutered free of charge (or for a small fee) and must be picked up between 3:00-3:30PM. But, if they are not picked up on time there is a fee - and if they not picked up by a set deadline, then they will be turned over to an animal shelter (adopted-out or euthanized according to their rules).
 Make sure the price isn't to low or too high. Put a price tag onto each cat's carrier or cage., Be proud of yourself for the hard work you've done.