 Look around for apartments or small houses that you can afford.


Get an adult's help. You can enlist the help of a real estate agent.;
, Now that you're living alone, the expenses are all on you. Find someone, like a parent or grandparent, to help you financially if you get in a money rut and can't pay the bills.
 They can move into your new place when you do, or they can live somewhere else and just move in if the expenses need to be split. They can also be someone to move in if you are too lonely with no one there.
 Put a half of your money in the bank account and keep the rest in your wallet. Most banks will let you get a checking and savings account in one.


When you feel you are settled and ready, try getting one credit card. Don't rush on this, though.
 For now, try a small job, like at a store. Try being a cashier at a grocery store, mall-type store. Anywhere you see "Workers Wanted" for a job you think you can handle, go for it.


Don't forget a resume. There are some sites online that will help you write yours.
 Make sure that, when you estimate the prices you'll pay, you make everything seem a bit more expensive than it is. Ask your parents for estimates of the prices of essentials such as utility, insurance, and your house.


Make sure to include the shopping you'll do, too.
Make sure you can pay for everything. If you can't, ask parents for financial help so you can get started.
 Get your parents' help with money for your first haul of items for your house. Here are some things to buy:


A bed
Bedding
A couch
Shelves
A TV
A TV stand
A table and chairs
Real and plastic dishes, such as cups and utensils, two pots, two pans, and two cookie sheets, a microwave
A stove with an oven
A fridge with a freezer
A toaster or toaster oven
A coffee maker (if you drink coffee)
Lamps
Tools
Toiletries (toothbrush, toothpaste, soap, shampoo, etc.)
Towels
Washcloths
At least one landline phone (to be set up later), a mattress, lightbulbs, batteries, extension cords, blinds or shades, smoke detector, carbon monoxide detector, a fire extinguisher, other hardware, a first aid kit, paper towels, tissues, toilet paper.
A computer, a printer/copier/scanner/fax machine, a Wifi router (if the home doesn't have one), and decorations like art figures or posters.
Go to the grocery store and purchase essential food items that don't need refrigeration.
While you still have a lot of money, go to a store that offers a large array of gift cards and snatch them up now. This will help a great deal, later on in your life alone.
 It is important to have rules for yourself, so that you can keep your living place in good condition and help the environment. They can include:


Turn down the heat when you're not home
Turn unused lights off
Use water sparingly
Only go shopping when necessary

, Sign up for things like cable, plumbing, heating, air conditioning, and power. Call each company to make sure that the utilities are turned on the day you move in.


Make sure you don't sign up for provided utilities. In apartments and houses with landlords, certain utilities will be provided.
This is also a good time to set up any landline phones, as well as getting a new cellphone plan, if necessary.
, This only applies if the home needs renovation. It's best to do it now, before you move there. You can hire someone, or just call some friends and family over to help you do the job yourself.
 Install them now, when that sort of work is being done. You can also bring in shelves, beds, and such and put them in their place at this time.
 You will need boxes, tape, markers, bubble wrap, food such as peanuts, and other essentials. Pack everything into boxes, but don't tape until the day before.


You may need to get into the boxes. Label every box with exactly what is inside. For example, if a box has books in it, write the word '"BOOKS"' in big letters. On another part of the box, write the title of each and every book inside.
Pack a box filled with the things you will need right away, such as paper plates, napkins, paper cups, plastic utensils, toiletries, a first aid kit, and clothes for the next day. In a box right next to it, pack non-perishable foods like cereal, crackers, and other snacks. Put these in the back of the moving truck on moving day. That way, the essentials will be right there.
For things like furniture that don't have boxes, cover them in plastic.
 They will provide a truck and workers to help you the day of the move.
 They can help you put all the boxes in the truck. Later, they will help you put the boxes in the house and unpack.
 Get your friends and family to come over and help you load everything onto the moving truck.
 This part can be just as hectic and tiresome as loading the truck, especially if you are on a floor besides the ground level.
 Ask your helpers where to put everything.
 This time, get all of the perishable food. See if your helpers will lend you some money for the first haul, since you have nothing.


Go and get: fruits, meat and fish, vegetables, milk, butter, eggs, cheese, deli food, frozen meals (dinners, waffles/pancakes, etc), cold deserts, condiments, spreads, sauces, dips, yogurt, cream, and anything else that needs to be refrigerated.
 Put all of the items you bought in your fridge now so they don't spoil.
 Get your helpers to help you with this too. Scrub, dust, vacuum, mop, etc until the house sparkles. You want to get a clean start in your new home.
 Your house is finally ready. Spend as much time as you want saying "goodbye". This is your house, and you aren't living with family anymore. You're on your own now, so cherish each member of your helping group. Soon, you'll understand what they go through to live their lives.

