 Maybe you aren't in the mood to straighten up your house, but you want to do something a little more fun. Start by looking around your home and seeing what decorations you could add to the walls. You can also be inspired by going online and searching for do-it-yourself craft projects. Try to find a project that uses things you have lying around the house so you won't have to travel to the store and spend money.


Learn to finger knit.
Sew a blanket, a dress, or make some new pillows for your bed or couch.
Make photo coasters, Scrabble coasters, or map coasters for your home.
Design and create your own jewelry.
Create some homemade candles to freshen up your home.
Design and make cute magnets for your fridge.
Craft a wreath for your front door.
Start on your Halloween costume.
Make some Christmas ornaments or decorations for the upcoming holiday season.;
, Experiment with baking or cooking by finding a new recipe online, or one that you've been wanting to try from your favorite cookbook, and spend part of the day making the food. If you are by yourself and the recipe makes a lot, consider halving it, or bringing the leftovers to your neighbors.


Bake homemade chocolate chip, sugar, or peanut butter cookies.
Make a cake and decorate it beautifully.
Prepare freezer meals for the week.
Make candies like caramel, toffee, or rock candy.
 When you have a lot of time on your hands it's a great time to pick up the writing project you have been wanting to start. Maybe you could start a blog about your favorite topic, or you could start a journal letting it be an outlet for emotions or thoughts that you've been feeling. You could also take this time to write a short story or begin a novel.
 Find an image online that you would like to replicate on a canvas or paint a still life. If you aren't an expert painter it could be good to start with something simple and work your way up to something more advanced. You can also watch online painting tutorials that instruct people how to paint certain scenes.


You can also try out different styles like water colors, acrylics, oils, pastels, etc. It could be fun to pick your favorite painting and try to copy it yourself.
 Pick some of your favorite pictures and have them printed out, and then create a scrapbook with them. You can create a digital scrapbook online, or you can take scrapbook paper or construction paper, put it in a binder, or make it into a book. Then, cut out your pictures and glue them onto the paper, adding any text or embellishments on the pages to go along with the pictures.
 Gardening can be a fun skill to have because you can grow your own fruits, vegetables, herbs, or spices. If you already have a garden, take this time to tend to your garden, removing any weeds, watering your plants, and adding any new plants that you want to your garden. If you want to start a new garden, first decide what plants you want to grow and then choose an area of your yard you think would be best.


When choosing plants, it's helpful to look up what grows best in the area where you live. Some plants grow better in dry, arid climates or in lots of sunlight, while others may grow better in shaded, more humid areas.
Do research on the type of soil and tools you'll need and pick them up at your local gardening or hardware store. Then, start your garden by preparing the land, adding the soil, and then planting your new plants!

