 Fluctuating hormones have an impact on your body and mind. These may lead to symptoms such as slowed metabolism, mood changes, and thinning hair.The following nutrients present in autumn foods can ease menopause symptoms:Calcium, to maintain strong bones
Vitamin D, to aid calcium absorption
Magnesium, to boost your mood and maintain your blood sugarVitamins A, C, and E, to slow down the aging process as well as maintain heat regulation and vaginal lubrication
B-vitamins, to maintain a healthy mood and balance blood sugar
Zinc, iron, and copper to maintain a healthy immune system;
, Autumn is a bountiful time for fruits. It provides a harvest of vitamin- and nutrient-rich choices such as apples and grapes. You can incorporate fruits into any meal of your day and this may ease menopause symptoms such as hot flashes.Choose a wide variety of the following fresh, frozen, or dried autumn fruits to your menopause-friendly diet:Apples and pears
Pomegranates
Grapefruit and tangerine
Dates
Kiwi

, Fall presents a unique time to reap an assortment of vegetables high in vitamins A, C, and E. In addition, they provide a range of the B vitamins and iron. All of these can reduce cell damage and ease your symptoms of menopause.Choose different fall vegetables at most meals to get the most benefits for your body during menopause. These might include:Brussels sprouts
Root vegetables such as parsnips, rutabaga, and turnips
Cauliflower
Squashes such as winter, delicata, acorn, and pumpkin
Sweet potatoes
Swiss chard

, Some foods contain plant estrogens, or phytoestrogens. Eating these natural estrogens may help relieve you of your menopause symptoms.Up your phytoestrogens with these menopause friendly autumn foods:Dried dates
Winter squash
Broccoli
YamsApples

, Menopause can speed up bone loss. Calcium-rich foods can help decrease bone loss, especially if you are not on hormone replacement therapy. Many women will reach to dairy products for calcium, but there are many autumn-friendly foods that provide this key nutrient.You can increase your calcium intake by selecting a variety of the following fall foods:Bok choy
BroccoliSweet potato

, Fall mornings are often chilly. This is the perfect opportunity to use some menopause friendly autumn fruits to start your day off warm and cozy. You can choose to eat fruits, vegetables and calcium alone, or incorporate them with other foods. Some examples of menopause friendly autumn breakfasts include:


Oatmeal with warmed skin-on apples, pumpkin, cinnamon, and pecansWhole grain cereal with kiwi and pomegranate
Omelet with squash, Swiss chard and goat cheese, Your midday meal is also a great time to eat autumn foods that can ease your menopause. From soups to salad and sandwiches, there are an infinite ways to incorporate lots of menopause friendly fall foods.Make savory soups from autumn vegetables. Not only are they menopause friendly, but can also offer you warmth and comfort as the temperatures begin to dip. Some soups you could try are: butternut squash with chili and crème fraîche and Thai pumpkin soup. Other hearty options include: chicken soup with squash and bok choy as well as cauliflower-cashew soup with crispy buckwheat.Toss a salad together made of fall foods that are menopause friendly. You could mix kale with roasted root vegetables and a pomegranate balsamic dressing or throw some greens into a blend spiced pumpkin with lentil and goat cheese.Another option is a fennel, celery and pomegranate salad.
 The sun sets ever earlier in the fall, causing temperatures to dip. These conditions often call for savory and hearty meals that warm you and provide comfort. But you can also use the meal to get even more menopause friendly autumn foods in your diet. From stews to roasted vegetables, you can load up your dinner with lots of healthy choices.Pumpkin risotto
Roasted autumn veggie medley including parsnips, turnips, squash, and beets
Pierogies with sausage, cabbage, and pearBeef and pineapple tacos
Lemon rosemary chicken with broccoli
Squash pizza
Squash and sage lasagna, You don’t have to leave your menopause friendly fall foods just for main meals. Making a dessert that incorporate fall foods may further ease your menopause symptoms. Some options you might try include:Anjou pear cake
Pear or apple crumble
Apple and pear galette with walnutsRutabaga and pear hand pies
Butternut squash muffins with frostingPumpkin pie

