 Make your seat selection as soon as possible; an aisle seat is the most popular but you might find that a window seat is more suitable for sleeping. Many airlines with online booking will show the seat arrangements of different planes and will allow you to book them in advance.


Many airlines offer "economy plus" seats. They are often a relatively inexpensive add-on. Although they may only offer an extra 6 inches (15.2 cm) or so, for a long flight, it can make a difference.
If you want to stretch out and relax, you may want to avoid emergency rows or the front or back row because some seats on rows before an emergency row do not recline. Remember, if you are seated in an exit row, you must be willing and physically able to assist in an emergency. This is mandated by federal and international laws. This means that if you're traveling with children, you won't be able to use these seats.
If you have an overactive bladder, choose the first row before the bulkhead doors since it easy to get in and out and close to the lavatories. Also, please, for your sake and the sake of the people sharing your row, choose an aisle seat. Nobody likes to be climbed over so someone else can go to the bathroom.
When booking connections, take care with short connection times. Give yourself plenty of time to connect with flights, especially in larger airports where you have to catch internal transport to get to another part of the airport. Never underestimate how long this will take you, or you might miss your connection.
Also anticipate delays when you're booking. Trying to catch the last flight out can often leave you stranded overnight at the layover airport.;
, Arriving early will ensure that you make your flight and that you're not delayed by long queues or prevented from boarding by gate or baggage closures. Many airports are interesting enough places to roam around and pass time in, or you can take the opportunity to catch up on some reading while enjoying some food and beverages.


Expect airport prices. The cost of running stores and food outlets is higher in airports and that cost is passed on to you. It's not like you're there every day, so accept this reality for what it is.
Go through security at a good pace so that you don't feel rushed and flustered by the procedures. Security checks can upset some passengers due to long waits in line, having to undo all belongings, and remove articles of clothing, etc. Knowing that you have plenty of time to do this will ease your sense of panic and frustration.
Don't be afraid to let security attendants know if you're feeling faint or ill. They can assist you and would prefer your honesty over a mouthful of angry invective when you can't take a moment more of waiting or feeling crowded in.
 The security measures can try even the most patient travelers at times but understanding what's involved can minimize the stress. Don't make assumptions and don't assume your traveler friend has the right advice. If in doubt after reading the airline's or government websites (for example, the TSA website in the USA), call and ask any questions you have. If you have a special need, call ahead and let them know; it's always better to deal with it beforehand than in the airport when your plane is boarding.


Remember that rules may vary between different airlines or the policy may have changed since you last traveled.
Everyone knows the mantra about not joking about bombs or terrorism at the airport. Just don't. There are plenty of more amusing ways to use humor to defuse the tension without resorting to bomb jokes.
Read Know what you can and can't carry on board an aircraft for more details.
Read Prepare for a TSA body scan or pat down if you're traveling in the United States.
 Airlines are becoming more bare bones in what they provide you as a matter of competitiveness and price reductions and this can leave you feeling the flight is more than unpleasant. Expect this in advance and pack accordingly rather than being left there raging inside about the "lack of service".


You can develop nasal congestion while in the air. When extreme, the pressure can cause eardrum rupture when changing altitude. Chewing on gum & deep slow breathing can also help with ear pressure when ascending and descending.
Bring a jacket. You can't always be guaranteed to get a blanket and if you feel cold, it may be handy. Consider wearing pants, a shirt and carrying a light jacket for traveling in the summer. Add more layers if you're traveling in the winter. Pashminas are a great option too, as they're light, warm, and give excellent coverage when seated.
Have your own inflatable pillow if you know you'll need neck support. Don't rely on the availability of on-flight pillows - these tend to be reserved for long-haul flights only and even then, there may not be enough to go around. Consider also bringing an empty pillow case - you can stuff clothing in it to make a pillow, or you can cover provided pillows if you're germ-phobic.
Carry moisturizer as your skin may be dehydrated.
Bring small amounts of change in the currency of your origin/destination to pay for food and beverages; however, note that some airlines may not accept cash and instead only accept credit/debit cards while in flight.
Pack snacks. Snacks are important for a number of reasons - if you have a special diet (vegetarians, diabetics, etc.) and they've stuffed up the order (commonplace), then you can resort to your own snacks. If there are delays, you can munch on food rather than feeling as if you're starving. And if you have kids, snacks are a lifesaver for keeping them happy. Pack some of your favorite teas and brew your own on the flight. Chamomile promotes relaxation and helps to reduce stress. They will likely offer hot water at no charge, so you may even save some money.
Bring a water bottle. Fill it with water once you have gone through security. In countries where tap water is safe, use the bathrooms or drinking fountains on the secure side of the security process. Having water will allow you to sip throughout the flight and avoid dehydration or panic when your flight attendant can't bring you water as fast as you'd like.
Pack some gum or boiled sweets if you experience ear problems. Chewing or sucking can alleviate pain. If you suffer from severe pain, speak to your doctor in advance about what to do. Ginger gum is a great choice as ginger calms queasiness and nausea. With hard boiled sweets, suck one before take-off, and one when landing.
In addition, if you're an anxious flyer, speak to your doctor well in advance of flying to obtain the necessary medications that might help ease your flight experience.
Pack some ear plugs and eye shades. These are useful for sleeping, especially if your seat is behind the jet engines. And if you're really keen, bring some noise-canceling headsets if you want to hear the movies. Also bring a sleep-mask in case you're stuck in front of the movie screen and cannot tolerate the bright lights.
Consider bringing pain relief tablets if you're susceptible to headaches or digestive problems. Pack a few pain relievers, some sinus pills and a few Pepto-Bismol caplets at the very least. These can be stashed in your carry on or briefcase. When you need it, you really need it. A small headache can make a bad situation worse.
Bring things to do. Delays happen and if you're prepared, you can make the most of the time rather than fuming stuck inside a metal can. Bring reading material, crafts, puzzles, work, pen and paper, etc. to while away the time. Bring more than one thing to kill time and keep your mind occupied. Consider a mix of music, knitting (knitting needles are allowed but be careful about little scissors to cut your yarn with. They may be taken at security depending on the mood of the agent) or lap crafts, art, magazines, books or journaling. Music is also another excellent option to take your mind off flying and delays, as well as providing you an excuse to check out mentally if you're feeling unhappy with your fellow passengers behavior or noise. Be sure to charge it fully before traveling.
Bring your own treats. Unless you're in business or first class, the days of extra goodies are thin on the ground. Pamper yourself by buying some goodies "to be opened on the plane only". Puzzles, chocolate, new MP3 player, fuzzy warm socks, etc. are all nice treat ideas.
But don't over-pack your carry-on! One of the biggest delays - and irritations - in traveling is finding there's no room for your bag in the overhead bin. In these days of checked-luggage fees there's an incentive to overstuff and oversize carry-ons; but ask yourself if the hassle is worth saving $20 on a $500 flight. Besides, if you leave some space in your carry-ons, you have room to bring home souvenirs.
 Do what you can within reason, and while still being considerate of fellow passengers, to make yourself comfortable.


Loosen your shoes since your feet will swell due to the lower cabin pressure (approx 2700m ASL).
Have your reading materials and activities easily accessible, either in the pocket in front of you, or under the seat at your feet.
 Flying with kids is an art form that requires fantastic skills of organization, incredible forbearance at the varying levels of rudeness of fellow passengers, and the patience only a parent can muster to keep kids entertained and happy. Flying with kids is a topic in its own right but some things you can do to make the flight more tolerable include:


Have them use the bathroom before boarding if possible. Sure, they'll still need to go but you can at least buy a little time before they ask to go again.
Deal with health issues in advance. Explain to the kids that ear-popping can happen and that if it hurts, to let you know straight away. Talk to your doctor if there are known ear issues concerning your children to get advice and possible medication. Be aware that a fear of flying can take hold of a child who has to fly when his or her ears or head are clogged by sinus or ear infections. And a child who looks ill will require you to carry a medical certificate stating that he or she can fly without being contagious; for example, obvious signs of chicken pox. You can show the doctor's note to airline staff to reassure everyone.
Talk to them beforehand about how to behave on the flight. Ask them to think about other people on the flight and to understand that it's a small place for a lot of people to be seated together. Explain that yelling, bouncing, jumping, and running about are things that can upset other people and make them grumpy.
Involve them in making plans for the flight. If you can turn this into an adventurous time filled with puzzles, reading, game-playing, and imaginative pursuits, they'll be very excited and distracted for most of the flight. Try to match some of the games with things that relate to the plane travel itself, such as cloud-spotting, plane features or specs, and calculating distances traveled, etc. And bring paper, drawing things, and coloring books. Older kids can bring their electronic devices, pre-charged.
Have snacks ready. You or they may not like what is offered on the flight. And you can dole out snacks as they are needed rather than having to wait for the flight attendant. Bring sippy cups or bottles if needed. Verify with the airline what restrictions they have for bringing containers or jars of baby food and formula for smaller children. Call or research this several days before you leave so you have time to find suitable replacements. Each airline and country may have differing policies so investigate before you make plans that must be changed.
 Flying is not always going to be as breezy as the air the plane travels in. Confining a lot of people into a small space who carry their own emotional issues or exhaustion, reasons for flying, and worries about getting somewhere on time provides the backdrop for at least a few negative encounters. There are ways to deal with this, but the main one is to accept that flying can be trying, especially so when it's during busy times (such as holiday seasons), when it's long haul, and when there are a lot of people both in the airport and on the plane. This isn't even mentioning the many people who manage to just make the plane in time, or who are struggling with kids in tow.


Keep your sense of perspective. A lot of your fellow travelers are tired, as may you be too. And tired people are never as polite to one another as they'd be when they've had enough rest.
Remember that many, if not most, of your fellow travelers just want to be left alone to read, sleep, work, meditate, stare out the window, or whatever. Privacy is scarce on flights; just because you feel the urge to talk, doesn't mean your seatmate does.
Complaining about things that are out of your control might feel good initially but it does little to change them. And people sitting near someone complaining tend to feel a sense of increasing outrage proportionate to the amount of complaining; after all, it's bad enough knowing that a plane is delayed on the tarmac without having some wise guy confirming it as if he or she is deserving of royal treatment over everyone else sitting there patiently. Remember too that employees are finding it as frustrating as you; their schedules also get mucked around.
Babies cry and toddlers wriggle and cry. And their parents have perfectly legitimate reasons for traveling with their babies and toddlers, just as you have a perfectly legitimate reason for traveling too. Take earplugs or an MP3 player; being proactive is a lot better than being bothered.
Teenagers are exuberant. Again, that's life. You were probably that excited about flying once too. Either seek to engage them in conversation about how amazing their taste in baggage is, or stick your MP3 player on and grin at them.
Sometimes people eat things next to you that can freak you out. This calls for "operation odor cover". Always bring along a refresher towelette that is delightfully scented. Remove it from its packet and hold it against your nose until the offending smell has gone. Or get up and go for a walk around the plane, or shift to a spare seat. Find constructive ways out - even going to the bathroom and wetting some tissues with the soap and holding that against your nose is better than nothing!

, Pack enough in your carry-on to get you through a delay or your plane sitting on the ground. If the weather is bad, pick up some snacks in the airport and have them handy in case you're stuck on the tarmac for hours and they aren't offering food or beverage services.


Wear flat shoes. They are a lot more comfortable than high heels and choose ones that are easy to remove and slip back on. If something does go really, really wrong, and the plane crash lands, your high heels will be a liability whereas your flats can be worn safely without puncturing the emergency slide. Always look for the bright side in these things!
Avoid drinking too much alcohol on board or avoid it completely. You're responsible for your own actions, and that includes knowing when to stop imbibing. One to two glasses is more than enough at that elevation. In this way, you can avoid being a source of causing things to go wrong or being dehydrated. Instead, continuously sip fruit juices (not carbonated/aerated drinks).
Avoid smoking immediately before a long flight. Smoking causes dehydration, gives you a dry throat and enhances breathlessness.
 The more irritated you become about something, the better placed you are to deal with it. So, instead of allowing yourself to get horribly wound up about the crying baby, hop over to the harried mother and offer to walk the baby around a little, rocking it back to sleep. That really tired person who keeps using you as a pillow and drooling on you? Kindly shake them awake and point out where you saw three free seats where they can stretch out.


Even if you aren't good with kids, you can offer to give your magazine to a toddler to flip through. If you are good with kids and you see a struggling parent, you can offer to help. Offer to read a book or play a game.
Even being nice to a parent can reduce their stress levels which can be triggering the bad behavior in the children.

Smile. Smiling is contagious and creates solidarity between you and anyone seeking to help you. When things go wrong on board, wear a grin as it's getting sorted out. It ensures that flight attendants will perceive you as approachable and likeable. And if you're really lucky, you'll be rewarded with something like a bottle of wine for your forbearance.
 You won't be in the best mood if you're ill and the flight could make you feel worse. The chicken pox, mono, common cold and flu are contagious and you could contaminate other passengers. Remember that some sicknesses could cause life threatening complications to the elderly or very young.


Verify with your doctor if you could be contagious before traveling. If your doctor gives you permission to fly but you're still symptomatic, carry a medical note.
Many airlines can prevent an obviously sick person from boarding. Anthrax infection and many other lethal diseases present with flu like symptoms. Security measures could prevent a person with a cold or flu from flying.
Even if you are allowed on the first leg of the flight you could be stopped at a layover airport when you change planes. The objective of the airline is to protect the other passengers even if it means denying your access. Being stuck in an airport when you are sick with no way to get home will certainly ruin your trip.

