 Patellar luxation varies in severity, from grade 1 (mild) to grade 4 (severe). Your vet will determine the grade of your Shih Tzu’s patellar luxation at the time of diagnosis. Grade 2 or higher luxation frequently requires surgical correction.In some cases, though, dogs with grade 2 or even grade 3 luxation may do just fine without surgery.Unless your Shih Tzu has severe patellar luxation that is causing pain and discomfort, deciding whether to perform surgery may not be clear cut. Talk with your vet to make the decision.;
, Several surgical treatments are available for patellar luxation. They each correct a structural problem contributing to the luxation. For example, if the patellar groove has become shallow, there is a procedure that can deepen it. If the patella has shifted to the inside of the knee, a surgical procedure can secure the patella on the outside of the knee.The main goal of patellar luxation surgery is to secure the patella in its proper position and prevent it from luxating again.To determine which surgery your Shih Tzu will need based, your vet will review the results of the orthopedic exam and x-rays that they performed to make the diagnosis.
Your Shih Tzu may need a combination of procedures to correct the luxation.Whichever procedure your vet recommends, they will need your approval before moving forward with surgical treatment.
The more severe the patellar luxation, the more complex the surgical correction will be., If your Shih Tzu needs surgery, do not delay in scheduling the procedure. Mild patellar luxation can become severe if left untreated. Also, the more often the patella luxates, the more it will wear down the patellar groove, which could increase your Shih Tzu’s lameness over time. Also, your Shih Tzu could develop early arthritis, which could lead to a permanently swollen knee.An untreated patellar luxation can also lead to injury of the anterior cruciate ligament, a structure that crisscrosses in the knee joint to connect the thigh bone and tibia (a bone in the lower leg).The earlier your vet performs the surgery, the better.
 After surgery, your vet will give you instructions on caring for your Shih Tzu at home. For example, you will need to limit your Shih Tzu’s physical activity for 2‒3 months after surgery.This may not be easy if your Shih Tzu is normally active and playful. Ideas for limiting physical activity are as follows:Do not allow your Shih Tzu to play with children or other pets.
Keep your Shih Tzu off of slippery floors, such as hardwood floor or tiles.
Put your Shih Tzu on a leash when you take it outside to go to the bathroom.
 Check your Shih Tzu’s incision site once a day for signs of infection (e.g., swelling, yellow liquid discharge).If the incision looks infected, take your Shih Tzu to your vet for treatment. An infected incision would need antibiotic treatment.


To ensure your Shih Tzu doesn't bother the incision, your vet will put an Elizabethan collar (e-collar) around your dog’s neck.This collar looks like a large plastic cone. Your Shih Tzu would need to wear it for at least a few days following surgery.
If your Shih Tzu doesn't wear the e-collar, it could scratch at the incision and break the skin, leading to a potential infection.
 Your Shih Tzu will probably be in some pain after surgery. Your vet will prescribe an oral anti-inflammatory medicine to reduce the pain.If your Shih Tzu doesn’t like taking pills, try hiding the pill in your dog’s food at mealtime or placing it in a small, chewy treat.


Follow the prescription instructions carefully. Even if your Shih Tzu doesn’t seem to be in pain, do not stop giving it the pain medication until your vet tells you to do so.
 Physical therapy is another important aspect of at-home care after surgery. If your Shih Tzu is not putting weight on its surgically-repaired knee after about a week, your vet will recommend various physical therapy exercises for you to perform on your dog. These exercises will increase the range of motion of the affected knee., Several weeks after surgery, your vet will want to see your Shih Tzu to re-examine its knee.During the follow up visit, your vet may want to take x-rays to get a close look at the patella and other leg bones.


If your vet inserted any implants during surgery, they will want to check the placement of the implants on an x-ray. Fortunately, it is very rare for implants to move or break following patellar luxation surgery., If your Shih Tzu does not need surgical correction of the patellar luxation, your vet will recommend non-surgical treatment strategies, such as anti-inflammatory medication.Even if your Shih Tzu’s knee is not painful, the luxation could still cause inflammation of the knee joint. This inflammation could get increasingly worse and eventually cause pain and discomfort in the knee.


Anti-inflammatory medications can cause digestive upset when given long term. They should not be given continually for the duration of a dog’s life.
 Chondroitin and glucosamine are substances that support joint health. Glucosamine repairs joint cartilage and chondroitin suppresses enzymes that break down this cartilage.You can purchase chondroitin and/or glucosamine supplements online, at a pet store, or through your vet.


Talk with your vet before adding any supplement to your Shih Tzu’s diet.
 Weight management is another important non-surgical treatment strategy.Keeping your Shih Tzu at a healthy weight will lessen the amount of pressure on its knees. Maintain the healthy weight by limiting treats and feeding no more than the recommended amount of commercial dog food.


Your vet can let you know your Shih Tzu’s ideal weight. If your Shih Tzu is overweight, your vet will devise a weight loss plan to help your Shih Tzu gradually lose weight.
 Since small breed dogs are so prone to patellar luxation, they should not engage in intense or rough physical activity. If your Shih Tzu has mild patellar luxation, limit its activity.For example, avoid activities like fetch that would encourage jumping. Instead of taking your Shih Tzu out for a long walk, consider taking a shorter walk around your neighborhood.


Since your Shih Tzu will not be very active, keep a close watch on its weight. It may start gaining weight because it is not burning a lot of calories through exercise.

