 Use of an available Magellan Roadmate navigation smart- or I-phone app, in some cases, is the only system you need in that case.


You receive all of the same features of the Roadmate Navigation system through the Roadmate app, without the need to carry a separate GPS unit.
The problem, however, occurs if your use of the phone frequently interrupts the GPS operation. That and other uses may be reason enough to purchase a Magellan GPS unit.;
, The Roadmate lets you know of approaching street names without the need to look at the screen.


The Magellan Roadmate family of products offers a wide choice in screen sizes ranging from the familiar 3.5-inch (8.9 cm) screen all the way to the much larger 7-inch (17.8 cm) screen. Combined with reasonable pricing and a history of reliability, this GPS system will work well for you.
They also have the Maestro series in their family arsenal that offers many of the same features as the Roadmate. It also offers Bluetooth capabilities to be synced with wireless phones. Combined with voice commands, it allows the user to make changes and calls on the go.
 Magellan offers the Explorist and Triton series, providing standard street maps with the Explorist, but also expanding with downloadable Terrain or topography maps.


The Triton series begins with a very basic GPS system offering uploadable topography maps compatible with the United States Geographic Service 1:24,000 ratio maps and the National Geographic TOPO state map series. Further features on several of the Triton series units include the ability to download the routes and maps of your recent adventures to your PC. This is ideal for the outdoorsman.
The Explorist is similar to the Maestro series in that it is more durable and offers water resistance for 30 minutes at 1 meter (3.3 feet ) in depth, and an accuracy of 3 meters (10 feet), more than the Roadmate. The Explorist, though, offers built-in street maps on some of its models, the same as the Roadmate series.
An added advantage to the Explorist comes into play if you are an off-roader and download forest roads and trails into the system. The other unique feature of the Explorist is video with sound capabilities allowing you to video geo-cache finds and adventures in the great outdoors.
There is one particular model in the Explorist family that is dedicated to the geo-cache hobbyist - the Explorist GC. The Explorist GC offers a basic unit that is designed to enhance the geo-caching experience and comes preloaded with the most popular locations.
 It all comes down to how you are going to use the Magellan Navigation system.

