 The Professional Coin Grading Service (PCGS) and Numismatic Guaranty Corporation (NGC) are third-party certification and grading services.Both of these services consistently grade, authenticate, certify, and seal (in a protective display) coins for a small fee.They grade according to industry standards and are recognized as top tier grading services.The PCGS requires you to be a member for their services. This costs between $69 and $249 depending on your membership level. Gold and platinum level members receive a few free grading vouchers with their membership.Once you are a member, you can submit coins by using their online submission center and mailing them in or by attending one of their shows and submitting coins in person.The NGC also requires membership for their services. Their membership levels range from free, which provides access to their registry but does not allow you to submit coins to them, to elite, which costs $299 and includes a discount on their services and a $150 credit.If you do not wish to become a member, you can have your coins sent into these services by an authorized dealer instead., This can be easier said than done. If you know someone else who is a collector, ask for a referral. This will help you to find someone who maintains the industry standard of ethics.Look for a dealer who is affiliated with the ANA. This will help you to find someone who is using the current standards of grading. You can do a quick search on their website to find dealers in your area.Look for a dealer who is affiliated with the PCGS or NGC.You can do a quick search on their website to find dealers in your area.This will help you to find someone who is able to send coins into these services for them to be graded.
 Getting a coin graded costs money. This is why you want to estimate its grade before getting a professional grade. If your coin isn’t worth very much, you probably don’t want to spend more on getting its grade than the coin is actually worth. But if your coin is valuable, then it is an important investment. The NGC and PCGS charge anywhere from $12 to $250+ per coin, depending on the coin’s value.
 If using a third-party service, mail the coin to be graded. Make sure you know a lot about the company before sending anything valuable to them. Protect your coin when mailing it. Place each coin individually in a 2.5” by 2.5” mylar flip. This will safely store your coin for shipping. Make sure to label each mylar flip with a sticker so that the service knows which coin is which. Pack securely and use registered and insured mail to send them. Keep the tracking information to be sure your shipment arrives safely., Depending on the service, the turnaround time can take up to a month. There are also often express options available that can grade your coin in about a week. Some services allow you to check the status of your coin online so that you can stay up-to-date on your coin’s progress., In the case that you believe your coin might be over-graded or non-authentic, most reputable grading services allow for resubmission. They will take another look at the coin and in the case that it has been misattributed, they will pay the market value of the coin at its originally assigned grade and refund the fee and postage. However, if they determine that the coin’s original grade was appropriate, you will have to pay for the fee of resubmission and will not receive any refunds., Package the coin as you would to mail it, but instead of shipping it, simply turn it in at a coin show to the service you wish to use. They will take it with them and then mail it back to you once it is graded. Be prepared to pay for return shipping and for the grading services when you hand it into them. They will likely have a form for you to fill out. Make sure to follow all of their instructions.To find a trade show, most coin grading services have a listing of these on their website. Simply take a look and see which one you would like to attend. Make sure to find one that allows on-site grading.