 Not only is it great for your physical health, but exercise can actually improve your mood. Exercising frequently can make you feel less stressed, which can lessen the likelihood of you becoming irritable. Hitting the gym is also a great way to blow off steam, if you do find yourself feeling cranky during the day.Get in a routine. Doctors recommend at least 30 minutes of moderate exercise six days a week. Try scheduling your exercise the same way you schedule other appointments. By making it a priority, you'll be more likely to make time each day for some physical activity.
Choose an activity that you like. Have you always enjoyed swimming? Find a gym or a nearby park with an indoor pool. If you choose an exercise that feels like fun for you, you'll get added mood boosting benefits.
Head outside. Being outdoors can lighten your mood and ease feelings of anxiety. Take a long walk and enjoy exploring a new neighborhood or local hiking trail.;
, The foods you eat can have a big impact on your mood. If you eat too much sugar or a lot of processed foods, you will likely experience more symptoms of mood swings, including irritability. Instead, reach for whole foods, especially lots of fruits and veggies. When your body feels better, you will likely be in a better mood.Aim for at least five servings of vegetables and two servings of fruit each day. Leafy greens such as kale have a ton of nutrients that will help your overall health.
Berries have a lot of antioxidants which have been shown to increase brain function. When your brain feels good, you're more likely to be in a good mood. Try making a smoothie each morning loaded with raspberries or blueberries.
Avoid having too much caffeine. It can make you feel jittery and cause spikes and dips in your energy levels that can leave you feeling cranky.
 There is a definite correlation between sleep and mood. You probably know that even one night of not enough sleep can cause you to feel stressed and overly emotional. To avoid these changes to your mood, try to get at least 7-8 hours of sleep per night.Get on a sleep schedule. Try to go to bed and wake up at the same time each day. This will help your body regulate its internal clock and you will sleep better. This will also help regulate your mood.
Power down the electronics before bed. Try to avoid having the tv on or checking your e-mail within an hour of bedtime. The glow from the screen can interfere with your brain's ability to shut itself off.
 While a glass of wine after work can make you feel relaxed, drinking much more than that can have adverse effects. Research shows that because alcohol lowers inhibitions, it can lead to you saying things that make you sound angry or irritable. For example, if you have several drinks, you are more likely to be very irritated that your partner forgot to do the dishes--and you won't be afraid to make your irritation known. Women should try to limit their alcohol intake to one drink per day, while men should stick to two.Be aware of how alcohol makes you feel. If you know that drinking often leads to you feeling emotional or angry, try to avoid it altogether.
Alcohol can also interfere with your sleep. Avoid drinking within 2-3 hours of your bedtime.

