 If you get high grades, you may be able to get a scholarship into any college of your choice. Even if you are not planning to go to college, a good high school report card will help you to gain a better job. Popularity is not as important as your future.;
, Complete special assignments and hand them in on time. Do extra work, get extra grades.
 If there are any classes you struggle with, use this time to get better at them. If you're bad at any particular subject, study it in depth and consider getting a tutor.
 Set goals and work hard to meet them.
 Keep it natural and easy to maintain during schooling years.


If you must wear makeup, then make sure it's neutral, you want people to respect you instead of laughing at you. If you don't want to wear makeup, then make sure your skin looks healthy, drink lots of water and use moisturizer.
 Plan your hairstyle the night before, keep your clothes washed and pressed and choose the outfit ahead of each day (unless you have to wear a uniform).
 You want teachers to respect you as well, and spending every night in detention won't help your rep.


Get a quality school bag. A shoulder bag is best, but make sure it's allowed and it looks good with the uniform.
 Pay them an honest compliment, when you talk to them. Show them you are sincere and interested in becoming friends. Do not talk about others, do not gossip, but be helpful to others if you see they need it.
 How you act in high school, is also reflected on your high school records. Remember, these records remain with you forever, and could be the difference between becoming highly successful, or failing.
 Avoid the shallow group of girls people think are really "cool". You can't trust them because they are constantly spreading rumours and trying to steal your place. Being the "Queen Bee" is not as fun as people think, and once you're one of the shallow girls there is no way out because you would have already insulted all other potential friends. So don't do it!


Don't be rude to the shallow girls. You may hate them, but they are powerful. Keep your friends close, but your enemies closer. Always be friendly, it will make people respect you, but never be too friendly with the geeks or the shallow girls, for example never spend extra time with them out of school or people will think your one of them. Tell them your busy, it will make you seem mysterious and like you have far more important things to do... even if you don't.
 People need a reason to admire you, so find something that will make you special. For example, I love acting so I always show off in class presentations and drama class. You can have any talent, just find something your good at and practice.


Enter competitions for your talent. If you win a competition then the school is likely to find out and everyone will be really impressed. Film competitions are really fun and definitely my favorite.







