 Choosing the kind of dog you get will depend on how much care you and your child can offer. Further, just because you have an older kid doesn’t mean they’re developmentally ready to help care for an animal. Consider how reliably they handle other responsibilities, like chores and homework.Have a talk with your child about what having a pet like a dog entails. Say, “Having a dog involves a lot more than playing.” Measure their awareness of those responsibilities by asking them, “What are some of the things you need to do in order to properly care for a dog?”
Think about how they’ve interacted with animals in the past. Did your family have another dog in the past? Did your child have a fish or hamster growing up, and if so, how well did they care for their pets in the past?

, Clearly define your expectations in addition to establishing the general responsibilities that dog ownership entails. Tell your child exactly how you expect them to be involved in caring for your potential new dog.Try saying, “If we choose an active dog, remember that it will need lots of exercise. We can both take it for walks: I’ll take it out in the morning, but you’ll have to walk it every evening.”
Before choosing a dog, think about your schedules, and make sure you both have the time to dedicate to a new animal. Whether you get an active breed or a lapdog, your new pet will need lots of time and energy. Make sure both you and your child know what each of your responsibilities will be.
 While it’s typically less of an issue in older kids, make sure your child knows when to wash their hands and practice good hygiene after playing with an animal. If your family has a history of allergies or eczema, consider getting allergy tests to rule out any dog allergies.If allergies are an issue, consider a dog with less dander that sheds less. Examples include the Bichon Frise, Portuguese Water Dog, Maltese, and Poodle.When you acquire your new dog, get it from a reputable breeder or shelter, and get a health exam as soon as possible in order to avoid any communicable diseases.
 Fostering can introduce you and your family to a breed, mix of breeds, or a specific dog, giving you a better idea of what will work best for your lifestyle. It will also give your child concrete examples of the responsibilities of dog ownership.Look for local shelters and call them to ask about their fostering policies. Find your local shelters by entering your zip code into the search tool on Shelter Pet Project: http://theshelterpetproject.org/.
 If you have any friends or family who own dogs, ask them if you could watch their pooch for a weekend. Think about people you know with different types of dogs. If you have the opportunity to take care of a German Shepherd one weekend and a Yorkie the next, you’ll be able to narrow down what size and activity level will best suit your child.

