 If you are there when your bird flies away, call after him using a calm but loud voice. If he realizes he is suddenly in the wild and doesn’t want to be, he will be able to immediately make his way home following the sound of your voice. Seeing his cage might inspire your bird to fly down to you right away, as this is a familiar object in a very unfamiliar world., Chances are your bird will not fly terribly far away, as birds that spend most of their times in their cages tend to not be such strong flyers. Keep your eyes on it until it is out of sight. Pay attention to how low it was flying and how tired it looked; these indicate that it may have landed just out of your line of vision.
 Ask some friends or family members to go with you, as a group of people searching for a bird will be more effective. When you get to the area where you last saw your bird, spread out and circle around the area.
 If you have another pet bird that your escaped bird gets along with, bring this bird with you in her cage. Place the cage where you can see it. The bird in the cage will most likely start calling out to you which in turn might inspire your lost bird to start calling. Listen for your escaped bird’s call., If you don’t have another pet bird, you should try to call to your escaped bird with your voice. Use words and tones that your bird knows or mimics to let him know that it is you. He might call back to you if he is in the area., Pet birds will generally not go far once they have escaped your home. Look in trees, on lawns, and in bushes. Note that during your search, your bird might see you before you see him. Sometimes, birds will get quiet when their owner is near because they feel more comfortable., Once you have located your bird, you should coax it to you. Do not try to grab your bird, no matter how excited you are to see him. You must remain calm or else you could startle your bird into flying again.
 To lure your bird into the cage, you should bring its favorite toys and treats. If the bird is particularly fond of one person, try to have them present as well. All of these items can be used to lure your bird back to you., If you have trained your bird to step up on to your index finger, call out “up.” If well trained, it should come to you on its own.
 If a hose is readily available, spray the bird with large amounts of water in a short period of time. This will make it heavy so that it cannot fly off. Grab it in a way that will secure it in your hands, without applying too much pressure; birds are delicate. If you or your friends lack experience holding a bird, try throwing a pillow case around it instead.It is important not to be too gentle with the hose. If you don’t get the bird sufficiently wet quick enough, it will only be frightened off.
Have friends scattered around to watch what direction the bird flies if it escapes. If they can find a high perch for a good view, even better.
Nighttime can be a good time to catch a bird. They often are tired. Furthermore, if you shine a high powered flashlight in their face, they might be blinded long enough for another person to grab them.
 If the bird resists capture begin by throwing a towel or a pillow case over it to prevent it from flying off. Once the bird is in your hands, you will want to secure its heads, feet, and head without pushing them into awkward positions or slowing the bird's breathing.


A towel can help you secure the bird without applying too much pressure. Covering its face will also reduce the threat that the bird will see something that causes stress. However, you should be sure that it is a breathable cloth towel that does not obstruct the flow of oxygen to the bird.