 Find a mint or light green or black collared blouse or polo shirt. It should be worn tucked into your pants. You can get a shirt like this from an online staff uniform supplier or from a thrift store.


Alternatively, wear a black V-neck top.;
, For the pants, wear simple beige (light brown) trousers or cargo pants. Add a belt.
 Find a thin black hooded jacket that reaches your mid thighs if possible.
 Ideally, you'll need some tall black boots. They cannot be heeled and are best with a rubber tread along the bottom, to make the boots look more athletic than stylish. Also, they should not have any embellishments other than a simple zipper up the side of the boot.
 These are sold online, such as through online auction sellers. However, you could also make one by finding the design online, printing it off and attaching it to strong card. Use varnish suitable for paper to protect it from light rain (just in case) and hot glue a brooch pin to the back.
 If you already have brunette or black hair, you won't need a wig. However, if your hair is short, purchase a ponytail hair extension and braid it into your own hair. If you have a different color of hair, either wear a wig or use a temporary dye. Then, braid your hair in a diagonal Dutch Braid across the back of your head if you want an ideal Katniss look from the movie, but if you want to go for an easier braid, just do a regular braid down your back (which is from the book). The Dutch Braid from the movie is most recognized, but either will give you a good Katniss look. Secure with a ponytail holder. Note that Katniss does have side bangs, so you could part your hair to one side to create a side bang type of look if necessary, but this step is optional. Use hairspray or gel to secure your hair.


To add a wig if needed, tie your hair up and secure with a wig-cap first, then put on the wig.
 For a realistic portrayal of Katniss, some grime and blood would make excellent additions:

Use black face paint to make random dirt and grime marks on your face, neck, arms, and legs.






Use red face paint to make wounds on hands (burns), one cheek, neck, and one knee (tracker jackers), and if visible, streak on right calf (burn), also, if needed, coming from left ear (blast from destroying Careers' food).
 A few key props will help to finalize the whole Katniss image. Some suggestions include:


Make a bow and arrow. Carry this around or sling it over your back or shoulder.






Alternatively, hold a cardboard/fake plastic knife.






Secure a mud-covered neon orange backpack on your shoulders.
