 Try cutting back on swearing in front of your parents, at least. Breaking habits is difficult at best, but it is possible to practice a new habit over the unwanted one and change it. While this may not be the most desirable solution it will help avoid yelling and punishments from swearing.
 Thinking about why you are swearing and who the swearing is directed at could be very helpful. If you are swearing at your parents, their yelling could just be a defense. If you are swearing about something else, you might be able to get your parents to understand what you are going through and be more on your side. Here are some possibilities:


Are you cursing at your parents? If so, why? If it is the result of conflict between you and your parents it may be from frustration, feeling like you are not being heard, feeling like you don't have the independence you want, changes, etc. Are you cursing around them about other things? Maybe there is something going with your friends or with school. Talk to your parents about it.
Are you in pain? Swearing is a common response to physical and emotional pain. , It might help to replace your swears with alternate words, blanks, or beeps. You can begin by looking at why swear words are swears in the first place. A better understanding of the swear words may help you come up with alternatives for yourself.


You can try replacing your swearing with alternate words that mean the same thing. For example, replace “hell” with “heck” or "damn" with "darn." You could even try cursing in other languages.
Find the alternate swears that are used in movies or TV shows for censorship. Pick your favorite and use that. “Son of a nutcracker!” from Elf, for example.
You can also research swearing that used to be considered swears but aren't anymore. Sensor yourself with leaving the word silent, using just the first letter, or putting in a “beep” or a “bleep.” For example, “What the h is going on?” or “What the bleep!”

, Chances are, you will slip up because changing habits is hard, and that's okay. Give yourself some time and a little slack, but if you violate the compromise you made, apologize. It will go a long way to possibly avoiding punishments and to keeping the communication open. 