 Odds are that you plan on bringing a carry-on bag to keep handy during the flight. Now decide whether you are packing enough items overall to warrant checking in additional baggage to be held in cargo. Rules regarding non-essential liquids and gels differ between carry-ons and checked baggage, so figure out what your options are.Non-essential liquids and gels (as well as aerosols, creams, and pastes) include: foods, beverages, cosmetics, toiletries, and inspect repellents.;
, If you are bringing both a carry-on and checked baggage, sort your liquids and gels by size. Check the size of each container that you intend to bring. Pack any container larger than 3.4 ounces (100 ml/g) in your checked baggage. You can also pack smaller containers here if you don't need them during the flight.The size of the container is the determining factor, not the amount of liquid/gel left inside. So pack large containers in your checked baggage even if they’re almost empty.
If possible, always use the original container describing what the product is, since unmarked containers may require closer inspection. This may lead to longer waits, confiscation, or even refusing your admittance.
If you wish to use any of these items in-flight (like, say, toothpaste), purchase another size that is 3.4 ounces (100 ml/g) or smaller.
 First, make sure that all of the non-essential liquids and gels that you intend to pack in your carry-on do not exceed 3.4 ounces (100 ml/g). If they do, purchase smaller sizes. Next, use a single clear, resealable 1-quart (1 L) bag to store them within your carry-on.Only one bag is allowed per person. If your 1-quart bag doesn’t fit all of your liquids and gels, use your checked baggage to pack those you won’t need inflight. If all you have is a carry-on, reevaluate what you’re bringing and leave behind whatever can be purchased at your destination.
Each passenger is entitled to one 1-quart bag, so if you're travelling with someone else and they have room in theirs, utilize their bag, too.
During passenger screening, you will be asked to remove your 1-quart bag from your carry-on for inspection. Rules specify that the bag must be clear in order to speed up this process.
 Air pressure can affect your containers' lids and seals, so consider repackaging liquids and gels whose containers have weak or problematic seals. Search online or in stores for a 3-1-1 compliant kit. Use a funnel to pour each liquid or gel into one of the kit's clear tubes and seal it with the corresponding cap.As long as the new containers are 3-1-1 compliant, it's okay to transport liquids in a container without a label. Just expect the possibility of a closer inspection of each liquid during screening.
As an alternative, you could remove the cap of the original container and use plastic wrap to create an additional seal before screwing the cap back on. As an added measure, you can pack each container in its own sandwich bag to prevent a bigger mess should one start to leak.

