 While you might garner a little group of devotees to meet up at the local coffee shop for a "get-to-know-one-another" chat, this won't be sufficient for most of your followers. While networking is a valid and motivating reason for getting together, there needs to be a substantial reason beyond this to encourage people to leave their cocoon of routine and to come along to your event. Give them something to talk about by having something more than just a chat over coffee. Here are a few possibilities:


A speaker - do you know someone who will be of great interest to your followers? Perhaps a renowned blogger, an expert in wine tasting, a recovering shopaholic or someone who has inspiring messages to pass on?
A shared activity - if your followers are grouped around a mutual interest such as art, craft, beer tasting, collecting, etc., you will likely have a ready-made activity idea that springs from that interest. Of course, if you need materials or to book a location, you may need to recoup costs or ask for bring-your-own items, so know all of this well in advance.
A shared meal - for the gourmands, the lovers of eating out and the tweeters who share every intimate detail of meals about town, a shared meal might be just the draw card needed.
A topic of common interest to discuss (be prepared to get things started and to moderate a bit) - this could be tied in with a speaker, it could be guided by a loose agenda or it could be simply an occasion for everyone to share their thoughts about something that matters to the local community, such as the proposed demolition of heritage houses to make way for a freeway. If the topic is something people are passionate about and are dying to get together to talk about, it may be all you need to rally the troops.
A place to explore together, such as a museum or park - this is great for the active people who love to learn as they do/go/walk/cycle/etc. You might like to make the event coincide with an exhibition, a special event or a visiting specialist's talk.
A barbecue or party - this can be really useful where you're trying to get a community to come together for a particular reason, be it activism or simply getting to know one another.
 If you will all meet at a restaurant and split the bill, say so. If a super large venue, consider having it catered. Either way, spell out in advance what food is available. If there is no food, it's just as important to let people know, in case they plan on turning up starving.


If alcohol is involved, make it clear that it's pay-for-your-own. That is, unless you have a bottomless pocket.

