 Sprinkle some on your meats, tofu, and fish before dropping it on the barbecue or in the frying pan. The mix can stay fresh in a large ziplock bag or plastic container until it’s time to use it. Simply mix together:


1 tablespoon salt
1 tablespoon pepper
1 tablespoon garlic powder
1 tablespoon chili powder
1 tablespoon onion powder
1/2 cup of brown sugar
1/2 cup of paprika
1 teaspoon cayenne pepper

, Simply preheat your oven to 428 degrees Fahrenheit (220 degrees Celsius). Place two teaspoons of ghee (clarified butter) in a roasting tray. Place the pan in the oven for one or two minutes.


While the pan is heating up, mix 1 teaspoon of dried oregano, 400 grams of chickpeas (drained and rinsed), 1 teaspoon of smoked paprika, 3/4 teaspoon salt, 1/4 teaspoon of cayenne pepper, and 1/2 teaspoon of black pepper in a mixing bowl.
Dump the mix in the pan that’s in the oven and give everything a good stir to ensure the chickpeas are evenly coated.
Bake for 30 to 35 minutes, shaking the tray every five to 10 minutes to prevent them from sticking to the pan.
 Preheat your oven to 400 degrees Fahrenheit (204 degrees Celsius). Combine 1.5 cups of grated Parmesan cheese, two teaspoons of paprika, and a quarter teaspoon of cayenne (or more, if you desire) in a bowl.


Roll some puff pastry into a rectangle 1/8 inch deep, 12 inches long, and 24 inches wide.
Sprinkle the Parmesan mixture over half of the pastry dough.
Fold the other half of the puff pastry over so that it covers the Parmesan mixture. You should now have a square 12 inches on each side.
Cut the dough in 3/4-inch-wide strips with a sharp knife or pizza cutter. Twist the ends of each strip in opposite directions.
Place the strips on a lightly greased pan and brush each with a mixture of 1 tablespoon of water and one egg.
Bake for 15 to 18 minutes or until golden brown.
 Not only are you reducing your salt intake (an important step in fighting high blood pressure), but you’re increasing your cayenne intake (which actively lowers blood pressure). With the cayenne on your fries, soups, pasta, and veggies, you won’t even miss salt.

