 Wood and gold are ideal - if you are lucky, you can build a Town Center next to both a gold and a stone mine, as well as a forest. All of these will be vital for the wonder.

Watch for the terrain. A Town Center is one of those buildings that require flat land for the plot of land it takes up, and many land maps just simply don't have flat terrain all the time. In fact, you will find that the terrain pops up in otherwise ideal places to put your Town Center.






Additionally, don't waste too much time searching for a place to put your Town Center. If you can only put it near a forest, or a gold mine, that's okay, as long as it is near at least one resource. The main point of the Town Center is to create more villagers at a faster pace. Placing it near resources just makes it more efficient for the villagers that deposit their resources at the Town Center.






Once your second Town Center has been built, build more Town Centers during the Castle Age - at least one more. Remember: you should always, always be creating more villagers! But also realize that it is not always wise to deplete all your food into villager creation. As long as a few villagers are in the queue, you are fine.
 Houses are needed to support your villager population. If at any time you have reached your temporary population limit, you can kill your scout cavalry to make room for one more villager. This also allows more time for your villagers (preferably lumberjacks, never farmers) to build a few more houses. This is a one-time use.
 The technologies are found at the Mill, Lumber Camp, and Mining Camp, respectively. Heavy Plow makes your farms last longer. Bow Saw increases the lumberjacks' efficiency in cutting wood, and eases the reseeding queue a bit.


If you have the resources and at least two mining camps, you can research Gold and Stone Mining at the same time. Gold and Stone Shaft Mining will be available to you in the Castle Age. Don't research them yet; allocate your resources elsewhere. When you have a lot of resources, you should research Gold Shaft Mining, and then Stone Shaft Mining.






Also research Wheelbarrow in your first Town Center, if you have the resources. This is optional for now, but you should have it researched by the time you research Imperial Age. Handcart will be available after researching - do not research it yet.


Again, military should be left out of the game. Any military buildings (except the blacksmith) or units created are resources wasted that could have been better used to improve your economy.






Build more farms around your other Town Centers. Also build farms around your mill (unlike other modes, this is recommended as the villagers are safe). Have your villagers chop wood near your new Town Centers. Allocate villagers to mine gold and stone (gold especially, as you need 800 gold for the Imperial Age).






Building more and more farms is extremely important, but it is for your benefit to reseed in the mill to avoid having to manually reseed farms.


In conquest mode, wood becomes less and less important as the game goes on, due to the increasingly important gold, as well as food. This is not the case in wonder race.






Since there is no military in this mode, do not build a castle! The stone should be saved and used for the wonder. Instead, build a university and monastery, the cheapest (375 wood total) way to satisfy the building requirements. None of the buildings have to be placed anywhere strategic, as long as it doesn't hinder your resource harnessing.






None of the upgrades in the university is helpful, so don't research anything there.






Do not create monks either. Monks cost gold, which is crucial for the 800 gold for the Imperial Age and the 1000 gold for the wonder. Monks can pick up relics, but relics are a slow-steady way of collecting gold. The cost of the monks (100 gold each), coupled with their slow walking speed, makes it not worth the investment.
 Research the Imperial Age using your first Town Center (as the land will have already been developed).


Brute forcing is discouraged. This is due to the idea of (at least nearly) having the required resources to build the wonder once you reach the Imperial Age. If you trade resources just to get the required resources for the Imperial Age research, then you will fall behind. The idea is similar to the Feudal Age. Just as you want a quick Feudal Age, you will want as short time as possible between hitting Imperial Age and starting to build your wonder.






During Imperial Age research, research Handcart. Allocate some villagers (that are still being created in your town centers) to gold, as well as stone.







Important: Around 30 seconds after reaching the Imperial Age, you should have 1000 of wood, gold and stone to build the wonder. It's okay if you have to wait longer, it takes practice.







