 Making sure your hair is clean and residue-free makes the process go faster. The natural oils that build up in your hair make it slippery, so it's better to start with hair that has been freshly shampooed.


Don't add conditioner or any other products to your hair after shampooing.
Be sure your hair is completely dry before you start.;
, Each square of hair will become a dreadlock. It's up to you to decide how large or small you want the dreadlocks to be. For a neater overall appearance, plan to make each dread the same size.


Use a wide-toothed comb to part your hair and delineate the squares. Hold the squares apart from each other by using small rubber bands.
One by one-inch squares create standard medium sized-locks. 1/2-inch squares create small, elegant locks. Keep in mind that the more squares you create, the longer it will take to dread your hair.
The sections and rows in between the squares may be visible in the finished dreads. To avoid a patterned appearance, fashion the squares in a zig-zag or brick lay format so that the finished look is more natural.
 Hold a section of hair straight up from your scalp. Starting about one inch from your scalp, place a fine-toothed comb in the section of hair and tease it down toward the scalp. Repeat this "backcombing" technique several times on the same section of hair until it begins to puff and pack up at the roots. Continue backcombing the same section of hair in one-inch increments until the entire section has been backcombed toward the scalp. Secure the end with a rubber band.


As you backcomb with one hand, use the other hand to gently twist the section you're working on. This keeps it in shape and assists with the backcombing process.
Continue backcombing each section of hair using the same technique until all of your hair has been backcombed. Having a friend help out speeds the process along.
Use the same patience and care with each dread. If you rush through the last part of your hair, you'll end up with uneven-looking dreads.
 Each dread should have a small rubber band securing the end. Place a second rubber band on each dread right next to the scalp. The two rubber bands will hold the dread in place as it matures.
 Use a natural dread wax or tightening gel to keep your dreads from fraying or frizzing. Apply the wax or gel to the entire length of the dread, taking care to cover the whole strand but remember less is better. If you choose to wax it need only be done every 2-4 weeks.


Many people with dreads do not use a dread wax or gel because they believe it obstructs the dreading process. Use at your own discretion.

