

The app is available for both Apple and Android smartphones and is free to download.
You can log in using either your Facebook account or by creating an entirely new account with an email address.;
,

Keep in mind that you cannot change your username later on.
This will be your "handle" on the app and will be displayed for everyone to see.
You will be asked to input your shoe size, shirt size, and your zip code - although all of this information is optional.
You are required to upload a profile picture - to do this, click on the camera icon next to "Profile Picture" - you can change it at any time.
 This will begin to create your customized homepage feed.

Do some research – look at other user’s closets to get ideas for how to take quality pictures. Read the comments under other user’s listings and use them as a model as to how to write appropriate titles and descriptions for your own items.
Follow a lot of other closets and “share” their items frequently. In turn, other “Poshers” (users) will often share your listing as a thank you for sharing theirs! This is especially helpful when you’re a new seller and a seller with thousands of followers shares your items.



You will be brought to a screen titled “Find Your Friends”. The options listed below are: “Find Contacts”, “Find Facebook Friends”, “Find Twitter Friends”, and suggested users. This is not required, so if you wish to skip this step, click the “Done” icon in the upper right corner of the screen.



There is a maroon toolbar at the bottom of the app with 5 icons that read: “Feed”, “Shop”, “Sell”, “News”, and then your unique username is the furthest to the right.
 The “Feed” section shows a feed of the “Covershot”s of new items posted from the closets of Poshers you follow, as well as the Covershots of listings they have “shared” with their followers. In the “Feed” tab you can also use the “Search Poshmark” bar at the top of the screen to search for items in specific categories. To the left of the search Poshmark bar is a button that allows you to search for people from your phone’s contacts, social media accounts, as well as Poshers from “My City”, “My College”, and “New People”., The “Shop” section has a “Search Listings” bar where you can search for items in specific categories. The “Shop” tab also features a section where you can quickly access the people you follow, titled “PEOPLE”. The other sections are: “BRANDS”, “LIKES”, “PARTIES”, “WOMEN”, “KIDS”, “MEN”, “WHOLESALE”, “DISCOVER PEOPLE,” “SHOWROOMS”.
 The “Sell” section will immediately open your phone’s camera through the app. You can choose to either take a picture within the app with the round, center button or choose a photo from your phone’s photo library by clicking the folder icon in the bottom left corner. The first photo you take or upload will be your “Covershot”, or the picture that shows up in your follower’s feeds and in your closet. You can add more photos and information by clicking “Next” in the upper right corner of the screen.
 The “News” section will feature a red circle with a number inside, indicating the number of unseen notifications you currently have. You will be notified in the app when someone new follows you, likes an item in your closet, shares one of your item, tags you in a comment, comments on one of your listings, and when “pm_editor” invites you to an upcoming party.
 To learn more about any unfamiliar terminology, the icon with your username on it contains helpful guides listed under “Your Guide to Poshmark”, “Posh Etiquette”, “Poshmark Support Center”, and “Frequently Asked Questions”.
 The far right icon with your username is arguably the most important tab to become familiar with. It is where you can change your profile’s settings and preferences, view purchases you have made on the app, sales you have made, your account’s balance. Most importantly, it is how you can view your closet (“My Closet”) and access all of your listings.


Poshmark supports the selling of women’s clothing and shoes, men’s clothing and shoes, children’s clothing and shoes, brand-new cosmetics, women’s and men’s accessories.


On the maroon toolbar at the bottom of the app, there is an icon with an image of a camera with the word “sell” underneath. The “sell” button is in between “shop” and “news”.
This icon allows you to create a new listing.
Listing is free, so you can list as many items as you wish.


Take a very close look at your items – you want to take pictures of any flaws in the item and mention it in your description of the item.
Buyers like having the clothes modeled, however this is not always possible, so laying the clothing flat and taking precise measurements is the second-best option.
You are allowed 8 pictures per listing.


Create a title that includes the brand (if recognizable) and the name of the item.

Example: Dark Wash Jeans


Under the title, there is a space for a “description” where you should include all relevant information including measurements, if applicable. This is your space to “sell your item." Poshmark’s app will prompt you through the remaining items that you need to include before you list:

This includes: “Category”, “Quantity”, “Size”, “Brand”, “Color”, “New With Tags”, “Original Price”, and “Listing Price”


If you do not know the original price, you can estimate the price you paid or just put “$0.00”.


Consider how much “wear” the item has – is it new? Has it been laundered several times?

Items that are brand new with tags can usually be sold for a higher price than those that have been worn several times.


Also consider if the item you’re selling is limited edition or in high demand, in which case your item may warrant a higher selling price.
Keep in mind that Poshmark will deduct 20% of your earnings, so price accordingly.

Example: If you list a jacket at $25.00, you will earn $20 when it sells.
For sales under $15.00, there is a flat fee of $2.95.


Also keep in mind that Poshmark charges the buyers a flat shipping rate of $6.49 – shipping is paid for entirely by the buyer.

If your item is more expensive, the shipping rate may not affect a potential buyer’s decision, however if you are listing an item at $10, a buyer may be more likely to take the $6.49 shipping cost into their decision of whether or not to purchase your item.


You will be brought to a page titled “Sharing” with the option to share your new listing on Pinterest, Facebook, Twitter, and/or Tumblr. You do not have to complete this step. You may skip to step 7 if you do not wish to share your listing to your other social media accounts.


Your item will now be public, meaning, people can share the listing as well as purchase it.


Once an item in your closet is sold, you will receive a notification from the "News" tab on the bottom toolbar. You will also receive an email congratulating you on your sale.


Attached to the congratulatory email will be a pre-paid shipping label, along with specific instructions on how to package and mail your sold item.


The label is for 1-3-day shipping through USPS Priority Mail.


The priority mail envelopes/boxes are free at any USPS Post Office.
Buyers appreciate nice packaging! You can accomplish this by wrapping the item in colorful tissue paper and including a personal thank-you note. This is not required, but may entice buyers to shop your closet again.
The weight must not exceed 5 pounds.

Bring your package to your local post office and they will weigh it for you before shipping. Although you can arrange for your packages to be picked up at your house, it is safer to bring them to the post office so you can get a receipt with the tracking on it for your personal records. Also, if there are any surprises, they can be addressed on the spot.

Possible "surprises" you may encounter when shipping your item include: finding out your package exceeds the 5-pound weight limit or the packaging you used is incorrect (you cannot use a Flat Rate box or Priority Mail Express box).


You have 7 days to ship your order, but buyers often expect you to ship within 2 days.



On the maroon bar at the bottom of the app, there are 5 icons: “Feed”, “Shop”, “Sell”, “News”, and your username – click on your username.
Once you have clicked on your username’s icon, you can track the package by clicking “My Sales”.
After clicking, "My Sales", you will then see a larger picture of the item you sold, as well as the title of your listing, the price, the size, the buyer’s username, and the status of the order

By clicking on the listing, you will access further, more detailed information about the sale including the “Order Date” and the “Order #”.
You will also see "Order Status", which shows the current status of the order.


You want to make sure that your buyer receives their purchase from you. Sometimes the USPS can make errors, so you want to keep track of the package’s progress yourself.


Under the "My Sales" tab is "My Balance". Here, you will see how many credits you have, pending earnings, and redeemable earnings.

Pending earnings will become redeemable after the item is delivered to your buyer.


Poshmark will automatically release your earnings 4 days after the tracking says the item has been delivered.
Poshmark encourages buyers to leave a rating (out of 5 possible stars), as well as a “lovenote” (a public comment about the purchase) about their experience buying with you. Your earnings will be released to you immediately after the buyer rates you (if before the 4-day mark).

