 Keep it short and simple. Yes, this the first rule. When the web user views the URL it should convey the correct details like the page content idea, page hierarchy and more details. So remember to keep it short (so that it easy to remember), and simple (so that it is easy to locate).;
, Nowadays most advanced search engines like google considers URL as an essential criteria in search algorithm out of various other factors. For example an URL like www.domainname.com/1738.html will be considered as a less search friendly URL when compared to www.domainname.com/computer-parts/keyboard.html. As you can see the latter conveys the hierarchy of the page – the page talks about computer parts and specifically about keyboard. Also it is easier for the search engine crawling.
 Now taking the same example in Step 2, the second URL is rich in keywords. Keyword in URL is more search friendly. As you can see, the URL contains two major keywords, which are, computer parts and keyboard.
 While we have multiple words in the URL, for example, web development strategy, we need to use separators such as hyphens or underscores. /web-development-strategy.php. Here it is better to use hyphens than using underscores.
 Mostly it is a Myth that Uppercase alphabets attract more attention(pertaining to URL Framing). But it is advisable to use lowercase for all the alphabets in the URL. Keep this pattern uniform in all your URLs.
 When you have folders and sub folders, categorize them in an orderly fashion. For example when you talk about pet dog medicines you may categorize it as /pets/dog/medicine.html. You need to upload the folders in similar fashion. Also for the user, he knows which part of the website he is currently located.
 While creating blog for a website it is better to have it as a sub-folder (www.domainname.com/blog) rather than sub-domain(www.blog.domainname.com). A sub-folder is more search friendly.
 Once you are through with launching the website, keep monitoring the URLs or Links regularly. This will help you locate the broken links and thereby help in rectifying them then and there.

