 Measure out a square that is 37 by 37 inches (93.98 by 93.98 cm) large. Mark these measurements out using chalk or fabric pencil and carefully cut along the marks.


Make sure that the edge is straight before you measure and cut your fabric.
Choose a double-sided fabric for best results since both sides of the fabric may end up showing after you wrap the turban.
Pick out a fabric that is soft enough to feel comfortable but crisp enough to hold itself together after being wrapped. It needs to have decent traction, as well, so that it does not slip down off your head. Cotton works well, as does velveteen and fleece. Satin, silk, and other smooth materials should be avoided.;
, Turn 1/2 inch (1.25 cm) of fabric under along all four sides of the square. Pin in place, then sew each hem to prevent the material from coming up.


A hem is important since it prevents the fabric from fraying. You might be able to skip the hem, however, if you use a no-fray fabric (like fleece) or if you cut the edges using pinking shears. Alternatively, you might also be able to use no-fray spray on the edges to minimize fraying without sewing a hem.
Sew the hem using a straight stitch on a sewing machine. If sewing by hand, use a back stitch.
 Fold the square turban in half and wrap it around all sides of your head, including the top. This step completes your project.


Fold the turban along its diagonal so that it forms a double-layer triangle.
Position the triangle at the back of your head. The upper edge should line up with the top of your head and the bottom point should be centered at the nape of your neck.
Lift the top center corner over your head and down over your forehead.
Bring the two end corners around to the front. Tie them together in a tight knot.
Take the center corner at your forehead and tuck it over the front tie you just created with the end corners.
Tuck each end of the tie into the sides of the turban. Tuck in any other excess material hanging out, as well.
This completes the wrapping process

