 Let your doctor know that you have decided that you want to quit taking Adderall. Discuss with your doctor the different treatment options that are available to help you get off Adderall safely. Because there are different levels of Adderall dependency, your doctor will be able to recommend the best option for your particular case.Your doctor can also refer you to professionals who treat drug dependency and addiction.;
, Talking with your close friends and family members about your dependency may help you to finally decide to quit and stick to quitting. Only ask friends and family members who are truly supportive of you and that want to help you quit. Make sure that the people you are asking support from aren’t currently using or abusing drugs as well.Because withdrawal symptoms may disrupt your life, you may need to move in with a family member or friend until your life is under control.
 Inpatient programs are a great choice for people who are suffering from a debilitating and severe dependency. Inpatient programs offer 24-hour medical supervision and care. These programs allow their patients to focus on their recovery and to escape environments that may trigger a relapse. Choose from three different types of treatment centers:Residential programs have 30-day, 60-day, and 90-day recovery programs to choose from. You live at the treatment center and receive treatment there.
Executive programs are for patients who are working professionals, for example CEOs, who cannot take time off from work to receive treatment.These treatment centers offer business amenities like workspaces, meeting rooms, and Internet access. They are also highly confidential and have fewer patients.
Luxury treatment programs have the look of vacation resorts. They offer recreational activities and added amenities like private rooms, room service, workspaces, and fine dining. These treatment programs are more expensive.
 Outpatient programs are a great option for people who are suffering from a mild or moderate dependency. These programs are flexible and are scheduled around patients' school and/or work obligations. Therefore, they are great for patients who cannot drop work, school, or family responsibilities to enter into an inpatient program.Examples of these types of programs are intensive outpatient treatment, group counseling, partial hospitalization, individual therapy, and 12-step programs.
These programs offer a supportive environment where the patient can explore their dependency, receive medical supervision (if needed), and may require the patient to set aside a certain amount of time each week to attend the program.
 If you have a severe dependency, you may want to choose a program that is located far from home to escape environments that may trigger a relapse. If your dependency is mild to moderate or if you want the support of your friends and family, you may want to choose a center that is closer to home., Check to see if the nurses, therapists, counselors, doctors, and psychiatrists are required to be licensed or certified to work at the treatment center before enrolling yourself. In the U.S., each state has different certification and licensing requirements. Check the state's requirements to see if the staff adhere to the guidelines.At a minimum, the facility should be able to show proof that they are licensed to treat their patients and their primary staff/counselors should be certified by an accredited organization.
As a general rule of thumb, the more schooling, licensing, and certification a person has, the more qualified they are.
 Quality rehabilitation centers create individualized treatment plans to meet each patient's needs. Make sure the center you choose tailors treatment plans to their patients' needs. Treatment plans usually consist of an evaluation of the patient's addiction and other co-occuring mental health disorders, assisted detox, therapy, and aftercare. Some common treatment therapies used are:

The matrix model: an intensive program that takes place over a 16-week period. This treatment is designed to treat stimulant dependency specifically.
Cognitive behavioral therapy: this treatment places emphasis on the relationship between behaviors, feelings, and thoughts. Patients learn coping skills for high-risk situations.
Motivational interviewing: this treatment encourages patients to make positive changes in their lives through talk therapy.
Contingency management: a treatment where positive behavioral changes made by patients are rewarded to encourage abstinence from stimulants.

