 Teens that are rebelling may be doing it for a number of reasons. Talk to them directly and honest about their rebellious behavior so you can learn how to work with them.


Teens desire independence. Talk to your teen about ways to increase their independence while also respecting your rules. As they get older, many teens break away from their parents.Ask them about life at school, including friends and any romantic interests. Rebellious teens are often navigating a changing social world. New influences may be the reason for their behavior.
Teens desire respect. Ask them how they feel about the way you (and others) treat them. They are not quite adults, but may feel like they get the consequences of adults without the rewards.
 If your teen is rebellious, it may be tempting to have harsh and severe consequences. Instead, deal with your teen in a respectful manner. If you treat them with respect, they are more likely to reciprocate.Be respectful in your interactions with your rebellious teen. Treat them as someone capable and able of making their own decisions.
Use appropriate words and language. Don't accuse your teen of bad behavior. Instead, encourage them towards good behavior.
Have a clear, calm, and friendly tone. If you sound accusatory, your teen will pick up on that.
Listen to them. Don't assume you know what they are going to say. Take in their point of view and consider it.
 Teenage rebellion may be frustrating, but it's actually a good thing. Healthy rebellion means that teenagers are growing into adults capable of forming their own judgements.


Rebellion means your teen is preparing to leave your home. This is a good thing, since this means they are increasingly capable.
The opposite of rebellion would be staying at home all the time and refusing to leave, which is not a healthy behavior. Your teen should not be increasingly dependent on you.
Work on transferring more and more life responsibility onto the teen. Give them a safe environment to act at being an adult.
 Unhealthy rebellion can lead to negative behaviors such as drug and alcohol abuse or irresponsible sexual activity. Talk your teen about any of these behaviors and their dangerous consequences.


Talk to your teen about the dangers of drugs and alcohol. Make sure they know how to behave responsibility if they are offered either.
Ask your teen about sex. It may be uncomfortable, but it's important that they have all the facts and can make an informed decision.
Teens are impressionable and can be persuaded to engage in unhealthy behavior. Talk to them about their friends and significant others, especially if any are new to their circle when they start to rebel.
Make sure that your teen is comfortable talking to you. Keeping an open line of communication is the best way to guarantee teens will engage in healthy, not unhealthy rebellion.

