 Her parents may be supportive, though upset, but she still might want to find other adults with whom she can discuss her concerns and feelings. She may be more comfortable sharing difficult feelings with adults other than her parents.Help her make a list of important adults in her life. These people might include extended family members, favorite teachers, coaches, or clergy. Help her come up with a plan to reach out to these people.
For example, you could say, “Maybe we could go talk to Mrs. Miller after school. Do you want to meet me at my locker, and we could go over together?”

, In some cases, your friend might need more support than a trusted adult in her life can provide. She may be struggling with some difficult feelings around her pregnancy that need the support of a mental health care professional. Help her get in touch with these services.


Connect with your local health department or youth and family service center to help find a counselor. Family planning clinics can also offer referral services.
If your friend is very depressed and is talking about taking her life, call a suicide hotline immediately. The National Suicide Prevention Lifeline is 1-800-273-8255. You can also call 1-800-SUICIDE. Threats of suicide need to be taken extremely seriously., Check in with her about how she’s feeling, both physically and emotionally. See how you can help make things easier for her in any way.


If she needs to vent, just listen. Don’t offer advice or a platitude like, “Everything happens for a reason,” or “It’s going to be okay.”Help her deal with her emotions by acknowledging her pain. Be empathic and try to figure out what you would want to hear if you were in her shoes. It might be something like, “I am so sorry you are going through this right now. I know you are hurting and scared. But I will be with you every step of the way to help support you.”
Understand she will probably be emotional. Pregnancy changes the hormones in her body, making her more susceptible to mood swings, crying, and anxiety. She is also dealing with a lot more stress because she is a pregnant teenager. Be patient with her as her emotions fluctuate., Don’t gossip about your friend or spread stories about her pregnancy. If you hear someone talking about her when she’s not there, speak up for her.You could say, “I don’t think it’s right to be talking about Monica when she’s not here. Don’t judge her choices. You’re not the one going through this.”
Find out from your friend what, if anything, is okay to share with others. Your friend might want to do her best to keep her pregnancy a secret, or she may want to only talk to certain people about it herself. Respect her wishes.
If someone asks you about your friend, you could say, “I think it’s probably best that you either talk to her yourself about it or don’t bring it up at all. I think if one of us were in the same situation we would want to have some privacy and have our decisions be respected.”

, Don’t abandon her during this difficult time. She needs trustworthy, supportive friends and family more than ever.


Check in with her repeatedly via text or phone to see how she’s doing.
Invite her to fun activities to help get her mind off her problems for a bit.
Rally your friends around her and figure out some fun ways you can show your support for her right now. You could decide to slip encouraging notes into her locker, take turns bringing her her pregnancy cravings, or pool your money to help her out with the baby.

