 First things first. You can’t win a contest you didn’t play. It might seem self-evident, but a high number of scams start out as unsolicited contacts initiated by the scammer., Alternatively, the claims agent will call you if you’ve already (unknowingly) entered a bogus sweepstakes contest.They will typically say that they are somehow managing your winnings, and will ask for fees for “processing” or “holding.” Once they receive money from you, they keep contacting you and asking for additional miscellaneous fees.
The only person who will need to manage the winnings from a legitimate sweepstakes is your accountant.
 Partial payment check scams are often integrated with a sweepstakes scam. The partial payment check scams have many iterations, but in this context, you would be notified that you had won a sweepstakes. Then you receive a check in the mail along with instructions to remit some form of payment to the sweepstakes after you’ve cashed your check.


The payment is usually in the form of a wire transfer—which is nonrefundable and nontransferable.A few days after you’ve transferred the money, your bank flags the check as a counterfeit, which puts you on the hook for the entire amount.
 Often scammers (sometimes the “claims agent”) will say they are affiliated with a very official sounding organization, like the Department of Prizewinnings or the National Sweepstakes Center.Aside from state-run lotteries, the government does not handle or distribute cash prizes, which is what these names imply. The only association the government has with private sweepstakes is imprisoning the scammers who run these cons.
 It is illegal for any organization to ask you to pay money as a condition of winning a sweepstakes. Legally, they aren’t even allowed to improve the odds of someone who makes a purchase.


Even legitimate sweepstakes often try to imply that the contestant will have a better shot at winning if they buy the product associated with the sweepstakes—magazine subscriptions, for example., Actual prize winnings are not usually mailed out at the bulk rate, so be very skeptical of anything that claims otherwise.To get the bulk rate, the sender has to send out 150 pieces of mail at a minimum.So if you see prize winnings mailed out at the bulk rate, you know that it's either the world's most generous sweepstakes, or not what it seems to be.
 Misleading sweepstakes offers will often bury onerous terms in the fine print. Make sure that you don’t sign up for something you didn’t intend to sign up for, and be sure to read all of the fine print.


A legitimate sweepstakes will give the odds of winning the prize, as they are required by law to do.Pay special attention to any recurring charges that you may unknowingly be agreeing to.
Be careful that the prize is a cash prize for the amount of money it seems to be for. Often the contest will offer a prize “worth” a certain amount of money, but not actually give you that amount of money. Instead, you get "discounts" on trinkets "worth" thousands of dollars., The Postal Inspection Service tracks down scams and frauds that are perpetrated through the US mail.If you received an invitation to enter what you suspect to be a fraudulent sweepstakes, contact the Postal Inspection Service at https://postalinspectors.uspis.gov/contactUs/filecomplaint.aspx


, Call for Action is a consumer-protection nonprofit that helps consumer address all types of fraud, from sweepstakes scams to identity theft to shady car dealerships. They connect the victim with a volunteer case manager who can guide them through the process of pursuing a complaint.The great thing about Call for Action is their holistic approach to each victim’s case. They utilize the media, law enforcement, connect victims with attorneys, and whatever else they need to do to resolve the complaint. Call for Action resolves about nine out of ten cases.
You can reach Call for Action at http://callforaction.org/


, The Federal Trade Commission also accepts complaints, but they act as more of a database than an enforcement agency that resolves individual complaints. However, the FTC will often give you information as to how to best follow up with law enforcement agencies.


File a complaint with the FTC at https://www.ftccomplaintassistant.gov/#&panel1-1


, Your state’s attorney general’s office will have a division devoted to consumer protection issues. In terms of resolving an individual complaint or bringing a scammer to justice, this is often the most effective.


The federal government maintains links to all of the 50 state consumer protection offices operating under each state’s attorney general. It can be found at https://www.usa.gov/state-consumer


, If you were taken in by a piece of spam email, a fraudulent ad on an internet classified board, or any other type of internet based scam, contact the Internet Crime Complaint Center, or IC3.You can reach IC3's complaint center at https://www.ic3.gov/default.aspx.
 Finally, if you’ve come in contact with one of these scammers over the phone, notify your phone company of the activity. At the very least, they can block that particular number from calling you back. If they get enough complaints, they might even be able to block that account altogether.
 Just because the fishy offer isn't a sweepstakes specifically doesn't mean that it isn't a similar scam. Since most people's primary experience with lotteries comes from state-run lotteries, the concept of a lottery can seem more official than a sweepstakes.The truth is, foreign lottery scams work in almost exactly the same way as sweepstakes scams, right down to the unsolicited contact, the counterfeit check, and the demand to wire money to the party dispensing the prize.
 When the prize isn't monetary, but instead consists of tickets or reservations, the contours of the scam can be different. Rather than issuing counterfeit checks to the victims, the goal is either identity theft or pressuring the victims into buying a related product, like a timeshare.Oftentimes, for the victim to claim their "prize," they must part with sensitive information like social security numbers, dates of birth, and credit card numbers. The victim might receive what appear to be legitimate tickets, but the information is used to steal the victim's identity, and the tickets are of course worthless.
In the high pressure sales scam, the victim has to sit through a sales presentation in order to claim their prize. It is easier said than done, and many people leave the presentation having committed to purchase something they don't need and can't afford. When they have second thoughts, they find out there are no refunds.
 The next evolution of the prize/sweepstakes scam is an appeal to the victim through a text message. A text offering a prize is sent to the victim, with a link to follow in the body of the message. When the victim clicks the link, a piece of malware is installed on their phone that steals credit card and banking information.In another variation, you might follow a link taking you to a site that makes you sign up for "trial" offers as a condition of claiming your prize. However, the "trial offers" are in reality permanent, and the scammers will refuse to stop charging your card.
 The common feature of the majority of these scams is an unsolicited contact with the victim by the scammer. The scammer contacts the victim out of the blue with an offer that seems like an unexpected windfall. As is always the case, what seems too good to be true is in fact too good to be true. Don't let yourself learn the hard way.


If a prize seems fishy, a simple Google search with the name of the organization accompanied by the word "scam" will often tell you right away the kind of organization you are dealing with.

