 Double-click the browser’s shortcut icon on your desktop to open it.


If you don’t have Internet Explorer on your desktop, look for it in the Start menu at the bottom left corner of your computer. Click on “All Programs” the locate and click on Internet Explorer.;
, Click on “Tools” at the top right corner of the command bar to open a drop-down menu. Find “Manage add-ons” from the menu and click on it. A window will pop up.


You will see “Add-on types” on the left side column and the title list of installed add-on on the right column of the pop-up window.
Click on “Search Providers” under the “Add-on types” heading on right column to view a list of default and enabled search add-ons. You should see “Bing” at the right side column as one of the enabled add-ons.
 Right-click on the Bing Search icon listed on the right column to open a menu list. Choose “Disable suggestions” from the menu to disable the installed search engine then hit “Close” at the bottom.
 After restarting, Bing Search will be successfully disabled, until you enable it again., Double-click the browser’s shortcut icon on your desktop to open it.


If you don’t have Internet Explorer on your desktop, look for it in the Start menu at the bottom left corner of your computer. Click on “All Programs” the locate and click on Internet Explorer.
 Click on “Tools” at the top right corner of the command bar to open a drop-down menu. Find “Manage add-ons” from the menu and click on it. A window will pop up.


You will see “Add-on types” on the left side column and the title list of installed add-on on the right column of the pop-up window.
Click on “Search Providers” under the “Add-on types” heading on right column to view a list of default and enabled search add-ons.
 Since Bing is the default search engine, to remove it, you must have another search engine to replace it. You can browse the web for add-ons from the “Manage add-ons” window.


Click on the “Find more search providers…” link at the bottom of the “Manage add-ons” pop-up window to browse a list of all search providers online. A new window will open to load the “Internet Explorer Gallery” web page.
 After loading the page on new window completely, scroll down the page to view the list of available “Search engine” add on.


Click on your selected “Search provider’s box” on the list. Now, scroll down the page and hit the “Add to Internet Explorer” button on the right side to install the add-on to our Internet Explorer. An “Add a search provider” dialog box will appear to confirm your decision.
Click on “Add” to enable your selected add-on. You can set this search engine as a default search engine by checking the box before “Make this my default search provider” on the dialog box.
Close the “Internet Explorer Gallery” window by clicking on top right corner of the window box. You should also close the “Manage add-ons” window to load the newly installed add-on.
 Re-open the “Manage add-ons” window and “Search providers” menu from the “Tools” tab of your browser. You will see the icon and name of the newly added search engine add-on on the right column; it will be marked as an enabled add-on.


Right-click on Bing Search to open a menu list. Choose “Remove” from the menu to remove Bing Search completely from your browser. When you’re done, click on “Close” at the right bottom of the window to exit the menu.
 The changes will then take effect. Bing Search will no longer be listed as a search engine for the browser.

