 Amps have a designated power and impedance rating. This rating needs to match the load you put on your amp. A low quality or low power amp matched to high speakers would not take full advantage of the speakers quality. A too powerful amp will blow your speakers in a couple months., This can be done by disconnecting the battery ground cable. This will prevent injury or damage to your vehicle while working with wiring within the car.
 This is important to get right. You want the amp to be somewhere where it can safely disperse heat. Otherwise, it will burn up and potentially start a fire. If you have an open trunk space that is usually ideal. Sometimes, another alternative is to put the amp under or behind seats, but be sure there is enough room for the amp to vent.
 Using RCA cables is recommended for connecting the amp to the head unit, as they insulate the wire and dampen any distortion of the signal. It is also recommended that the cables be run on the side of the car opposite of the amp’s power wire to avoid signal interruptions that negatively  impact sound quality., The amp should be connected to a switched power supply. This way, power is only provided when the car is turned on. The power wire (also known as the remote turn on wire) will sometimes plug directly into your head unit. If not you will need to connect it to a switched power supply such as the head unit power supply or the ignition switch., You will need to connect the amp’s ground wire to another grounded wire or to any grounding point on the car. Grounding points are bare (clean, unpainted) metal surfaces. Be sure to do this somewhere that no one will incidentally touch it., There purpose of the amplifier is, after all, to amplify the signal coming from the head unit to fully utilize the speakers. You may have to cut the speaker wires from a spool of wire and strip enough insulation off of the end to fit into the amp’s terminals. Each wire should then be run to its corresponding speaker and connected to the speaker’s positive terminal., For all speakers wired in series, connect only the last speaker’s negative wire to the amp’s negative terminal. For all speakers wired in parallel, connect the negative wire of each speaker to the amp’s negative terminal.