 While having darker skin does offer some protection from the sun, the sun can still damage your skin over time, and protecting your skin can keep it looking beautiful. Slathering on sunscreen is a good way to protect your skin from the sun. Put it on every day for the best protection. Choose one that is SPF 30 or higher and that blocks both UVA and UVB rays. Try to pick one that is water resistant in case you sweat it off, and reapply it every 2 hours or after sweating, swimming, or drying off your skin. However, sunscreen alone isn't sufficient to protect your skin from the sun.One way to make it easier is to choose a daily moisturizer that has a built-in sunscreen. In addition, check to make sure your lip balm also has sunscreen.
Clothing can also block harmful rays from hitting your skin. It can fit loosely, but tighter weave clothing is better than loose weave for blocking rays. Pick long-sleeved shirts and long pants. Don't forget a wide-brim hat and sunglasses. Also, you can look for clothing that has built-in sun protection.One of the best ways to protect yourself against the sun is to avoid it as much as possible when it's at its strongest. Between the hours of 10 a.m. and 2 p.m., stay indoors as much as possible. When you are outside, find shade or use an umbrella.Also, don't be fooled by the clouds. You can still get damaging rays on cloudy days. You can also get reflected sun off of light surfaces, such as snow, concrete, and any surface that is painted white or light colored., A healthy diet gives you healthy skin from inside. Therefore, making sure you are getting all the right nutrients in your diet is an important step to creating beautiful skin. Also, a healthy diet helps cut down on acne.Make sure to include fruits and veggies at every meal.
In addition, eat lean proteins (such as chicken and fish), healthy fats (such as nuts, avocados, and fish), whole grains, and low-fat dairy.
 You already know that smoking is bad for your lungs. However, you may not know that smoking is also bad for your skin. Smoking can make your skin look much older than it actually is.Smoking means your skin gets less oxygen.
In turn, not as many nutrients are carried to your skin cells, which can result in more lines and wrinkles.
 While you may know that stress can affect your health, you may not know that it can affect your skin. For instance, it can cause acne breakouts on your face, leading to pockmarked skin.One thing you can do to cut down on stress is to learn to say "no" when you have too much going on. If you're juggling a stressful situation at home and a new job, it's okay to say "no" to baking for the school bake sale.
Another way to cut down on stress is to engage in hobbies you enjoy. Whether you like to bowl, paint, or watch movies, make sure to make time for the things you enjoy.
You can also try practicing deep breathing when you find yourself stressed out. Take a moment to find a quiet place. Close your eyes, and focus on your breathing. Breathe in slowly, counting to four in your head. Breathe out slowly, counting to four in your head. Make sure to push out other thoughts, and pay attention only to your breathing. Keep it up until you feel yourself calm down.

