 A lawsuit begins with the filing of the “complaint.” The person bringing the lawsuit is the “plaintiff” and he or she describes the events that led up to the lawsuit. The plaintiff also makes a demand for money. As the person being sued, you are the “defendant.” You will receive a copy of the complaint.The plaintiff might sue for a variety of reasons. However, he or she is most likely to sue because you have allegedly “breached” the contract. This means you did not satisfy some obligation that you agreed to in your construction contract.
Read the complaint closely. It should explain what contractual obligation you have allegedly violated. Begin thinking about whether you really failed to perform your obligations or whether the plaintiff is simply unhappy with the work that you did.;
, You will receive a “summons” along with the complaint. This document should more clearly identify the parties. It also will tell you the deadline for responding to the lawsuit.


You must respond before the deadline, otherwise the plaintiff might be able to get a “default judgment” against you.With a default judgment, the plaintiff basically wins the lawsuit without you having a chance to defend yourself. The plaintiff can then garnish your wages or put liens on your property or business.
 After reading the complaint thoroughly, you should schedule a consultation with a lawyer. You can get referrals by contacting people you know who have been involved in construction contract lawsuits. Alternately, you could contact your local or state bar association and ask for a referral.Take the complaint, summons, and any evidence with you to your consultation. The lawyer can’t offer sound advice unless he or she understands the case.
You should think about hiring the lawyer to represent you. Although costs may be a concern, you would benefit from a lawyer’s representation. To keep costs low, you should ask if the lawyer offers “unbundled” legal services. Under this arrangement, the lawyer does only the work you ask for help with. For example, a lawyer could look over the documents you file with the court and tell you if anything is missing.
 Your lawyer should be able to suggest different defenses you can raise after listening to you describe the dispute. The precise defenses you raise will vary depending on your circumstances. However, some of the more common are:


The plaintiff waited too long to sue. Each state sets time limits for bringing lawsuits. These time limits are called “statutes of limitations.” In many states, a plaintiff has six years from the date of the breach to bring a lawsuit. If the plaintiff waited too long, then you can ask the judge to dismiss the case.The plaintiff breached first. You might have stopped performing under the contract because the plaintiff breached first. For example, the plaintiff might have refused to pay you. In order to stop performing under the contract, the breach must be “material.” This means that it must be so substantial that it was unreasonable to expect you to continue with the contract.The plaintiff made misrepresentations. If the plaintiff misrepresents an important aspect of the agreement, then you can raise this as a defense so long as you relied on the misrepresentation.For example, the homeowner might have claimed that certain materials were to be used to make a home improvement. However, after you made your bid, the homeowner changes to a more expensive material.
 The lawsuit might turn on the state of the building. For example, you might have stopped working because the plaintiff hadn’t paid you. The plaintiff will defend not paying you by claiming that your construction was poor or that work hadn’t been performed. In this situation, you will want photographs of the building.


Take color photographs from many different angles. You can also take a video.
Don’t trespass on the property to take the photographs, however. The owner might have locked you out and fired you. In this situation, you can’t go onto the property unauthorized. Instead, try to take pictures from the road.
 There might be important evidence in your communications with the plaintiff. Hold onto all notes, letters, emails, and voicemails. Also write down your memories of any important conversation. These communications might contain useful evidence:


For example, the plaintiff might have admitted in an email that he wasn’t going to continue with the contract. You can treat this kind of statement as a breach.You should show your lawyer all copies of communications. You have no idea what kind of information they might contain that is helpful.
 You can formally respond to the plaintiff’s complaint by drafting and filing an “answer.” In this document, you admit or deny each allegation made in the complaint. You can also claim insufficient knowledge to presently admit or deny an allegation.Your lawyer should draft this document for you. Your lawyer can handle drafting all legal documents. However, you should ask for a copy and read the answer before your lawyer files it. If you accidentally admit to an allegation in your answer, then the judge will consider the allegation proved, regardless of whether it is true or not. Read your answer carefully and raise any issues with your lawyer.
If you are representing yourself, then you will need to draft your answer. You should stop into the court clerk’s office and ask if there is a printed “fill in the blank” form for you to use. Many courts now have these.
 In your answer, you can raise any claim against the plaintiff. For example, the plaintiff might have refused to pay you for the work that you have completed. In this situation, you will need to raise a counterclaim for the money that you are owed.


You should raise all “compulsory counterclaims” that you have against the plaintiff stemming from the construction contract. If you don’t, then you might not be able to bring those claims later in a separate lawsuit., Make several copies and take the copies, along with the original, to the court clerk. Ask the clerk to file the original.The clerk should also stamp your copies with the filing date.


You might have to pay a filing fee, which will differ by court.
 If the plaintiff has an attorney, then the attorney gets the copy of the answer. Your court will have rules about what are acceptable methods of service. Generally, you can use the following methods:


Hire a private process server. You can hire process servers at around $45-75 per service to make hand delivery on the plaintiff or the plaintiff’s lawyer.Pay the county sheriff to make service. In some counties, the sheriff will make service for a small fee. Generally, sheriffs charge around the same amount as private process servers.
Have someone 18 or older make service. The person cannot be a party to the lawsuit.
Mail a copy. Often, you can mail an answer to the other side. Send it certified mail, return receipt requested.
 After you have filed your answer, the lawsuit will enter a long fact-finding phase. This phase is called “discovery,” and its purpose is to allow you and the plaintiff to undercover useful information to use at trial. Discovery allows you to fully understand what the other side will argue and what evidence they have to support their arguments. There are several standard discovery techniques:Requests for documents. You can get the copy of a document from any witness if it relates even slightly to the lawsuit.
Interrogatories. You can also serve written questions, which the person must answer under oath. Interrogatories are good for getting basic information.
Depositions. You can ask a witness questions face-to-face in a deposition. Depositions are usually held in a lawyer’s office with a court reporter present. A deposition is a great discovery tool because you can ask follow-up questions.
 You can use the deposition to dig into the plaintiff’s version of events. The complaint will have some of this information, but it might have been very general. In the deposition, you can pin down the plaintiff’s story.
 You might also have to answer questions in a deposition. To prepare, you can do a trial run with your lawyer, so that you can lock in your testimony. Remember the following tips for giving an effective deposition:Get a good night’s sleep. You want to be well-rested and thinking clearly during your deposition.
Stay polite. Depositions can drag on, and people’s emotions become frayed. You should always stay polite. If you find yourself getting angry, ask for a break.
Tell the truth. You are answering questions under oath, so it is vital that you always be truthful in your answers.
Don’t disclose more information than you have to. You should certainly answer each question fully and honestly. Nevertheless, you do not need to be extra helpful and provide information not asked for.
 You might be able to win the lawsuit without going to trial by filing a motion for summary judgment. In this motion, you argue that there are no material issues in dispute. Also, you argue that the evidence is so clearly in your favor that there is no way that the plaintiff could win at trial.Your lawyer will have to draft a legal brief and argue this motion in front of the judge.
 Lawsuits are long and expensive. However, you can resolve your dispute outside of court using different alternative dispute resolution (ADR) techniques. You should discuss these with a lawyer.


You can negotiate a settlement. The purpose of negotiation is to give something up to get something in return. Generally, as the defendant, you will give up some money; in return, the plaintiff dismisses the lawsuit. You can save time and money by settling.
You might mediate the dispute. Mediation is like negotiation except you meet with a third party neutral, the mediator. The mediator tries to get each side to listen to the other and work toward mutually-agreeable solutions. Mediation is a good option if you don’t have a lawyer. Like negotiation, it is voluntary and you can walk away if you can’t reach an agreement.Arbitration. This is like a trial. However, you present your case to a private person, the arbitrator, and not to a judge. Arbitration’s primary advantages are that it is private and there is usually limited discovery.
 Your lawyer should pull everything together as trial approaches. If you are representing yourself, then you will need to line up witnesses and create exhibits. The judge will probably give you a deadline for creating witness and exhibit lists, which you must turn over to the plaintiff.


Line up your witnesses. You should probably send each witness a “subpoena.” This is a legal command to appear at court at a certain day and time and give evidence. You can get a subpoena from the court clerk. You will also need to serve it on the witness.Create exhibits. Go through your documents and select which ones will be helpful. You will want to introduce a copy of the construction contract and possibly any email or written communications from the plaintiff. You can turn these documents into an exhibit by putting an “exhibit sticker” on them. You can get these stickers from an office supply store or the court clerk.Make copies of your exhibits. You probably need three or four copies: one for the plaintiff, one for the judge, and one to show the witness. Also keep a copy for yourself.
 If you are representing yourself, then you should probably observe at least one trial before attempting to defend yourself in court. Courthouses are generally open to the public and you can sit in on a trial. Ask the court clerk if there is a breach of contract case you can watch.Pay attention to how the lawyers act. Your goal is to look as professional as possible. Watch where the lawyers sit and listen to how they talk to the judge.
Also note how they ask witnesses questions. Take a notepad and write down your summary of how the lawyers ask questions.
 The plaintiff will present evidence first, in the form of witnesses and documentary exhibits. The plaintiff may also testify. You will have a chance to cross-examine each of the witnesses.


If you have to cross-examine the witnesses yourself, then see Question Witnesses when Representing Yourself for tips.
 You can present evidence second. If you (and not a lawyer) are asking questions, then you must remember not to ask “leading” questions. A leading question can usually be answered “yes” or “no” because it contains its own answer.For example, “The plaintiff called you up and said she was cancelling the contract, right?” is a leading question. Instead, ask a series of general questions:


“Who do you work for?”
“How long have you worked for Jones Construction?”
“Were you working April 22, 2014?”
“Did someone call you that afternoon?”
“What did she say?”

, You might also have to testify. If you have a lawyer, then he or she can ask you questions. If you are without a lawyer, then the judge might let you deliver your testimony in the form of a speech. The plaintiff’s lawyer then gets to cross-examine you. Remember the following tips:Don’t interrupt the lawyer. Instead, listen patiently. Some lawyers might try to rattle you by cutting you off with questions. If you haven’t finished an answer, say, “I’m sorry. I wasn’t finished answering.” Whatever you do, don’t get into an argument with the lawyer.
Don’t guess and be wary of providing estimates. Instead, say, “I don’t know” if you don’t know the answer to a question.
Ask the lawyer to clarify any question you don’t understand. You want your testimony to be accurate, so you need to understand what exactly you are being asked.
Always tell the truth.
 If you didn’t have a jury, then the judge should deliver the verdict from the bench. If you have a jury, then the jury will retire to deliberate. Deliberations could be very short or take several days.


In most state courts, juries no longer need to be unanimous. Instead, the plaintiff can win if nine or 10 out of 12 jurors agree that you breached the contract.
Federal court juries must still be unanimous., You should talk with your lawyer whether to appeal if you lost the case. You can typically appeal if the judge made a serious error or if the evidence is completely against the verdict.


Don’t wait too long. Courts only give you a limited amount of time (often 30 days or less) to file your Notice of Appeal.