 The most evident symptom of pyrophobia is a profound sense of fear and apprehension in the presence of fire, whether around a campfire, using a gas stove, or simply being near a lit candle. This fear usually manifests in physical and emotional tension, although the specific symptoms may vary. Here are some examples of physical and emotional symptoms to watch for:


Difficult, quick, or shallow breathing.
Rapid heartbeat.
Upset stomach.
Signs of nervousness like sweating, fidgeting, or shaking.
Feeling an urgent need to move away from the fire source.
Feeling dissociated, detached, or unreal.
Feeling out-of-control, "crazy", or close to passing out.;
, While a certain amount of fear around fire is normal, pyrophobes will routinely respond to even carefully controlled flame sources with "over-the-top", disproportionate degrees of agitation and fear that do not go away until they are out of the presence of fire. You may even be aware that their response is irrational, but feel powerless to stop it. , Some instances of pyrophobia may be associated with a traumatic incident involving fire. Examples would include a house fire, or a cooking or camping accident involving fire. If such an incident is in your past, your fear of fire may indicate pyrophobia., One of the primary symptoms which separates pyrophobia from normal fear of fire is the presence of avoidance behaviors. The pyrophobe will often go to great lengths to avoid exposure to fire. The pyrophobe may make excuses to avoid situations involving fire, or may simply refuse to take part.Avoidance behaviors will be especially visible in households where fire is a necessary part of daily life, such as a house where gas burning stoves or furnaces are installed.
 If you use fire to cook, or enjoy camping or other activities involving fire, pyrophobia can make your life stressful. This can drain your confidence, and distract you from your work, family or social life., Unlike an ordinary fear, a phobia is persistent in nature. This means that it affects an individual consistently across an extended period of time. This period could range from as short as six months to as long as an entire lifetime. Repeated instances of fear of fire over such an extended period may indicate the presence of pyrophobia., If you think that you are suffering from pyrophobia, it is important to seek help. Phobias are serious psychological conditions which will benefit from treatment by an expert.


If you're having trouble locating a therapist, talk to your doctor for a referral, or contact your medical insurance provider for assistance.

