 Like it needs to be spruced up? No problem! Every hair colour is beautiful, but if you want a change or think a different colour would enhance your features - make your way to the hair salon. They are professionals and will know what colour will suit your pretty face. If you don't want such a drastic change, try just getting a few sun-kissed highlights to brighten up your look. For a shampoo that will make your hair look fabulous; Try Mane n' Tail. Shampoo is not as important as conditioner! Choose a natural conditioner that will make your hair glossy and super soft. Also you could purchase a deep conditioner, or use a home remedy, to lock in shine. Deep condition or use a hair mask once or twice a week, or as often as you have time for. Washing your hair with cold water is much better for your hair, as it makes it so much brighter and shinier.;
, Skin may or may not be the defining feature that holds you back from looking as gorgeous as you truly are! If you have long-lasting break outs or acne, go to the dermatologist. There is a good chance drugstore cleansers won't help if you have severe acne. Otherwise, you can purchase the clear and clear line of acne treatment. Cleanser will help clean your lovely skin, toner will brighten up your complexion, and moisturizer will guarantee a touchable face. You should exfoliate once or twice a week, depending on how oily your complexion is. Many girls like the bronzed look, but this isn't necessary for everyone. If you do wish to have a year-round tan, you should purchase a gradual self tanning moisturizer rather than lying out absorbing dangerous rays or going to the tanning booth! Drinking 8-12 glasses of water a day will assure your skin to keep hydrated and healthy.
 Any lips will be gorgeous if you keep them hydrated by frequently applying a good lip balm (such as Bert's Bees) and exfoliating with sugar and Vaseline or by rubbing your toothbrush across your lips in circular motions. You may want to purchase a lip plumper for fuller lips, but a more natural substitute could be a small amount of cayenne pepper mixed with your regular lip balm, although this does sting and causes your lips to be very red.
 Foundation is not necessary and does nothing but clog your pours. A nice substitute for uneven skin is exfoliation and tinted moisturizer. Use a concealer for pimples or dark under eye circles. For a rosy glow, use a peachy pink blush on the apples of your cheeks to brighten up your face. Applying a white eyeliner on your waterline and a black eyeliner underneath makes your eyes seem bigger and curling your eyelashes and applying a lengthening mascara helps eyelashes stand out!

, Try a good brand, such as St.Ives, Clean 'n' Clear, etc. Or, for a more natural, home treatment, try this. For your exfoliator, go for some sugar and water and mix the two into a paste. For the toner, get a lemon or a lime. You could also use the juice mixed with salt. For the cleanser, water and soap work wonders. Dove, Ivory, and Softsoap are good brands. Create a thick, luxurious lather, apply to your face, let it stay on for one to five minutes, and rinse off! Toothpaste works well on your impurities when used moderately. For scars, acne-related or not, you could use concealer or liquid foundation. After that, to ward the nasty skin problems away, avoid oily foods, quit stressing, avoid touching your face so much, and always be clean. It will be hard, but over time you'll get the gist! For warts or eczema, lotions will help, but you should go to the dermatologist!

