 Children need precise directions. Don’t let them think that you are uncertain when you are setting boundaries.Avoid ending sentences with questions. Things like “right?” or “ok?” can make your children think you are uncertain of what you’re saying.
Be direct about what you expect. Make it clear that you expect them to obey any boundaries that you set for their actions or behavior.
Let them know there are consequences for their actions. Tell them what will happen if they cross any boundaries you set for them.
Don’t yell or raise your voice. Speak in a calm and clear voice that will not upset your kids.
 Even if your expectations are clear, children will inevitably get upset with you when they are punished. Be prepared to deal with their emotions and to respond appropriately.Be prepared for their emotions. Seeing your child upset can be heartbreaking. Don’t let their emotions make you emotional and lose your cool.
Give your child space for their feelings and talk to them after they have let them out.
Don’t make them ashamed of their emotions. Children learn that certain emotions are not acceptable if they are punished for their emotional response.
 When children are throwing a tantrum, it's easy to get embarrassed and avoid doling out consequences for the moment. Make sure you still show them that misbehavior will not be rewarded.


Stay calm if you're in public. Putting on a smile can make your child calm down and show other people that you have everything under control.
If you're in public and your kid's throwing a tantrum, get them out of there. Often kids throwing a tantrum will calm down once they are in a different environment.Talk to them slowly and calmly. Let them calm down once you're in a safe environment.
Ask them why they are throwing a tantrum. Kids can be set off by small things. After they are calm, make it clear that such behavior is not acceptable.
 If your kids are rebelling against your rules, there's likely a reason. Talk to them about their actions and remind them of the consequences. Rebellious kids can often become free-thinking adults.


Kids may start to rebel as they get older. Older kids may think they don't need to obey boundaries or rules anymore.Involve rebellious kids in setting boundaries. Offer them the ability to decide boundaries if they start obeying yours.
Change boundaries a little at a time. Give them rewards like a later curfew if they are able to obey your incremental boundary changes.
Don't punish rebellious kids. It will make them want to rebel even more and is not effective at changing rebellious behavior.

