 There is a lot of variety between brands and styles of goat cheese. Not only does flavor differ, but so does texture and crumbliness. Accordingly, you may find you like certain type of goat cheese more than others, or that some types work better for certain uses.Fresh goat cheese is usually packaged in tubes or tubs of various sizes and shapes. It is also sometimes packaged in single-serving triangles that are great for packed lunches.
 Ageing goat cheese for a few months in controlled conditions allows the cheese to ripen. This leads to a more firm texture, as well as a more potent flavor. Aged goat cheese can even be grated, so is great for topping dishes from salads to lasagna., The variety and popularity of different soft-ripened goat cheeses has lead to the develop of several options in this category, each with a distinctive reputation. Note that the soft white rind is edible.Valençay is sold in a pyramid container, and relatively dense, but still very creamy. Earthy, nutty flavors make this particular goat cheese especially good on burgers or other grilled meats.
Another brand, called Crottin gets more dry as it ages, which makes for an especially crumbly goat cheese.
Bûcheron, on the other hand, gets softer - as well as more flavorful - as it ages. Eat it younger for a mild, slice-able goat cheese.
Finally, Florette is especially creamy, with a texture similar to Brie. This one is especially good mixed into omelets.
 All types of goat cheese will keep for at least a few weeks in your fridge. Most importantly, keep them tightly sealed from the air. The vegetable crisper is the best location in the fridge, as temperature is help especially constant.


Soft and semi-soft goat cheese should be stored in a resealable plastic container.
Wrap harder goat cheeses in parchment or wax paper before wrapping them tightly in aluminum foil or plastic wrap.
Remove any goat cheese from the fridge roughly half an hour before you want to serve it, especially on its own. Goat cheese is best served at room temperature.

