 Set the big game apart from all the rest by making the day or night before a special occasion. Do something new as a group to reinforce your bond. Host a dinner, go on a road trip, or go to the movies to see an inspiring film together.It doesn’t necessarily have to be the day or night before the match. Schedules might conflict, or your coach may want everyone well rested for the game. Just make it sometime soon before the big game.
You can make the upcoming game the focus of your evening if talking about it boosts everyone’s excitement. But you can also leave that for practice and focus on having fun instead. The point is to strengthen your bond and build team spirit, regardless of what you do.
 If possible, have someone film your games throughout the season. Then, before the big game, have a screening with your team to watch your greatest moments. Either watch your best game where everyone was on point, or create a highlight reel of individual plays and triumphs.You can do this at any time in the days leading up to the game. Have a late practice and watch it after your workout, make it part of your special get-together outside of practice, or even watch it on the day of, on the bus ride there or in the locker room.
 Remember: listening to music is a great way to pump yourself up. So is staying active. So combine the two strategies and build unity and excitement at the same time.Sing whatever songs come to you as a group on the bus ride there for fun to boost your camaraderie.
Then decide on an anthem or anthem(s) to be your battle-song for warm-ups to stoke yourselves up as starting time draws near.
 Focus everyone’s attention on the upcoming game with a quick speech. Do this during the practice beforehand, your get-together, on the day of, or all three. Keep it short, no more than a couple minutes, because you want your teammates to stay active to stoke themselves up, too. Also:Focus on positive statements. Avoid calling attention to anything negative. For instance, if you haven’t won a game in a while, leave your record unmentioned. Instead, emphasize how well everyone has performed in recent practices.
Keep it simple. Leave strategizing and specific instructions to individual teammates out of it. Stick to general statements, like “We got this in the bag,” and “I know we can do this.”
Emphasize the team, not individuals. Avoid singling out star players and putting too much burden on them, which might psych them out instead of psyching them up. At the same time, boost other teammates’ confidence by always using the inclusive “we.”

