 Many people equate solitude with loneliness. They are not the same. Loneliness is subjected to you by other people. It can make you feel sad or miserable.Solitude, on the other hand, can be a time of rejuvenation and exploring the self. Here are just a few benefits of spending time alone:Your brain has a break to rest and reboot.
You are more capable of being productive.
You learn more about yourself during moments of solitude.
You have a better opportunity to problem-solve and weigh your options.
You have an improved perception of yourself and therefore choose more healthy relationships.;
, Take baby steps. If you are a person who tends to think solitude is boring or uncomfortable, it may not do well to force yourself into long bouts of solitude. In this case, it's better to slowly increase the amount of time you spend alone.

If you are always surrounded by others, simply schedule in about 30 minutes of solitude each day for a week. You might choose to drive or walk to work on your own instead of joining someone else. You might go for a hike alone or visit the beach on your own. Just commit to doing a short, 30-minute activity without anyone else present or demanding your attention.
Take notes on the experience. Was it better than you anticipated? Were you bored? Why? Write down as many details as possible to better understand your aversion to being alone.
 Just because you find solitude boring doesn't mean it has to be. If you have periods of alone time approaching, make plans so that your solitude is filled with interesting and fulfilling activities.


For example, if you have to stay home on your own for a weekend, you could rent some cool movies, plan to do a creative project, or complete schoolwork during your alone time. To keep your energy revved, gather fun music, books, and other tools to make the time less boring.
Preparing for moments of solitude can make the difference between the time dragging by and going by more quickly. Simply fill the hours with things you already love to do.

