 A rookie mistake when it comes to choosing a cigar to go for the most expensive one available in an attempt to impress. Someone who's new to cigars won't be able to distinguish the subtle differences between a high-end and a mid-tier cigar anyway. So go for something reasonably priced., A full strength cigar might be too much for someone who's just starting out. Pick something rated as mild or medium-bodied until you've got more experience with cigars., A lot of beginners make the mistake of going for a smaller, thinner cigar when starting out, thinking it will be easier to handle. The opposite is actually the case. A smaller cigar will burn faster, and the hot part will be closer to your mouth. Smaller cigars make for a more intense experience that should be saved until you're a pro.
 Let the tobacconist know how often you smoke, how much you're looking to spend, and anything else related to your smoking preferences. Utilize their knowledge of cigars. They'll be glad to help you pick the right one.You should be buying your cigar at a shop made for such a thing. Good cigars need to be kept at a certain level of humidity, so a cheap cigar from the drugstore won't do for proper enjoyment.
 If not pre-cut, use a clipper to cut an edge at the mouth end of the cigar. Most recommend guillotine clippers for beginners. You want to cut off enough to get a good draw, but not so much that the cigar starts to unravel. Cut just below the seam or shoulder of the head, where it starts to slope.If you don't have a clipper and you're at a bar, ask the bartender if they will lend you one.
 This step isn't necessary, but it's a way to test the quality of the cigar. Draw through the cigar before lighting it and make sure it draws smoothly. If not, you can try cutting a little farther down the head so that more air flows through, but be careful not to cut too far., You have a number of choices when it comes to lighting your cigar.Cigarette lighters, like Zippos, should be avoided, as the extra chemicals can affect the taste, and you'll look very inexperienced holding a Zippo to a cigar.
Torch lighters are both easy to use and effective.
Matches are an option, but harder for beginners, because you'll need to use multiple matches.
For the most enjoyment and class, use a cedar spill. Most manufacturers of premium cigars include thin sheets of cedar with their cigar packages. The cedar will impart extra flavor into the cigar as you light with it.
 Before lighting the cigar, you want to prime it. Hold the tip of the cigar just above the flame. Spin the cigar and get the tip evenly heated by the flame., Continue to toast the foot of the cigar. Once you see the first signs of smoke, put the cigar to your mouth and puff gently. Fill your mouth with smoke while you continue holding the foot just above the flame. Take your mouth of the cigar and exhale. Continue holding the foot just above the flame until it glows evenly and brightly. You'll know your cigar is fully lit when the whole foot glows bright orange., Fill your mouth with smoke and then exhale it out. Do this four or five times to get the cigar going., Whether or not you remove the band on the cigar is up to you. Most prefer to leave it on because taking it off can risk tearing the paper. Also, the band works as convenient reference point for where to hold the cigar., Draw from your lit cigar but don't inhale the smoke. Instead, let it linger in your mouth for a few seconds. Enjoying a cigar is about the flavor of the smoke in your mouth, not getting it in your lungs. Even most long-time cigar smokers don't inhale, as the smoke is very harsh on your lungs, and inhaling into your lungs adds nothing valuable to the experience.To avoid inhaling, imagine you're sucking liquid through a straw, rather than breathing in air.When you exhale, exhale slowly. If you have the skill, you can even blow a smoke ring or two while doing so!

, Smoking your cigar too quickly will cause it to burn too hot. This will affect the flavor in a negative way. Cigars burn slowly, and are made to be enjoyed leisurely. For a rule of thumb, take a draw every 30 to 60 seconds or so., Don't try ashing the cigar until the ash is at least an inch long. If the ash won't budge, continue to wait before ashing. Good cigars only need to be ashed once or twice. The longer the ash stays on the cigar, the better its quality.If you don't have an ashtray handy, you can ash the cigar in the grass. Premium cigars are natural, so they won't harm anything.
 Don't put the cigar out like a cigarette by snuffing it out. When you're done smoking, simply place the cigar with the foot end in the middle of the ashtray. It will go out on its own.If your cigar starts to go out before you're finished, simply ash it and relight it. However, if it's gone completely cold you're best off getting a new cigar, as the taste will be tainted.

