 Skanking falls strictly on the beat of the song, so you need to feel the pulse of the music before you begin. Start by tapping your foot along to the song to get the beat down. If you're having trouble keeping up, slow you foot down by tapping half as many beats as before.


Good songs to start with include "Pressure Drop," by Toots & The Maytalls, (slow tempo), by "Skank by Numbers," Mustard Plug (mid-tempo), or "9mm and a Three Piece Suit," by Streetlight Manifesto/Catch-22 (fast tempo).
Even if you aren't perfect, let yourself get into the music. Skanking isn't about perfection!;
, When you are skanking you'll only have one foot on the floor at any given time. Keep your knees slightly bent so that you can move them quickly. Leaning forward may feel weird at first, but it will help you keep your balance as you start moving.
 You want your foot to come back towards your butt, like you are getting ready to kick a soccer ball.
 Each kick will fall on a beat -- every time you would have tapped your foot, you want to be kicking one of your legs.


Start as slowly as you need in order to get in line with the song.
If you still struggle to get the beat right, try kicking in time with the drummer. Listen for one regular drum you can follow and skank to this beat.
 This is probably the hardest part of the dance. Hop on your standing leg while simultaneously bringing your kicking leg to the floor so that they've switched positions. The leg you were just standing on will now be bent back towards your butt.


Stay loose and with your knees slightly bent so that you can hop quickly.
Practice this at a slow tempo to work on transitioning your legs smoothly.
 With your elbow bent and your hands in a fist, throw your opposite arm forward in time with your legs. That means if you are kicking your right leg you will have your left arm forward. Bring your elbow back to your waist and repeat with the opposite arm.


Though this is the traditional way to have your arms, there is no "right" way. The only essential part is using the opposite arm as your foot. Toss your whole hand in front of your body, don't bend your elbows, or throw your hands up towards the sky if you'd like.
 Skanking is meant to be group dance-- forming skank lines, skank circles, or taking your dance into a skank pit. The only way to learn is to do it, and to do it with other people.
 When you let yourself go and really feel the music you'll start to make the dance your own and start to really have fun. Try skanking "double-time" (twice as many kicks), moving around while you skank, or spinning in place while you dance.


Remember, you can skank to most music that falls on an "upbeat," like reggae. Try skanking to a slower song like "Easy Skanking," by Bob Marley to get a feel for more relaxed skanking.
If you're looking for more good music to skank to, check out Bad Manners, The Specials, Reel Big Fish, Less Than Jake, The (English) Beat, The Toasters, General Public, or any other Two-Tone or 3rd Wave Ska bands.

