 Put a few teaspoons of water in the bowl on top of the diffuser. Light the candle under the diffuser and then sprinkle a few drops of your chosen essential oil into the water. The scent of the oil will waft gently around the room.


You can also use a reed diffuser to disperse the scent of the essential oil., Light a candle and wait a minute or two to allow a small amount of wax to melt. Blow out the candle and add a couple of drops of essential oil to the melted wax, before carefully relighting the candle. Take care not to drop any oil on the wick as essential oils are highly flammable.
 If you don’t have a diffuser or candles handy, you can just fill a small bowl or saucer with boiling water and then add a few drops of essential oil. The steam will waft the aroma of the oil around the room. Just make sure that you place the dish somewhere out of reach of pets and children.
 Fill a small spray bottle with 2 ounces of distilled water and 2 ounces of vodka or witch hazel. Then add 30-40 drops of your favorite essential oil (or a blend of two or more oils) and shake well. Spray this essential oil room spray into the air and onto furniture and linens, but take care to avoid polished surfaces., Sprinkle two drops of essential oil onto the cushions in your living space and your pillows. You will enjoy the aroma of the essential oils every time you sit or lay your head down. If you are worried about damaging the fabric, put the essential oil drops on cotton balls and place them inside the covers of your cushions and pillowcases.
 Since essential oils have antibacterial properties, they can be used to create natural multi-purpose cleaning sprays. You can use these sprays to clean non-porous surfaces such as tile, glass, and plastic. In a spray bottle, combine the following ingredients and shake well.1/2 cup of white vinegar or witch hazel
1/2 cup of water
15-20 drops of an essential oil of your choice (tea tree, lavender, lemon, and peppermint are good choices)
a few drops of dish soap (optional)

, Cut up an old cotton t-shirt into 5” squares. Every time you dry a load of laundry, add a few drops of your favorite essential oil to a t-shirt square and toss it into the dryer with your wet clothes. Then run the dryer as usual. Wash the squares after a few uses., Essential oils can be used in so many ways. Be on the lookout for ways that you can use them make your home smell great at all times. Here are some possibilities to consider:


Add essential oils to incense or smudge sticks. Add three drops of essential oil to incense sticks and smudge sticks. Burn the incense as normal.
Add essential oils to unscented products. Add a couple of drops of essential oil to unscented lotions, soaps and bath foams to enjoy the aroma of your favorite oils as part of your everyday routine.
Add a few drops of essential oil to your vacuum cleaner bag before turning it on. As you vacuum your house, the oil will disperse through the suction and make your home smell like the essential oil.

