 If you are going to be raising a market hog for a 4-H project or just for fun, then you do not need to get too technical with your selection. You can simply look for a pig that is in good health and that has no obvious defects. However, if you want to compete at a state fair or you want to get the best possible price for your hog's meat, then you may want to put some extra care into selecting your market hog.


Learn as much as you can about what the judges will consider if you plan to compete with your hog. Before you select a hog, you may want to see if you can get information about what the judges will consider. These considerations are often complex and cover several categories, such as structure, health, and attitude of the hog.
Read your 4-H swine raising project guide. Your guide can help you to navigate the complex process of raising swine. As part of your project, you may be required to complete activities and give presentations on several aspects of raising swine.Make sure that you check these guidelines to ensure that you are meeting your program's requirements.;
, It is crucial to purchase a hog that is in good health. Otherwise, your hog may not mature properly and you may have to spend money on getting the hog well. Before you purchase any hog, make sure that you observe it for signs of good health. If a hog shows any signs of illness, or if you notice that more than 10% of the producer's other hogs show signs of illness, then avoid purchasing a hog from this producer.


Signs of illness may include coughing, sneezing, wheezing, discharge from the nose, scratching, and/or being underweight.Ask the producer to show you the hog’s records, such as vaccinations and dewormers that have been administered to the hog.If the producer cannot or will not show you these records, then you may not want to buy from this producer.
 You will choose between a gilt and a barrow when you purchase a market hog. A gilt is a young female hog and a barrow is a young castrated male hog. Gilts may produce leaner meat than barrows, but barrows may gain weight faster than gilts.Consider your time frame and goals before you choose your hog’s sex. For example, if you have a shorter time frame, then your may want to choose a barrow since it will likely gain weight faster than a gilt.
 The offspring of two purebred pigs of the same breed is considered a purebred pig while the offspring of two pigs from different breeds is considered a crossbreed pig. Purebred pigs may have some superior traits, such as leaner body mass and good bone structure. However, crossbreed pigs are sometimes healthier than their purebred parents due to heterosis, which is when the combined genetics of two breeds produce a superior offspring.Common breeds of pig include the Yorkshire, Hampshire, Berkshire, Chester White, Duroc, Landrace, Poland China, and Spotted Swine.Choosing a healthy pig is your main priority, but you may also want to consider a pig’s genetics if you will be competing with your pig. Keep in mind that you will need to have a purebred pig's papers to register it as purebred for a competition. Ask to see these if you are considering a purebred pig.
Deciding between a crossbred pig and a purebred pig depends on your project goals. For example, if you plan to use a gilt (female pig) for breeding, then you might want to select a white breed pig, such as a Chester White, because white breed gilts have better mothering abilities than other breeds., Another good strategy for purchasing a quality market hog is to buy one from a producer that other 4-H members have gone to. Ask older members of your 4-H club where they purchased their market hogs and how successful those hogs were.Make sure that you avoid any producers that other 4-H members warn you away from as well. For example, if a 4-H member advises you to avoid a pig producer who often has sick pigs, then avoid that producer.

