 Don't leave this to chance or hope. Children living on farms need to be aware of the possible dangers from an early age and talking about the hazards will help them to grasp the importance of taking care., If a child wants to spend time with you but likes to wander off, make it a rule that the child always lets you know first. Teach the child to wait patiently until you have answered before leaving. Sometimes children can grow bored while you're mid activity, so making it clear that the child must wait is vital., Never let children play in or near a grain bin with grain in it, no matter if it's full or not. Children have died from suffocation when falling into grain bins, as the grain shifts over them like a funnel., Never allow a child to play in an area where it's unsafe and make it clear that play occurs in distinct places, such as the backyard, a purpose-build playground area or in the house. Beyond these areas, make it clear that play is out-of-bounds and that unless the child is helping under supervision, the child must stay put and watch or go back to the house.

Farmyards, corrals, stock pens, drenching areas, runs, etc. should all be out-of-bounds to children unless they are helping you under direct supervision.
If children lack farm safety knowledge, make the time to teach them.
 Children should never be close by or in an area that is a blind spot to you or they are at serious risk of injury or death. Children that are around machinery that is to be operated must be made to stand where you can see then when you start up machinery, be in an area where they are not at risk of being run over, and stay in that area until it is clear to move. Preferably children, especially those under 7 years of age, should be at least 50 feet (15.2 m) away from any sort of operating machinery, or even not in vicinity to begin with!, Many children riding ATVs have been injured or killed on farms when these vehicles roll over on uneven terrain or crash due to poor handling. Even with your guidance, an ATV ride can be dangerous for a child whose smaller body weight can result in being crushed by an overturned ATV. Make sure that children on such vehicles are wearing helmets that fit, are under your direct supervision and are not going fast.