 The simplest and most reliable way to avoid a speeding ticket is to drive within the speed limit. Driving cautiously and adhering to the law is both a sound way to avoid tickets and an exercise in public safety; speeding is recognized as a major contributing force in the quantity and severity of automobile crashes.Making the choice not to speed means being mindful and adjusting your driving habits accordingly.;
, It is difficult to accurately “feel” what speed you are going at in most modern cars; this is especially true when switching from a high speed road to a lower speed one.To get a real sense of how fast you’re going and to keep yourself from speeding, check your speedometer regularly, especially when switching between speed zones. Doing this might also improve your ability to gauge your speed over time by providing an accurate representation.
 While it might be your intention to avoid speeding, there are certain triggers on the road that may cause you to accelerate. Isolating these triggers in advance and preparing for them can help you prevent an erratic reaction when they do come about. Some potential triggers are:


being tailgatedovertaking other carskeeping up with traffic, Defensive driving means being prepared and driving safely to avoid accidents at the hand of other people’s bad driving.Defensive driving classes are available online and in person, and are often sought after by employers with employees who drive a passenger size company car for their work; when company drivers are involved in a crash, company insurance rates skyrocket, so this precaution is worthwhile.Some lessons from the courses that may help you be a more cautious driver are:


Prioritize safety when driving.
Prepare for the worst with regard to other drivers.
Be aware of your surroundings.
Cut out distractions.
 To be as cautious as possible about avoiding a speeding ticket, steer clear speed traps- areas with lower speed limits where police set up with the sole purpose of catching speeding drivers.Ask around for places others have noted as police hot-spots, and keep your eyes peeled for police cars. Look into phone apps that give warnings about nearby speed traps and cameras.

