 In a clique there are 5 types of people, Omega, Delta, Gamma, Beta, and Alpha. Although you want to be the Alpha in the clique, each has their special role in the clique that stitches the clique so tight together.


The Alpha. The queen bee. The puppet master. This girl pulls all the strings, inside and even outside the clique. She is the mastermind and is often described as manipulative, ruthless, and a bitch. Which is why people aren't attracted to her because of her traits, it's usually because of her status. You hate her, but you love her so much. She's pretty, gets whatever she wants, and is popular. And everybody wants to be her, which means people stab her in the back frequently for a chance to be on the top. So while being the Alpha is fun and glam, it sure can be a pain.
The Beta. The vice-president of the group. Although this role isn't as glamorous the Alpha is, it's much more easier as you don't have to make the decisions, just make sure the others follow that decision. She is considered the clone to the Alpha, and will basically do anything the Alpha says. She gives the Alpha all the latest drama and gossip and always keep her up-to-date. While Betas are said to be easy to control, like everyone else, they wish to rule, and sometimes if an Alpha doesn't treat her Beta right, she may stab you in the back and take over.
The Gammas. The followers. They aren't fully happy with their role, because being a Gamma means you don't have a choice in what you say or do, but you are invited to most of the parties and usually know all the gossip in the circle. The Gammas wish to be the Alpha, but they all know that if they mess with the Beta/Alpha too much in the wrong way they can easily be turned into an Omega, or even worse.. kicked out of the group. So it's easier to stay the way you are, after all, it's better than not being in the group!
The Deltas. The clique-crashers. They come and go, and sometimes depending on how uptight your clique is you may never even have Deltas at all. These girls are popular and funny, and don't exactly belong to a clique, they are just known everywhere. So giving them a place to eat and a few extra ears for them to talk to is worth it as it increases the clique's status. They are usually jokesters and very social, so they entertain the clique for the time being. They rarely ever officially join the clique, but if they did, they would usually start as a Gamma.
The Omegas. The outsiders. The fringes of the clique. No one knows for sure how they got in. There isn't a special trait about them really. They aren't that pretty, they aren't that funny, and they aren't that popular. No one really likes the Omegas, maybe the Deltas or Gammas, but not in a best friend way. They are just there for some reason, and they are unavoidable. Like house flies, you spray bug-repellant everywhere in your house but they keep coming in and you don't know how. And like house flies are, they are annoying. They are usually pretty immature and clueless. The members often leave her out of social events and hardly tell her any good gossip. The Alpha also tends to use her to do her dirty work and will convince the Omega she will like her more if she does, even though she never does. And like all the other members, she desperately wants to be the Alpha, but usually Omegas don't know where to start. But if you are reading this article and you are an Omega, soon you will.;
, And why do people like her so much when she's so mean sometimes? There are three things which causes people to be attracted to you in this order: Looks, Personality, and Status.


Learn the looks. AKA Ugly or Pretty. The first thing a person looks for in a friend is how they look. It's a no-brainer, really. Let's say you are at a new school and don't know anyone there, and before school starts there are a few groups of people talking. Half of the groups have messy hair, some acne, and not a good fashion sense. The other half has silky hair, a perfect complexion, and the cutest clothes. So who do you want to talk to? Group 1 or Group 2? The answer is obvious, group 2. For some reason, humans think that pretty people usually mean they are happy and successful in life, and that is the type of person people want to talk to.
Learn the Personality. AKA Good or Evil. Once you talk to the pretty, popular kids they invite you to sit with them at lunch (for new kids: populars love meeting new people, the more in their squad the better). You meet the alpha, and at first she seems super nice. But the longer you stay the more you realise how dark the mean the Alpha can be. As you are walking to class, a younger kid walks past and the Alpha "accidentally" elbows him and whispers "Nerd". The girls laugh and walk away, and since you don't want to be excluded, you follow. Then one day you talk to one of the omegas and she tells you how the Alpha told everyone that she was taking weight pills so she wouldn't get fatter. You start to feel sick around these girls, but there is one reason why you stay.
Status. AKA Popular or Unpopular. No matter what happens, there is usually that final factor which determines whether you stay with that group of friends or not, their status. Let's say one day in class you start to talk with a few other girls and they are all funny and nice. There is hardly any drama and they overall just seem like good people. So you would think, "Why not just leave the mean, popular girls for them?". The thing is, everyone wants to be popular. So although those one girls you met in class the other day are nice, they aren't popular. And even though the popular girls are mean and manipulative, being popular is like being royalty. Everyone knows who you are, you get to go to the latest parties, and you always know the hottest gossip. So why become a villager in the kingdom when you are a princess?

, Is she super pretty? Does she know everyone? Is she really sporty? Is she rich? Usually the difference between an Alpha and a Gamma is the Alpha has one special quality like being pretty or rich and knows how to manipulate someone. So really, becoming the new Alpha isn't that hard, it's just about finding how to get a super special quality compared to hers and some good tricks on manipulating people to liking you more.

