 Even though liposuction is a relatively minor procedure, there are still some risks involved – so candidates need to be in relatively good health. They should not have a compromised immune system, circulation problems, heart issues, lung disease, or chronic ailments like diabetes.Candidates should not be taking blood thinners (or must be able to stop taking them several weeks before the procedure), and they should not be allergic to lidocaine.;
, Liposuction is not a magic procedure that will turn an overweight body into a perfect body. It is a tool that can help you reach specific goals, with the aid of diet and exercise. If you don’t plan to also use diet and exercise to achieve your overall health and fitness goals, then liposuction may not be an effective choice for you.Typically, people get liposuction to target specific areas of fat deposits that do not respond well to diet and exercise.
Candidates should usually be within 25 pounds of their goal weight, and looking to contour their body a bit – not drastically change their overall appearance.
 Liposuction can be expensive, and insurance companies typically don’t cover any of the cost because they consider it an elective procedure. Liposuction normally costs between $3,000 and $10,000, depending on the location on the body, the doctor chosen, and the extent of the procedure.Make sure you can afford this type of expense before you commit to getting liposuction.
 Start looking for a plastic surgeon by doing some online research. You can find reviews and summaries online that outline other people’s experiences with similar procedures. Find a doctor in your area who has a lot of experience with the specific kind of procedure you’re interested in.Be sure to check the doctor’s website and follow up with an in-person consultation to make sure you are a good match before you take the process any further.
Don’t be afraid to shop around with several different doctors. It’s important to compare price, experience, and bedside manner to find the doctor that you are most comfortable with.
 In the United States, the American Board of Plastic Surgery (ABPS) is the governing body that qualifies any cosmetic or plastic surgeon to practice this specific field of medicine. You need to find a surgeon who is ABPS certified.Your doctor’s credentials should be clearly listed on their professional website.
Additionally, you can look for the distinction of holding a Certificate of Advanced Education in Cosmetic Surgery given by the American Society for Aesthetic Plastic Surgery (ASAPS).
In Canada, the equivalent of an ABPS certification is approval by the Royal College of Physicians and Surgeons of Canada.
Other countries should have similar board certifications that you should look for.
 A great resource for you to find the best plastic surgeon is often your family, friends, and acquaintances. If you know someone who has had liposuction (or another cosmetic procedure), ask them what they thought about their experience and whether they recommend their doctor.If you have friends who are doctors, you can also ask them for a recommendation.
Or ask your general practitioner doctor for a referral to a plastic surgeon they know of and trust.
 Make sure that you take your doctor’s orders seriously and follow all pre-op instructions to the letter. Your doctor may ask you to refrain from eating or drinking for a certain period before the procedure.This may also include taking any prescribed medications that your doctor recommends, or adjusting any doses of medication you may currently take.
You should also avoid taking aspirin, anti-inflammatory drugs, or herbal supplements as they can increase bleeding during the procedure.
 If you are a smoker, you should quit smoking as soon as you can before the procedure. Smoking can cause additional complications during the surgery – like problems with blood circulation. Smokers are also at a higher risk of chest infection after receiving anesthesia.At the very least, try not to smoke for several days before the procedure.
 After your procedure, you may feel a little bit groggy from the anesthetic. It’s important that you don’t try to drive yourself home in this condition, so ask a friend or family member to pick you up and take you home.Make sure you ask someone you trust to take care of you since you may be feeling a bit under the weather and foggy-headed.
 Remember that not all of the results of the procedure will be immediately visible post-op. It can take 3-6 months for the full effect to show. Even though some fat has been removed, it is often replaced by fluids and swelling. It takes time to heal from the procedure and see the finished product.Try not to get disappointed if your body doesn’t look exactly how you imagined immediately after the procedure.

