 Regardless of why your child is disrobing, it’s never a good idea to overreact when the behavior occurs. Not only will such histrionics fail to address the underlying issue, but they can also produce unwanted emotional and behavioral side-effects. Rather, take your child’s hand, lead them to the bathroom, and supervise as they put their clothing back on.For example, if you laugh or chase the child, they can learn that their misbehavior causes fun scenes and attracts lots of attention. If you reproach the child and act embarrassed, they can learn that bodies are shameful., If your child seems particularly prone to taking off their clothes directly after getting dressed in the morning, you might be able to prevent the behavior by distracting them during this crucial interval. Put on a favorite show, start playing with a loud, shiny toy, or pull out a colorful picture book to get your toddler’s attention away from their recently donned clothing.If distraction doesn’t work, try giving your child a bottle, a healthy snack, or a pacifier.
 Most toddlers learn to stop taking off their clothing once they grow up a bit and realize it doesn’t result in any positive attention. If your child persists in the behavior, though, you can discourage it more strongly by implementing short time-outs. Take them to another room and have them sit alone for five to ten minutes.If your child is refusing to get dressed after disrobing, have the time-out last as long as their refusal does. Make it clear that they can mitigate their punishment by correcting the behavior.
 Many times, a toddler undresses just because they can. In such simple cases, you can prevent the unwanted behavior by making the process more difficult. A measure as simple as putting buttoned shirts and pajamas on backwards can impede their movement to the extent that they either can’t remove the offending article, or they become bored or exhausted by the ordeal.Additionally, you can switch to cloth diapers with more secure clips, apply duct tape to the diaper, or select clothes with zippers or tiny, tedious buttons.