 This must be a container that is able to hold water. If using a basket, it should be lined with strong plastic or place a ceramic, glass or plastic bowl into it.
 Completely cover the oasis with water to make sure it is saturated. This will take about 15 minutes., With a knife, cut the foam to fit into container with about an inch over the containers top., Tape it to the edges with green floral tape so that it does not shift. The foam should fit tightly in the container. If there is too much water, you may empty a small amount out., You are now ready to add the greens you intend to arrange. You can decide how long or how short but it's nice to green a container with the edging longer. You do not have to cover all the foam, just enough that when flowers are in place you will not see the foam after., Make it tall, about 1 1/2 inches in length taller than your container. When working with flowers, always work in odd numbers, so that your center flower is one. Then choose odd amounts of the same flower. Usually do five for this flower., That gives you four. (Cut flowers to length you want piece to hang over.) The fifth flower should be cut a bit shorter than center one, then place in foam next to it., Fill in using space one; do not worry about leaving gaps. You can always fill those in later. You want the flowers to have spaces. Work your way around piece all sides. Do not worry about the piece being all the same all around.

Place flowers at angles. Use bright small flowers for filler.
 Here are a few options:

Add small pieces of gypsophila (babies' breath ) and fill in sections.
Or, make loops out of ribbon (floral wire the ribbon loops to a wood pic). Place those in between.
Some florists use greens (tree fern). Whatever you choose is alright. However, putting in too much of everything is odd.
 If not, you may add more water to the container. Check the container every few days to see if it needs more water. Some flowers, like hydrangeas, require a lot of water. Keep checking your arrangement––as long as the flowers are alive, they need water.