 Fever is a common symptom of toxoplasmosis. Touch your cat’s nose to see if it is wet and damp or dry and warm. If it is dry and warm, then your cat may have a fever. Additionally, if you notice your cat lying down more than usual with irritated or heavy eyes, then your cat may be lethargic due to a fever.You can also use a conventional digital thermometer to check your cat's temperature. You will need to insert the thermometer into your cat's rectum to do this. Oil the tip of the thermometer with lubricant jelly or Vaseline. Stabilize your cat on a flat surface. Gently and slowly rotate the thermometer to insert it. Insert it about an inch into its rectum. Remove the thermometer once you hear a beep.The normal body temperature of a cat ranges from 100.5 to 102.5 degrees Fahrenheit (38.2 to 39.2 degrees Celsius). A temperature above this indicates that your cat has a fever.;
, Loss of appetite is another common symptom of toxoplasmosis. If you notice your cat eating less or not eating at all, then it may be infected with the disease.Also observe changes in its eating patterns. If your cat becomes picky, or suddenly prefers dry food to wet (or vice versa), then it may be exhibiting signs of an illness like toxoplasmosis.
 Pneumonia is also a symptom of toxoplasmosis, although it is less common. If you notice a shortness of breath, wheezing, coughing, and/or shallow, rapid breathing, then your cat may have pneumonia as a result of toxoplasmosis.Take your cat to the vet immediately if you see your cat struggling to breathe with its mouth open.
 If you observe inflamed retinas, abnormally sized pupils accompanied by light sensitivity, and/or blindness, then your cat may be suffering from toxoplasmosis.For example, if you see your cat bumping into walls, furniture, and other objects, then it may be having trouble seeing.
 If you notice any personality changes in your cat, twitching of the ears, circling, head pressing, and/or seizures, then your cat’s central nervous system may be affected due to toxoplasmosis. Take your cat to the vet immediately if it is exhibiting any of these symptoms.Additionally, if you notice your cat having a hard time chewing and swallowing its food, then your cat may be experiencing a central nervous problem due to toxoplasmosis.
Incontinence may also indicate a central nervous problem.
 If you observe any of these symptoms in your cat, then take it to the vet as soon as possible. Your vet will ask you about the history of your cat’s health, including vaccinations and shots. Then your vet will run blood tests to confirm or disconfirm a toxoplasmosis diagnosis.The existence of a significant amount of IgM antibodies to T. gondii in your cat’s blood indicates that it has toxoplasmosis.

