 For example, as you get dressed in the morning, state in your mind "Okay, I'm putting on my pants, grabbing my wallet/keys/phone" etc. At first, you might think this is silly, but what it actually does is focus your attention on the moment you are in, ridding yourself of distractions, and getting yourself into the habit of being conscience of your actions. Active mindfulness!;
, Let's say that you are playing soccer. State in your mind the actions that you would like to perform, and start picturing your ideal movements on the field. Visualization training is used by coaches to enhance their player's performance, and has been proven to be very effective.

For example, Cristiano Ronaldo had his abilities tested in the dark. They discovered that his visualization was so effective, that all he needed to see was the ball being passed to him in order to visualize where he would need to be to meet the ball & the maneuvers he would have to execute in order to score.

Now the point of this article isn't to tell you how to be a really great soccer player, (although this kind of mindful training is very beneficial for skill acquisition), but to train your mind to be present & focused on only what you are doing.
 This might seem simple, but the amount of people who know this fact and overlook this point is quite astounding!

Often we place our concept of our "ideal" self is so far out of our initial grasp that we berate ourselves when we don't meet our high expectations. These high expectations that we set ourselves up against can lead to failure - even when we feel like we have met out own expectations, others will think that it wasn't enough!

By using our "ideal" self to push us forward whilst also being our own best support when we improve even a little bit, we stop stagnating and we begin to really make strides of progress! So every time you do something, anything, think about what you did right and let yourself be happy!!!









, Imagine your actions, and you will begin to be more sure of what you are doing in your daily life! When you become your best supporter and congratulate your little wins, you will start moving at a pace you may have never have thought possible.

