 Some teachers may never have taught a student with diabetes. This means your child’s teacher may be uncomfortable with a student with diabetes or unaware of how to deal with the condition. Before the start of the school year, request a meeting with your child’s teacher, principal, school nurse, counselors, or whoever else you believe may need to be aware of your child’s condition.If the teacher feels uncomfortable with your child’s condition, see if it is possible to switch her to a class with a teacher who feels more comfortable.
If needed, schedule meetings with the superintendent of the school district to express your concerns.
 Sending your child to school should make you feel like you’re sending him to a safe place. If the diabetes protocol in your school doesn’t seem right or you don't feel like your child is safe or his needs are being met, make sure to voice your concerns to the school or the school board.In some school districts, you will have the most knowledge about diabetes, especially if no child before yours has has it. You have to be your child’s advocate.
If the teachers or other staff members are unfamiliar with the procedures for your child, instruct or train them on how to properly monitor your child, use an insulin pump, or do anything else related to your child’s diabetes.
The American Diabetes Association offers training programs for non-medical school staff members., When you learn your child has diabetes, you should become familiar with the disabilities laws. This helps you be familiar with what schools and schools districts have to lawfully do to provide care for your child.Don’t expect the school or workers at the school to know the laws. Learn them for yourself so you can make sure your child gets the proper care.
Not all states have the same diabetes protection laws. Some state laws are confusing, complicated, and unclear. Learn what your state’s laws are so you will be prepared.No matter what the state’s laws are, your child has rights under federal disabilities laws.
If you are unsure about laws and your child’s rights, the American Diabetes Association provides contact information so you can talk to experts and legal advocates to help you learn how to best help your child.
 When you let your child’s school know that she has diabetes, make sure you are clear about her condition. This includes all treatment she should receive at school, emergency protocol, and even a detailed description of the condition.Give your child’s school information about diabetes with ways to recognize warning signs of hyperglycemia or hypoglycemia and how to treat conditions.Emphasize how important it is for your child's blood sugar to remain stable. Studies have shown that chronic high blood sugar can impair brain development in children.Make sure your child’s school has your child’s diabetes management plan, emergency contact information, and information on your child’s diabetes team.
Consider, too, calling the parents of your child's friends and explain your child's condition. In particular, talk to the parents of your child's best friends or wherever your child spends a significant amount of time. They can then explain your child's condition to their kids, so that they have a better understanding and are less likely to make fun, and may be able to help in an emergency.
This might be especially important if your child has Type 1 diabetes. Many schools deal with Type 2 diabetes but have relatively little experience with Type 1.
 At the start of the school year, or when you discover your child has diabetes, get together with the teachers and school nurse to come up with a diabetes management plan. You may need to coordinate and work along with your child’s doctor, too.This plan outlines what your child will need done during the day to manage his diabetes. This includes trips to the school nurse for meds, shots, or testing, snack breaks, extended or adjusted lunch times, and bathroom breaks.
Make sure the school has emergency contacts for everyone, including your child’s doctor.
Make sure the school has a glucagon emergency kit and the people are aware of how to use it in case of emergencies. Your child's teachers and coaches should know how to use the glucagon emergency kit, along with the school nurse.
 When your child goes to school, she needs all her diabetes supplies. You should help her get together a kit. Make it a part of your evening routine for you and your child to check the kit to see if there’s anything it needs.This may include insulin and syringes or a blood testing meter with strips, lancets, and batteries. If your child uses an insulin pump, include that.
You may also want to include antiseptic wipes and other first aid items.
Snacks that raise blood sugar are also needed. This may be a few pieces of hard candy, four ounces of juice, eight ounces of low-fat milk, or a few tablespoons of raisins.
Include a bottle of water.