 When headed out for a date or for a night out with the boys, a polo can add a touch of sophistication to your look. The contrast between the preppiness of the shirt and the ruggedness of the jacket can create a playful yet slightly edgy appearance.


Much like normal tees, single-color polos and those with simple designs, like horizontal stripes, do well when paired with a jean jacket.
Add to this look with an accessory, like a watch, necklace, or bracelet. Preserve your sophisticated look by wearing a simple belt with polos.
Avoid casual footwear, like sneakers, with this style. Slightly formal shoes, like loafers or derby shoes, work best., Pair collared button-down shirts with your jean jacket to achieve a smart casual look. A plain white shirt will work with all colors of jacket. To create a smoother blend between outer and lower layers, choose colored shirts that complement your jacket’s color.


A simple tie can make this outfit slightly more formal. Ties with complicated designs will likely be too busy or distracting.
Simple patterned dress shirts, like those with plaid, checked, or striped designs, can add some pop to this look., Chinos pair well with most jean jacket outfits. Even wearing a plain t-shirt, in chinos you’ll look comfortable but still sharp. Polo shirts can elevate a chino-jacket combo to business casual.Dress this look up with a button-down shirt or find the trendy middle ground with a graphic tee.
 Break out a darker colored or fur collared jacket for dates and special events. Prioritize these styles for work functions, as they are often considered suitably stylish for the workplace.


Darker colored jackets, like those that are dark blue or black, tend to look more formal.
Fur trim around the collar of your jacket will provide warmth on cool spring nights while giving you a cultured appearance., If you work on-site in construction or a similar field, you might need a durable outer layer but formal attire. Blue jackets will pair with most colors of slacks, like black, brown, and light gray. Wear black, dark blue, and dark gray slacks with black jackets.Your formal shirt and trousers will make a tie seem less out of place beneath your jean jacket. Match your tie with your outfit as you would for a normal suit.

