 Some cats may not display any symptoms with a mild hernias. The most common symptoms associated with hiatal and diaphragmatic hernias include drooling, vomiting, or coughing. The cat also often experiences problems breathing, which may lead to resistance to exercise. The gums and lips may have a bluish tint.Cats may also not want to eat and lose weight. This may be related to problems swallowing.
 Hiatal and diaphragmatic hernias occur either due to birth defects or from trauma. Whenever your cat shows any symptoms, take them to the vet. The vet will perform a physical exam. If you have a kitten, the vet will look for other birth defects. If the cat has experienced trauma, the vet will find the injuries and treat those first., The vet will need to perform imaging tests to determine the extent of the damage. An x-ray may be used to look for herniated areas, such as gas-filled tissue or organs that have no border.Small cameras with lights may be inserted into your cat’s digestive tract to get clearer images of the hernia. This can also help the vet find complications, like foreign bodies or pneumonia.
 Hernias that occur due to trauma may need to be repaired surgically. The vet will fix the abdominal wall and restore all organs to their proper locations. Surgery will help to prevent any scarring between the chest cavity and the intestines. The cat will have to go under anesthetic.The vet may use sutures to help close the hernia. Some organs may have to be surgically attached to the abdominal wall to keep them in place.
 The vet may prescribe medication for your cat. Your cat may need medicine to help aid the digestive process. The vet may also give the cat medicine to help strengthen the sphincter, which will help with digestion.If the cat has pneumonia or a bacterial infection, they will be given antibiotics. Sometimes antibiotics are given after surgery to help prevent infection around the incision.
 The vet may suggest that you change the cat’s diet to help with their digestion. Generally, cats will need to eat smaller meals more often throughout the day. They also need foods that are lower in fat.Talk to your vet about a good low fat cat food for your cat’s condition.
The vet may also suggest probiotics or antacids to help the cat with their digestion.

