 Any communication or other information you have can help the agency act on your complaint and shut down the scammer.Keep a log of the approximate date and time you were contacted, the name of the company that contacted you, and the amount of money involved.
You also want to take down details about the offer. If you had a conversation with a sales representative, either in person or over the phone, take notes so you can recount it.
If you were sent mail or email, keep copies of those documents. You typically can attach them to your complaint.
If you were directed to a website, jot down its URL so you can include that in your complaint as well.
 Although the FTC cannot resolve individual complaints, it does provide information to law enforcement agencies.Go to https://www.ftccomplaintassistant.gov and click on the "scams and rip-offs" category. This will bring up a list of sub-categories. You can choose the one that matches the offer you received, or you can proceed under "no match found" if there isn't an accurate sub-category.
Once you click on the appropriate sub-category, you'll be asked how you were contacted by the company. Then you will enter as many details as you know about the company, including address, phone number, and names of representatives who contacted you.
You may provide information about yourself as well if you want, but this is not required. Providing your name and contact information allows the FTC to contact you if additional information is required on your complaint.
When you complete your complaint you have the opportunity to review your information. You may want to print a copy of the review page for your records. If you provided an email address, you'll get a confirmation email when your complaint is received.
 Usually a part of your state's attorney general's office, the state consumer protection office takes complaints from state residents regarding scams.You also can call or write the attorney general's office in the state where the company is located.
The attorney general's consumer protection division will investigate the company and file a lawsuit against them if necessary.
Particularly if you've lost money as a result of the scam, the attorney general can sue for restitution.
 If the travel scam was communicated to you over the internet, the IC3 will take your complaint and distribute its information to all relevant law enforcement agencies.You don't have to be the victim of a crime to file a complaint with the IC3. If someone sent you a scam offer and you didn't fall prey to it, that still constitutes an attempted crime.
The IC3 is solely for crimes that took place over the internet, so use it if you received an offer through email or wish to report fraud on a website.
Go to http://www.ic3.gov/default.aspx and click on the red "file a complaint" button. You will be taken to a page with IC3's privacy policy, which you must read and accept to proceed.
Unlike FTC complaints, you must include your name and contact information if you file an IC3 complaint. These complaints are distributed to law enforcement agencies, who may need to call you for additional information or updates on an investigation.
You also will have to include information about the scam travel company, including the name of the company, its address and phone number, and any other information you have.
After you file your complaint, you will receive an email with your complaint ID number and a password. You can use these at any time to check the status of your complaint.
 The FCC has jurisdiction over fraudulent offers made over the phone.You also can report phone scams to the FTC.To start your FCC complaint, visit https://consumercomplaints.fcc.gov/hc/en-us and click on the box that corresponds to the way you learned about the travel scam.
You must include your email address when you file a complaint with the FCC online. The complaint form offers you the option of attaching files that are related to the travel scam you described in your complaint, such as an email you received.
 If you received an offer in the mail inviting you to participate in a travel opportunity that turned out to be a scam, the company can be investigated and prosecuted for mail fraud.The online mail fraud complaint form can be found at http://ehome.uspis.gov/fcsexternal/default.aspx. You must enter your name and full mailing address to submit a complaint.
If you have the offer itself or the envelope it was mailed in, check the appropriate box on the complaint form and keep it in a safe place. This can be used as evidence.

