 This can be your backyard, a forested area, or really any place you want it.
 These will be useful in building your fort., It can be as big as you want. Start clearing away debris like leaves, grass, and sticks., They don't have to be huge, in fact, skinny branches about as wide as as a half dollar coin work very well., Do this about every 6 inches. These will be the walls, so keep in mind that the boulders and fallen trees can act as walls for your fort, too. Use those when you can., Keep a space clear for the door.,, These should be a minimum length of 15 inches., Place a 3 foot long stick with a similar width to the upright ones. Weave it in and out of the upright sticks. Do this the whole length of your fort. In, out, in, out, in, out, in, out, making sure you alternate.

Most sticks will only go in and out of two sticks, so don't force them, or they will break. Try to keep from having two consecutive layers of sticks both facing in or out.
 It should resemble a bird's nest., Now, you want your insulation., Stuff it very tightly. Remember that these will eventually dry out and become thinner, so keep a little extra on hand., This will stop anyone from peeking inside, stop extreme temperatures from getting in, and also provides a more professional look to the overall finish., Fill it halfway with water (this is why it is handy to have a stream nearby). Fill the rest with dirt and a few torn up leaves. The mix should be the consistency of sludge. Then, using anything from your hands to a spoon, plop a bunch of the mixture onto the walls. Keep mixing this until you have all the weak spots covered. You can do the entire wall if you want. Let it dry., Secure it by lashing twine, rubber bands or parachute cord to the rest of the fort so that it makes a door frame., Tie that to the top stick., This can be done with black walnut stains or paint., Gather more (yes, more) sticks if your fort is small. If it is larger, consider a tarp or tin roof.,, The result should leave little shafts of light pouring into the fort., If you often get snow in your area, try not to make the roof too heavy- It could collapse.,