 Make sure to make your acceptance clear early on, to avoid any possible confusion.


Thank the sender and state that you have accepted the job offer.
It is very important that the tone of your writing is gracious and professional, since your acceptance marks the beginning of a long term working relationship.
For example, you might say "I am thankful to receive the formal notification of being hired as <position> and after careful consideration, I gladly accept the job offer. I look forward to join <name of the company> on <Date of joining>.
 Exhibit enthusiasm to give the impression that you are the right choice for the job.


Show that you are really excited to be a part of the company.
Don't exaggerate or use saccharine language, but express that you are happy to work at the company in a professional and appealing manner.
Make sure your tone is positive.
Be genuine and impactful, but not desperate or over the top.
For example, write: "I am really excited to be a part of <name of the company> and I know that this is an excellent choice to add value to your business and pursue my career goals."

, Reiterate your understanding of the agreement as it stands between you and your employer.


Mention your understanding of the terms and conditions of your hiring, to confirm that you have formally accepted the agreed upon compensation package.
Include details such as your salary and benefits, in combination with the start date of your employment and the name of the person you will report to on your first day.
In case your position is on a contract basis, double check the end date as well.
Mentioning these points is extremely important, because it reconfirms that a common understanding exists and opens doors for discussion in case there is any confusion.
Putting things in writing favors you immensely in the case of any future dispute.
For example, say: "As per our phone conversation, my starting salary is <amount> and benefits include <>. My official working hours are <> to <> and I will be reporting to <name> on the first day of joining <name of company>."

, Running through your assumed responsibilities is a good way to provide you and your employer certainty regarding what your role will be at your new job.


When you receive a job offer letter, it is usually for a certain position.
In your acceptance letter, clarify any questions you may have about what exactly is expected of you in your new role.
You may have a good idea of your role, but it never hurts to clarify details regarding:

The tasks that you will have to take on immediately.
Timeframes regarding the things that will be expected of you.
Any specific trips or projects that are coming up immediately.
 The last part of your letter will tie up any loose ends.


Include a statement about giving notice of your departure to your previous employer.
Again, thank the addressee and restate your enthusiasm to start working with your new employer.
Include your contact details in case the employer wants to contact you for any reason.
Your statement would be like: "I have to serve a <> days notice period with my previous employer so that they get adequate time to make arrangements for my departure and prepare for the replacement. Bearing that in mind, I look forward to starting work at <name of the company> on <start date>. In case of additional correspondence, please feel free to contact me at <contact number>. You may also reach me at <email address>. Thank you, and I look forward to starting working with you. Sincerely, <your name>"

, Proofread the entire document for any grammatical errors and make sure that the terms and conditions have been properly listed.


Including typos or misspellings in your acceptance letter is not a good way to demonstrate your professionalism.
You have succeeded so far at presenting a professional image, so don't drop the ball as soon as you know you've got the job.
 Make and keep a copy of your letter for your own records.


Although you probably won't encounter any problems, it is always helpful to have a record of any professional correspondence in case of future disagreements.

