 Nutrient-dense foods are foods that are calorie-heavy but also filled with nutrients our bodies need to fuel activity. These are essential for recovery, as they will help to restore normal levels of micronutrients in your body and decrease the risk for developing conditions associated with nutritional deficiencies, such as osteoporosis or hair loss. While certain foods, like empty carbs and junk food, can move the number on the scale up fast, they're not as healthy an option as going for high-calorie, nutrient-dense choices.


Nutrient-dense foods are beneficial in that you need to eat less to gain the benefits. This can be particularly helpful to people recovering from anorexia, who struggle to adjust to typical portion sizes. A small or medium serving of a nutrient-dense food provides needed calories and nutrition.A nutrient-dense meal generally includes high-protein options mixed with fruit, veggies, and healthy carbohydrates like brown rice and whole grain pasta or bread.
Some examples of nutrient dense food include salmon, chicken, walnuts, bananas, flaxseeds, shellfish, whole grain bread, olive oil, brown rice, oatmeal, yogurt, and dried fruits without added sugar.;
, When you have an opportunity to add an extra 50 or 100 calories, take it. Any amount of calories helps the process of gaining back weight.


Plant fats, such as nuts, are healthy and high in calories. Add mixed nuts to a salad. Nut-based spreads, like almond or cashew butter, can be added to toast and sandwiches. Hummus is made from chickpeas, and can be a great dip or addition to a pita wrap.Consider adding extra salad dressing to salads or pasta, ketchup or mayonnaise to grilled meat or sandwiches, sour cream to Mexican dishes.
When possible, opt for high-calorie condiments and dressings such as ranch, mayonnaise, thousand island dressing, and Caesar salad dressing.Granola, loaded with nuts and dried fruits, is a good source of nutritious calories and can be added to yogurt or eaten as a snack.Drizzle canola or olive oil, which both contain healthy fats, over salads, soups, casseroles, and whole grains.
 Many calories can be gained by drinking beverages that contain nutritious calories. Liquids aren't as filling as whole foods so you can add nutrients and calories without feeling bloated.


Good, healthy liquid choices include 100% fruit juice, kefir, skim milk or milk alternatives (such as soy or almond milk), buttermilk, and teas sweetened with natural sweeteners like honey.
Smoothies, made from fruits and veggies, are ideal. They are calorie-heavy, easy to consume, and can be bolstered with a variety of healthy additives like wheat germ, nut butter, and protein powder.Meal replacement smoothies and drinks are also a good choice, and available at most groceries stores. For optimal weight gain, however, eat them in addition to solid food snacks and bolster them with fruits, powdered milk, or soft silken tofu.