 Spinach can be incorporated into smoothies in a number of ways. You could hide a handful among fruits and chocolate powder for a smaller daily dose, or put it front and center in a nutritious green smoothie. For instance, you might put one cup (236 millilitres) of milk, one packed cup (30 grams) of spinach, one packed cup (30 grams) of kale, three ice cubes, three strawberries, one banana, and a spoonful of yogurt into your blender, then blend on high for thirty seconds.Drink your spinach smoothies immediately.
The iron in spinach is easier to absorb when consumed along with the vitamin C you’ll get in fruit.;
, Adding spinach to an omelet is easy and the result is delicious. For instance, in a cast-iron pan, sauté a handful of chopped onions in a tablespoon of oil on medium heat. While the onions are cooking, mix two eggs together until they achieve a relatively consistent appearance. Add a handful of spinach to the pan when the onions are translucent. Let the spinach and onions cook another minute. Pour the eggs into the pan. After three or four minutes, sprinkle the eggs with feta, salt, and pepper, to taste. Place the pan in the oven and let it cook until the edges brown. Remove the pan, fold the egg mixture over itself, and serve with catsup or salsa., For a savory breakfast, you could try spinach and ricotta cheese pancakes. To get started, pour about two tablespoons of oil into a pan or onto your griddle. Set the griddle or pan to medium heat.Drain one cup (250 grams) of ricotta or cottage cheese and whisk with a spatula until it is smooth. Add, two egg yolks, one finely-chopped green chili, 1/3 cup (120 grams) rice flour, ¾ teaspoon of chili flakes, and salt, to taste. Mix everything together until it becomes a relatively consistent batter.
Spoon about three tablespoons of batter onto your pan or griddle. Cook for about three minutes, then flip and cook the other side for about three minutes, too. If the pancakes aren’t browning, cook them for a bit longer.
Squeeze a lime wedge over the pancakes and top with salsa.

