 Dating websites online often have millions of female users that are single and looking to meet people. Some websites are free while others require you to pay a monthly fee. Determine which platform you want to use and visit the dating website so that you can create an account.Popular dating apps include Match, Zoosk, eHarmony, and OKCupid.
If you're just looking for friends, you can make an account on Meetup.com.;
, Dating apps like Tinder, Coffee Meets Bagel, and Hinge are integrated with Facebook and transfers the information from your social media profile to help build your dating profile. You can download these apps to your phone and use them to browse girls in your area that are also looking to meet someone., Once you create your online profile, you can fill it out to meet your needs. Include a recent photo of yourself and add details in your profile of what you're looking for in a girl. Specify if you're looking for friendship, casual dating, or a serious relationship. Make your profile humorous so that it's memorable and keep the profile as genuine as possible.Having a good profile will entice girls to message you.
 Search for girls that live around you and click on profiles that you find interesting. Keep your opening line simple and straightforward and avoid using pick-up lines or one-liners. Instead, you can start talking to them by finding something you both share in common.Find common interests by looking at their photos and reading their profile.
If they have a photo from the Natural History Museum, you could say something like, "Hey, I'm Joe. I love the Natural History Museum too. When did you go there?"
You can also say something as simple as "Hey I'm Erin, what's up?"

, After you send your initial message, you'll want to keep the conversation going. Ask the girl questions, try to build a relationship with her. Message her online until she feels comfortable, then ask for her phone number. Avoid saying overtly sexual things or digging too deeply into their life. Keep it informal and fun.Good conversation topics include music, movies, celebrity gossip, a book you've recently read, or other things that you have in common.
If you feel like the text conversation is stalling, ask a question like, "So I just saw the movie Tusk, and it blew my mind. Not in a good way. You into horror movies?"

, Once you build a good rapport with the girl, it's time to ask if she wants to meet up in person. Meet her in a low-stress public setting like a coffee shop, brunch, or a walk in the park. Call the girl on the phone and try to schedule a time to meet in person.You can say something like, "Hey, I think you're really chill. Do you want to meet up in person?"

