 The following options may apply:


If you wish to stay at a hotel that features an onsen, try to stay at a hotel with a ryotemburi or outdoor onsen.  
You may also go to an onsen where you pay a fee to get in.;
, You may want to leave jewelry items behind, or at least carry a small bag with you to put them in. You will not need to take shampoo, conditioner or soaps with you. Hair dryers, small brushes and combs are supplied as well, sometimes lotions and face soaps too. You can take a toothbrush with you, or for women, any special facial soap you use. A scrunchie is useful for keeping your hair up if it's long.


Wait at least 30 minutes after eating, before heading to the onsen.
 If you are in a hotel, prepare by dressing in a yukata (cotton kimono). Wear the yukata with the left side on top.  An easy way to remember is you should have a 'pocket' to place your right hand in on your left chest. If you wear it the other way, you will be wearing it in the style of a dead person, so avoid doing so.


Be sure to wear underwear under the yukata.
 Pay or leave a room number at the entry. Enter from the proper side; men and women will be separated––sometimes the entry is obviously marked with pink and blue curtains. You will be given a small (long and narrow) towel, this and your locker key will be the only things you carry in with you to the bathing area (unless you have a toothbrush and face soap). Find a locker, usually with a basket inside.


Sometimes the keys are a piece of wood, but the keys usually have a band so that you can wear it on your wrist. 
Remove all clothing, and jewelry. If you have long hair, you may want to take a scrunchie (see below).
 You will see rows of faucet and shower head stations, each stocked with a small stool, a plastic bowl, shampoo and other amenities. These areas are known as 'stalls,' although there may be no dividing walls. 

, If the bowl has been moved, or you see a small towel or razor out, that stall might be taken. Make sure you choose a stall that is freshly prepared or untouched. 


The bowl is for filling and dumping water on yourself to rinse, or you can just use the shower head.
The faucet will have two things to control: One is to make the water come out of the faucet or shower head, the other is to control the temperature, marked in Celsius, but usually color coded from blue to red. This is where you clean yourself up from head to toe.
If you do not want to wash your hair, that is okay.
If you brought personal items with you, you can leave them in the stall while you go to soak (if it is not too busy).
 Some places have more than one bath. Many relax in the indoor tub first and then go outside, especially nice in the winter. Choose a tub and step in; importantly, your hair should not enter the bath. This is why you might want a scrunchie to hold long hair up in a bun. You can also use the long towel to wrap around your head to keep hair up. You may see others letting their hair go in the water, but not often, as etiquette says you don't.  


This is a place for relaxing, do not splash. After you get out of the tub, wipe off excess water before moving to the next area.
 Put your undies and yukata back on. There are vanity areas with mirrors and blow dryers, to do your finishing touches. This is where you will find the skin lotions. Sometimes there are even massage chairs!

