 It's easy to spend hours focused on why you aren't booking (too old, too short, too fat, too thin, not classic enough, not edgy enough), but focusing on these things won't get you more work. Instead, focus on what makes you a good performer.;
, Yep, time to be honest with yourself. If you have no idea what your weak points are, then ask a friend who will be honest with you. Not good at dancing? Take a dance class. Not good at being on time? Learn to pack the night before and set your alarm to remind you to be at a show 30 minutes early.
 Remember, if you're performing in a saturated market, then you better stand out or as the old Stephen Sondheim song says, "Gotta Get a Gimmick." Okay, so you don't have to "bump it with a trumpet," but you should aim to be the best at whatever you do even if what you do has been done by many.
 Once you know which shows you want to work in, take a careful look and see if those shows currently have performers that look like you or offer your skill. Ask yourself it these shows could benefit from your service. If you only do neo-burlesque and you want to work in a venue that only hires classic burlesque, then unless you are going to start doing classic, you may have an uphill battle convincing them that they need to add neo-burlesque to their line up.
 Seriously, this may seem silly, but so many performers make the same mistake. They post on Facebook that they are available. They stop by a show and tell a producer, they are available. They wait for the phone to ring or the emails to come in. Sorry, but that doesn't work for actors or models, so why on earth should it work for burlesque performers. Yes, it's good to post on Facebook, but also, contact those shows you listed in the previous step and ask about getting booked. Sure talking to a producer in person is great, but if you are chatting at that producer's show, then chances are they are talking to a lot of people. Follow up with an email letting them know you liked the show and would love to work together.
 Yep, once again, you've got to ask yourself the tough questions. Why did you decide to start doing burlesque? Was it on a dare? Did you have a friend who enjoyed performing and told you to try? Did you want to be the next Dita Von Teese? The next Gypsy Rose Lee? Did you see Christina Aguilera's, "Burlesque", and hope to conquer a little nightclub while developing legions of fans? This step is super important because, without it, you can't move on to the next step.
 Do you still want those legions of fans? Are you hoping to make enough money to retire? Do you just want to make some extra money while making new friends? Do you want to simply feel beautiful? Understanding why you want what you want will help you to understand whether you can still get what you want from the business or if you will never get what you want. If you aren't getting what you want out of performing burlesque, then you either need to repeat steps 1-6 or accept that it's time to move on.

