 While most patients who have had diabetes for some time are able to tell when their blood sugar levels are low, it is still important to recognize the symptoms of diabetes-related hypoglycemia so that you can prevent severe episodes, including loss of consciousness and other fatal complications. Some common symptoms are indicated below:Dizziness: This occurs because there is reduced sugar level in the brain cells. The brain needs nutrients for proper functioning capability. When there is reduced blood sugar level, you will be feel dizzy.
Trembling: This is caused by reduced energy levels in the body due to reduced blood sugar. The sugar that is present in the blood is taken up by the cells used for the production of energy.
Hunger: This is also caused by reduced amounts of energy. When you go into a diabetes-related hypoglycemic state, all the food that was present in your body has been broken down into sugar. This leaves you with no food in the abdomen and high hunger levels.
Increased heart rate: This is caused by reduced nutrients in the cells, which causes your heart to work harder while trying to meet the demands of the body.
Confusion: This occurs due to reduced nutrients to the brain cells, which leads to impaired brain functionality.
Headache: Headache is also caused by impaired brain functionality.
Poor coordination: This is caused by reduced energy levels in the body.
Poor concentration: This is caused by impaired brain functionality.
Fainting: This is caused by impaired brain functionality and reduced energy levels in the body.
Coma: This occurs in severe cases when there is a prolonged period of low blood sugar.
 Diabetics who understand the risk factors for hypoglycemia can learn to prevent cases of hypoglycemia.


Hypoglycemia is common in diabetic patients who inject an excess dosage of insulin. Insulin lowers the blood sugar level but when high doses are used, the levels will spike, thus causing hypoglycemia.
Hypoglycemia is common in diabetic patients who miss meals. Diabetics are advised to eat all their meals to ensure that their sugar levels remain normal. The food eaten is broken down into sugar that is used by the body for the production of energy. When a meal is missed, the body will have insufficient levels of sugar.
Hypoglycemia is common in diabetic patients who take part in excessive exercise. Foods are broken down into sugar, which is then taken by the cells for the production of energy. During exercise, a lot of energy is consumed, which can leave you with decreased sugar levels.
 Knowing that diabetes-related hypoglycemia is life threatening, it is important to be knowledgeable on how to prevent these episodes. Here are some simple lifestyle practices to keep in mind:


Munch on complex carbohydrates for snacks. This will help you maintain and stabilize the blood sugar levels in your body.
Bring both simple and complex carbohydrate snacks with you at all times.
Eat at regular times throughout the day.
When physically active, it is important to replace the carbohydrates and glucose used up by your body.
Have an emergency kit with you containing glucagon at all times.

