 Bodybuilding requires you to do lots of intense weight lifting with dumbbells and barbells, which almost all gyms and fitness centers will have. Look online to find a gym that’s close to you and that fits your needs. Be sure to add the monthly membership fee to your budget.


If you really love bodybuilding, you may eventually want to create a home gym. This will require space, time, and money, so start with a gym membership.
 Dedicate yourself to your goal! Set aside an hour or two on training days for workouts. Plan to train five to six days every week.To build this time into your schedule, wake up a few hours earlier than you have in the past.
You can also break up the workout into two to three sessions that you fit in over the course of your day.
 Once you’ve got exercises that hit every muscle group in the body under your belt, mix them up for maximum effect. Instead of running through all the exercises you know in every workout, create plans that use exercises strategically. For example, you can:Pair two opposing muscle groups together by doing what’s called “supersetting.” Work out the biceps during one set, then the triceps during your “rest” before the next set of bicep exercises.Hit muscles groups once every 2-3 days.Break up your upper-body training days with either rest days or workouts for your lower body., Start with very small weights, and go up a few pounds (or kilos) until you’ve found the weight that lets you complete (but work hard for!) 8-12 repetitions, or “reps.” Don’t worry about how big or small the number is when you’re starting out.These reps should be tough, especially by the end, but you shouldn’t be straining or hurting yourself. Any weight that causes you to loose your form (such as slumping your shoulders) is also too heavy.
 Make sure you’re doing enough reps of each exercise to make it effective. Generally, a good workout includes 3-4 sets of at least 8-12 reps in each set for every exercise. If you just lift a weight one time, you won’t get very much out of your gym membership!If you’re working with really heavy weights, you can bring the reps down to five per set. You can also increase your set to fifteen reps per set if you’re using lower weights.
You can also increase your number of sets to four or even five.
 Build up to your target weight with a few lighter sets. This will warm up your muscles. You don’t want to jump right into the thick of your workout, as this could lead to strain or injury.For example, do one set of 10-15 reps with a very low weight. Next, do a set of 8 reps that’s about 50-60% of the weight you’re training at. Next, do 5 reps at 70-75%, then 3 reps at 80-85%. End with 1 rep at 90-95%.You may also want to do a brief cardio warm up, such as a 10-minute brisk walk or jog on the treadmill., Be sure you keep proper posture any time you’re weightlifting. Your shoulders should be back and together, and your back should be straight. Don’t continue lifting if you feel your shoulders start to slump over the weight, or if your back is twisting.It’s also important to breathe when you lift weights. Breathe out when you lift the weight, and breathe in when you put it back down.