 Whether or not you're likely to suit short hair depends on the shape of your face.Generally speaking, longer faces favour longer hair, and rounder faces are most suited to shorter styles. If you do have a longer face, you still shouldn't dismiss the possibility of having shorter hair; the bottom line of the matter should depend on your personal style and sense of aesthetic.


Measure the length from the bottom of your ear to your chin. If it is less than 5.5cm, short hair is most recommended.Keep in mind that this is a very simplistic test and shouldn't be taken as a final indicator whether or not you should change your hairstyle.;
, Taking the plunge and cutting your hair will be a big move, but it can be just to think to revitalize your look if you think your style is growing stale. Potential hairstyles are plentiful, and it can be overwhelming to find one that suits you. Go online and check some online galleries that specifically showcase short hairstyles. With each style that appeals to you, try to imagine what you would look like. Spiking hair, slicking it back, and waving it with your fingers are effective ways of crafting a hairstyle.


Ask a hairstylist. If you're any bit unsure what you should do with your hair, you can always enlist the help of a hairstylist. Hairstylists see a wide range of different hair and face types over the course of their day, and an impartial perspective may help you figure out what you should do.
 Rocking short hair is sometimes considered a daring move, and it's all the moreso when you add dye to the mix. An unnatural hair colour, like orange or magenta, will bring attention to your new 'do.


It is arguable that dyed hair is actually easier to pull off with shorter hair. It's also quite a bit cheaper, due to the fact you'll have less hair to colour.
 The great thing about hair is that it grows back; of course it's not recommended to treat it lightly or mess with a hairstyle you're already super happy with, but you can always experiment in more subtle ways. Trying out different hair colours, parting or setting your hair in difference ways, or even recutting it will give you a chance to get the hair that matches your personal preferences.


It definitely helps to keep a few online gallery tabs open. Use other persons' examples and eye down a style that suits you best; this is much easier than trying them all yourself!
If you want to go through a number of hairstyles in a short period of time for testing's sake, start with the longest hairstyles, and trim it down until you reach a hairstyle you're comfortable with keeping.

