 Pour the flour into a large mixing bowl, then add the baking soda, baking powder, ground cinnamon, and ground allspice. Mix everything together until the spices are evenly distributed throughout the flour, then set the bowl aside., Cut the butter into cubes, and put it into separate mixing bowl. Add the sugar, salt, and powdered apple cider drink mix. Beat the ingredients together until everything is mixed in, and the butter turns light and fluffy. You can do this using an electric mixer or by hand.

Make sure that you are using the regular kind of apple cider drink mix, and not the sugar-free kind). You will need to use all 10 7.4-ounce (21-gram) packets.
Don't dissolve the apple cider powder first. Simply add it to the butter.
 Add your first egg into the butter mixture, then beat it in well. Add your next egg, and beat the butter mixture again. Finally, beat in the vanilla extract. Keep mixing until the texture and color are consistent, and there are not streaks or swirls of egg yolk or vanilla extract., Pour in half of the flour mixture into the butter mixture, then beat it in until it is completely mixed in. Repeat the with remaining flour mixture. If you need to, knead the dough by hand towards the end., Cover the bowl with a sheet of plastic wrap so that the dough doesn't dry out, then place the bowl into fridge. Leave it there for 1 hour., If you can, try to use non-rimmed baking sheets. This will make removing the parchment paper a lot easier in the end., Roll the dough into a ball first, then flatten it slightly with your palm. Unwrap a caramel candy, and press it into the dough. Wrap the dough back over the caramel, sealing it in like a present. Make sure that there are no gaps, or the caramel will leak out., The cookies will spread out as they bake, so the extra space between will ensure that they don't fuse together., Check the cookies at 12 minutes; if they are not ready, bake them for another 1 to 2 minutes. They are ready when they are lightly browned around the edges., If you are using an non-rimmed baking sheet, hold it on the same level as the cooling rack, then slide the parchment paper off of the baking sheet and onto the rack. If you are using a rimmed baking sheet, carefully lift the parchment paper off the baking sheet, and place it on the rack., Use a slight twisting motion to get them off of the parchment paper.

If the cookies are stuck to the parchment paper, stick them in the freezer for a few minutes. They'll come right off!, They make a perfect treat for a cold, fall day or Thanksgiving. It might be a good idea to warm your guests ahead of time that they are filled with caramel, however! Store any leftovers in an airtight container, and consume within 3 to 4 days.