 Everything gets easier with practice. Whatever the task or issue is that you feel the others are smarter at than you, work to get better at it. Practice daily and teach yourself to be as smart as they are.


If they seem to understand math and always get As, then get a tutor, study your math book or take classes online to get better at working through math problems. With time and hard work, you will likely get as good as they are at math.
If the smart people always have good ideas at meetings, then spend extra time outside of work brainstorming ideas. Time and effort can make up for many traits you may or may not have naturally.
 Reading can inform you on many different topics. Choose diverse material from reliable sources and really delve into it. This is how the experts became experts—by studying, practicing and becoming good at what they do. When you absorb a lot of information, you have much more to offer and bounce ideas off of during discussions and meetings.
 Focus on quality over quantity. If it takes you a little longer to finish your math problems, write your paper or complete a project, then accept that—as long as the end product is worth the wait. Know that getting better at something and practicing your intelligence takes time as well. Get to know and learn from the smart people first.
 Prove to yourself as well as your teachers and peers that you are also smart. Don't be afraid to talk about your ideas or answer questions. Study and work hard, and show off your knowledge whenever you get a chance to contribute.
 When you are constantly fretting about how well the smart people are doing, you aren’t focusing on yourself. When you aren’t focusing on your own work and studies, you’re not learning or accomplishing as much as you could be. Competing with others is distracting, and it can make you feel bad if you aren't winning. Make it a habit to redirect thoughts to other things instead of how smart others are compared to you.
 Smart people will not get all your papers or work done. They will not think or study for you. If their presence bothers you, the best thing you can do for yourself is ignore them. You have better things to do than spend the energy letting yourself get upset over how smart others appear to be.
 Distract yourself with new scenery and experiences. You won’t have the time or energy to worry about what the smart people are doing. Changing up your usual routine can also really improve your mood, which may help you to stop thinking about how much smarter the people are than you.
 Be self-confident, know your strengths and learn from the smart people. Every project, paper and discussion is a chance for you to shine. Try your hardest to do the best you can, even when you think it doesn’t matter. In time, you will become one of the smart people you admire.
 Smart people can be valuable allies at school or in the work place. Instead of comparing yourself to them or competing with them, enlist their help with something. You will probably learn a lot from these people and discover that you have a lot to bring to the team as well. Ask to partner up for a study group or work project and be amazed at how beneficial this can be and how much more efficient you become.

