 In order to have a healthy face, you'll need to understand what makes your face unhealthy. Human skin falls into four types: "normal", oily, dry, and combination.Your face may fall into one or several of these categories, and different parts of your face may be more dry, healthy, or greasy than others. Take a look in the mirror and review the characteristics of each skin type:


"Normal" skin is neither dry nor oily. It should feel supple and smooth. "Normal skin" is characterized by few imperfections, no severe sensitivity, barely visible pores, and a radiant complexion. It does not require as much care as other skin types, although you can still take steps to keep your face healthy.Oily skin is characterized by large pores, and a greasy or shiny complexion. People with oily skin are more susceptible to blackheads, pimples, and other blemishes. It can stem from stress, overexposure to heat/humidity, or hormonal imbalances such as puberty.
Dry skin may feel taut or show flakes of dead skin. Dry skin can cause nearly-invisible pores and low face elasticity. You might notice red patches, visible lines, and a rough, dull complexion. You might have dry skin for any number of reasons: genetics, hormones, exposure to the elements, overheating, or certain medications.
Combination skin is most common. Sometimes it is oily, sometimes it is dry, and sometimes it is perfectly healthy – and these qualities may be entirely situational.. Usually, combination skin is oily in the T-zone (across your forehead, and down the nose to your chin) and normal to dry elsewhere.;
, Oil skin is naturally porous and greasy, so you want to keep chemicals and bacteria from clogging the pores. Use these tips to care for oily skin:


Wash your skin no more than twice a day and after you perspire heavily.
Use a gentle cleanser and don't scrub.
Don't pick, pop, or squeeze pimples. This prolongs healing time.
Use products labeled as "noncomedogenic." They tend not to clog pores.
 If your face tends to get dry, be very gentle with it to avoid irritation. Moisturize frequently to counteract the dryness, and follow these steps to keep your face healthy:


Don't scrub while bathing or drying – scrubbing a dry face may redden your complexion or break the skin. Use mild, gentle soaps or cleansers. Avoid deodorant soaps.
Apply a rich moisturizer right after bathing. Ointments and creams may work better than lotions for dry skin, but they are often messier. Consider carrying lotion with you in a bag or purse so that you can moisturize as needed throughout the day. If you are going outside, a high-SPF sunscreen to moisturize and shield yourself from UV rays.
Take shorter showers and baths – no more than once daily. Use a humidifier, and don't let indoor temperatures get too hot. Overexposure to heat can dry out your skin.
Wear gloves when using cleaning agents, solvents, or household detergents. Some harsh chemicals can irritate your skin if they are still on your hands when you touch your face.
 When your skin is oily, try to keep the grease down and use acne creams. When your skin is dry, gently moisturize it. When your skin is healthy, continue to wash it frequently to maintain the balance.

