 Make a run down to your local home improvement store and take a look at the different varieties of accenting stones they have available. For the purpose of constructing accent walls, the raw building materials are usually cut into veneers, or thin, flat sheets that are made to look like full-sized stones once they’ve been affixed to the wall. Your goal should be to pick out stone in a size, grain and color that will complement the look of the rest of the room.Light, sandy types of stones can be used to brighten up a room, while dark and neutral shades will bring a sense of modern sophistication.You can also collect your own small stones to accent the wall, if you prefer. Look for stones that are flat, have square or rounded edges and are relatively lightweight.
For a standard 8’x12’ alcove, you’ll need roughly 150-200 stones.;
, Use a tape measure to gauge the height and length of the wall you’ll be accenting. Write these measurements down in your project journal or notebook and keep it close at hand while you’re shopping for your stone. Getting a precise measurement of the wall will help you figure out exactly how much stone you’ll need to buy.Measure at least twice and make each measurement as accurate as possible to avoid any surprises in the critical stages of the project later on.
Refer back to the recorded measurements often while you work. This will help you select stones of the right shape and size to fill out the individual rows of the wall.
 Working with stone and mortar is dusty, messy work, so before you get underway, you should clear as much out of the room as possible. Remove wall hangings, big pieces of furniture and nearby shelves and cabinets, as well as the mountings for anything that goes on the wall. Put down a few drop cloths to protect the floor beneath your work space and cover what you can’t move.Don’t forget to remove electric outlet covers and pry up the baseboards if you want your accent wall to reach all the way down to the floor.Mortar is wet, gritty and easily smeared, and stone veneers produce dust that can get all over anything that’s left uncovered.
 Cement board is a type of tightly-knit reinforced fiberglass mesh that is used as a backing and support for plaster. After measuring your wall, take a utility knife or box cutter and score the cement board to fit the wall’s dimensions, then simply snap off the edges. When it comes time, you’ll apply the mortar directly to the cement board.Cement board can be hung directly over drywall.
When shaping the cement board, leave openings in the appropriate places for wall outlets and places where other items will be mounted.
You also have the option of using wire lath (made with a grid of thin steel wire rather than fiberglass) for added strength, though it will be much trickier to cut and mount., Frame the sheets of cement board and use an electric drill to screw them into place. For this, you’ll need to use 2 ¼“ screws, which will anchor the cement board firmly to the wall. Make sure you’re drilling into the reinforced studs behind the wall so that the cement board will hang securely.Scoring the cement board to size as needed will allow you to completely cover the wall.
For best results, stagger the seams of the cement board so that no four corners ever line up. This will improve the structural integrity of the boards., In a deep bucket, mix a bag of thin-set mortar. It will help to do this using a drill with a mixing paddle attachment. Scoop and spread the mortar using a notched trowel. Try to smooth on one thin, even layer of mortar with no clumps or bare spots.Measure the average width of each stone veneer and only spread on enough mortar to put up one row of stones at a time.
Scoring shallow grooves into the mortar with a notched tile trowel can help the stone veneers adhere better., Take the individual stone veneers and arrange them on the wall in whatever pattern you prefer. You might opt for a definite vertical or horizontal grain, or lump them loosely into a more natural looking configuration. Press the stone veneers firmly into the mortar to ensure that they’ll hold in place.It may be expedient to buy more compact stones, or arrange them in such a way that they don’t require cutting. If you do need to cut the stone, this will have to be done using a tile saw with a durable blade.
Attach the stones a single layer at a time to avoid making mistakes or placing stones of a similar size or shape too close together.
If you’re experiencing difficulty securing the veneers, spread a thin layer of mortar over the backside to increase their area of contact., Load a grouting bag or gun with mortar. Squeeze the mortar into the narrow gaps between the veneers to fill them. This will provide a little added stability while at the same time giving the wall a smooth, uniform appearance. Once the grout and mortar have had time to dry completely, your wall will have the look and feel of genuine stone.Make sure that you totally fill each crevice. Incompletely grouting can quickly crack and begin falling out.Grouting isn’t necessary if you prefer for your wall to have an old-fashioned “stacked” look, but it is useful for reducing the irregular appearance of especially large or oddly-shaped stones.

