 One of the more popular base colors for a smoky eye look is black or gray. You may go for black or gray as your base if you want a more traditional smoky eye for a night out. Black or gray also be a good option if you are planning on wearing a colorful outfit and want your eye makeup to be more neutral and darkBrown can also be a good base color for smoky eyes. Brown can create a look that is still dramatic but not as dark as black.;
, Another option is to go for a base color that is more colorful, such as blue, purple, green, or pink. This may be a fun way to add some color to your look.Pastel tones like pink, green, and peach will look good on people with brown eyes.
Purple eyeshadow complements those with brown, hazel, and green eyes.
Blue eyeshadow complements those with green or blue eyes.
 To do the gradient smoky eye, you will need three eyeshadow colors, ranging from light, medium, and dark of the same color. You will then layer these colors side by side to create a gradient of color on your eyelids.For example, if you chose black as your base color, you will need light gray, dark gray, and black eyeshadows. If you chose purple, you will need light purple, medium dark purple, and dark purple to create the gradient look.
You may be able to find prepackaged powdered eyeshadows that come in three to four different shades of the same color for a smoky eye look. You can use these packs or “quads” to create the smoky eye, but having separate eyeshadows allows you to choose from a range of colors and shades.If you prefer cream eyeshadows over powdered eyeshadows, you can use them for this look.
 Though it may be tempting to always apply foundation before any other makeup, doing your eye makeup first will prevent any smudging or running of your foundation. Get in the habit of doing your eye makeup first, followed by your foundation.If you have oily eyelids, you may want to apply eye primer to your eyelids with a clean makeup brush. The primer will help the eyeshadow stick to your eyelids smoothly and help the shadow stay on your eyelids.
Lay out the three eyeshadows in front of you and position yourself in front of a mirror with good lighting. Keep tissue and Q-tips nearby as well to clean up any eyeshadow that gets on your eyelashes or face.
 You will need two clean eyeshadow brushes to create the gradient smoky eye look. You will use one eyeshadow brush to apply the three eyeshadows. You will then use the other eyeshadow brush to blend the colors once they have been applied.


Look for brushes that are have small, rounded bristles to use for the eyeshadow.
A blending brush is also a good option, which will often be small and have fluffy rounded bristles to make blending easier.
 Start with the lightest shade so you can build to the darker shade. Use the eyeshadow brush to apply it on your inner eyelid, moving from your lashline up to the crease of your eye.








Apply a few dabs of the eyeshadow. You do not need to apply a lot of the lightest shade on your eye.
 Apply the medium shade next to the lightest shade, moving from your lashline up to the crease of your eye. Try to place the medium shade right next to the lightest shade so they appear to blend together. This will give the gradient smoky eye a more sultry look.








The medium shade should take up the middle section of your eyelid.
 Complete the gradient smoky eye look by applying the darkest shade next to the medium shade, brushing it from your lashline to the outer corner of your eye. Blend the darkest shade softly into the medium shade so there is no empty space or a clear line between the two colors.








If you want a more dramatic look to your eyes, you can extend the darkest shade out a few inches from the corner of your eye. Swoop upward as you do this to give your eyes a more cat-eye look.
 Once the gradient colors are in place, use a clean eyeshadow brush or a blending brush to gently blend the colors on your eyes. Go around the edge of eyeshadow colors in small circular motions to blend them. Then, use the brush to blend the colors and soften them so they appear less distinct on your eyelids. Do this by brushing each color into each other in small circular motions.








Make sure you really blend around the edges of the eyeshadow so the color looks soft and smoky on your eyelids. This will help to remove any harsh edges.
If you mess up this step, simply remove the eye makeup with makeup remover and start again.
 A gradient smoky eye would not be complete without eyeliner, as this helps to darken your eye makeup and give it a more sultry look. Apply eyeliner on your top lid, lining right above your lashline. Start from the inner corner of your eye and move outward in a smooth motion. Then, apply eyeliner on your bottom lid, right below your lashline. You can use an eyeliner pencil or liquid eyeliner to do this.








You can also use black eyeliner to line your waterline. This can add to the smoky look of your eye makeup.
 Once you have applied the eyeliner, you will need to smudge it to get the smoky eye look. Use a clean small makeup brush to do this. Go over the eyeliner on the top and bottom of your eye to lightly smudge it so it looks less sharp and harsh. Use small circular motions over the eyeliner with the brush to do this.








If you are using liquid eyeliner, make sure you smudge the eyeliner before it has time to dry.
Only smudge the eyeliner on your top and bottom eyelid. Do not try to smudge the eyeliner on your lower waterline, as this will likely result in eyeliner getting into your eye.
 Mascara will also add to the gradient smoky eye look by darkening your eyelashes and making them appear thicker. You may curl your eyelashes first if your eyelashes do not curl upward naturally. Then, apply one thick coat of mascara on your eyelashes.








Apply mascara to your top and bottom lashes using an upward motion.
If you want to apply more than one coat of mascara, wait a few minutes for the first coat to dry and then apply another coat. This will prevent clumping.
 Complete the gradient smoky eye look by using the lightest eyeshadow shade as a highlighter. Brush the shade right under your eyebrows to highlight this area. You can also brush the shade in the creases of your eyes to make your makeup pop.








Once you have finished doing your eye makeup, use a tissue to remove any eyeshadow on your face or on your eyelashes.
You can then continue to do the rest of your makeup, such as applying foundation, blush, and bronzer to your face.

