 Open up your curtains and let the sun shine in! Using natural light whenever possible instead of relying on artificial light can greatly reduce the amount of electricity you use during the day.The same is true whether you work in an office or spend your days in your house. Exposure to natural light also increases happiness,, giving you an even greater incentive to raise the blinds.


Try to arrange your workspace so that natural light floods your desk. Keep the overhead lights off when possible. When you need extra lighting, use a low-powered desk lamp instead.
Buy curtains or blinds in a light shade. They will still allow light to come through, but also provide privacy when you need it.;
, Replacing regular incandescent light bulbs with compact fluorescent (CFL) or LED bulbs is a big energy saver. Incandescent bulbs release 98% of their consumed energy through heat, while CFL and LED bulbs are much more energy efficient and last several times longer.CFL bulbs were the first alternative to incandescent bulbs, and they use only about 1/4 the energy of incandescent bulbs. They contain trace amounts of mercury, so they must be disposed of properly when they burn out.
LED bulbs are newer to the market. They're more expensive than CFLs, but they last longer and don't contain mercury.
 This is the simplest, most common way to save electricity, and it really works. Start paying attention to how many lights are on in your house at a given time. Be mindful of how many lights you really need to be using at once. When you leave a room, make a habit of turning off the lights, every single time.


Use light bulbs which don't need to "warm up" for areas that have lights which are used for short periods of time. This information should be written on the bulb's packaging.
If you really want to go all out, have your family use just one or two rooms at night, rather than spreading out all over the house and keeping your entire home lit.
For maximum electricity savings, use candles! This old-fashioned system of providing light at night is effective, romantic and peaceful. If you don't find it practical to use candles every night, try doing it just once or twice a week. Be careful doing this with little kids, though - make sure all of your family members know how to handle candles safely.

