 Any child can develop a hernia, but certain genetic and environmental factors can make the likelihood much greater for some kids. If you know that your child is at a higher risk for developing hernias, you can and should be more vigilant in watching for them and dealing with them if they appear.


Common risk factors for childhood hernias include: family history (increases likelihood by 10%); premature birth (increases likelihood by 30%); male gender (hernias are significantly more common in males of any age); cystic fibrosis or similar conditions; chronic cough; chronic constipation; excess body weight; and prior hernias.Umbilical hernias are more common in children with African ancestry., Many different kinds of hernias can occur, primarily in the greater abdominal region between the chest and the hips. As identified elsewhere in this article, however, inguinal (groin area) and umbilical (belly button) hernias are far and away the most common types in children.For instance, it is possible for a child to have a hiatal hernia (in which the stomach pushes through the diaphragm and into the chest) due to a birth defect, but this type of hernia usually happens in adults over the age of 50. See How to Know if You Have a Hernia for more examples of hernia types.
 Anytime you suspect a child has a hernia, you should inform his or her physician. The doctor will advise you to keep an eye on the hernia, bring the child in for an exam, or, in rare instances, seek immediate medical attention.Go to the nearest emergency room immediately if you suspect a strangulated hernia, in which blood flow is being cut off to a part of the protruding organ. Watch for significant pain, nausea or vomiting, or redness, discoloration, fever, or continued swelling.
Umbilical hernias often disappear without recurring on their own; inguinal hernias may disappear but will almost always recur without eventual surgical intervention. Either way, play it safe and contact your doctor.
Other serious hernias include: diaphragmatic hernias, a rare birth defect in which organs in the abdomen push through an abnormal opening in the diaphragm and enter the chest cavity;brain herniation, when brain tissue moves to an abnormal position within the skull, usually caused by a head injury, tumor, or other trauma that causes brain swelling; gastroschisis or omphalocele, a birth defect in which the baby's intestines are outside of his body when he is born., Especially if your child is at an elevated risk for developing hernias, talk to the pediatrician about signs and symptoms to watch out for and procedures to follow. Early detection of any type of hernia can usually prevent lasting negative health consequences.


Consult this detailed wikiHow article on hernias for a wide range of information regarding the identification and treatment of various types of hernias.

