 Skateboarding is a very dangerous sport, and you can really get hurt. Always wear a helmet and if you're just starting out or you feel insecure, wear padding.;
, There's no way you can be a skater, if you don't skate. Then you'd just be a poser. Go to a skate shop and get the clerk to help you get the right stuff.
 A big part of becoming the style of a skater, is seeing if you have it or not. Skaters are usually very extroverted and don't care what people think of them. But, you can also be skater if you are an ambivert and moshing.
 Yes, there is music that can be seen as skater. You can mix in hip-hop, rap, rock, Metalcore, metal, indie, emo, punk, punk pop, and old stuff together. Try bands like Green Day, Rancid, Linkin Park, and other music like that. Most of the stuff you already listen to could be considered skater, so if you like it, listen to it.
 Every subculture has its own style of speaking. So try out these words and see if they fit.


Dude

A male.

"Dude, did you see that?"




Chick

A female.

"Did you see that chick?"




Rad

Awesome or cool.

"Dude, that was rad!"




Sweet

Awesome or cool.

"That was a sweet trick."




Sick

Awesome or cool.

"I heard the half pipe there was real sick."




Sketchy

A skateboarding trick that is not landed nicely or not landed at all.
Not good, example: a dark man calling you into an alley.

"That trick was sketchy."
"Did you see that sketchy guy by the corner store?"




Shady

Same as sketchy.

"Man, he was shady..."




Clean

The opposite of "sketchy" and "shady".

"That was a clean landing."





, Now that you've hopefully gotten into the part that counts, try dressing like a skater. Some good brands include 'Etnies', Element, DC, Circa, Quicksilver, Billabong, Vans, and Zoo York. You don't always have to have brand name things, though. Even second hand shops like Goodwill and Value Village have some nice things.


Pants






You can wear them tight or baggy, depending on what you like.
Rips are really good, and they scream, "I can skate." Just don't make them yourself. Actually try skating and ripping them from shredding an awesome trick.
Graffiti pants. Write, write, write all over your pants. Make sure you only do this to 1 or 2 of your pants.
Skater shorts. If it's hot out, wear shorts with pockets.
Cargo pants/shorts are nice, too.


Shirts






Any shirt is really good, doesn't matter if it's tight or baggy... Just don't match baggy things up too much, or you end up looking like a gangster.


Shoes






Skater shoes. These are usually the only shoes skaters wear, because they have flat bottoms and can grip to the board. Try DC, Vans, Fallen or DVS .


Hair

Any color of hair usually works if it's long. Lots of skaters have curly hair, so don't bother buying a straightener unless you want to. Many skaters also have straight or wavy hair. Just go natural, man.


Hats

Flat brimmed hats usually end up making your head look wide and flat.
Any hat will really work, but only if it's a ball cap or toque. You don't see skaters walking around in cowboy hats and boas.


Belts

Skaters always wear belts to keep their pants from falling down when they are skateboarding. Shoelaces always work. Can't have the other skaters at the skate park seeing those underpants.
 It's time to see what you do about those put-downs. If someone calls your skating crappy or calls you a poser, try not to care. Most of them probably just think your style is too rad for them.
 A lot of people at the skate park make fun of each other, but they are usually friends. If you go around making fun of everyone, you won't have any friends after a few months, and everyone will think of you as a jerk. Remember, never call anyone on a board a poser, no matter how bad they are. They're probably just beginning. You can't be a poser if you're trying!

