 Today, there are a wide variety of free email services available online. Some offer slightly different features than the others, but most are virtually identical. To get started, pick the email service that you'd like to use. You may also want to click here to read a consumer report about the various choices available.In this article, we'll make and use a Gmail account for example purposes. Gmail is the free email service operated by Google. It's a good all-around option for most users (in fact, it received a perfect rating in the article linked above).However, other free email services are also good. See also:
How to Create a Hotmail/Outlook Account
How to set up a Yahoo! Mail Account
How to Create an AOL Account

, Once you've chosen the email service you'd like to use, visit its official site to get started. Below are links for the email services discussed above. Click the one you want to visit its website — you may want to bookmark the site you use for future reference:



Gmail: http://mail.google.com


Hotmail/Outlook: https://www.live.com/


Yahoo! Mail: https://mail.yahoo.com/


AOL Mail: https://mail.aol.com/


, The first time you visit the site for nearly any major email service, you will see instructions for either logging into your existing account or creating a new one. Since you don't already have an email account, you'll want the latter option. Look for an option on the page that says something like "Create a new account" or "Don't have an account yet? Click here."


On the Gmail page, you'll want to click the small blue "Create an account" below the text boxes for your username and password.
 Your email address is a lot like your real-world mailing address. It will appear on any messages you send and other people will have to know it to send you any messages. Choose this and your password on the following screens — they should both be things that you can remember easily, but your password shouldn't be something that's easy for others to guess.


Most email providers will restrict the characters you can use for your address and password. With Gmail, you can use letters, numbers and periods for your address. You can use these and other special characters (like exclamation points) for your password.
 Signing up for nearly any free email account is extremely simple. Supply the information you are asked for by typing it into the appropriately-labeled boxes. Click the "Next," "Continue," or "Finish" button to proceed.


For Gmail, you will be asked to provide:
Your name
Your date of birth
Your gender
Your mobile phone number
Your country
Any current email address you use
In addition, you'll be asked to identify numbers in a photograph to prove you are human.
 Most email providers will require you to check a box that signifies that you have read and agreed to the provider's terms and conditions before you can sign up for an account. Once you've done this, click the "Next," "Continue," or "Finish" button to create your new account.

