 Proskaueh recently released a global survey that showed that over 50 percent of companies have a social media policy in place, and around 70 percent of businesses blocked social media sites at work. In some cases, a social media policy is just a list of best practices, and does not block employees from using it.


In the company's social media policy, look at how they define social media and any occasions that it can be used. Also, find out if you are allowed to identify yourself as an employee of your company on your personal Twitter account, and what disciplinary actions are given if you use Twitter in a way that is deemed inappropriate.
Do not ask about a specific social media site and try not to go directly to your manager. These could be red flags to your boss that you are not getting your work done. In some cases, you may already have access to the employee rule book that states the social media policy, in which case, you should use it before speaking to HR.
Some companies have a policy of allowing unrestricted use of the Internet as long as you complete your work. If this is the policy, and especially if you work in a small, close knit office, then you should feel free to use Twitter during work, as long as it does not affect your work performance.;
, After work, check for a company Twitter account, and see if there is a case that could be made for having a company Twitter account. If you work in customer service, marketing or as an office manager, a case could be made for creating a company-linked account and using it to help the company respond to customer service problems, communicate brand promotion and tweet about company culture, respectively.


If you are able to use work hours to complete Twitter tasks, you will be managing your personal and company Twitter account separately. However, you will be able to keep the Twitter website up on your browser, which will allow you to keep track of trending topics and check other people's Twitter accounts individually.
 A recent study by University of Melbourne's Dr. Brent Coker, said that workers who are allowed unrestricted Internet access during coffee or micro-breaks, have increased productivity of 9 percent. You may want this time to check bank accounts, check personal email or use social media accounts.
 If you work as a researcher, marketer or manager, you should do regular searches of Twitter using the company's main keywords, to make sure you are staying on top of the market. You may need to be authorized by your manager in order to use it in this capacity.
 If you have never been in trouble for using work time for personal Internet tasks, you may not know that IT departments gather web usage reports each month, which chart web time, bandwidth usage and sites that are visited. It may reflect poorly on your performance review if you use Twitter's official website during work hours, if you have not been appointed to do it for work reasons.

