 If you need to get the smell out of a coat or another clothing item that's dry clean only, submerging it in water isn't an option. No rinse cleaner effectively rinses the surface of an item without completely saturating the layers of fabric, so there's less chance of warping. Look in the laundry products section for a "no-rinse wash." It's a concentrated solution that comes in bottles, similar to detergent.


In most cases you'll mix a capful of the no-rinse wash with several liters of water. Pour it into a spray bottle.
Spray your musty garment so that all parts of it are slightly damp.
Hang the garment to dry outside in the sun and wind. When it dries, the smell should be gone. If it still smells musty, repeat the process.
Note that this does require wetting the fabric. Don't use this method on items that shouldn't get wet, like leather or suede.
 Instead of washing your clothes with baking soda, you can use dry baking soda on your dry clean only garments. Baking soda will absorb the musty smell. You may have to repeat the process more than once for best results.


Lay the garment on a clean surface. Sprinkle it all over with a fine layer of baking soda. Turn it over and do the same. If you don't wish to put baking soda directly on the item try placing the item in a plastic bag next to an open container of baking soda.
Let the baking soda sit on the garment overnight.
Take it outside and shake it well. Use a soft brush to remove excess baking soda.
Hang it outside for the rest of the day.
 If you don't want to go to the expense of getting a special cleaner, you cause use cheap vodka. Pour some vodka into a spray bottle. Spray the musty item all over, making sure you don't miss a spot. Hang it outside in the sun to dry. This should remove or weaken the musty smell.
 If no at-home methods successfully remove the musty smell, you may need to take the item to a dry cleaner store. Dry cleaners use powerful chemicals to deodorize fabric, and in most cases they can effectively get rid of mustiness. If you're not interested in having your clothing coated with chemicals, look for a "green" dry cleaning store that uses liquid carbon dioxide cleaning.