 Some cats are finicky about their nap time. Some prefer to nap in a secluded area, while others enjoy napping with their owners. Choose a cat breed that is recognized for its propensity for an affectionate and docile nature. As they will probably make good lap cats.For example, Ragdoll cats and Ragamuffin cats are famously known to love being picked up and held by their owners. They make great lap cats.
Persians and Bombays are also very affectionate and loving toward their owners. This often translates to being a good lap cat.;
, Personality traits are often breed-specific. Spend some time researching behavior traits of various breeds – this will help you familiarize yourself with the qualities you find desirable. It will also help you choose a lap cat breed.

There are quite a few online sources that list various cat breeds and include pictures and personality traits of each breed. Try searching around on CatTime, the Cat Fanciers’ Association, or Animal Planet’s Cat Breed Directory.
For instance, Maine Coon cats are affectionate, but they typically prefer to be near their owners, rather than in their owners’ laps.
 These kinds of cats are typically a genetic mix between a domestic cat and a more wild feline counterpart – like the African serval or Asian leopard. Many exotic breeds of cats are more active, playful, and less likely to be cuddly nap buddies. An exotic cat will probably not make a very good lap cat.These breeds include Bengals, Savannah cats, Chausies, and Safari cats.
 If you want a good lap cat, you should avoid cats that are wild and have excessive amounts of energy. Look for a cat that enjoys playing calmly, but mostly seems to enjoy nap time with its owners.This also means you should look for a cat with a calm, approachable personality. If you choose a cat that seems skittish or scared, it is less likely that the cat will develop into a lap cat even over time.
 A good rule of thumb is that a cat who enjoys being picked up will typically make a good lap cat. If you meet a cat that you think might be the right one for you, try picking it up and see how it reacts.Of course, you should give the cat a little bit of time to get used to you first. Many cats are shy or nervous around new people.
 Older cats usually have lower energy levels than kittens and younger cats. This means that you are more likely to find a cat who is content to sit on your lap with you if you adopt an older cat.If you adopt an older cat, you’ll also be able to observe the cat’s personality right off the bat, whereas with kittens you have to wait for them to mature into their personality a bit.
You can usually find a variety of cats, including older ones, at your local animal shelter. Kittens and younger cats often get adopted first – so you should be able to find a large selection of older cats to choose from.
 Some cats prefer to be alone and spend most of their time lounging away from others. If you want a lap cat, you’ll need to choose a cat that enjoys the company of others. Sociable cats prefer to spend time with their owners during playtime and naptime, so a sociable cat will more likely enjoy napping on your lap.If your cat is not very sociable, it will probably want to spend its naptime in seclusion, away from you and other members of your household.
 If your cat seems hesitant to sit with you, try encouraging this behavior by rewarding your cat with tasty treats when it sits with you. This will help the cat learn to associate the positive experience (treats) with sitting in your lap, and the cat will be more likely to repeat the behavior.Be sure to use healthy treats that don’t cause your cat to gain an unhealthy amount of weight.
You should also eventually move away from giving treats every time and simply praising or petting your cat instead as a reward for sitting with you.
 If your cat likes to sleep on its own soft kitty bed, try moving the cat bed next to you on the couch when you’ll be sitting there for a prolonged period of time. This will encourage your cat to spend its naptime next to you and you can work on transitioning the cat out of the bed and onto your lap.Eventually, the cat will begin associating naptime with being next to you and it may start sleeping on your lap on its own over time.
 Cats do not respond well to forced actions. If you pick your cat up and restrain it on your lap with force, the cat will not like this. This kind of action will probably cause your cat to avoid getting in your lap at all, rather than encouraging it to do sit with you more.Instead of forcing your cat to do what you want, try using positive reinforcement with treats and praise to encourage the behavior you want.

