 Identifying the caterpillar type is crucial for treating these pests because some methods will get rid of certain types of caterpillars, but will be ineffective against others. The following steps cover some of the most common caterpillars and what you should do to remove them from your garden.;
, Cutworms live below the soil surface and eat through seedlings’ stems during the night. Plastic cups or toilet paper rolls can be cut into 2 inch (5.1 cm) strips and placed around tender young plants to protect them from these pests.Another way to avoid cutworms is to use sterile soil to start your seedlings. This helps prevent any pests that overwintered in your garden from eating your baby plants.
 Tomato hornworms chiefly target tomato plants and will strip them leafless in less than a day. These pests are easily recognized by the large spike on their posterior end.Handpicking is a good way to get rid of these caterpillars. Drop the hornworms into a cup or jar that contains soapy water, which will kill them.


Those that don’t run around their garden barefoot may prefer to squash these pests underfoot.
Gardeners that have an aversion to either method can instead dump any caterpillars they find into the garbage bin.
 Dill, parsley, fennel, cilantro, carrot, and parsnip foliage are a favorite food source of swallowtail butterfly caterpillars. Gardeners will recognize these creatures by their white and yellow stripes as well as their fat, bright green exteriors. Gardeners are advised to handpick these caterpillars and move them to a patch of Queen Anne’s lace or to another location away from their garden.Planting extra dill, parsley, and fennel for the butterflies to eat is another way to be sure that there is enough to go around.
 Covering plants with translucent fabric or by using polypropylene row covers are both good ways to protect brassicas from coming to grief at the hands of cabbage moths and other pests that take on a caterpillar form at one stage of their lives.Premade row covers can be bought at garden centers, but gardeners can make their own. All you have to do is stick hoops into the ground and cover them with either perforated plastic or fabric sheeting. These materials should let in both sun and air but also serve as a barrier for most bugs.
It’s a good idea to weigh down row covers on one end using bricks, wood planks, or other sufficiently heavy materials.
 Rake up and remove all of the fallen leaves and debris around your plants each fall. This will help to keep the caterpillar population under control. Check the leaves on the plants for caterpillar eggs—regardless of what kind of caterpillar you are dealing with—throughout the growing season. Be sure to check both the tops and bottoms of the leaves carefully.


When eggs are found, simply pinch or snip off the leaf and throw it in the garbage.

