 If you're a talker, fill the page with a long message. If you're quiet, stick to a short and characteristic message. If you're funny, fill the page with jokes. Make your addressee smile and remember your personality through the card!


It isn’t necessary to write about something that isn’t genuine to you or your relationship with this person.
Follow your instincts when drafting a message. Your first thought is probably your best thought., If you are all out of ideas, you can borrow someone else’s ideas. Introduce a relevant quote by first saying, “Confucius once said,” then state the quote: "Life is real simple, but we insist on making it complicated.” Then, offer a statement about the addressee of the card, such as, “Here’s to you, Jess, who never over complicates the situation.”


You can look online for quotes and even find quotes specific to holidays or birthdays.
 You don’t always have to use words to convey a message. You can show someone another side your personality by taking the time to draw something. You don’t even have to be good at drawing. It’s the thought that counts.


To personalize the drawing, try drawing something specific to your relationship. For example: your dad taught you how to ride a bike, so draw your dad teaching you how to ride a bike.
 Many people think being cheesy is too redundant in a greeting card, but it is fun and will bring a smile to someone’s face. You can even be unique by adding a cheesy, overused line because no one thinks to do it. Take some of these as examples:


”Like many women my age, I am 28 years old.”
”Birthdays are like buses, never the number you want.”
”You might not be Irish, but you sure can drink like one.”

, Look through your desk drawer or your special box to see if you have anything small you could include. Small things like a movie/concert stub or even an old photograph can liven a card. You are sure to offer something unique by including a small token that you cherish.


Cut out a page of a book and underline a passage you find relevant.
Look through magazines, like National Geographic, and find an image you find interesting.
Try to include something that you two shared together.

