 Selling a house is a long and complicated process, with many boxes to check along the way. The house has to be priced properly, listed, advertised, shown to buyers, and sold through a contract. The benefit of hiring an agent is simply that the agent takes care of these things for you. With an agent, you allow her to do the grunt work. You can rest easy knowing that everything will probably be done correctly and that your agent will help you get the most out of your home (her commission depends on it!).


An agent can also help you in preparing your home to be shown to buyers, as she knows what buyers are expecting and looking for in a home. This may include placing show furniture or giving certain rooms a fresh coat of paint, among other things.Real estate agents are never legally required in the sale of a home. However, some states require that a real estate attorney finalize the sale documents. Check your state's regulations before you try to sell a home entirely on your own.;
, The primary advantage of doing a for sale by owner (FSBO) is that you don't have to pay the agent's commission, which is regularly as high as six percent. Because of these potential savings, about 10 percent of sellers choose to go the FSBO route.Additionally, when you are selling a house yourself, you will have an easier time scheduling visits of the property, because you don't have to work around the agent's schedule. Finally, a FSBO allows you to meet the sellers in person, which is an advantage in negotiation and, if you feel strongly about the house, can be a good chance to get to know the people who will be living in it.Avoiding the agent's commission doesn't always guarantee that the seller will get more for the home. In some cases, a buyer will offer less for a FSBO home because they know the seller isn't paying agent fees. Additionally, a buyer with an agent may request a commission for their agent, which is usually three percent of the purchase price, however, this is a negotiated item.Keep in mind that if the seller interacts with the buyer, then they may reveal things about their situation that might have a negative impact on the sale. For example, if the seller reveals that they are relocating for a new job, then the buyer will know that the seller is hoping for a quick sale and may take a lower offer.
 The decision here rests on how much work and time you are willing to put into selling your house versus how much you can save by not paying an agent's commission. In addition, you'll want to consider how confident you are that you can get a good price on your home without an agent's help. Selling your own home requires a large amount of research to ensure that you're completing each step of the process correctly.


In some cases, the commission can be the deciding factor in whether or not a seller can afford to sell the property. Consider the housing market and your own financial situation before deciding whether or not to hire an agent., If you do decide to hire a real estate agent, be sure that you're choosing a good one who will get you the best price for your property. Start by asking friends and family for recommendations. This doesn't mean hiring someone you know who works as a real estate agent, but hiring an agent who acquaintances recognize as being a skilled negotiator and seller. Investigate his sales record and try to gauge whether or not he was able to get the sellers good prices.


In addition, don't just choose the agent with the lowest commission to save money. In many cases, a good agent will be able to get you more money, even after paying his fee., The primary difference between the two types lies in how offers on the property are made. In an auction, buyers are aware of other offers made on the house and can outbid each other to win the property. In a private sale, potential buyers make private offers for the property without knowing what other buyers are willing to pay. Either model can be beneficial to the seller, depending on the property itself, the seller's goals, and other external factors., The biggest benefit of selling at auction for most sellers is the knowledge that the price for a desirable property can be driven well above market by bidder competition. This is particularly valuable for properties that can't be easily priced on the regular market, like unique or historical homes. In addition, the auction gives the buyer the power to set when their home will be sold. The auction date provides a definite end to the selling process (provided the home sells at auction).Another consideration is that selling at auction can be cheaper than selling through an agent, particularly if you own a more valuable property. Auctioneers generally charge 1.5 to 4 percent of the sale price in commission, compared to agent's fees as high as 6 percent.This process also accelerates the selling process, as bidders are showing up prepared to buy. You won't have to schedule multiple showings of the house, and you know the house will sell at market value.Keep in mind that there are also auction sites that allow cooperation with a Realtor, so the option of an auction sale and a traditional sale would be open to you.
 A private sale can be more advantageous than an auction under the right circumstances. For one, it allows the seller a longer timeframe for considering offers. This gives you the time to consider whether or not the terms of each offer are really to your benefit. In addition, buyers make the offers on the home "blind" without the knowledge of what other buyers have offered. In some cases, this means that a particularly interested buyer seeking a quick deal may offer much more than expected (and much more than other buyers). Of course, there is no guarantee this will happen, but the same is true in an auction.As far as fees go, seller in a private sale may be cheaper if the seller chooses to do a FSBO. This way, the seller could avoid auctioneers fees., Agents are divided on this issue. Some believe that auctions always deliver higher prices while others like the security of private sales. In the end, it will depend on how many buyers and what types of buyers are interested in the home. If there are many interested and passionate buyers, an auction may spark competition and lead to a higher price. If not, a private sale may allow a buyer the chance to come in high with a good offer. Work with your agent or investigate the market yourself to try to figure out how much interest your home will receive and decide from there.Another consideration is time. An auction will help you get rid of a property in a set number of days if that is your goal. A private sale can take longer to close.Check with a real estate agent to find out the average time that a house was on the market in your neighborhood.
 A lease-purchase sale, also called a rent-to-own or lease-option sale, allows a potential home buyer to rent a property while simultaneously paying down the cost of the home. This gives him the option to buy the home for an agreed price at a specific date. The seller receives a down payment, usually around five percent of the home's value, at the agreement date and receives regular rent payments at a rate above the market rent on the property. The additional amount paid by the buyer goes towards paying down the value of the home in preparation of his future purchase.
 A lease-purchase can be a good choice in a difficult housing market where buyers are having difficulty securing financing for home purchases. This can help the seller reach a good sale price for her home while providing buyers a chance to purchase a home without financing. In addition, the seller usually sets the terms for the contract, allowing you to ensure that the terms are to your advantage. In addition, the seller is protected if the deal falls through. In this case, the seller still gets to keep the down payment and rent premiums.The seller also can continue to deduct mortgage interest payments from her income taxes while the home is being leased., Generally, this is only a good option if you can't get a good price for your home another way. Instead of actually selling your home and getting rid of it, you now have to deal with continued mortgage payments both on your old home (being leased) and your new home. However, the advantage is that if your buyer walks away during the lease period, you can keep the premiums and start again with your house at full value.It's also possible that, if the buyer walks away from the home during the lease period, you may be stuck with a loss in value. In any case, you will have to go through the selling process again., The seller can list the terms of the lease-purchase contract that they will accept, but the buyer will make an offer of their own. Then, the seller can either accept, deny, or renegotiate these terms. Look at similar houses around you being rented to determine a fair market rent price. Make sure this amount is higher than the mortgage payments you are making on the home so that they are covered by the buyer. In addition, make sure the sale price at the end of the lease term is reasonably higher than the current value (your house will be worth more in one to three years). Finally, look at the option fee (like a down payment) and negotiate a good amount that you feel comfortably compensates you for the risk and trouble of leasing your home.Your agent will draw up your lease-purchase contract, but then either escrow or an attorney will need to look at the contract and adjust the terms as needed. Hiring a lawyer can be expensive, but is worth it to prevent messy contract lawsuits.

