 As mentioned before, there are two kinds of popular kids. Some are nice to everyone and good at getting along with others, and some are aggressive and more likely to get in trouble.Researchers call the nice popular kids "prosocial" and the and aggressive ones "antisocial." The antisocial kids tend to become unpopular as time goes by because they alienate other people.
Having a friendly, outgoing personality can help you make friends with all kinds of people, and achieve lasting popularity.
 Something else that research shows is that popular kids have a way of "reading minds." They can't literally read other people's thoughts, but they are sensitive to other people's desires and needs.Pay close attention to how other people react to different social situations, and try to understand there perspectives. Being able to understand and relate to others can make you more likeable.
For example, if you are hanging out with a couple friends playing a game, take note of whether everyone looks like they're having fun. If one person looks bored or unhappy, you might want to suggest a different activity that you think everyone will enjoy.
 When asked what makes popular kids different, many people say that they are "not boring." So, to be more like the older, popular kids you want to befriend, work on being entertaining in social situations.Don't make a fool of yourself, but try to be funny. Learn some jokes.Make an effort to have a good time in social situations, and try to help others have fun, too. Introduce people to new activities, and encourage others to cut loose and enjoy themselves.
Think about other ways you can make yourself stand out socially. Maybe you could learn a magic trick or two, or develop some other skill that will be entertaining to others.
 People are more attracted to other people who appear confident. It will be easier to make friends with anyone if you behave more confidently. It is probably necessary to do so in order to to befriend older, more popular kids. Here are some simple things you can do:Stand up straight--slouching makes you look unsure of yourself.
Smile and make eye contact when you talk to others.
Try not to over analyze social situations. If you want to meet someone, just introduce yourself, don't give yourself time be nervous over "what ifs."

