 A seated twist is a relaxing way to gently ease your spine into the twisting movement and warm up your abdomen for more challenging twists. You may want to use a block or folded blanket for support on this pose.Get into this pose by sitting on your mat with your legs extended in front of you. Lean onto your right side and bend your knees so your feet are on the floor outside your left hip. You also can reach your right foot over your left thigh so that it rests on your left hip. Use a block or blanket under your right hip if you need additional support to keep your hips even.
On an inhale, lift through your chest and twist your shoulders towards your right side. Tuck your left hand underneath your right thigh, hand flat on the floor. Twist from the waist – your hips should remain facing squarely forward. Bring your right hand to rest on the floor behind you.
Breathe into the twist, coming back to center on an exhale. Repeat the twist with the other side. You can do two or three of these on each side if you want, with a breath between movements.
 Since the tabletop twist is a variation of the tabletop position, you'll want to open your routine by getting into this basic position fairly early. Make sure your knees are hip's width apart, and your wrists are directly beneath your shoulders.Since tabletop is a great pose to use as a transition between other poses, you may find yourself moving through tabletop several times during your routine, depending on the poses you choose to include.
 The cat/cow stretch is one of the most basic yoga stretches to help activate your core and connect your movement to your breath. It also loosens up your back to prepare you for twists.While you can start this stretch in tabletop position, you might want to tuck your toes under if this causes too much pressure on the tops of your ankles.
As you inhale, lower your belly toward the floor, lifting your chest up. Focus on curving from the middle of your spine and engage your abdominals. Make sure your shoulders are rolled back so that your shoulder blades are tucked down your back, in line with your spine. This is the "cow" position.
As you exhale, curve your spine back up toward the ceiling, pulling your belly up as though you are reaching toward your spine with your naval. Curl your shoulders under and drop your gaze so that your chin is resting on your chest. This is the "cat" portion of the stretch.
As you inhale, lower your belly and raise your chest back up to return to "cow." Repeat this rotation for anywhere from 10 to 20 breath cycles.
 Moving from downward facing dog to upward facing dog gets your whole body working in tandem and provides an elongating stretch for your spine.From tabletop position, roll back onto your toes and lift your hips towards the ceiling until your arms are extended in front of you. Press your heels towards the floor as you lift your hips towards the ceiling, pulling pressure away from your wrists. This is downward facing dog.
To move into upward facing dog, roll over your toes and lower your hips to the ground, pressing forward so that your torso is upright and your arms are straight. Your wrists should be directly under your shoulders.
To flow between these two positions, transition between the two poses with a breath for each movement. Continue this flow for a minute or two, maintaining focus on your breath.
 After stretching your spine vertically with upward and downward facing dog, the twist may be even more beneficial for your spine. From tabletop position, simply twist one arm across the floor to the other side of the mat.Keep your hips square and parallel with the floor, twisting only at the waist. Twist only so far as you can comfortably – if you feel any pain, ease back.
 If you have a strong core and good balance, you can try a balancing table top, in which you extend one leg and the opposite arm out straight so they are parallel to the floor.You also can do a twist in balancing tabletop by extending your arm straight to the other side rather than straight ahead in front of you.
 Many yoga sessions end in child's pose, which is a relaxing and rejuvenating pose that allows you to reflect on your practice and focus your energy. Since this pose also helps restore healthy digestion, it flows well with the tabletop twist pose.If you are transitioning from tabletop, gently slide your feet together until your big toes are touching, keeping your knees apart.
Sit back on your heels on an exhale, allowing your upper body to flatten and extend forward. Breathe deeply.
You can leave your arms extended, or take your arms backward alongside your torso so that your palms are facing upward. Since this is a resting pose, you can stay in it several minutes if you're comfortable, maintaining focus on your breath.

