 There are a lot of ways to emphasize notes, but the easiest way is to just begin the riff with the same note as the root chord. As you first start developing, practice hitting the root note right when the rhythm section changes chords -- as soon as they shift to an A7 chord, for example, you should hit an A note. Get used to this kind of synchronization -- while you should definitely not do this every time, practice it now to learn how and when to find the root notes on the spot.
 You don't have to start a riff with the "right" note in order to feature it in the riff. The more you can circle back towards the I chord, here an E, for example, the tighter your scales will sound. The video above provides a few practice riffs for the first few measures of an E-minor blues song.









Other than the root note, the rest of the notes are just your normal blues scale. Simply use the root notes as starting places to explore the rest of the scale.
 The 12-bar blues starts with four bars of the root chord, then two bars of the IV. Once you've memorized the root notes of the IV chord, use them to anchor your soloing during these chords. In an E-minor blues, like the one in the video, the IV chord is an A.
 In an E-minor blues song, the V chord is a D. The V chord is played only for one bar at a time, making it much faster to get to and get out of. A quick riff based around the V chord, however, then sliding it quickly back to the I, is the hallmark of good note selection. Check the video for a couple of good V chord licks.
 As the blues wrap around, you have 4 measures of to "turn around" the song and bring it back to the I chord. The progression is V-IV-I-V, or B-A-E-B when playing in E-minor. This is a good place to let loose a bit, showing off some faster playing or some different note choices. If, on each chord change, you can land on the root note, all the better. But the only one you must hit is the I chord at the beginning of the next 12 bars. As the turnaround ends, get ready to return to the root.
 Bends, hammer-ons, pull-offs, slides, and vibrato are all fantastic ways to mix up your tone and draw attention to important notes, giving you room to dazzle during your solo. While it requires some practice and a bit of forethought, you can start on a "blues" note like 2md string, 3nd fret of the E-minor scale (shown in video), then bend it up a full-step into the E on the 5th fret.







