 It is possible that breast implants are a great option for you. The procedure can be very effective, and is often the choice that those recovering from breast cancer or other illnesses make. As with any surgery, make sure that you understand the procedure.


Find a doctor with a great reputation and schedule a consultation. Before your appointment, make a list of questions to ask.
Read up on the procedure. If you know someone who has openly had breast augmentation, ask them if they would mind giving you some advice.
 Once you understand your options, think about which is right for you. Do you want silicon or saline implants? How large would you like your breasts to be? Ask yourself these questions, and make sure that you feel comfortable with your own answers. Envision the results and try to imagine how surgery would impact your life.
 Any medical procedure is bound to have risks. In addition to the general problems that can arise any time you are under anesthesia, make sure that you know the potential problems that can arise with breast implants.For example, ask what will happen if they rupture. It is also important to ask about the possibility of infection and side-effects such as scar tissue. You should also consider whether or not you plan to (or want to try) breastfeeding at any point in the future. Some women are unable to breastfeed after surgery, so this is definitely something important you want to discuss with your doctor.
Also, keep in mind that you will have to get the implants replaced about once every 10 years.
 Having surgery to increase your breast size is not a simple procedure. When doing your research, make sure to take into account the recovery process. You'll want to make sure you are prepared to take time off from work or school and many of your daily activities.


Talk to your friends and relatives to make sure that you will have a support system to help you out while you recover. You won't be able to lift things for a while--even a bag of groceries might be too much.
Recovery is something to ask your doctor about. Make sure to have that talk before you commit to surgery.
 You are the only one who can decide if surgery is right for you. Make a list weighing the positives and the benefits of taking this step. Are you doing it for yourself, and not another person? Are you physically and emotionally ready to undergo an operation? Ask yourself these, and many other, questions. Don't rush yourself. Think carefully about taking this step and what you hope to gain.

