 What colors do you want to use on your backpack? Do you want to use your current backpack, or get a new backpack? What kind of backpack do you want?;
, This can help you get inspiration for the type of backpack you want to decorate, and what colours you could use.
 If you're using acrylic paint, you need to buy the fabric median, too. Paint brushes are also recommended; a 3/4 inch (usually the largest size brush in a brush package at Walmart) is the best brush size you're going to get. You can buy these at major craft stores.


Get an inch size brush, and/or an inch and a half brush size too, if you want to have different sized splatters on your backpack.



Do this outside and set out a couple of feet of newspaper. You can do this inside, but it can make a big mess!
Make sure you change into some old clothing you don't care about. You don't want your new clothes covered in paint! Putting on gloves is also a big help.
If you're using acrylic paint and wonder "Why do I need the fabric median?" or "How much fabric median do I need to add to my paint?" Then you are just being smart and thinking ahead! The fabric median is used to make the paint flexible on fabric, so that way it doesn't crack or flake off the backpack.
Read the instructions printed on the bottle before you do anything. You should add half the amount of fabric median of the paint you're using. (Example: for every 2 oz. of paint you add 1 oz. of fabric median. For every 6 tbs. of paint you add 3 tbs. of fabric median. Don't really add this much paint!)

When measuring the paint, it doesn't have to be a real measurement. It could just be an old spoon. But it will get stained and it won't wash out easily, so make sure it's something that isn't very valuable to you.


Always wash your brushes thoroughly so that way you don't mix the paints. Rubbing the brush on a paper towel after wash is recommended if you are switching between paints.
Get paper cups

,
Lay it flat on the ground that you covered with newspaper. Now it's time to let your imagination flow!
Dip your brush and flick at the backpack. The harder you flick, the more splatters you get.
Make sure you don't cover the whole backpack with paint. You want to see the backpack, right! You're going to find yourself using less paint than you added.
 It'll take about an hour or less to dry.
 Your imagination is endless.

