 Studying Scripture throughout the season can enhance your understanding of both Advent and Christmas. Follow the readings set by the Western liturgical calendar or pick up an Advent devotional to help guide you through the season.


If you're celebrating Advent as a family, do these readings when all family members are present. Make sure that each person has a copy of the reading and consider talking about the reading with everyone after reviewing it.
Consider using the following readings if you do not have a special Advent devotional:Week One: Isaiah 40:1-5 (Sunday), Isaiah 52:7-10 (Monday), Isaiah 40:9-11 (Tuesday), Genesis 3:8-15 (Wednesday), Genesis 15:1-6 (Thursday), Deuteronomy 18:15-19 (Friday), Psalm 89:1-4 (Saturday)
Week Two: Isaiah 11:1-10 (Sunday), Zechariah 6:12-13 (Monday), Micah 5:2-4 (Tuesday), Malachi 3:1-6 (Wednesday), John 1:1-8 (Thursday), John 1:9-18 (Friday), Mark 1:1-3 (Saturday)
Week Three: Luke 1:5-13 (Sunday), Luke 1:14-17 (Monday), Luke 1:18-25 (Tuesday), Luke 1:39-45 (Wednesday), Luke 1:46-56 (Thursday), Luke 1:57-66 (Friday), Luke 1:67-80 (Saturday)
Week Four: Isaiah 7:10-14 (Sunday), Luke 1:26-35 (Monday), Isaiah 9:2-7 (Tuesday), Matthew 1:18-25 (Wednesday), Luke 2:1-20 (Thursday), Matthew 2:1-2 (Friday), Luke 2:21-35 (Saturday)

;
, Set aside 10 to 20 minutes each day for special seasonal prayers. You can say your own prayers or recite a few written prayers specifically meant for Advent. Reflect on the words as you speak them.


Written prayers for Advent can be found online, in Advent devotionals, or in Catholic prayer books.
One simple prayer traditionally recited during Advent is the Saint Andrew Christmas Novena, which is prayed from the feast day of Saint Andrew (November 30) until Christmas Eve. The words of the prayer are:

"Hail and blessed be the hour and moment in which the Son of God was born of the most pure Virgin Mary, at midnight, in Bethlehem, in the piercing cold. In that hour vouchsafe, I beseech Thee, O my God, to hear my prayer and grant my desires through the merits of Our Savior Jesus Christ, and of His blessed Mother. Amen.", Even though Christmas carols are common during the Advent season, there are separate Advent hymns and carols meant for the season before Christmas. Sing these songs with your family, friends, and neighbors.Advent is a time of waiting, and Advent hymns reflect this tone more appropriately than Christmas carols.
One of the most well-known Advent hymns is O Come, O Come, Emmanuel. Additional Advent hymns can be found online or in liturgical missals, but a few other lesser known hymns include:

Ready the Way (of the Lord)
Come, Thou Long Expected Jesus
On Jordan's Bank the Baptist's Cry
Jerusalem, Lift Up Thy Voice
Creator of the Stars of Night



, Look for books about Advent and the meaning of Christmas and spend the Advent season reading through them. In doing so, you can help prepare your mind to celebrate Christmas in a more heartfelt manner.


If you have kids, consider finding children's books about the season. Wrap each book separately and arrange them in a basket. Before bed, instruct your kids to unwrap one book, then read that book instead of a standard bedtime story. Work through the books by reading one each night., If you're Roman Catholic, Advent is a good time to go to Confession.


Even though Advent is a season of joy, it's also a season of reflection and penitence. By reflecting on your wrongdoings, confessing your sins, and seeking to do penance for your sins, you can help prepare your soul for the coming of Christ.
If you aren't Catholic, you can still treat Advent as a time for personal one-on-one confession with God.
 The Advent wreath is probably the most commonly used symbol of Advent. Churches that celebrate Advent will probably have their own wreath, but you can have one at home, too.Four candles (three violet, one rose pink) are placed around a circular evergreen wreath. One candle is lit each Sunday. When doing an Advent wreath at home, the candles are usually lit during the evening meal or evening prayer.
It is also customary to read and reflect on a specific Advent reading after lighting each candle. The reading is usually based on the Western liturgical calendar.
Christ is represented by the light of the candles, and the evergreen wreath symbolizes the eternity of God.
The three violet candles symbolize prayer and penance. The rose candle is lit on the third Sunday and represents joy at the approaching birthday of Christ.
 Nativity scenes provide a visual representation of Christmas and the days surrounding it. You can add to the scene little by little throughout the season to help prepare for Christmas.


You can make your own scene or purchase one online or from most religious stores.
There are two common ways to set up the nativity scene for Advent:

Set up the entire thing at the beginning of Advent but leave the crib empty until Christmas Eve.
Set up the scene little by little. Move Mary and Joseph a little closer to the stable each night and add other pieces (animals, shepherds, etc.) one by one. Place the baby Jesus figurine in the crib on Christmas Eve.
 Advent calendars are popular amongst families with young kids. You should be able to purchase or make an Advent calendar, depending on your personal preference.


An Advent calendar helps the family count down to the birthday of baby Jesus.
The calendar has a separate compartment for each day of Advent. On each day, you open the compartment and take out the item that's inside. This item can vary; it can be a small treat or toy, or it can be a message of goodwill.
 The Jesse tree is separate from a traditional Christmas tree. It's both smaller and simpler, and it's used to illustrate the relationship between Jesus and His biblical ancestors.


Place a branch or wire tree in a vase or pot at the start of Advent. Each day, hang a new ornament on the Jesse tree to represent a different ancestor of Jesus. When hanging each ornament, read a passage about the ancestor that ornament represents., Display a small, empty wooden crib somewhere in your house and gradually add straw to it throughout Advent. As you add the straw, explain to any kids in your family that you are preparing the crib for the baby Jesus.


Members of the family should add a new piece of straw each time they perform a small sacrifice or kindness for someone else. Encourage the kids in your family to point out others' good deeds instead of their own.
By Christmas Eve, the crib should be filled with straw. You can place a small figure or doll, representative of the baby Jesus, in the crib at that time.
 You should strive to share the love of Christ with others throughout the entire year, but life can get busy and distracting, so it's easy to lose sight of this goal. Advent is a good time to re-focus your efforts by giving your time and/or material possessions to those who need it.


Try to be more mindful of other people during the season, including loved ones and strangers alike. Little acts of kindness can go a long way. Bake cookies for your neighbors or bring snacks for your co-workers. Hold the door open for the busy shopper whose arms are full or bring a cup of hot chocolate to the volunteer collecting donations for the needy outside of your grocery store. These acts of kindness don't need to be planned far in advance. When an opportunity to help arises, simply act on it.
 One way to help yourself spread the love and joy of Christ during the Advent season is to pick a special service project to participate in.


If you're looking for ways to celebrate Advent as an entire family, discuss a few different options with the family and pick one to work on together.
If you regularly attend church, talk to the pastor of your church and find out if there are any parish service events coming up. You can also suggest organizing a service event for the congregation if none are currently in place.
A few options worth considering include:

Give gifts to disadvantaged children
Donate food and clothing to those who need it
Volunteer at a soup kitchen, nursing home, or homeless shelter
Visit the sick in the hospital or in a nearby nursing home



, As each Christmas card arrives in the mail, place it near your Advent wreath or in another highly visible location. Go through the cards each night and use them as a reminder to pray for each sender.


A similar option is to make out 24 small prayer cards, each with the name of a separate relative, friend, stranger, or cause. Place these cards in your Advent calendar or in a small jar on your table, then draw a name each evening. Spend a few extra minutes praying for the name you draw each time.
 Make Sunday dinner a little more special than usual during the Sundays of Advent. If you have an Advent wreath, light that Sunday's candle at the start or end of this dinner.


You can either prepare a nice dinner or invite friends and family over for a large potluck. If you opt to invite friends over, make sure they know what to expect when they arrive and invite them to take part in your family's Advent prayers, candle lighting, and readings.
 The Advent angel practice is similar to the secret Santa tradition, but it has a spiritual emphasis instead of a material one.


Place the names of all family members into a hat and instruct everyone to blindly pick one of these names. Each person must keep the name he or she draws a secret.
You become the "Advent angel" of the person whose name you draw. Offer special prayers, small gifts, and special acts of kindness to that individual throughout Advent, keeping each act as secret as possible. Everyone can reveal whose Advent angel he or she was on Christmas.

