 Identify what kind of home you need. How many bedrooms and bathrooms? Is there a certain area that you want to live in? Do you have accessibility needs? Determine how much these features might cost. Record your savings goals as well. Try to put 15-20% of your paycheck in your savings account when you receive it. If you cannot afford that, try to find an amount that works for you, no matter how small.Once you determine how much money you can spare a month, set that amount as your monthly savings goal.;
, In a financial planner or journal, write down everything you buy. Keep track of your bills, utilities, and rent. Try to find out how much you are spending each month on food, alcohol, and entertainment. This will make you aware of how much extra money you’re spending. Try to find ways to cut back, such as:


Fixing your appliances instead of buying new
Drinking one or two beers instead of three or four at the bar.
Carpooling to work

, Housing costs should account for 25% of your paycheck. You will need to pay a down payment, and instead of rent, you'll be paying a mortgage every month. To calculate what your can afford, write down your monthly earnings and your monthly spending (rent, utilities, etc.). Use an online calculator to find a rough estimate of what you can afford to pay.Mortgage rates generally range from 5 to 7% so plug in different numbers to see what range of houses you afford.


For example, a $225,000 home on a 30 year mortgage with 7% interest rates will cost roughly $1496 a month.This can vary, however based on your credit score and initial down payment.
Most banks will require a 15-20% down payment. Some government programs, however, offer down payments between 5-10%., Make a table with two columns. In the first column, write down how much you expect to spend during the next month on things such as food, drinks, clothing, entertainment, and gas. As you buy things, record in the second column how much you spent. Try to identify where you are spending more money than you would like.Make sure that you revisit your budget monthly so that you know if you are hitting your goals or if you need to adjust your spending.For example, if you decide to only spend $50 a month on gas, you might find out that you have spent $75 instead. This means that you are $25 over budget. The next month, you should drive less. Consider carpooling, biking, or taking the bus to reduce gas costs.
If you are spending too much in one area, cut back in another. For example, if you are spending too much money on food, cut back on the money you use on entertainment.
Factor your spending goals into your budget. Are you putting away as much as you would like each month?

, There are many loans and programs offered by the federal and state government to help people buy their first home. If you qualify for these, they may be a good option for you as they offer low down payments and competitive interest rates. These include:


Government-Owned Enterprises (GSE) such as The Federal National Mortgage Association (Fannie Mae),The Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation (Freddie Mac), Federal Home Loan Bank SystemThe Department of Housing and Urban DevelopmentVeteran Administration LoansThe Office of Native American Programs (ONAP)The United States Department of Agriculture (USDA)Disability programs such as Maryland’s Homeownership for Individuals with Disabilities Programand Connecticut's Home of Your Own Program., Even if you are not ready to buy a house, you can sit down with a broker at your local bank for a consultation. A broker will be able to tell how much money you should save for a down payment and what interest rates you may be able to receive based on your credit. You should ask:


"What kind of interest rates can I expect with my current credit score?"
"How much are closing costs?"
"How big of a down payment will I need to pay?"
"What other fees are there?", Good credit will give you a better mortgage with a lower down payment and lower interest rates. This means that you have to save less, and you will have to pay less overall. You want to aim to have a credit score of at least 580.If you don’t earn much, it can be tempting to put everything on your credit card, but try to only buy what you can afford to pay for at the end of the month.


Set up payment reminders
Pay all bills on time
Pay more than the minimum of your credit card payment each month
Use your credit card only for small purchases. Pay these off in full at the end of the month., You do not need to buy a new home that has just been constructed. There are may lower cost options available for buying homes, but you should be aware of both their benefits and their costs.


Find a “fixer upper.” You may find a house that you can renovate cheaply yourself. You can add better lighting or an updated kitchen and bathroom. These features will cost you in the long run, although they may be cheaper than buying a house that comes with them.
Consider buying a foreclosed house. You should be careful as you may be responsible for any unpaid debts on the property. Foreclosed houses also tend to have structural issues that you will need to fix.Buy a multi-unit building, such as conjoined town houses. Live in one side, and rent out the other to cover your mortgage payments. Remember that you will have to pay taxes on the income you earn from renters.
 The advertised price for a house is not a final number. When you make an offer on a house, you may be able to get away with a lower price. Don't be afraid to negotiate with the broker or owners. While there is a chance someone will outbid you, you may be able to get away with paying a few thousand less than you thought you would.


You can hire an appraiser to look at the house and estimate its true value. This will tell you if the house is worth as much as the owners say it is, and it will help you negotiate a good deal.
 Make a list of your monthly spending, and circle anything you buy that you can live without. Take the money you would spend on these things, and put it in your savings account each week. For example, if you spend $20 on buying lunch each week, bring your own lunch, and put the money in your account. $20 a week for a year will save you an extra $1040 a year. You can:


Cook instead of eating out
Choose generic products over brand name
Buy used clothing and furniture
If you are eligible, you can save money by applying for food stamps through the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP)., Try to increase your savings goal a little bit each month. Set a monthly savings goal. Setting short-term saving goals will make it easier for you to succeed.Instead of saying you will save $1000 dollars over a year, for example, say you will save $20 a week or $80 a month.
 Try to work as hard as you can at your current job. Work overtime if you will be paid for it. Ask your boss for a raise. If your current job doesn't pay well enough to allow you to save, try throwing out some applications at other companies. If you have a part-time job, try looking for an extra one. You also make some money on the side through small jobs such as dog walking, selling crafts online, or babysitting.

