 One way to manage the stress of being diagnosed with HIV is to learn as much as you can about the disease.The more you know about HIV, the less your diagnosis will overwhelm you. You will have an idea of what to expect, what treatments are available, and what new developments there are.


Review sites like the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention https://www.cdc.gov/hiv/, National Health Service http://www.nhs.uk/conditions/hiv/pages/introduction.aspx, AIDSInfo https://aidsinfo.nih.gov, or AIDS.gov https://www.aids.gov/index.html for up-to-date information about HIV.
Don’t hesitate to ask your primary care provider, service organization representative, or anyone else who is knowledgeable about HIV any questions you have.
 An HIV diagnosis can be extremely stressful due to the changes it means for your life. Using stress management techniques like meditation can help you manage your disease as well as stay positive after your diagnosis.Practicing meditation can help you calm yourself in the current moment and reduce your overall stress. Explore different forms of meditation to determine the type that works best for calming and relaxing you.


Try using a guided audio meditation to get started. You can also meditate on your own, or in a class setting.
Introduce yourself to meditation a little at a time. For instance, start by sitting or lying quietly somewhere comfortable. Focus on relaxing your body and on your breathing for five to ten minutes.
Over time increase the amount of time you spend meditating. You can also begin meditating on mantras or phrases. Keep in mind that meditation can be difficult at first, but it usually gets easier with practice.
 Focusing on and controlling your breathing can be a great stress-management technique. It can be used in any situation without being disruptive or distracting. It’s also a strategy you can use to help you reduce your stress over all and manage your HIV diagnosis over time.


Slowly inhale through your nose. You may want to count as you do so. For example, you might think to yourself, “Inhale, 2, 3, 4, 5.”
Hold the breath for a few moments. Try to feel it in your lungs and down into your belly. Count to yourself as you hold it.
Release the breath slowly out of your mouth. You may want to count again. For instance, you might think as you are exhaling, “Exhale, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6.”

, Keeping your feelings about your HIV diagnosis and the stress in your life bottled up can cause you even more stress and create other emotional problems.Eventually your bottled emotions might erupt in a negative way. One way to manage your stress and maintain a positive outlook about your diagnosis is to use a journal. Journaling gives you a safe space to release your feelings, dreams, challenges, and successes. It can also serve as a way to document your journey with HIV. Experiment with journaling during different times of the day to see what works best for you.


Write honestly about what’s going on in your life and how you feel about it. For instance, you might write, “I’m HIV positive and I'm not sure how I feel about everything going on with this diagnosis.”
Write about the challenges you face and how you can overcome them. Also, write about your successes with HIV and in staying positive after your diagnosis.
Designate a space in your journal (or keep a separate one) to keep track of your HIV treatments and other important notes and information.

