 Even if you're feeling down in the dumps, you need to act positive as much as you can. Laugh easily, have a big smile on your face, and talk about the things that genuinely make you happy. This is not only good general life advice, but a great way to make your friend jealous. At the end of the day, what we all want the most is to be happy with our lives, and if your friend thinks that this comes so easily to you, he or she will get even more jealous.


Even if you have a small setback, just say, "I know I'll do great next time." Be relentlessly optimistic.
Talk about your favorite parts of school, sports, or any activities you're involved in, so your friend thinks you love every aspect of your life.
Talk about how excited you are for the future and talk about all of the things you want to do, whether it's to go to a great college, land an amazing job, or go kayaking in Hawaii. Your friend will be jealous that you have so much to look forward to.
 Though you may be feeling weak or insecure, you can't let your friend see that side of you. You have to remain confident, keep your head up high, and act like you have life under control. If you need serious life advice, ask someone else for it. You don't want to do or say anything that would make your friend think, "So it looks like he/she isn't so perfect after all..."


Even if you're not feeling confident, having the right body language helps. Stand tall with your arms at your sides, your shoulders high, and take determined steps while looking ahead instead of at the ground.
If your friend reveals a weakness, you can try to help her out, but never try to comfort her by relating to her problems. You don't have problems, remember?

, Never look awkward or uncomfortable in a new social situation. Your friend should see that your attitude is to tackle any new social situation as an adventure, and that you're excited at the prospect of meeting new people, and therefore having new friends, that are even better than your current friend. Make it look like it's no big deal to make new friends, even if you're nervous on the inside.


When you're in a new social situation, ask people their names, ask them relevant questions that make them feel important, and talk about how much you'd love to hang out if it's going well, so your new friend will be jealous.
 Though bragging from time to time or finding a sly way to talk about your friends or significant other as much as you can will definitely be far from humble, you shouldn't make too much of an effort to make your friend jealous. If you're constantly talking about how amazing your life is, your friend will see that you're just trying to impress her. Instead, act like you're fine on your own, that everything is great, and that you don't really care what anyone, including your friend, thinks of you.


Sometimes, just letting your friend notice how lucky you are and how great your life is instead of pointing it out can be more effective.
Don't say, "Isn't that awesome?" or "Isn't that great?" after you talk about something in your life. Let your friend see that it is great.
 Your friend should think that you don't have any anxiety or nervousness when it comes to the opposite sex, and that you have a chill attitude that makes other people gravitate toward you. Don't talk about how nervous you are about meeting boys or how you never know what to say. Instead, talk about how cool it is to meet new guys or girls, or even act disinterested, like you couldn't possibly care about all of the attention you're getting.


And if your friend starts getting attention from the opposite sex? Act like you couldn't possibly care less.

