 If "Writing a term paper" sounds like it's going to take forever, that's because it will. But coming up with five possible topics? Writing out a single thesis statement? Coming up with some possible main ideas? That sounds a lot more doable. If you tend to procrastinate, try making shorter to-do lists that will make your job easier.


Break up larger tasks into smaller, more manageable chunks to make your work sound a lot easier, even though you're doing the same thing. Break it up by how difficult the tasks are, or how much time you think you'll need to spend on each.

Prioritize the most important things first, or the most timely tasks. You've got to come up with a topic before you start doing research. So come up with your topics and try for a thesis statement before you start poking around online doing research.
 Some recent studies show that we often procrastinate because we use up all the time we have allotted to complete something.In other words, if you've got three months to write a paper, most people will take three months to write that paper, even if that means writing it all in the last five hours before it is due.


Give yourself a specific page count, word count, or other deadline for the next hour or two. If you're working on the Internet, make yourself finish before your app kicks it and turns it off for an hour.
You can use Freedom or Stop Procrastinating to set productivity goals for yourself, as well as managing your deadlines on your own.
 Productivity studies regularly reveal that taking short breaks every hour or so helps long-term productivity more than taking a single long break. Don't work for longer than an hour at a time. If you want, take five minutes to cue up a short YouTube video or mess around on Facebook. Take a break no longer than 5-7 minutes, each hour.


Supposedly, working 52 minutes is the ideal amount of time for you to work before taking a break.Give yourself a break to rest your mind and be at your best.
Schedule breaks to help remind yourself. Set a phone alarm, or use your web blocker setting to go off every 52 minutes to give yourself some time. When the net cuts back out, get back to work., Tab browsing and high speed Internet can quickly become overwhelming. If your browser window involves shopping, researching, writing, chatting, and designing a .gif at the same time, then narrow your focus. Make it your goal to only have one window and one tab open at a time. Finish what you're doing before you open something else.


Tab browsing can cut into your attention span and the length of time you stay on an individual page.If you need to be researching on the Internet, slow down and look through your resources more thoroughly instead of tabbing out.
 Don't try to carry on a conversation with your friend in a G-Chat while you're also trying to write an e-mail. Don't try to read up on the topic for your history paper while you're live-tweeting the Academy Awards. Do one thing at a time when you're on the Internet, and the quality of what you're doing will be higher., Some studies show that instrumental music can improve productivity, specifically on repetitive tasks.That means that it might not be great for writing, or doing other Internet-related activities, but if you're doing something repetitive online, it can be a great booster to your attention span and ability to work.


Keep the volume low and the mood relatively subdued. Listening to really fast-paced math rock probably isn't the best way to work.
 Support yourself as you work. Give yourself little rewards for periods of productivity. Use rewards that will keep you productive, instead of making you procrastinate. For example, instead of pulling up a YouTube video, get outside and go for a quick walk. Instead of goofing on Facebook, make a cup of green tea, which has brain-boosting properties that will help you stay focused., WOOP stands for Wish, Outcome, Obstacle, Plan. Set a goal, visualising the obstacles, then chart the way ahead. Research suggests that this method is very effective in working past potential obstacles. Help yourself deal with procrastination. Plan some time before you start a task that'll be online. Plot out the potential for you to procrastinate and make mistakes. Visualize doing the task properly and correctly. See yourself not pulling up that Podcast and wasting time. Do it the right way.
There's also a customizable WOOP app that can be downloaded onto your smartphone to help you make the anti-procrastination plans.