 Getting to know individuals from many different backgrounds and walks of life within your community may give you a new perspective on the problems facing your community. Some ways to get to know the people and places in your community might include:Introducing yourself to people. Make a habit of introducing yourself to the people you meet in daily life. Show genuine interest in them, and ask them questions about their lives, jobs, and families.

Connecting with neighbors. Ask neighbors you know to come and visit you, or visit them yourself. Ask about their lives, work, health and family, and get their perspective on local problems.

Visiting new places. Visit businesses and public areas that you don't typically visit. Take note of changes in your community as well, such as new neighbors, local construction projects, or newly opened or closed businesses.

Walking around your neighborhood. If it is safe to do so, walk or take public transit instead of driving a car. This will allow you to see, hear and experience your community and its members more intimately.;
, If you want to raise awareness about problems facing your community and encourage peace in your community, then organizing a peaceful event is a good option.Try banding together with some local community members to put together an event, such as a community picnic, a food drive for a local food bank, a peaceful protest, or a walk through your community to raise awareness about a problem your community is facing.


If you don’t feel ready to plan an event, then you could also organize a small meeting. Try planning a meeting and inviting some other community members who are interested in making your community a more peaceful place. Use the meeting to share your concerns and discuss possible solutions.
 Volunteering is great way to help your community and it may also be a good way to promote peace. Local anti-violence organizations may have a need for volunteers in outreach or other programs. However, don't limit your considerations just to organizations focusing on violence. Any opportunity to better the community, from volunteering to pick up trash to participating in after-school programs for children, will allow you to meet new people in your community, and promote a sense of togetherness and cooperation.Look into volunteering at a local soup kitchen, homeless shelter, or animal shelter. Try visiting local organizations’ websites or calling to see if they are looking for volunteers.
 Encourage everyone in your neighborhood to do the same, and be sure to provide your own contact information to your neighbors. This will allow you to quickly get in touch with your neighbors when a problem arises. It will also make it easier to check on people in your community and maintain your relationships with them. Here are some suggestions for information to gather:Home or cell phone numbers
Workplace addresses and phone numbers
E-mail addresses, or social media accounts
Contact info for neighbors' immediate family, in case of emergency

, Community events give community members the opportunity to get to know one another in a safe, positive environment, creating a sense of community spirit and cooperation.Make it a habit to seek out opportunities to gather with your fellow community members, such as at a neighborhood barbeque, school event, church function, festival, or charity drive.


If you can, consider offering to help set up, run, or clean up after the event.
 Most towns, and most communities within larger cities, have some form of local government or citizen council that holds meetings that are open to the public. At these meetings, community members have an opportunity to voice concerns and learn about changes in local laws and policies. Attending these meetings is a great way to learn about what's happening in your community and to voice your concerns.Depending on what community you live in, there may be many meetings that you have a right to attend, including city council meetings, meetings of other government committees, and meetings of public organizations such as parent teacher associations.
Online resources, such as https://www.usa.gov/local-governments, are available to help you locate public offices, services and meetings.
You can also contact your local city council, chamber of commerce, or other local government organization for help.

