 It’s important to maintain a support structure during this difficult time. Although you may feel embarrassed to tell your friends and family about your unemployment, they will likely provide you encouragement and support while you search for a new job. They may also be able to help you find a new job. Make a point of getting lunch or dinner with a friend at least once a week.If your friends and family usually get together for activities that cost money, suggest cheaper alternatives, such as sandwiches over steak or coffee over lattes. Also take the initiative to suggest free activities like going for a hike or visiting a free museum.
 Without a set routine, you may be tempted to sleep in and you may also be tempted to go to bed later and later, which may interfere with your ability to return to a normal sleep schedule. Resist this temptation. Waking up early—around the same time you woke up during your previous employment—will help you to stay in a healthy routine and avoid the possibility of depression.If you have trouble waking up early without a set task to accomplish, make one for yourself. Plan your workouts in the morning, or decide that you will spend two hours job-hunting from 9 a.m. to 11. a.m. every week day.
Make sure that you leave the house at least once per day as well. This may help to keep depression at bay.
 Exercise is one of the best stress relievers. Get at least thirty minutes of exercise every day. If you can engage in social exercise activities like group sports or a bike team, even better. You’ll get the benefits of exercise and the benefits of social interaction in one activity.If you’re unable to afford a gym membership because of your unemployment, you have options. Many YMCAs will offer reduced rates to people who are unemployed.
Other options include jogging or biking outside, or playing Frisbee, soccer, or other sports at a local park.
 Meditation, yoga, or prayer are effective ways to combat stress. If you have stress reduction techniques that have worked for you in the past, use those. Otherwise, don’t be afraid to seek out new ways of coping with stress.


If you’ve never meditated before, there are many resources available online that can help you get started. Additionally, you may be able to find a meditation center in your town that offers free classes.
As a simple relaxation exercise, sit in a quiet room and close your eyes. You can sit in a chair or sit cross-legged on the floor—whichever is more comfortable. Breathe normally. Focus your attention on your breath moving in and out of your lungs. Maintain this position for five-to-ten minutes.
 If you feel overwhelmed by your situation, reach out to friends or family for help. If you’d rather talk to someone who doesn’t know you, you can find a therapist in your area. If you don’t have insurance, then try a community mental health center in your area.


Don’t wait until you’re desperate to seek help. Instead, reach out for help when you first start to feel depressed or anxious about your situation.
If you can’t afford a therapist, there may be free options in your town. You can find free therapy options by contacting social services. Another option is to visit a local community hospital, if you have one, and ask about their therapy options for people with low incomes.
Your spouse or children may also feel stressed out by your situation. Make sure to tell them that you’re there for them and offer them the same resources you would seek for yourself. Avoid taking your emotions about this out on your spouse. Have another family member or friend that you also talk to about your situation to spread the emotional weight around and avoid putting it all on your spouse.
 While alcohol, cigarettes, and other drugs can provide temporary relief from stress, they tend to increase stress in the long-term. Alcohol is also a depressant, so you should avoid drinking too much during a time that you are feeling low already.You don’t need to cut alcohol or cigarettes out of your life entirely. In fact, you should avoid doing this during your unemployment as stopping these drugs is a stressful event. Instead, simply try to reduce your intake slightly and don’t let yourself drink more than you normally would.

