 Most people diagnosed with bipolar disorder will take lithium at one point or throughout their treatment. The benefits of lithium include evening out mood swings, treating depression and mania, and preventing mania.Lithium appears to have strong anti-suicidal properties, which can be beneficial in treatment.Lithium takes about 10 – 14 days to take effect and about 50% of people notice improvements when taking lithium. Another 40 – 50% experience improvements when other medications are added to lithium.Not taking lithium regularly or suddenly stopping use can increase your chances of feeling unwell or needing hospitalization.Common side-effects include weight gain, thirst, dry mouth, and slight shakiness.Lithium is available as a tablet, capsule, and liquid and taken two to four times per day.Be aware that lithium toxicity is a risk. Symptoms include nausea, vomiting, and diarrhea. Irregular heart beat, sluggishness, difficulty with coordination, confusion, and agitation.;
, Also known as valproic acid or Depakote, valproate works best for those who are rapid cyclers and persons with a history of depression with mixed mania. People with bipolar who benefit from valproate include those with a history of head trauma, substance abuse, or have intellectual disabilities. Valproate can treat manic episodes that include psychosis and is used mostly to treat manic episodes.Generally, it takes seven to 14 days for the medication to start having effects, and psychiatrists will not adjust the dosage prior to three weeks.Common side-effects include weight gain, hair loss, or feeling sick. If you develop bruising or bleeding, notify your psychiatrist right away.Valproate is available as a capsule, tablet, and liquid, delivered once to twice each day., Carbamazepine (also called Tegretol) is sometimes prescribed for people who do not respond favorably to lithium. It seems to work favorably for people who experience rapid cycling bipolar.It primarily treats manic episodes and mixed episodes.Some people take carbamazepine together with lithium. This drug generally takes seven to 14 days to take effect, and if no effect is noticed within three weeks, your prescriber may try a different medication. Carbamazepine can interact with other drugs or have a lesser effect over time, which is why it is not prescribed as readily as other medications.Carbamazepine tends to have fewer side-effects than lithium, but can include nausea, dizziness, sleepiness, and feeling ill.This medication is available as a pill, chewable, capsule, or liquid, taken two to four times per day., Lamotrigine (Lamictal) is prescribed primarily to treat severe depression and often given to treat bipolar II disorder.Dosages must be increased slowly and cannot increase abruptly.More research is needed in order to evaluate the effectiveness of treating bipolar disorder, however, it appears to effectively treat depression and manic episodes.It is primarily used to treat seizures and epilepsy.Side-effects of lamotrigine include drowsiness, headache, diarrhea, insomnia, rash, and feeling ill.Medication is available as a tablet, dissolvable tablet, and chewable, taken once or twice each day., You cannot attain a mood stabilizer without a prescription. Most people choose to see a psychiatrist to manage mental health prescriptions, side-effects, and symptoms.A psychiatrist is trained to monitor and treat mental health symptoms and has more experience treating mental health problems than a general practitioner.


Find a psychiatrist by calling your insurance provider or local mental health clinic. You can also obtain a referral from your general practitioner or ask for a recommendation from a friend.
 Early in treatment, speak with your psychiatrist regularly about your medication.Let your prescriber know about any side-effects or adverse effects you may be experiencing. Keep track of your moods, sleep, eating habits, and overall well-being, and relay any changes back to your provider. Keep regular appointments with your psychiatrist to monitor the effectiveness of your medication.


When you see your prescriber, let them know how you’re doing on the medication and whether you need to adjust it or make changes.
 If you want to get pregnant, are pregnant, or are breastfeeding, it’s important to discuss your treatment options with your prescriber. Some medications can be associated with birth defects and can be passed on to your baby through your breastmilk.If you need to make changes to your medication, always speak with your prescriber.
 While mood stabilizers are generally used to treat bipolar, they are not the only option. Some prescribers may choose to treat your bipolar with antipsychotic medication, which includes risperidone, olanzapine or clozapine. They are used mostly to treat manic phases of bipolar disorder, but can also treat severe depression and other mental health diagnoses.You may also take antidepressant medication.


If your prescriber recommends an antipsychotic, it’s not because you’re “crazy.” It is one of many options if they do not believe that mood stabilizers are a good fit for you.
 One way to monitor your progress on medications is to keep track of your moods and symptoms daily. Consider keeping a bipolar symptoms and moods journal that you update regularly to include your sleep, emotions, and medication reactions.Ask your friends and family to gently point out any fluctuating moods or changes in your behavior.


Enlist the help of family and friends by asking, “I’m doing my best to manage my moods and symptoms and I started using medication. Will you please let me know if you notice any big changes in my behavior or moods?”

, Some medications take months to take full effect. If you’re having adverse reactions, your prescriber will likely change one medication at a time. You may need to adjust your dosage or adjust your medications based on your side-effects and symptoms.You may find that one medication works well but causes uncomfortable side-effects that may need another medication. Stay patient and always describe your symptoms to your prescriber.


It can be frustrating managing side-effects and symptoms. Stay positive that you will find a good fit for your body.
It may take months to get the right combination of medication for your treatment. Be compliant with your medication, and always take it as prescribed.
 Many mood stabilizers can affect your liver and kidney function, and it’s important to monitor their health throughout treatment. This is typically performed through a simple blood test. At the beginning of treatment, you may need frequent blood tests (weekly or bi-weekly), which may become less frequent over time (once per year).Ask your prescriber about any health risks associated with medication. You may wish to include your blood tests during your yearly physical examination.

