 When your body is losing heat faster than it can create heat, you run the risk of becoming hypothermic; when your body temperature slips below 95 degrees Fahrenheit, your organs can no longer function normally.Hypothermia can be a serious risk to your life and your health. You can lose fingers, toes, and limbs from the cold, and you might suffer from lasting damage. If you think that you might be growing hypothermic, then your situation is severe, and you need to increase your body temperature as quickly as possible.


In mild hypothermia, you may notice: shivering, dizziness, hunger, nausea, rapid breathing, slight confusion and lack of coordination, trouble speaking, fatigue, and a quickened pulse.
As hypothermia becomes more severe, you may notice that many of the mild symptoms become more severe. You may stop shivering; mumble or slur your speech; feel drowsy; make poor decisions, such as trying to remove warm clothes; feel a worrying lack of concern; experience a weak pulse and shallow breathing; slowly lose consciousness; and ultimately, if treatment (and proper re-warming) is not received quickly enough, die.;
, If your body temperature is dropping dramatically, you need to get out of the cold. If you are outdoors, find a warm room or shelter.


Even getting out of the path of the wind can help. Try taking cover behind a wall or other large object if you cannot get into a building.
 If your clothes are wet, then remove them and put on some dry clothes. Pile on as many warm, insulating layers as possible - including the head and neck. Cut away someone's clothes, if necessary, to keep them from moving too much.


Ensure that you have warm and dry clothing to put on before removing wet clothing.
 If you can't get indoors, curl up with another person under loose, dry layers of blankets or clothing. This can be one of the most effective ways to quickly stabilize and raise your body heat., Your extremities - hands, feet, fingers, toes - are usually the first parts of your body to get cold, but the situation is most severe when the cold spreads to your core. Warm your torso, your belly, and your groin to stabilize your body temperature and get your heart pumping. The warm blood should radiate out through your veins from your core.


Hold your extremities against your core. Place your hands under your armpits or between your thighs. Curl up in the fetal position so that you trap heat between your torso and your legs; try to tuck your feet in so that they don't get too cold.