 You can find most if not everything you need to start your own miniature succulent garden in the garden department of your local home improvement store. This project requires at least one compact container, a few ounces of natural gardening soil, some small potting stones or pebbles and your choice of succulent plants.The average price for succulent seedlings, gardening soil and a basic planter will most likely be between $30-50.
With all your supplies in place, you can put together a miniature succulent garden in as little as 15 minutes.;
, When most people think of succulents, cacti are what spring to mind, but there are lots of other varieties to choose from. Some of the most popular if lesser-known succulents include Echeveria, aloe, cotyledon, sempervivum and agave. Choose plants that you think will be a good fit for the type of garden you have in mind.It may be worth considering factors other than just looks, as well, like the climate you live in, accessibility to sunshine around your home and how much time you’ll be able to devote to caring for the plants.Browse the succulent selection at your local greenhouse or plant nursery for even more options.
 The exact size of your succulent garden is up to you, but in order for it to meet the “miniature” description, it should probably be able to fit in something no larger than a household planter. Ceramic bowls and dishes are one more attractive option, or you could keep things simple and go with a basic flower pot. Think up some clever, unorthodox containers planters for your succulents. Miniature gardens in mason jars or fish bowls will look charming displayed throughout your home, while outdoor arrangements could be created in an unused bird feeder, wheelbarrow or even a pair of rubber gardening boots.Whatever container you settle on should encourage proper water drainage or evaporation and provide enough space between individual plants so they don’t smother each other.
 If you wish, you can lend your garden some extra visual appeal by ornamenting it with tiny statues, figurines, trellises or other novelties. This sort of flair doesn’t typically cost much more, and can be used to break up the monotony of a sea of green plants and black soil if you’re starting a garden for aesthetic purposes.Those who aren’t inclined to buy a lot of knick-knacks for their gardens can still spruce them up with found objects like seashells or wood carvings.
 Start by sprinkling pebbles into the container you’ve selected. The pebbles will provide a foundation for the potting soil and also help drain excess water which can cause succulents to die off or rot. If your planter features holes for drainage, make sure they’re not covered up by larger stones.For best results, this initial layer of stones should be at least an inch thick.When working with stones of various sizes (like those you’ve gathered yourself), put the larger stones in place first, then fill in the gaps between them using smaller rocks and pebbles.
 Shake a few ounces of soil into the planter over the pebble base. Break up the soil to keep it from clumping and becoming too dense. The soil will need to be at least an inch thick in order to hold most succulents securely and allow them to take root.Use a spoon to funnel the soil into containers with smaller openings.
Consider mixing in some sand with your potting soil. This will keep the consistency light and well-ventilated, which is beneficial to the growth and survival of succulent plants., Formulate some ideas about what you might want the general configuration of your succulent garden to look like. For instance, you might arrange tufts of senecio around a sweeping mound of kalanchoe or jovibarba, accented with brilliant Adenium blossoms. Let your imagination run wild—the layout of your garden should be a unique showcase of your personal sensibilities.Placing a few different types of succulents in close proximity will create a look of eye-catching diversity.
Plant “filler” succulents like aptenia cordifolia around the edges of the planter to act as a natural perimeter and fill out the appearance of the garden.For succulents with beautiful coloration, try ruby ball cactus, Epiphyllum, Echeveria or Queen’s Tears., Remove the plants from their existing containers carefully, brushing away any clinging soil until you expose the root ball. Use the tip of your finger to burrow into the potting soil and carefully place the succulents in the holes you made, making sure the root of each plant is nestled down deep. Pat the soil around the bulbs or stems lightly to anchor the plants.Let your succulents sit above the rim of the planter, rather than deep down within it. This will create much-needed airflow between the plants and keep water from pooling around their base.If you’re growing your succulents from cuttings or leaves, place them directly on top of the soil in rows and water them using a spray bottle., Once you’ve gotten your succulents where you want them, scatter more pebbles and larger rocks over the uppermost part of the soil. The added weight of a second layer of stones will hold the plants in place and help distribute moisture more evenly when you water them. After you’ve covered the topsoil, stick in whatever accessories or decorations you please and call it a day!A second layer of stones will also help protect against wind and water erosion.
Accent your garden with colorful glass beads or gemstones. They’ll provide the same function as pebbles, but with a more elegant and personalized appearance.
 These plants love hot, dry weather and do best when left someplace where they can bask in the sun. Make room near an uncovered window if you’re cultivating your succulents inside so that they can receive ample sunshine. If you plan on leaving the miniature garden outdoors, situate them where other plants and objects won’t obstruct their primary light source.A good rule of thumb is that succulents should get around six hours of sunlight per day.
Avoid exposing your garden to too much direct heat. Hours and hours of direct sunlight, especially in the warmer months, can be stifling even for succulents.
 As with all plants, succulents like cacti, rosularia and Aeonium need regular watering. However, they won’t require as much moisture as less hearty seasonal plants. When your succulents are young, start them with half a cup of water every few days. Pour the water in a slow trickle all around the outer area of the planter, and stop when the soil beneath the stones just begins to glisten.Ween succulents off moisture in the colder months, reducing the frequency of waterings to once every couple of weeks.Let the soil dry out completely in between waterings. While this may seem foreign to many horticulturists, most succulents favor a desert-like setting and are naturally equipped for dry spells.
 Add a small amount of nitrogen-rich fertilizer to the topsoil periodically to keep your succulent garden healthy. A good fertilizer will provide the plants with vital nutrients that will allow them to continue growing and thriving. This will be especially helpful when your plants are young, or if you live in an area with poor growing conditions.Mix a small amount of fertilizer or organic compost into the potting soil when you first plant the succulents. Spread on another thin layer every few weeks as the plants continue to grow.
Make sure that the fertilizer you apply has been approved for use with succulent species of plants.
 While they’re known for their remarkable survival skills, succulents are not invincible. Accidental overwatering from precipitation can damage or kill them, as can wild shifts in temperature. Furthermore, outdoor succulent gardens will need to be safeguarded against wind erosion and interference from natural pests like mice and predatory insects.Check your succulents weekly for signs of blight, disease and over or underwatering. The roots and stems of succulent plants that have been overwatered will become soggy and mushy, while thirsty plants quickly dry out, shrivel and lose color. Blights can manifest in many different ways, but most often appear as discoloration, mold growths or wound-like defects.Bring the plants inside if you’re expecting prolonged periods of rain or frost, or destructive weather events like tornadoes or hailstorms.

