 Adverbs often end with the suffix -ly and modify verbs or adjectives. Adverbs are sometimes used at the beginning of sentences to explain how something happened or felt, especially in informal writing. Common examples include generally, usually, and fortunately.For example, here is a sentence that begins with an introductory adverb: “Unsurprisingly, the one day I forgot my umbrella was the day it rained.”
Adverbs such as when and while usually introduce a restrictive modifier and should usually not be set off by commas.
Commas should be used to offset introductory adverbs that modify the entire sentence, not ones that modify a single element of the sentence (such as the verb).
 One-word introductory elements include words such as no, yes, and well, and are separated by a comma from the main clause when they begin a sentence.


Here is an example of an introductory word beginning a sentence: “No, I cannot come over this morning.”
Here is an example of well as an introductory word: “Well, I’d love a second piece of cake, but I’m on a diet.”

Why can also be used as an introductory word, but be careful: it should only be set off by a comma when it is not essential to the meaning of the sentence. The comma in the sentence “Why, that's amazing!” is correct. However, you would not use a comma in this sentence: “Why couldn’t you come over this morning?”, Introductory transitions help guide the reader from one sentence to another, and they should be set off from the sentence by a comma. Common introductory transitions include However, Furthermore, Nevertheless, and Meanwhile.Introductory transitions may also take the form of phrases, such as In addition and Despite this ___. Set them apart with commas too.
 These phrases add information to a sentence, but do not have a subject and verb that are separate from the subject and verb in the main clause of the sentence. If the introduction is less than 3 words, a comma is considered optional.Common introductory phrases include participial phrases (phrases that function as adjectives to describe something in the main clause), prepositional phrases, and infinitive phrases (beginning with infinitive verbs ).For example, this is a participial phrase: “Grasping the sword with both hands, Lancelot swung with all his might.” Grasping the sword with both hands modifies Lancelot, the subject of the main sentence.
This is an example of a prepositional phrase: “Throughout the evening, she enjoyed many pleasant conversations at the party.”
Here is an example of an infinitive phrase beginning a sentence: “To win the election, the senatorial candidate has spent more money than anyone else.”
Don't mistake gerunds (verbal nouns with -ing endings) for an introductory participial phrase. For example, you would not use a comma in this sentence: “Writing with perfect grammar is difficult but achievable.” The gerund phrase Writing with perfect grammar is the subject of the sentence.

