 The thing you are lacking is physical contact, so the strongest need is communication. Make that a number one priority. Talk regularly to keep each other advised of the happenings in one another's lives. Set aside time for loving conversation and time for conversation about basic things that need to be discussed, such as home arrangements or administrative things. Try to always fit in time for loving discussions, and not let your sadness or annoyance at being apart take the upper hand of every talk together. Understand that you live in different areas and that you might not see each other often, so don't make it a main point every time you talk. It's a fact and acceptance is part of it.


Keep in contact with your partner not just through text. Use Skype, video chats and even snail mail. And don't forget the beauty of a poem or a story featuring your loved one now and then! You could even send letters or care packages.
There may be awkward silences, but remember what matters; in time, a little silence here and there may actually become a part of your normal routine as you just listen to each other breathe.;
, You may want to tell him or her how horrible your day was and you can but try to listen to the them more. Realize when you're making the conversation too much about you and not enough about them.
 Sometimes in a relationship there may be a period when both people are busy with school or work and may not be as quick to reply as they normally would. Try not to get angry or worried within the first week if the person doesn't reply to your message. You have to understand they might not be able to reply given their current situation.
 This step goes hand in hand with being patient. If something goes wrong and they don't reply on time or they get angry at you because they are having a bad day, does not mean that they hate you. You should talk and figure things out. This doesn't mean you can't get upset; it just means don't go overboard.
 If you feel that something is wrong with the relationship, be sure to tell your partner. It is important to talk openly and early than to let things seethe.
 One of the most important factors within a relationship is trust. Without it, there can be a lot of mixed feelings which may lead to jealousy or betrayal.
 This may be hard as you may miss them but your partner may get annoyed with the amount of texts and their content.
 Especially if you're dating, you need to make plans to see each other and talk. You can do this through Skype or another chatting service or even go visit them. You may just need to see each other more often in order to maintain this relationship.
 When you're dating long distance, you can't kiss your partner so try other methods of expressing your feelings for them. Try to let your friend or partner know you still care or love them, maybe not like a couple would, but still let him or her know you're still close. You can also try writing them a letter and sending it to their current address.

