 You can learn from your past, but don’t live in the past. Learn to let go of the things that have happened to you and move on with your life. On the other hand, it is easy to fantasize about the future. Take advantage of each day and each moment while they are happening in order to get the most out of each day.Engage yourself instead of zoning out.
Enjoy each moment as you are living it instead of thinking about the past or present.
 Everyone has been hurt in the past. If you have not let go of that pain you may be carrying it over into each day. This pain can greatly impact your quality of life. It is important to forgive those who have hurt you in the past in order to move on with your life. You will find that this forgiveness is more helpful for you that it is for the person that you are forgiving.Keep in mind that forgiving someone does not mean you are forgetting what happened or that you are saying the behavior was okay. It is just meant to give you some peace and allow yourself to let go of the anger, hurt, and resentment you feel.
 If you have negative memories from the past, replace those memories with new memories. Try new and exciting things that you have always wanted to try. Instead of spending your money on stuff, consider spending it on new experiences. These memories will last much longer than anything that you buy.Take a vacation to a place that you have always wanted to go.
Take a friend or your family to a new place like the zoo, museum, or amusement park.
 Part of living your dream life is having what you want. The other part is wanting what you have. Look for the things that are going right in your life and be grateful for them. A mindset of gratitude will help you be happier and gain more things that you want in life.For example, you could be grateful for having meals, a home, a friend, or any number of things.
 Once you achieve the life you want, it is easy to get carried away and start letting things slip. If you want to continue living your dream life, you will have to remain responsible and guard the lifestyle you live. You should absolutely enjoy yourself, but you have to maintain your responsibilities as well.


For example, if you finally moved into your dream home, you have to continue to pay the mortgage. Even though you have reached your goal of moving into that home, you won’t be able to continue living there if you neglect your responsibilities.

