 Because so few foods we eat contain vitamin D naturally, taking vitamin D supplements is easiest way to consume this important vitamin. You should choose a supplement that fits your budget and your preferred dosage type, as vitamin D can come in capsule, tablet, or liquid form.Make sure the vitamin D supplements that do not contain harmful chemicals, such as lead, mercury, or arsenic. The supplement should contain mostly vitamin D. Some vitamin D supplements may offer calcium in addition to vitamin D.
The vitamin D supplement should say it has been independently tested on the label and is recognized as safe to consume. Many of the most commonly sold vitamin D supplements have been confirmed safe to eat.You can find vitamin D supplements at your local health food store, in the vitamin aisle at your local drugstore, or online.;
, According to the Vitamin D Council, you should take a certain amount of vitamin D supplements based on how old you are and how much you weigh. Children should have 1,000 IU of vitamin D per day for every 25 lbs of their weight. For example, if your child weighs 35 lbs, they should take 1,400 IU of vitamin D a day.Adults up to the age of 70 can take 600 IU of vitamin D. If you are 71 and over, you can take 800 IU of vitamin D. However, you should never exceed 4,000 IU of vitamin D a day, as this can lead to health issues, such as kidney damage. Four thousand IU of Vitamin D is the maximum for all ages and populations.
Pregnant mothers and those breastfeeding can take 400-4,000 IU a day. Like everyone else, pregnant women or those breastfeeding should not exceed 4,000 IU of vitamin D a day.
 To ensure you are getting the most benefits from vitamin D supplements, you should have them once a day at the same time every day. You may have the supplements after you have eaten breakfast in the morning, for example, so you consume them at the same time once a day.You may get a pill box with slots for each day of the week and place your vitamin D supplements in the slots for each day. This way, you can remember to take the supplements once a day throughout the week.
 You can get vitamin D by spending time outside in the sun once a day. You should expose your forearms, hands, and lower legs to direct sunlight, without sunscreen, for at least 10 minutes a day. Try to do this from late March or early April to the end of September, particularly from 11 am to 3 pm.If you have a darker skin tone, you may need to spend more time in the sun to get the necessary vitamin D.
After 10 minutes in the sun, you should put sunscreen on to protect your skin from harmful UVB rays. If you feel your skin is starting to burn or turn red, cover up and put on sunscreen.
The American Academy of Dermatology recommends a broad spectrum sunscreen with an SPF of at least 30.Keep in mind you cannot get vitamin D from tanning beds.
 You can also get vitamin D by eating foods that are rich in vitamin D. These include oily fish like mackerel, herring, salmon, and sardines. You can also get vitamin D from eating red meat and eggs.Keep in mind it is more difficult to get a high amount of vitamin D from eating certain foods, as you may need to eat a lot of these foods to get enough vitamin D in your system. You can try adding these foods to your existing diet to ensure you are getting some vitamin D from your diet on a daily basis.
 There are certain food products that have been fortified with vitamin D. You should try to consume vitamin D fortified foods and buy them at the grocery store when you go food shopping. Certain brands of milk, non-dairy milk products, and certain cereal products may be fortified with vitamin D. Check the label of these products and opt for brands that have been fortified with vitamin D., Ask your doctor, “What are the proven benefits of taking vitamin D to control asthma?” and “Based on my medical history, should I take vitamin D supplements?” Your doctor should be able to help you determine if vitamin D supplements are right for you.Vitamin D has been shown to help control asthma in several studies. But there is no conclusive evidence that the vitamin D can cure or relieve your asthma symptoms. Speaking to your doctor about vitamin D supplements before you take them can help you gauge if they will be beneficial for you.
 Never take vitamin D supplements instead of other medications, such as medications for asthma. You should ask your doctor if the supplement will conflict with any other medications you are taking.Vitamin D supplements can negatively affect you if you are taking medication for high blood pressure. Your doctor should advise you on the correct dosage of vitamin D supplements if you have high blood pressure or are on blood pressure medication.
Vitamin D can also affect for your blood sugar levels. If you have diabetes or low blood sugar, you should speak to your doctor before taking vitamin D supplements.
 Once you start taking vitamin D supplements, you should check in with your doctor periodically to ensure your body is benefiting from the supplement. This is especially important if you are taking vitamin D to control your asthma and would like to chart the effectiveness of the supplement. You may schedule a check in appointment with your doctor every few months to ensure the supplement is working properly.If you notice any negative side effects or symptoms while taking vitamin D supplements, you should see your doctor right away. You may notice skin irritation, headaches, nausea, and kidney problems if you are experiencing issues with vitamin D supplements.
 Asthma is caused by inflammation of your airways, a malfunctioning of your body’s immune system. Clinical trials have shown that vitamin D has positive effect on your body’s immune system and can help reduce inflammation in the airways, at least among children. When children with asthma were given vitamin D, the severity and frequency of their asthma attacks decreased.Keep in mind clinical trials on the effects of vitamin D on those with asthma are ongoing. Several studies have hypothesized that vitamin D will help improve the symptoms of asthma. Clinical trials are still being done to confirm vitamin D is effective.
In one study done in rodents, it was demonstrated that mothers who were vitamin D deficient during pregnancy had offspring with suggestive features of asthma., Vitamin D has been shown to be beneficial to your overall health, as people need vitamin D to remain energetic and healthy. A lack of vitamin D in your body can lead to kidney disease, osteoporosis, skin issues like psoriasis, and thyroid issues. Often, taking vitamin D supplements in controlled doses can be good for your health overall, even if you do not have asthma.Never exceed the recommended dosage of vitamin D supplements, as this can lead to health issues.
Some individuals can be allergic to vitamin D supplements. Speak to your doctor if you are concerned about having an allergic reaction to vitamin D.
 To ensure you are well informed, you should try to stay up to date on the latest medical studies around the effects of vitamin D on those with asthma. You may read scholarly journals or texts online that have been written by a trusted medical source. You may also check in with your doctor to determine if vitamin D can be beneficial to you or a loved one with asthma.Note that the effectiveness of vitamin D for controlling asthma is still in the trial stages. It has not been confirmed as a viable option for everyone with asthma. You should read current medical studies to ensure you are getting the most up to date information on this treatment option.

