 Being a Billings Girl is definitely way more than just appearance.. but it does in fact play a huge role in it. If you're going to be representing Billings, we want you looking your best.;
, We don't want zits all over your face! No one wants to look like or be the girl with the pizza face. If you have naturally beautiful skin, than you're lucky, but still make sure to keep good hygiene and wash your face. However, if you're like 95% of the girls in high school, you're going to want to invest in some products.
 Straightening, curling, scrunching, whatever you want. Just make sure you look presentable. At all times. You never know what important billionaire you might run into next. Also, we're not going to want some frizzy afro girl representing the Billings name. Use frizz-preventing shampoo, conditioner, and products. And another thing, you don't want dull hair color... no one does. Try going to the salon and getting low-lights or high-lights, and make sure you don't have any dead/split ends. Gross. Get a nice cut that will compliment your face frame.
 Even though every girl is naturally beautiful, the whole point of make up, is to simply enhance one's features. Not paint a new face on. Try some mascara, eyeliner, eyeshadow, and skin makeup. Google ways to play up the color of your eyes, and how to properly apply eyeliner. Remember with skin make up, to use primer, foundation, and cover up. It might sound like a lot, but it isn't. It all depends on how you apply it. Don't cake it on, distribute is evenly across your face in the right places, to make it look like you have naturally, beautiful, blemish-free skin.
 Probably the most important key thing to any Billings girl's reputation. If you have money, you probably don't need much help in this department. However, if you're middle class like the rest of us, there's no need to dress like it girls! There are plenty of designer brands that are cheap and cute. Stores like Charlotte Russe, Forever 21, Hollister, American Eagle, Aerie, and Abercrombie are places you can get Billings approved clothes for a decent price.
 Let's get one thing straight, Billings Girls know what they want, and they always get what they want. Why? Well, being popular rich and pretty obviously plays a part.. However, the way they present themselves plays a HUGE role. You must present yourself as confident, cool, calm, and collected. Billings girls are level-headed about everything.
 Billings girls know everything about everyone, so make sure you do too. When big news hits your school, do you want to be the last to know? Absolutely not. You wanna be the one spreading it... (or keeping it a secret.)

, Considering you're looking to be the girl everyone else wants to be, you're going to want to be well rounded. When you see that pretty girl, who's athletic, and gets perfect grades, don't you wish you could have all that? Exactly. So be that girl. Don't wish you were her. (Hint: This doesn't come easy to anyone. You're going to have to work your ass off for this. But if you can't live up to it, then you're just not Billings girl material...)

, No matter what. Mistakes they've made, secrets they have, you're going to want to stand by them no matter what, through thick and thin, and protect them, and the Billings name.
 Good luck!

