 When you read about the history of the work that interests you, you may see a long list of male names. The work of women has historically been oppressed, stolen, and absorbed into a male narrative—delve deeper to find the women who have contributed from the start.If you're interested in science, consider researching the life of Marie Curie, the first woman to win a Nobel Prize.
If you are an athlete, look to pioneering female athletes like Junko Tabei, first woman to climb Mount Everest, or Charlotte Cooper, the first woman to win an Olympic Gold medal.
If you are interested in politics, look to women like Benazir Bhutto, the first female prime minister of Pakistan, or Sandra Day O'Connor, the first female Supreme Court Justice of the United States.
 Women who fight for others are the drivers of positive social change. Consider the suffragettes: some, like Lydia Becker started influential committees, while others, like Emmeline Pankhurst, practiced civil disobedience and were frequently arrested for their direct actions. Women like Elizabeth Cady Stanton, Susan B. Anthony, and Julia Ward Howe fought for voting rights for women in the United States, although they neglected to acknowledge the concerns of black women and men.Early black feminist heroine Sojourner Truth advocated for the rights of black women.
The founders of the Black Lives Matter movement are all women: Alicia Garza, Patrisse Cullors, and Opal Tometi.
Consider female champions of economic justice: Mother Jones (Mary Harris Jones), Emma Goldman, Dolores Huerta, and Sylvia Federici.
 Look to the brave women who have expanded the boundaries of what womanhood in their cultures. Many high-achieving people have been given every possible advantage, but others had to overcome serious obstacles to succeed. These women show fortitude and toughness that you may want to emulate. They are also uniquely positioned to inspire others who are oppressed.


Transgender women like Sylvia Rivera, Janet Mock, and Rita Hester brave the highest physical risk to express their genders and support other transwomen.
Lesbian heroines include Gladys Bentley, Barbara Gittings, and Audre Lorde.Ida B. Wells fought against lynching and against racism with female suffrage, even when her white counterparts sought to discredit her., Taking an artist as a role model can be especially fruitful because so many artists leave a thorough public record of their thoughts and feelings. Read the books of great writers like Gertrude Stein, Virginia Woolf, George Eliot, Toni Morrison, Etel Adnan, or Claudia Rankine.


Admire the visual art of brilliant women like Kara Walker, Frida Kahlo, Agnes Martin, and Berenice Abbot.
Enjoy the music of admirable women like Beyoncé, Joanna Newsom, Chavela Vargas, and Dame Ethel Smyth.

