 Be sure to consistently follow your doctor’s instructions about medications, including insulin and other oral diabetes medications, on how to take them and when. Further, if your doctor has put you on a strict diet or you've consulted with a nutritionist or registered dietician, make a concerted effort to follow those dietary plans, which were designed precisely to avoid complications with your illness and to keep your blood sugar levels stabilized throughout the day.Sometimes the best preventive medicine is to follow the rules and guidelines set by your primary healthcare practitioner.;
, Individuals with diabetes are recommended to monitor their blood sugar at least once daily, ideally upon waking in the morning and before eating anything. Be sure to log the number on a data sheet or journal, noting the date, time and result of the test. Some diabetics, especially those with “brittle” diabetes, a condition marked by swings in blood sugar levels, should check their blood sugar more frequently and up to four times a day (before breakfast, lunch and dinner and before going to sleep). To monitor your blood sugar level using a glucometer (a blood sugar meter), purchase the meter, lancets to prick the finger, compatible test strips and alcohol pads to cleanse finger before pricking it. To test your blood sugar:Wash your hands with soap and water.
Take the alcohol pad and cleanse the pad of the index or middle finger.
Hold the lancet against your finger at 90 degrees and release the lever to prick your finger.
Squeeze a drop of blood onto test strip.
Insert the test strip into the glucometer slot and await the reading.
Log the measurement in your data log. A level of 70 mg/dL or lower is indicative of low blood sugar and this is usually when you will begin to experience the symptoms of hypoglycemia.
 You should eat three full meals and have three small snacks throughout the day so that you are eating regularly and consistently. Make sure to time the meals and snacks so that the gaps between them are evenly spaced out; if you miss a snack or eat later than usual, this can cause your blood sugar to get lower.Plan your meals so that they are never more than four or five hours apart.
Never skip meals if you have diabetes. This is especially important if you are taking medications for diabetes.
Make sure you account for any extra calorie expenditure. For example, if you're running a marathon on a Saturday, you will need to make sure to eat more that day than you would on a normal day.
 The meals should contain a protein source, such as chicken, fish or beef, that is approximately the size of a deck of cards (3-4 ounces). If you're vegetarian, make sure to get a different source of protein, such as eggs, tofu, soybeans, or Greek yogurt. Along with your protein source, make sure each meal contains a source of complex carbohydrates and plenty of fresh fruit and vegetables.Complex carbohydrates should comprise 40 to 60% of your daily diet and good sources include brown rice, beans, and whole grain breads as well as vegetables such as kale, cabbage and broccoli. Limit refined carbohydrates like white bread, pastries, syrups and candy.Good choices for fruit include oranges, peaches, grapes, blueberries, strawberries, and watermelon, among others; these will not only round out your meal but also provide valuable phytonutrients. Fresh fruit is a great source of natural sugar, which can spike your blood sugar and prevent hypoglycemia.
A good rule of thumb is that your plate should be two-thirds full of vegetables and fruits.
 Avoid beverages and foods that contain significant levels of caffeine, including coffee, tea and some types of sodas. Caffeine can cause the same symptoms as hypoglycemia, which may make you feel even worse., If you are at risk for hypoglycemia, keep quick-fix foods at work, in the car, or anywhere else that you spend time. Good healthy and convenient on-the-go options include as string cheese, nuts, yogurt, fruit or a smoothie., Consuming alcoholic beverages, particularly on an empty stomach, can cause hypoglycemia in some people. In some cases, this reaction may be delayed for a day or two so the correlation may be difficult to identify. If you consume alcohol, always drink alcoholic beverages with a meal or a snack., Exercise is very beneficial for diabetics, especially because it helps to lower blood glucose levels. By the same token, physical activity can also bring down those levels too far - even up to 24 hours after the exercise. If you engage in exercise, make sure that you are exercising a half hour to one hour after you've just had a meal. Always check your blood sugar before and after exercise.Carry a snack with you if doing strenuous exercise, like running or cycling. A snack can help prevent the onset of hypoglycemia.
If you're burning lots of calories, you may need to adjust your medication or eat additional snacks. The adjustment is dependent on the results of your blood sugar test results and how long and how intense the exercise you are doing is. You should consult your physician if you're diabetic and want to maintain your exercise regimen while also managing your condition.
 At the first sign of hypoglycemia symptoms, promptly ingest a quick snack. Go for whatever you have on hand or is available the quickest. Symptoms should dissipate within 10 to 15 minutes after consumption; re-test your blood sugar after 15 minutes to make sure it's back up to 70 mg/dL or higher. If it's still too low, eat another snack. There is no need to go to the hospital or visit your doctor if you an experience a one-off episode. If you can, stay seated, as you may become faint. Good quick-fix food options include:1/2 cup (4 oz) of fruit juice (orange, apple, grape, etc.)
1/2 cup (4 oz) of regular soda (not diet)
1 cup (8 oz) of milk
5 or 6 pieces of hard candy (Jolly ranchers, Lifesavers, etc.)
1 tbsp of honey or sugar
3 or 4 glucose tablets or 1 serving (15 g) of glucose gel. Keep in mind that the appropriate doses of these items may be less for small children; read the instructions before giving glucose medication to children in order to determine appropriate dosage.

