 Your kids will be less inclined to engage in online behavior they know you wouldn't approve of if their only opportunity to use the computer is when everything they are doing is visible to you and other members of the household.However, don't forget that kids can access the internet in other ways, such as if they have their own smart phone or tablet.
 Parental control software can help you monitor what your kids are doing on the internet as well as adjust the user settings on the computer to ensure that your kids are protected and can't access harmful things.Most parental control software comes with basic filtering to block objectionable or adult content, as well as blocks that limit your kids' ability to share personal or private information on the internet.
You also can install software that limits the amount of time your kids' can be on the internet and the time of day the internet is available. At any other time, the computer will be offline and the kids will be unable to access the internet. This works well with younger kids, but may not be all that beneficial for teenagers who have mobile devices with internet access.
You also can use monitoring parental control tools, even without the kids' knowledge. These tools simply record all the sites the kids visit and what they do there, and may send you a notification if they access certain types of sites or engage in activities you specify.
 To appropriately monitor what your kids are doing online, you'll want to adjust the administrative settings on the computer the kids use so that they are not permitted to delete their browser history, cache, or cookies.Reading through the browser history will tell you the sites that your kids visited, how many times they went there, and generally what they looked at while they were there.
This level of monitoring doesn't just help protect your kids from online catfishing, it also ensures that they aren't doing anything else harmful online, such as downloading a virus.
You also may want to create user settings for them that do not permit them to download anything from the internet or install any apps or programs on the computer.
 If your kids have a smart phone or tablet, they also may be online or using social media there. To protect your kids from online catfishing, you need to have access to all devices on which they access the internet.If you can, set up your kids' mobile devices so that they sync with a main computer. That way you can check everything all at once rather than having to check each device, which can seem intrusive to your kids.
Adjust the user settings on your kids' smart phones and tablets so that they can't delete or manipulate data, or download apps, such as chat apps, without your knowledge and permission.
 Limiting the amount of time your kids can spend on the computer is as much about ensuring they have a healthy, well-rounded lifestyle as it is protecting them from online predators and catfishing.You also want to make sure that your kids aren't on the internet for extended periods of time, particularly late at night, when many catfish choose to lurk about online.
For example, you may allow your kids 20 minutes of free time to use the internet each night. Particularly if they have a lot of different sites they like to visit, 20 minutes isn't really enough time for them to start a relationship with someone or become vulnerable to catfishing.
 Help your kids set up their social media accounts, and set them up with an email address that you can access. This way you can also set up the notifications so that you receive an email alert when someone tries to contact your kids.Older teenagers may have a problem with this, because they feel that you are spying on them and not giving them enough privacy. Explain that you are only trying to protect them and keep them from harm, but give them as much privacy as you feel comfortable doing while still keeping them safe.
Keep the lines of communication open, and ensure that your kids feel comfortable coming to you if they have any issues online, or if someone online is making them uneasy. Let them know that you won't be angry with them, that you only care for their safety and security.
 You can't monitor your kids' internet usage if you don't know where they are when they go online. Keep a master list of their social media profiles, and update it regularly.You may want to limit your kids' access to certain types of websites or apps, particularly those that have a reputation as being a place for people to "hook up." Even if your kids don't intend to use them that way, other people do, and they may assume that your kids are looking for the same thing.
Older teenagers may want a little more privacy, but with younger kids, your master list should include all of the passwords to their accounts so that you can access them if you need to.

