 Sleep is your bodies only way to naturally process food and liquids so they can be used in the morning. Without sleep, your body cannot function correctly, because there is not enough energy. Think of it like this: Your body creates energy more efficiently during sleep, because you aren't doing day activities, such as running and playing. Your body is doing less work, and thus using less energy, so less energy being created is automatically being used by your body. Now if there was no sleep, no matter how much you eat or drink, your body cannot keep making energy fast enough to keep up with your necessities as well as other activities you do. Thus, everything that is going on is going slower and more sluggish than normal, due to the famine of energy. This also affects your immune-system, or your body's natural defense mechanism. Since your immune-system is going sluggish, infections are more likely to occur, because your body cannot fight them off as well! Freaky-Fact: Everyone thinks that the most important thing in surviving is water, and that's correct. But they also think that it is the necessity that you have to have within 3 days, a.k.a. the least amount of time. Part of that is correct, and the other part is wrong. Yes, you can only really survive around 3-days without water, but it's not ranked the least amount of time. Actually, the least amount of time is sleep. Normal functioning of the body cannot go over more than 2 days! This is why many dungeons and prisons would torture inhabitants by putting them through extreme sleeplessness, eventually leading up to insanity.;
, Water is imperative when it comes to normal functioning of the liver, kidneys, digestive-track, lymphatic-system, and just about every other part of your body. As said above, you cannot survive very long without water, so drink-up! The less stress and shock your body has, the better you'll turn out.
 out of your mouth, eyes, ears, nose, bellybutton, etc. It's like the dream-train for germs; a highway to your entire body.
 It's another way for viruses and bacteria to enter your body and someone else's.
 Drool, breath, snot, you name it always ends up on the pillow or comforter, and yet another pathway for infection has come up!

, Very blunt, yet very descriptive, and yet also has to be explained to a point. Vegetables and fruits, especially vegetables, give your body the right stuff for fighting viruses and keeps the function in order. Try to avoid refined flour, grains, and starches; blood sugar spikes, and drops, leaving you vulnerable to attacks. Milk is also quite-good, as well as other dairy stuff. Avoid sugars; they make your immune-system sluggish and tired. NO GOOD!!! Try to eat a balanced meal, too. If all you have is a grilled cheese sandwich with some chips and a Coke, not only will your blood sugar spike, but there is not enough vegetables and fruits to balance all those carbohydrates. Also, eating veggies and fruits will help reduce the impact of carbs and sugar on your blood sugar!!! By the way, try to not eat stuff with a waxy-coating, anything that has artificial preservatives, artificial colors and flavors, hormones, GMOs (Genetically Modified Organisms) , chemicals, etc. They are hard on just about everything in your body.
 Very important!!!

, Exercise is proven to reduce the impact and help prevent colds in the first-place. Plus, it's great for your muscles and heart!

