 It is necessary to properly identify the weed before purchasing herbicide. Different species and types require different herbicides. If you are unsure of the weed, call your county extension office or an herbicide dealer to make sure you buy the effective herbicide. Make sure you understand the effects and implications of applying an herbicide before doing so. Read the label on your herbicide to understand the restrictions and wait time on boating, swimming, and fishing before applying. This may be an important factor when choosing an herbicide. Herbicide comes in both liquid and solid form, as sprays or granules.
For algal weed control, consider using copper sulfates or copper chelates, such as Cutrine Plus. These can be applied directly to the infested area as per the instructions on the label. For certain submersed plants, such as pond weeds, and free-floating plants, such as duckweed, consider using a diquat or fluridone. Rooted-floating plants, such as water-lilies, and emergent plants, such as cattails, are best treated with glyphosate. Check your local and state regulations before using herbicides in a body of water. Permits are required for some types of applications.
 Herbicides are best applied in late spring when plants are youngest and weakest. If you wait until late summer when vegetation is thick, you risk major fish kills by depleting oxygen all at once. Apply when water temperatures are in the upper 60s (Fahrenheit). Herbicides do not work effectively when the water is too cold. , Make sure that you are using the proper dose when applying herbicide. The herbicide label will describe how to calculate dosage. Dosage is usually measured based on acre-feet, which can be determined by multiplying the surface area acreage by the average depth. The label will then tell you how much to apply based on this measurement. Never apply a larger dose than listed on the label. , Herbicides will need to be reapplied in subsequent years to come. Underlying seeds are unaffected by herbicides and will therefore emerge the next year despite initial treatment. Make sure to continue to apply in the spring to treat any structures that lay dormant in the winter. 