 If you are from the United States and traveling in Italy, bring along an unlocked phone that allows SIM cards to be inputted from other providers. A SIM card is a small information chip that you can purchase from a cell provider while abroad.


Ensure that the cell phone you want to bring to Italy is a GSM phone—which is global cellular technology used by most of the world—and is unlocked—meaning that the provider you got the phone from does not have a restriction on that phone being used with other providers.AT&T and T-Mobile carry GSM phones which are typically unlocked.Look for a phone provider that carries a SIM card that will fit in your phone. Most cell phones have a standard SIM card size, but iPhones and other newer smartphones use special micro or nano SIM card sizes.You can set up an international calling plan through your current U.S. phone carrier, but note that these plans are typically very expensive.
Whether you choose an international call plan or the SIM card route, make sure to call your provider to change or suspend your service, or ask any other questions, before embarking on your trip.;
, Choose to buy a cell phone in Italy if you can’t or don’t want to bring your own from the U.S., as it is frequently simpler and cheaper. Buy an inexpensive phone for a short stay in Italy, and purchase a pay-as-you-go SIM card plan to make international calls.Check the pricing on the plan to make sure you know what the rates are for international calls. Check the data usage rates on a smartphone if you plan to use it for internet calling apps.
 To make a phone call from a public phone in Italy, purchase a scheda telefonica, also called a carta telefonica, or a prepaid calling card from locations such as a tobacco shop, train station, or post office. Insert these cards into a public telephone before dialing your number.You can use a calling card for a cell phone, but you should note that you may also be charged for minutes on the call from the cell phone provider as well. Or, you can use the cell phone without a card to pay the international call rates from your provider. Check with the cell phone provider and the details of your phone plan to confirm charges.Note that public phones are an increasing rarity, or are out of order when you do come across them, as Italy has one of the highest rates in the world for cell phones per capita., If you spend a significant amount of time in Italy and want to make frequent calls to the United States from your own landline, use an international calling plan from a local phone provider. Pay a fixed monthly rate to make unlimited international calls.


Note that these plans can be limited or have different charges based on what calling zone you are placing a call to. The United States is in the same zone (Zone 1) as Italy and other countries in the EU, so rates and plans should be less expensive than calling to other zones.
If you’re not using an international calling plan, the regular landline charges are higher for calling a mobile phone than another landline, but charges do not change based on time of day.