 Repurpose an old container for use as a cute new lip balm container. Think of tins for candy or mints, small glass jars, or old plastic makeup compacts. Make sure your container has a cap or lid that fits securely.


Try using a mini size Altoids container, or another small tin left over from mints or candy.
Use an old container from makeup or another beauty product you don’t use anymore or that’s used up. You can even cut apart a contact lens case to use one of the circular containers.
 Create a container you can wear by using jewelry as a way to hold your lip balm. Try a locket or ring that closes to protect the lip balm.


Look for jewelry items that have a small recess to put lip balm into, and a little door or cover that will protect it.
Note that you may want to find an inexpensive piece of jewelry that’s old or not worn anymore for this project, as it may be difficult to remove and clean out lip balm once it is put into metal crevices.
 Make sure to wash any container previously used for another purpose. Then dry it thoroughly before pouring lip balm into it.


Try cleaning out a container with medical or rubbing alcohol to be sure it’s free of contaminants. Alcohol will also evaporate quickly, so you won’t leave any residue of moisture, which can damage the quality of whatever lip balm you put in.You may need to clean containers several times if they have a pervasive scent left over from the previous contents, as with Altoids or other mints. Try using a strongly scented cleaner, like rubbing alcohol, vinegar, or lemon juice.
 Pour in homemade lip balm while it is still warm to allow it to set in your new repurposed container. Or, transfer an existing product to the container to keep as a small travel size.


Let homemade lip balm set in the fridge undisturbed until it solidifies before using it or putting a cap or lid on.
Note that it’s easiest to transfer an existing product to a new container if it’s soft and scoopable, like a petroleum jelly or lip gloss. Melting down an existing lip balm (not homemade) may be too difficult and messy.
Make sure that if your container has a clasp or hinged lid, as in a metal tin or piece of jewelry, you do not fill it with lip balm or other product to the point that it impedes it from closing smoothly.

