 There are very few services that will ship a bike whole, and they are generally expensive. Luckily, taking apart your bike is pretty easy overall, and doesn't require a lot of mechanical knowledge.


Wear clothes you don't mind getting dirty, as there is a good chance you'll get grease on you as you work.
Put the bike in a bike stand, or turn it upside down to remove everything but the handlebars.
 In a pinch, a normal adjustable wrench will do as well. Attach the wrench on the hexagonal bolt where pedal meets the crank arm to unscrew the pedal. However, each pedal unscrews in a different direction:


The drive-side pedal (by your gears) unscrews normally, counter-clockwise.
The opposite pedal unscrews in reverse, so you must turn clockwise.
Some pedals have an allen bolt on the outside edge that you can unscrew, instead of needing a pedal wrench.
 Most wheels have a small lever in the center that you simply lift up to unlock. From there, you may need to unscrew this part (known as the skewer) to get the wheel off. Simply hold the skewer on one side while you loosen the other side (counter-clockwise, or "lefty loosey") until the wheel is easily removed.


Shift your gears into the smallest ring in the back in order to easily get the chain out the way of the back wheel.
You may need to unhook your breaks in order to get the wheel off, or deflate your tires.
 The faceplate is the small, square, metal piece attaching your handlebars to your stem. You can see it in the center of your handlebars when you look at the bike straight on. There are four screws that are easily removed with an Allen key.


Do not jerk the handlebars or let the fall rapidly, or they may stress the brake and derailleur cables that are still attached.
Reattach the faceplate when you are done so that you don't lose it or the screws.
 Most seats are attached with a quick release -- the same small lever your might find on your wheel. If not, there is a small bolt where the seat post meets the frame that you can quickly unscrew to pull the entire seat post out.
 Mudflaps, water bottle cages, lights, etc. can get in the way of a tight pack job. You can, however, simply place them back in the box with the frame, as they will fit in the many spaces you still have left in the box.

