 For example, making a sehunthe(your choice here)root account right now is a fast way to get activity.
 Instagram is a community, and you will find yourself gaining followers if you participate in that community. This means interacting beyond simply uploading photos. Find people that are posting pictures that interest you, and follow their accounts. This will let you see their latest photos on your feed.


Do a quick search for relevant hashtags on Instagram to get a list of photos and accounts that are similar to what you post. For example if you post lots of travel pictures then search for something like #instatravel
Don't just follow everyone you see, or your feed will become too overloaded to process. Limit yourself to following only those accounts that you find most interesting.
Instagram limits you to following about 120 people per hour.
 Once you start following some people, take some time to like and leave positive comments on their photos. Not only will this make the other person feel good, but other people may see your name or comment and check out your profile. If you stay active, this can lead to a steady stream of new followers.


When commenting on photos take your time to write a longer message and use emojis when possible. It will be much more motivating for them to take the extra time to look over your profile.
 Interacting with your own followers is essential to maintaining your follower base and building your community. Respond to any interesting comments, and thank your followers for any compliments. If a follower asks an intriguing question, take the time to answer it properly.
 Use the photo caption to ask questions to your followers. This will get your comments section more active, which will attract more viewers to your photo.


Consider having a call-to-action, such as "Double-tap if you found this funny" or "Share your story in the comments". This will help drive community interaction with your photos.
 Instagram is now owned by Facebook, and you are losing out on a lot of potential followers if you don't connect your accounts. Once connected all of your Instagram posts will be pushed to Facebook as well, giving you double exposure.You can connect your accounts through the Instagram Settings menu.
 Your Instagram bio is an often-overlooked but very important part of your Instagram account. Let people know who you are and why they should follow you. Include a couple hashtags as well that relate to your content.


Your bio is another good place to place a call-to-action.
Use multiple lines and emojis to draw attention to your bio.
 Hashtags are words and short phrases that describe and categorize the image. Hashtags help people search for your image, and can add your image to current trends. Using hashtags is incredibly important to reaching a larger audience.Instagram is a great tool for finding what the most popular trending tags are.
The top hashtags on Instagram are usually #love #photooftheday #amazing #smile #look #picoftheday #food #instadaily #girl #iphoneonly #instagood #bestoftheday #instacool #instago #all_shots #webstagram #colorful #style #swag
You can find relevant tags using websites such as www.tagsforlikes.com or download apps on your phone by searching for "tags for likes" on the app store.
 Add a few of the most pertinent hashtags you can find to your image. Try to limit the number of hashtags to three at the most. If you have too many hashtags, your followers will feel like your images are too spammy. Hide away the hashtags by using them withing the caption sentence e.g. "I really #love this #girl" or place them right at the bottom of the caption.


Instagram will limit you to a maximum of 30 hashtags per post.
 If you have a decent amount of followers, you can try creating your own hashtags. This could be your company name or a slogan that applies to many of your photos. This will help brand your Instagram account, and lead to a more cohesive community presence. Use this tag in all your photos you post as well as in your Instagram accounts bio.


You can use capital letters to seperate words in a hashtag rather than spaces. Instead of "Just do it" you could use #JustDoIt

, Instagram users are interested in photos from locations that they know. On top of that, as you post geotagged photos, Instagram will bring up other photos from that location.


Other users posting photos from the same location may see your pictures and follow them to your account, giving you more exposure and potentially new local followers.
Avoid geotagging your photo in a location that the photo was not taken. Incorrect geotagging could lead to negative comments on your posts or other forms of backlash.
For your own safety avoid geotagging your home or work locations. Remember these geotags are visible to the public.
 If you want to try to bolster your likes, comments, or followers you can use some of the more popular like, comment, or follow trading hashtags, such as #follow4follow #like4like #comment4comment #f4f #l4l #c4c #followback #likeback #commentback #teamfollowback #alwaysfollowback etc. Just make sure that you actually hold up your part of the deal and like, comment, or follow the user back.


Some people consider this a "dirty" tactic, and you may lose some followers if you tag this too often.
While this tactic may lead to new followers, be aware that they may only follow you to gain more likes on their own photos rather than out of genuine interest.
Make sure you follow though with your side of the deal to avoid any nasty comments or unfollows.
 While this may seem obvious, one of the best ways to get followers on Instagram is to simply take good pictures. Instagram is swamped with pictures of people's meals and cats, so set yourself apart with well-shot photos.


Try to take pictures that will relate with your target audience. If your audience can connect with the images that you take, they are more likely to follow you.
A good photo doesn't have to be a "perfect" photo. Good photos seem human and imperfections can help add to that feeling.
Limit "selfies". Everyone likes to post a selfie every now and then, but you shouldn't let these pictures dominate your content. Most followers don't want to see you, they want to see your photos. Posting constant selfies can come across as narcissistic, and can drive followers away. The exception to this, sad as it may be, is if you are attractive. You can get a lot of followers by posting attractive pictures of yourself. Even then, don't let it dominate your content!

, Instagram got popular because of the filter options. These filters adjust the color of your photo, giving it a more "real" feel. Instagram has a variety of filters available, so don't be afraid to try multiple ones until you find one that works well with your photo.


Avoid using the same filters over and over, or your images will start to feel too same.
If the picture is striking enough without a filter, a popular hashtag on Instagram is #nofilter. Use it!
if you are struggling to find a good filter then try a third party photo editor like Google Photos which has many different filters that are not available on Instagram.
 A good caption can turn an okay photo into an amazing one. Captions help grab the viewers' attention, and if you can make them laugh or smile with your caption you'll retain more people as followers. Jokes or cute captions are especially popular.
 While you can do some minor editing in Instagram, there are a variety of apps for both iOS and Android that can give you way more tools. Use these apps to brighten, darken, crop, add text and effects, and much more.


Popular editing apps include Photo Editor by Aviary, Afterlight, Bokehful, and Overgram.
 A great way to show progression or a collection of images is to create a collage to post on Instagram. There are several apps that will allow you to do this, including PicStitch, InstaCollage, InstaPicFrame, and even Instagrams own collage app named Layout.
 Instagram is an incredibly popular service, and your followers' feeds are likely updating constantly. If you want the most people possible to see your photos, you need to post them at the right time. The best time to post photos is during the morning and after normal work hours end for your audience.Instagram photos typically last around 4 hours in a person's feed, so avoid posting in the middle of the night or your followers may never actually see the image.
You can find the best times to post pictures for your audience by using websites such as IconoSquare

, Don't dump all of your photos into your feed at once. If you have multiple photos that you want to share, spread them out over a couple days. If you post too many pictures at once, your followers are likely to start skipping over them. On the other hand, if you don't post often enough, you will have difficulty maintaining followers and drawing in new ones.
 There are lots of websites that offer followers for money. If you're desperate for more followers, purchasing some may help get your Instagram account off the ground.


Make sure to read reviews of the services before settling on one.
Find a seller that accepts PayPal.
Check for a money back guarantee.
Carefully read the Terms and Conditions as well as any Privacy Policy.
 Most services allow you to choose from a variety of packages, ranging from 100 to 1 million followers. Choose the package that best suits your needs and budget.
 You cannot purchase followers for a private account because private accounts hide the amount of followers they have, so ensure that you set your account to be publicly visible. You can change the settings from your Profile page by tapping "Edit your Profile".
 Buying followers can give you a quick boost, but there are some drawbacks. These followers will likely never interact with your photos and leave comments, which can leave your photos a little bare. People will also notice when you have lots of followers and no activity, which can turn them away. These followers may also unfollow you after some time.

