 Free and paid tools are available, such as CCleaner or Tuneup Utilities. Many Antiviruses also come standard with optimization scanners such as Norton 360. Windows XP also comes with several free tools. See Remove Junk System Files and Defragment the hard drive in this article.;
, After a lot of disk activity, your computer's hard drive will become fragmented, and accessing files on it is slower than normal. Windows XP comes with a free defragmentation tool. To start it, click Start>All Programs>Accessories>System Tools>Disk Defragmenter. Click the Analyze button to determine whether the drive needs to be defragmented. If the percent of defragmentation is high, click the Defragment button. You can defragment multiple drives.
 You're bound to have a few programs installed which you know that you don't need or use. Go to Start > Control Panel > Add or Remove Programs. Removing unneeded programs will free up some space. Uninstalling the programs may also reduce CPU usage by removing some background processes related to them.
 Windows can automatically do this for you. Click Start>All Programs>Accessories>System Tools>Disk Cleanup. Select your system drive to clean (usually C:) and click OK, wait for the junk file scan to finish, then choose what you want to clean up. Commonly selected cleanup options are Downloaded Program Files, Temporary Internet Files, Offline Webpages, Recycle Bin, Setup Log Files, Temporary Files, and Thumbnails. You can also select Dr Watson Debug (Windows Error Reporting) files.
 Look through your documents for old, unwanted pictures, letters, etcetera and delete useless downloads, such as program setup files which were already used. They are waiting on your hard drive, slowly filling it up.
 Startup programs are programs of your computer which set themselves to start when Windows starts. This slows startup of Windows and the background processes of the startup programs will slow down operation of your computer. To disable startup programs, click Start>Run, type MSCONFIG, and click OK. Click the Startup tab and uncheck programs which you do not need. Avoid unchecking programs that you don't recognize or you know are essential to Windows. Unchecking them may cause undesired Windows operation.


If you experience problems after disabling some startup programs, run MSCONFIG again and choose Normal Startup from the General Tab.
Applications like CCleaner can also disable startup programs.
 Click Start>Control Panel>Add or Remove Programs>Add/Remove Windows Components. Click the type of the feature(s) which you want to uninstall and click Details. Uncheck the feature(s) and click OK on the details dialog. After you have chosen what you want to remove, click Next on the whole window.


If you are planning to reinstall some Windows components which you uninstalled, be sure to have your Windows XP installation disc handy. ]

, Click Start>Control Panel>Performance and Maintenance>Power Options to open the Power Options dialog. In Power Options, change the Power Scheme to Always On.


Note that changing the power scheme to Always On might deplete laptop batteries quicker than usual, so don't do this on your laptop.
 If you are not protected by an antivirus program, you can pick up malware and viruses from the internet. Not only are malware and viruses bad for your system's health or your privacy, they can slow your machine down to a crawl. If you do not already have an antivirus program, many free alternatives are available. You can also purchase something such as Kaspersky or Norton. If you do not want to buy anything, download and install Malwarebytes and Avast, update them, and perform a full scan, removing any malicious software detected. If you prefer different programs, do the same thing with them. If you already have an antivirus program, completely scan your computer with it.


If you know that an antivirus will drastically slow down your computer, uninstall the antivirus after you've scanned the computer with it. Be sure to reinstall it and re-scan the computer occasionally.
A good and free second opinion scanner is herdProtect. HerdProtect scans files on your computer with multiple antiviruses, and in the cloud, so it is ideal for slow computers.
To keep your computer clean, you can upload suspicious files which you downloaded onto a service called VirusTotal. VirusTotal scans uploaded files with multiple antiviruses and gives you the result.
 The Indexing Service scans your hard drive and indexes files to help speed up file searching. It runs in the background, and uses up lots of precious memory. The Indexing Service is unrecommended, especially if you do not search for files a lot, or you only search your documents. To disable the Indexing Service, click Start, open My Computer, right-click on the hard drive (usually C:\), go to Properties, and clear the check mark next to Allow indexing service to index this hard drive for faster searching. Click OK. It may take a while for the operation to complete.
 Windows XP enables many visual effects by default, like the Minimize and Maximize effect, or shadows. They may enhance the look of your computer, but aren't necessary or worth it, especially if they slow down your computer. To disable visual effects of your computer, click the Start button, right click My Computer and select Properties, click the Advanced tab, click the Settings button in the Performance area, then choose Adjust for best performance. You can also set your own preferences if you want to retain some effects.
 Some PC manufacturers may install "bloatware", unwanted programs which are usually installed without consent, on their computers before selling them. "Adware" may be installed on your computer in shady program installers, disguised as the software you were installing or listed as "offers". Look in Add/Remove Programs (click Start>Control Panel>Add Remove Programs) for software which you didn't install and remove them.
 When you delete files, they are usually sent to the Recycle Bin, unless you specified otherwise. You might think that they've been deleted, but they are really still on your hard drive. In order to permanently delete them, you need to open the Recycle Bin and delete them from there. You should empty the Recycle Bin occasionally if you don't. To empty the Recycle Bin, right click the Recycle Bin shortcut on your desktop and click Empty Recycle Bin.
 Right click the Desktop, click "Properties", and go to the "Desktop" tab. Change the wallpaper to "None".

