 Geocaching is a sort of treasure hunt utilizing mobile devices. Pick a hunt in an area that you've never been before, or that takes you through a favorite park or trail. Your hunt might just lead to other interesting vistas and adventures.


It is customary to leave a treasure when you take the one that is already at the location. Leave something to commemorate your anniversary, such as a photo or anniversary card. Spread the love!
Take plenty of pictures during your adventure. Many geocache paths are designed to lead you to interesting and memorable areas., If you'd like to travel outside of your comfort zone, do a little thrill seeking. Sign up for skydiving, bungee jumping, or cliff diving for your big day. Such activities can spark a new trend of fun and excitement in your relationship.


Make sure you give yourself plenty of time when planning events such as sky diving. These activities typically require a few safety and training courses before you are allowed to participate.
Run a challenge such as Tough Mudder or the Color Run! Tough Mudder features several obstacles that require teamwork, allowing for a great bonding experience on your anniversary., Get away from it all and have a honeymoon-style holiday. If you can afford a longer break, take a trip overseas. Visit somewhere that both of you have expressed a longing to see.


Check travel websites or apps such as Groupon for any deals that may be running for certain locations. Some offer discounts for "last-minute" trips. Take a chance and fly by the seat of your pants!Some hotels will offer discounts for couples staying during their anniversary. Call ahead to see if you can save some money while celebrating!If time and budget constrain you, plan a weekend away that is close to home.
 Take plenty of pictures or purchase a few mementos to remember the day. Prepare a scrapbook, or make a digital photo album, and incorporate those pictures to remember the occasion. You can also add any tickets, menus, or other paraphernalia encountered during the day.


Activities such as sky diving or Tough Mudder will take your picture at various points throughout the event. These make for a great memento, as they often capture you in the moment of excitement and joy.
Print out some of the pictures you take and place it in a locket as a gift for your partner! You can even make matching lockets that have one another’s picture in each.