 Are your parents nagging you to clean your room, because it "looks like a tornado hit it!"? Well, it's time to get up and start cleaning!;
, Focus on the benefits:


Just think, it would be so much easier to choose clothes from your dresser rather than sift through piles of clothes that are on the floor.
It will even be easier to get out of bed in the morning to start the day. Your day will be organized from the very beginning.
The room will be more inviting. You can have friends over without being embarrassed.
Your parents will be happy!
A clean room equals a clean mind. If you keep your room tidy it won't be bugging you all the time. You will be able to focus on the more important things.
If you clean your room often, clutter will disappear. You will not tire from cleaning.
 Maybe a whole stash of CDs. Crank up the music! It's okay to make cleaning your room fun. No one is watching, so you can clean and be crazy!

, Do not allow yourself to do anything else until everything is completed. Stay focused:



Do not talk on the phone.
Do not watch television.
Do not use the computer.
 Be realistic.


Make sure that you have enough time to finish your project in a day.
Eat and go to the bathroom ahead of time, so that you're not interrupted.
 Grab containers, paper towels, cleaning sprays, vacuum, mop, etc. Use the right thing to do the job; it'll be quicker, more effective and easier on you.
 There is nothing like getting on with it, so here is how to get going:


Put things away. Sort out all the stuff on the floor and in places where it doesn't belong. Also, if you don't want it anymore, donate or ditch it.
Put all of your clothes on your bed, then sort from this level. It's much easier than from the floor and various other pieces of furniture around the room. Dirty clothes go straight into the laundry washing basket.
Spray and clean surfaces and windows.
Vacuum and/or mop floors.
Begin cleaning your bed as it takes up a large area of your room it will automatically make your room look much cleaner than before!

, Stay focused and stick to it! Keep that positive attitude!

, Ask your sister and/or brother to look in on you, every 10 minutes or so, to remind you of what needs to be done.
 Keep it brief and short, then get back on task. Do not watch TV, play on a laptop or phone friends. You have come too far to get distracted.
 Clean different areas more thoroughly as needed. It saves time in the long run., Choose something that you enjoy doing or having. Knowing that you can’t have it until your room is clean will keep you motivated.

