 A prince, king, princess or some other form of royalty has just died in a developing nation (more often than not, Nigeria). The person contacting you, usually by email, will explain that they inherited some incredible sum of money, but they need some small sum of money to get the larger sum released by the bank (to pay taxes, liens, etc.). They are asking you to give them the smaller sum and promising to pay you a much larger portion back when they secure the money.A more recent variation of this set-up is the con artist telling you that he/she is a government official who is illegally transferring money out of Nigeria, and wants your help in his scheme. The 419ers do this because they feel they can keep you from alerting authorities to their scam by including you in their “illegal” plot., Again, there are a number of variations on this scam, but they all entail the same thing- getting your money because you believed someone you never met. Look out for commonalities in 419 scams, which are:


The person who has died is always royalty, and the person contacting you is their rightful heir. More often than not, they will say something to the effect of, “My uncle was the late King of Nigeria.” A simple Google search and common sense should tell you that Nigeria, a modern nation, doesn’t have kings.The money that this person should have access to is being held up by some relatively small sum of money. Think about it, if someone in Nigeria really stood to inherit 5 million dollars, why would they need to reach out to a random stranger in America for $500 or $5,000?For whatever reason, these people tend to use strange and uncommon names, like “Festus”, “Octavius” or “Elmer”. When the name sounds fake, it probably is.
The writing in these letters is usually riddled with spelling errors, grammar mistakes, syntactical errors, etc. Red flags should immediately go up when you see this. Well-positioned, and thus well-educated, Nigerians are well-versed in writing the English language. Why would a prince, who presumably has the best education money can afford, not be able to put a simple sentence together?, After sending the initial email, the person will ask you to respond by wiring them the small sum of money, which they will, of course, pay back with huge sums of interest. Unfortunately for you, there is no large sum of money and you won’t be getting your money back.Often times, the 419ers will string you along for more money. After you send the first amount asked for, they will contact you again and say that there was some problem with the bank and they need more. If you keep sending them money, they will keep asking for more. There is really no pretense under which you can bring these people to justice, so they don’t really have anything to lose or fear by being too greedy., Again, there are a number of ways to spot these scams, and a whole bunch of ways to avoid them. You can ignore the email or letter, pass it on to your attorney or banker, or send the letter to the FBI. You are fine as long as you don’t release any money or personal information to these scammers.