 Recognizing the signs of campylobacteriosis is important. As soon as you see symptoms, you need to take your pet to the vet. This helps prevent them from becoming anorexic or dehydrated.The symptoms are:


Watery diarrhea containing mucus
Stomach cramps or pain
Fever
LethargyVomiting
Straining to defecate
Loss of appetite;
, The bacteria shouldn’t stay in your dog’s system. It needs to get it out. Because of this, don’t give your dog anti-diarrhea medicine because it will cause the dog to not pass the bacteria., If the vet has diagnosed your dog with campylobacter, he may prescribe antibiotics. Make sure to give your dog the medicine for at least 21 days. This helps clear the campylobacteriosis so the dog doesn’t become a carrier., If your dog has bad diarrhea, you should give him fluids to help with the dehydration. Make sure the dog has fresh drinking water. You can include electrolytes in the fluids to help combat the dehydration. In extreme cases, your dog can become so dehydrated he has to be hospitalized and given fluids intravenously.Feed the dog a bland diet that is easily digested. Try chicken and rice. Your vet may prescribe a specific for your dog to help him recover and heal.
 Some evidence has shown that probiotics can help with diarrhea in dogs.Probiotics have been successful in preventing and treating campylobacteriosis, stopping the symptoms, and promoting healing., It is important to wash the dog while treating him for the bacteria. Pay special attention to the area round his rear end. This makes sure his coat is clean and your dog does not reinfect himself when grooming his coat.
 Clear up all dog mess promptly, in a safe and hygienic manner. Wash your hands after contact with your dog to avoid accidental infection. Campylobacter is destroyed by most disinfectants, and is destroyed by prolonged raised temperatures., To prevent any further infection to your or others’ dogs, make sure to keep your dog and his area clean. Clean the living and eating area, including disinfecting the bowls and bedding.Don’t let your infected dog lick people’s faces, and make sure to wash your hands frequently.Don’t feed animals raw meat.
Keep infected animals away from other animals.Pick up your dog’s feces from the ground, both in your yard and in public.

