 Ask them if your diet or your baby's diet may be causing eczema outbreaks. If your baby is still breast-feeding, you need to watch what you eat. If your baby has an allergic reaction — in the form of eczema — to what you eat, you’ll need to take precautions.Your allergist may recommend special vacuums or dust mite covers if your baby may be sensitive to dust mites or if you have pets.
If your infant drink formula milk, make sure that you choose a type that doesn't contain an ingredient your baby is allergic to. Talk to your doctor about using a hypoallergenic formula such as Enfamil Nutramigen, Similac Alimentum, and Hipp Organic 1 if your baby may be allergic to milk or soy.Similarly, your child may be having an eczema outbreak if their foods are prepared with too many chemicals or pesticides., Low vitamin D levels have been associated with a heightened risk of eczema.Foods like trout, salmon, portobello mushrooms, tofu, butter, buttermilk, pork, and hardboiled eggs are rich in vitamin D., Certain nuts (such as almonds) have anti-inflammatory properties. Since eczema is an inflammatory skin condition, eating nuts may help naturally combat outbreaks.The American Academy of Pediatrics has advised parents to be wary of nuts as many children are highly allergic to peanuts. Be aware that the eczema fighting properties of nuts and whether or not you should feed them to your infant is constantly changing.It may be appropriate in some cases to expose your child to nuts at around six months. Talk to your doctor to get the best advice for your child. If you give nuts to your children, do so in a soft form (such as nut butters), as young children may choke on hard nuts.
 This includes food fed to your baby as well as what you eat if you are breast-feeding. There is not a defined list of foods that cause eczema. Regardless, doctors agree that there are common offenders that you’ll want to avoid. Citrus fruits, pasteurized dairy products, tomatoes, processed sugary snacks, alcohol, chocolate, sugar, yeast, and black tea can all lead to eczema outbreaks.Pay attention to your baby's diet and see what foods precede an outbreak. Try removing those foods from their diet. If your infant's eczema is the result of a food allergy, you'll eventually find the culprit.

