 What herbs do you like to use in your cooking? When choosing what herbs to grow, start by thinking about your own preferences. Since herbs are easy and fun to grow, you might want to try your hand at growing an herb or two that you wouldn't normally buy at the grocery store. When you have a few in mind, buy packets of seeds at your local nursery or online.



Basil, dill, sage, rosemary, thyme, oregano and mint are wonderful herbs that are used in many cuisines. If you'd like to grow a variety of herbs, these would make a good foundation for an herb garden. You can also grow an herbal tea garden.
If you're planning on growing your herbs outside, you'll need to take your region's climate and soil properties into account. Determine what regional growing zone you fall into and make sure the herbs you pick out are able to thrive in your area.





;
, Herbs are easy to grow both outdoors and indoors. You can also choose between planting them directly in the ground or in a growing container. Most herbs need plenty of direct sunlight, so choose a spot that isn't shaded.


If you're growing herbs as part of your vegetable garden, plant to separate the herbs from the vegetables with about 6–12 inches (15.2–30.5 cm) of space.






You can grow herbs in separate pots, or buy a large pot and grow several types of herbs together.
 Soil composition is an important factor for successful herb gardening. Herbs thrive in a somewhat neutral pH (between 6.5 and 7), but soil need not be especially fertile. In fact, if it is too rich, growth will be rampant and flavor, diluted. More important than fertility is drainage. The soil should be loose and crumbly so that it drains well.


If you're starting your herbs from seed, look for a seed starter potting soil that has not been enriched with extra nutrients, since seeds contain the nutrition they need to sprout and take root.For older seedlings, choose potting soil that hasn't been treated with pesticides.
You can mix commercial soil with compost to help the herbs grow strong and healthy.