 A lot of bad news all at once can seem like the end of the world, but it's important to do your best to keep a balanced perspective. Try to look for causes, look for ways to improve a bad situation, and focus on positive aspects of your life.Consider making a list of ways that you are fortunate or aspects of your life that you're thankful for, like having a home, basic necessities, or qualities about yourself you admire.
 Think of bad news as obstacles to overcome. Break them up into individual parts and think of ways you can act to improve your situation.Do your best to see bad news as opportunities to grow instead of as solely negative experiences.
For example, if you have a fight with a family member, your car breaks down, and broke up with your significant other all in the same week, try to think of ways to resolve things with your family member, and use being single as an opportunity to work on loving yourself more.
 Keeping your feelings of frustrations, sadness, anger, or anxiety inside when you are confronted with constant bad news will only make you feel worse. Talking to someone and expressing your concerns in appropriate ways will help to relieve your stress and make it easier for you to cope with difficult situations. If you find yourself in a stretch where everything seems to be going wrong, reach out to a trusted friend or family member to release your frustration. Be honest and specific with them, and tell them that you could use a regular pick-me-up or venting session.Try to think of people in your life who might be presently going through something similar, or have in the past dealt with circumstances similar to your own.
Sometimes your friends and family may not be able to provide you the best support to help you deal with your concerns. If you don’t want to, or are unable to talk to someone you know personally, consider finding a counselor, religious advisor, or other mental health professional.
 If you’re dealing with a specific challenge, try to find a support group. Sometimes, one issue or event can create a rough patch in which everything in life feels negative. Sharing with and learning from other people going through a similar life event can remind you that you don’t have to go through the experience by yourself.You can contact your healthcare provider, school, church, or community center for help finding a recommended group for your needs.
You can also search online for a group that targets a specific life event. If you have been diagnosed with a terminal illness, search the affiliated official organization’s website for local groups. You can also consult Mental Health America for help: http://www.mentalhealthamerica.net/


, If you’ve received a stream of bad news about your health, find out everything you can about your condition. Ask your doctor for resources and look online for additional information. Learning about your health will help you process and cope with your situation.Try to gather information from reputable sources. For example, to learn more about how to cope with a cancer diagnosis, look to a reliable organization like http://www.cancer.org/.
 Sometimes, a stream of constant bad news can present opportunities for improvement, especially in a work environment. If you’ve received a series of less than stellar progress reports at work, try to find ways to respond proactively and positively.Ask your boss to meet with you privately to discuss specific steps you can take to improve your performance.
Talk to a trusted colleague about areas you can improve, and ask if they can offer you objective advice.
Ask yourself if constant bad news at work is an indication that you aren’t happy with your current position. Consider if you should pursue other opportunities, and begin networking and updating your resume if you think you’d be happier and more productive elsewhere.

