 Selenium is important for proper thyroid function. Selenium helps your body convert T-4 to T-3, which your body may have trouble with if you have thyroid problems. Selenium can be found in the following foods:Brazil nuts
Fish like cod, halibut, salmon, snapper, and tuna
Eggs
Shrimp
Sunflower seeds
Turkey
Garlic
Crimini mushrooms;
, Iodine is an important nutrient for balancing thyroid hormones. Iodine can be found in iodized table salt, but you can also get it in food. Iodine is mainly found in seafood, such as salmon, tuna, and seaweed.Iodine is also found in dairy foods like cow’s milk, eggs, and yogurt.
You can also get iodine from potatoes and navy beans., Coconut oil is a healthy fat that can help improve thyroid function. The fatty acid chains in coconut oil help to improve metabolism function, boost energy, and decrease fatigue. This oil is a main component of the thyroid diet.Coconut oil helps reduce inflammation, which is important when you have thyroid issues.
Coconut oil also helps stabilize blood sugar levels.
Try replacing your cooking oils with coconut oil.
 Probiotic foods help improve gut health and increase healthy bacteria. Sometimes, thyroid problems can be from an unhealthy gut environment and leaky gut syndrome. Try kefir or greek yogurt, which have probiotics.You can also try kimchi, sauerkraut, natto, and kombucha.
Goat’s milk yogurt also contains probiotics.
 These sprouted seeds can help provide needed omega-3 fats for your thyroid diet. Omega-3 fats help balance hormones and support thyroid function. Increasing your healthy fats also help reduce inflammation.Try tossing flax, hemp, or chia seeds into yogurt, smoothies, or casseroles.
 Goitrogens are molecules that can interfere with your thyroid function. Goitrogenic vegetables are cruciferous vegetables. The problem occurs when you eat large amounts of the raw vegetables. Try cooking these vegetables for around 30 minutes before eating. If you want to eat these foods, make sure to eat them in moderation. Goitrogen foods include:Asparagus
Broccoli
Spinach
Brussel sprouts
Cauliflower
Cabbage
Turnips
Kale and mustard greens
Radishes
Soy

