 The temperature setting is your discretion, but a normal temperature range for the flat iron is between 350-370 degrees.


Allow your flat iron to preheat while you do the following steps to prepare.
 You should not try to straighten your hair while it is still wet, because it will not actually be straight when it dries. If your hair is not already dry, use your blow dryer to thoroughly dry it.
 Many salon professionals recommend applying a heat protectant product to your hair before using heat styling tools, like the flat iron. Oftentimes, these are sprays that you can spray on your hair section-by-section as you work or all at once.


You can also apply a mousse or gel that is safe to use on dry hair, if you like. This will help hold your straight hair for a longer period of time.
 You will straighten your hair in layers, so use a hair clip or ponytail holder to hold sections of your hair out of the way while you work.


Part your hair horizontally just above your ears. Lay your thumbs on either side of your head just above your ears, and run them back along your scalp to create the part. Lift all of the hair above your thumbs and clip or tie it up out of the way. Leave the rest of your hair hanging loose.
 Clean away any stray hairs or tangles so that the flat iron will move cleanly over the section of hair.


Remember to spray heat protectant on your hair, if you like to apply it section-by-section as you go.
 This should be done in one fluid motion without stopping. Stopping somewhere down the length of your hair will create a kink in your hair that will be hard to remove.


Avoid clamping the flat iron too tightly, as you could break or burn off strands of hair.
Once should be enough, but if your hair is not as straight as you would like it, you can run the flat iron over that section another time., Work your way around the bottom layer of your hair until you are satisfied. Remember to spray heat protectant product as needed.
 You will need to get the top third of your hair out of the way so that you can straighten the middle layer of your hair.


Set your thumbs at your hairline at slight angle upward from the arches of your eyebrows. Slide your thumbs back along your scalp until they meet at the crown of your head. Clip or tie the top third of your hair up on top of your head.
 Working as you did before, separate small sections of hair to straighten with your flat iron.


Spray heat protectant as needed on your hair.
Smooth away any stray hairs and detangle any knots before running your flat iron over each section of hair.
Work all the way around your head, and check for missed chunks of hair as you go to make sure it all gets straightened.
 Remove the clip or hair tie from the top third of your hair. Part it where you would like, either in the center or off to one side, using a comb.


Gently comb through your hair to remove any tangles and to help your hair lie flat.
 Using the same method as before, run your flat iron over small sections in this top layer of hair.


Check for any missed chunks of hair to be sure to get all of your hair straightened.
 If you would like to add extra holding power, you can spritz your hair with hairspray to assist in maintaining straight hair longer.

