 One of the keys to succeeding in the online world is being able to reliably get online. Before signing up for an online course, make sure that you have regular opportunities to work online for several hours at a time. It is best if you have high speed internet at your home.

Your campus likely has many computers with internet access that you can use. But if you want to devote the proper amount of time to your class, it is much easier if you can work from home.
High speed internet access is best. Most online courses include large files as well as audio and video material. You will want these course materials to load quickly.;
, On the first day of class, the most important thing you can do is to carefully read the syllabus. The syllabus is a document created by the professor to serve as an outline and a guide for the course. It will contain important information such as the professor's contact information, preferred method of contact, and office hours.The syllabus will also provide information about the required course materials. If you're wondering what books to buy, the syllabus will tell you.
You will also find important information such as due dates. Refer to the syllabus to know when assignments are due and when exams will occur.
The graded components of the course will also be on the syllabus. You will be able to see how heavily participation, assignments, and exams are weighted.
Print out a copy of the syllabus. You will want to refer to it several times throughout the semester to make sure you are on track.
 Online courses are excellent if you need flexibility. With many online courses, you can complete the work on your own time. However, it is important to understand that online does not mean self-paced. You will still have deadlines to meet.Set aside time for the class. Treat it as if it were a typical face to face class.
For example, you could choose to devote Tuesdays and Thursdays from 7-8 to working on your class.
Put it in your planner. If you write your study time into your weekly schedule, you will be more likely to make it part of your routine.
 Online courses take just as much time, if not more, than "regular courses." You will need to spend time reading the course materials, listening to or watching the lectures, looking at powerpoints, and completing assignments. Most instructors recommend spending between 9-12 hours per week on your online course. For this reason, it is necessary to devote time to the course several days each week.Try having a regular system. For example, on Monday you could set aside time to review the requirements for the week. Tuesday, you could begin reading the course materials, and so on.
Leave yourself time for questions. If something is not clear, you will need to ask your instructor.
You may not receive an answer the same day, so leave yourself some breathing room. Plan to complete assignments before they are due.
It is not a good idea to try to cram all of your learning into one day. Give yourself time to process the information and carefully edit your assignments.
 It might not be a physical classroom, but you still have a designated learning space for your online course. The course website serves as your virtual classroom. Spend some time learning where everything is located. For example, make sure to locate the message function. You'll want to be able to read and send messages to and from your instructor and classmates.Figure out how to turn in assignments. Make sure that you know how to upload assignments so that they can be graded.
Locate the proper place to post discussion messages. Most online courses include a discussion forum for students. It's important to know how to post and read the messages.
Plan to spend 1-2 hours exploring the course site during the first week of class. This will help you feel more comfortable and confident once you begin engaging with the material and requirements.

