 Vampires like dark colored clothing, such as Count Dracula’s black silk cape. However, they often accent the dark colors with a hint of red. For instance, Marceline the Vampire Queen wears red boots alongside her grey tank top and tight fitting jeans.Vampire clothing is generally dark (often black), with some color relief (often red, white, or gray).
Dye your hair dark on the top and the bottom.
Choose red boots with attitude.
Wear a grey tank top and then layer on top if it gets cold.If you are in a LARP, you might want to check with the organizers to see if there are any costume guidelines.;
, If you want to look like a vintage vampire character, such as Count Dracula, you’ll want to look at some images of traditional vampire costumes. Since the Victorian era is a strong influence, you’ll want to choose dark colors and traditional attire, such as a three-piece suit for men.If you are dressing as a male vampire character, you’ll definitely need a cape, vest and possibly a tuxedo.
If you are dressing in a female vampire costume, you may need an elegant dress, belt and capelet.
 You can combine the art of burlesque with vampire style. For instance, actress Heidi Klum wore a cobweb cape with a bleeding heart on her corset at a Halloween party.To achieve this look, you’ll need red lipstick, eyeliner, heels, and red nails. You may also want a cobweb cape and some high red boots!Vampire clothing is often sexy, so you could try a burlesque look.
 You’ll want some vampire fangs to show that you mean business! You can get vampire fangs at most costume and party stores. You could even try the dollar store. Wait until you have applied your makeup to put on your fangs., A large cape is a traditional item of clothing, especially for dracula characters. You can find dracula capes in costume stores, especially if it is getting close to Halloween, as well as online.


One alternative to wearing an actual cape is to wear long, flowing or billowing coats.
If you're doing a fancy dress vampire, black bat or spider broaches add a nice touch.

