 Some people frequently shower their loved ones with favors and expensive gifts. These “over-givers” are often driven by a sense of inadequacy or a need for attention, and they may not realize they’re making others feel indebted. It’s natural to feel awkward or uncomfortable when you’re on the receiving end of this kind of generosity, especially if you can’t reciprocate.For instance, if your spouse surprises you with lavish gifts for no reason or insists on doing all the housework even though you both have jobs, they might be an over-giver.;
, If you’re used to taking care of everything yourself, or if you have low self-esteem, you might struggle to accept generosity or thoughtfulness from others. This mindset can make you feel like you have to “pay back” any favors or gifts you receive from your spouse.If you have a hard time letting your spouse help you out with chores, even when you’re tired or sick, you might be stuck in this mentality.
Try and ask yourself why you feel this way. Is there an experience in your past, such as a parent making you feel guilty when they did something for you, that may be the cause?
Remember that all relationships have give and take — you can't be the only one giving all the time. You must be able to receive from your partner as well.
 Does your spouse make significantly more money than you, or vice versa? Does one of you take on all of the household or childcare duties? A disparity between income, chores, or childcare responsibilities can make your relationship feel unbalanced, leading to feelings of indebtedness for one of you.You and your spouse don’t have to make the same amount of money and split chores or childcare down the middle to have a fair relationship, but it’s important to divide your responsibilities in a way that satisfies you both.
It is important that inequalities or differences are not used as leverage or retaliation. If your spouse makes more money and therefore pays more of the rent, they should not use this to make you feel guilty or inadequate.
Think about if your ideas about how things should be divided is rooted in what you learned from your family of origin. Was there an expectation that one family member would be the breadwinner, making it hard for you to share this responsibility with your spouse? It's important to explore how your family has impacted your idea of what a marriage "should" be.
 Guilt and obligation are two of a manipulator’s favorite tools. Your spouse might be trying to manipulate you if they often remind you of what they’ve done for you or if they use past favors to pressure you into doing things you’d rather not do.For instance, if your spouse says things like, “I work so hard for you, and you repay me by going to see your family and leaving me alone,” it could be an indication that you and your partner have some issues with manipulation that need to be addressed.
 Try to talk when you’re both in a good mood and don’t have any other time commitments. Choose a comfortable, private location.Bring up the subject by saying, "Honey, I've been feeling like things are a bit unequal around here lately, and I want us to sit down and talk. Do you have a moment?"
If you have children, have the conversation when they’re in bed, at school, or with a babysitter.
 Let your spouse know that you’ve been feeling indebted to them. Give them specific examples of their behaviors that make you feel this way.Use “I” statements like “I feel…” and “I need….” Avoid using “you” statements, such as “You always…”, which may come across as confrontational.
For instance, you could say something like, “It’s really generous of you to give me so many presents, but it’s starting to make me feel guilty. I don’t have the money to buy you presents all the time, and I don’t want our relationship to be based on material things.”

, Tell your spouse what you need to feel comfortable in your relationship. Encourage them to share their needs and expectations as well. If you discover that you value different things, you may have to come up with some compromises to keep you both satisfied.For example, one person might say, "It has always been important for me to have a big role in raising my children. Therefore, I would like to set an expectation that I start working part-time in order to be more involved with the children. Is this agreeable to you?"
Consider creating a list of relationship guidelines that both of you can reference.
 If you think your relationship is unbalanced, bring your concerns up with your spouse. Ask them what makes a relationship fair in their eyes. Work together to brainstorm ideas for making your relationship more equitable.Your brainstorming sessions can eventually lead to developing your relationship guidelines. Doing this together can enhance your relationship.
If you have trouble identifying what a fair relationship looks like for each of you, or if you don't know how to create the balance you need, it could help to see a marriage and family therapist. These types of mental health therapists have special training to work with families and married couples. Attending therapy can help bring greater equality and reciprocity into your marriage.
 Ideally, you and your spouse should split up your responsibilities so that both of you feel satisfied with your contributions. Talk with your spouse about how you want to handle bills, budgeting, cooking, and other tasks.For example, if your spouse works full-time and you work part-time, you might decide to take on the majority of the cooking.
 If you feel uncomfortable with some aspect of the relationship, or if you want to try dividing your responsibilities differently, let your spouse know. Encourage them to do the same if they’re not happy with an aspect of your partnership.You might say, "I need a bit of time to myself each week after work and family responsibilities. Can we look at our schedules and carve out an hour or two of me-time for both of us each week?"

, Try transforming your feelings of indebtedness into feelings of thankfulness towards your spouse. When they do something nice for you, allow yourself to just appreciate their kindness, instead of feeling like you have to return the favor.Learning to accept kindness is especially important if you’ve had a hard time allowing people to do things for you in the past.
 Compromise is an integral part of every marriage, especially if you and your spouse have different ideas about what makes a relationship fair. Identify the situations that tend to cause conflict or make you feel indebted, and work together to find alternate ways to handle them.One of the best methods to compromise is weighing the importance of the issue between spouses. For instance, if one spouse enjoys cooking while the other doesn't have an issue with cleaning, you can divvy up chores so that each person is doing the task they prefer. Then, you simply divide the tasks neither of you care for. It is best to take turns with these.

