


Fitted bedsheets are the type which have elastic at both ends, to hold the sheet onto the bed. While you can still make this dress with a normal sheet it will require more effort as you will have to sew the elastic in yourself.
You will need either a double (135cm/53 inches wide) or king (150cm/59 inches wide) sized fitted bed sheet, depending on your size and the size of skirt that you want.
Check that you can't see through the material from any side, no matter how hard you look. If there is any simple, or even non-simple, way to see through it, don't use it - it will show your underwear, guaranteed. This trumps everything else, from sales to pushy store employees to softness and comfort. This may be a problem with cheap or pale coloured sheets.
If you are recycling an old sheet, make sure it doesn't have any worn patches or marks.
 These will be near where the elasticized parts end, you can identify them by the seams there. Find the place where the seam starts (not at the edge of the sheet)

, The line to cut along is usually clear from the creases from the way the sheet is folded in the packet.
 When tackling the elasticated part, be careful that you don't lose the elastic inside the rest of the sheet. Then put the side pieces to one side so you can work on the main part of the sheet.
 Just above the knee is usually a good length for this type of skirt, if you aren't sure.


It's often a good idea to get a friend to help with this step, as measuring yourself can be difficult. If you do do this yourself, make sure you don't bend down to check the measurement, you'll end up making it shorter than you intended.
, When you're happy with this, sew the ends of the elastic together.
 This should leave you with a tube of fabric with one elasticized end.
 The "rough" side of your fabric should be on the inside. Make sure you keep the seam lined up at the top.
 Stretch out the elastic to make this job easier.
 There should be plenty of extra stretch in the elastic when taking it on and off, as you will lose some of the elasticity when you attach the top part of the dress.
,,, Do not pin to the skirt.
,,