 Fill a large pot approximately ⅔’s full with water. Season the water with salt, and place it on the stove on high heat. Allow the water to come to a full boil.You should add enough salt to the water so it tastes like sea water.
 For the pesto, you’ll need the leaves from 2 dozen ramps. When the water has come to a boil, add them to the pot and allow them to boil for 1 minute., Once the ramp leaves have boiled for a minute, remove them from the pot with a slotted spoon. Immediately dump them into a boil of ice water to stop the cooking process. Let the leaves sit in the water until they are cooled. Make sure to set up the bowl of ice water beside the stove before you begin boiling the ramp leaves, so you can transfer them to it right after boiling.
 After you’ve dropped the ramp leaves into the ice water bath, transfer them to a colander. Shake the leaves well to remove the excess moisture, and then squeeze them with paper towel so they’re as dry as possible.You can use a tea towel to dry the ramp leaves if you prefer.
 After you’ve dried the ramp leaves, use a sharp knife to chop them. They don’t need to be finely chopped, though, because they’ll be shredded further in the food processor., To begin the pesto, add 3 roughly chopped garlic cloves and ¼ cup (35 g) of toasted pine nuts to the bowl of a food processor. Pulse the mixture until the ingredients are finely crushed.If you don’t have a food processor, you can use a blender or mortar and pestle to make the pesto.
 Once the garlic and nuts are crushed, add 3 tablespoons (15 g) of grated pecorino romano cheese and the chopped ramp leaves to food processor. Pulse the mixture until the leaves are fully chopped and the mixture is completely blended.You can substitute parmesan or asiago cheese for the pecorino romano.
 When the nuts, garlic, cheese, and ramp leaves are combined, start streaming up to ½ cup (118 g) of extra-virgin olive oil into the mixture as you pulse the food processor. Continue mixing the pesto until it reaches your desired consistency.The proper amount of oil depends on the consistency you want for the pesto. If you plan to use it as a spread, add less oil. If you are using it as a sauce, add more oil.
 When you’re finished mixing the pesto, give it a taste. The cheese often adds enough salt, but if the seasoning is lacking, stir in some salt and/or pepper before using or serving the pesto.Ramp pesto makes a delicious pasta sauce, but you can also use it as a spread for sandwiches and bread.
You may also want to mix the ramp pesto into your favorite soup recipe or use it top fish or poultry dishes.
Store any leftover pesto in an airtight container in the refrigerator with a layer of olive oil poured over the top. It should keep for 5 to 7 days.

