 It has similar electronic configuration to nitrogen except that it can form an extended octet. Because of this fact, phosphorus can form more bonds than nitrogen. It can form up to five bonds, while nitrogen can form maximally three bonds only.
 Hybridization using one 3d orbital and one three orbital and three-3p orbital give five equivalent hybrid orbital of similar energy that is designated dsp3 hybridization. It can accommodate five bonds., PCl5 is used in organic chemistry as a chlorinating reagent for alcohols. PCl5 is electronically saturated while it is coordinately unsaturated. This means that it can bind another ligand to form a compound with the coordination number six., PCl5 does not form a sixth bond due to the larger space the chlorine atoms occupy around phosphorus so there is a steric problem for the approach of the sixth chlorine atom., ATP is the energy currency of the cell. It is needed for driving metabolic reactions, which are under normal conditions, are not favorable and which require energy to proceed., Besides its existence in ATP, the phosphate group is incorporated also into DNA and RNA molecules., It has three allotropic forms: white, red and black., It is the thermodynamically least stable. It burns spontaneously in the presence of oxygen or air., It occurs as a tetrahedral molecule of four atoms of phosphorus P4, which are bound by a single bond., Phosphorus resembles carbon in its chemistry because it has similar electro-negativity., Namely, they inhibit the activity of,, They are used in industry as pesticide in addition to their use in chemical warfare as nerve agents. An example of an organophosphate that is used as nerve gas is sarin and Tabun., There is a whole branch in organic chemistry that is called organophosphorus chemistry. Phosphorus is used in NMR technology to identify chemicals that have phosphorus within them., The specific phosphine used in the Witting reaction is triphenylphosphine. This is a convenient compound to use because it is solid and easy to handle. An ylide is formed in this reaction and which disintegrates to give the thermodynamically stable double bond.,, In these compounds, the phosphorus atom has a formally negative charge while the metal has a positive formal charge., This compound is toxic and is actually used as a poison for rodents. It reacts under the stomach acidic environment with acids to liberate the toxic phosphine molecule, which can kill the rodent.