 This is the foremost modding site and repository for Skyrim mods, and you'll find virtually all mods on it.
 You'll see this in the upper-left corner., You'll need a free account in order to download mods.,, You don't need any of the paid packages to download mods., You'll need to create a username and password, and enter a valid email address., It may take 10 minutes or so for the email to appear. This will activate your account and log you in., You'll need to install Skyrim to a different folder than the usual Steam folder. This is because some mods have problems when accessing game files in the Program Files folder on your computer, which is the default installation location.

You can click the Folder button in your taskbar or press ⊞ Win+E to open Windows Explorer.
 Double-click on your main drive to view it. This is typically the C: drive., This will create a new folder at the base of your hard drive., You can name it anything, but this will help you identify it., This folder needs to be on the same drive as your new Steam 2 folder., Now that the folder is ready, you can add it to your Steam library so that you can install games to it.,,,, This folder will now be available to install Steam games to, including Skyrim., If it is already installed, you'll need to uninstall it first.

Make sure you're installing standard Skyrim or the Legendary Edition. Most mods do not yet work with Skyrim Special Edition (Remastered)., Wait for the game to install., Visit nexusmods.com/skyrim/mods/1334/? to get a utility that allows you to easily organize your Skyrim mods.,,,, When prompted to select where to install Mod Manager, point it to C:\Steam 2\steamapps\common\Skyrim or whichever folder you created earlier., You'll find this in your Skyrim directory., This will allow easy installation directly from the Nexus website., Go to skse.silverlock.org to download SKSE, a tweak that expands Skyrim's scripting, and is necessary for a large number of mods.,,, When prompted during installation, point it at C:\Steam 2\steamapps\common\Skyrim.,, You'll find it next to "RUN.", This will allow you to change the Mod Manager settings for SKSE.,, Point it to the skse_loader.exe file in your Skyrim folder., Visit nexusmods.com/skyrim/ to start browsing for mod files., You'll need to be signed in with your Nexus account in order to download mods larger than 2 MB, which is most of them., Browse the Nexus Skyrim mod database to find a mod that sounds interesting to you. There are countless mods available, but installation will usually be pretty similar for each thanks to Mod Organizer.

Make sure to double-check the mod's description and instructions in case it relies on a mod you don't have installed yet or requires special installation.
 This will display the mod installation files., If the Download with Manager button is available, it will load directly into Mod Organizer. If you have to use an installer, make sure to point it to your Skyrim directory.
 As you get started trying out mods, it's best to stick to installing one at a time to help troubleshoot when your game invariably stops working., From now on, you'll be starting Skyrim through Mod Manager instead of