 The complexity of a Section 1983 action as well as federal court rules and procedures necessitate an attorney if you want to prevail. People who are familiar with you and your case, and who know you as a person, can be your strongest sources of attorney recommendations. However, you shouldn't automatically hire an attorney based on a recommendation alone.Family or friends may provide strong recommendations because they know you and the type of people you get along with. This kind of knowledge can make it more likely that an attorney they recommend is someone with whom you'll work well.
If you had an attorney for the criminal case related to the unreasonable search and seizure and you just their judgment, you might ask them if they know of a civil rights attorney they would recommend for your Section 1983 lawsuit.
You might have an advantage using an attorney who your criminal defense attorney knows, because they could work together and more easily exchange information about your case.
Don't discount recommendations from any other attorneys you might know or have used for other matters, even if they don't practice civil rights or criminal law.
Keep in mind that attorneys went to law school with people who ended up practicing many different types of law, and also interact with many other types of attorneys through bar association and professional conferences and events.;
, Your state or local bar association typically will have a searchable directory online of attorneys licensed to practice in your area. These directories can be a strong place to find potential attorneys because you also can evaluate each attorney's credentials.Limit your search to attorneys licensed to practice in your area. From there, you can search for civil rights attorneys who specialize in Section 1983 actions.
Once you get a few names from the bar association directory, visit the attorneys' web sites to learn more about their specialities and areas of practice.
You also may be able to find out about their track record or read about recent victories in court.
If attorney's fees are a significant concern, you might also search for nonprofit civil rights organizations such as the American Civil Liberties Union, which have legal departments and sometimes handle Section 1983 cases free of charge.
 Civil rights attorneys often offer a free initial consultation, and you use this to your advantage by interviewing several attorneys so you can compare and contrast them to find the best attorney to meet your needs.In addition to any attorneys who were personally recommended to you, your online search should produce a list of at least two or three attorneys in your area who potentially could handle your case.
Call each of the attorneys on your list and make an appointment for an initial consultation.
If you are asked to provide any information in advance of the appointment, get that to the attorney who requested it as quickly as possible so the attorney has adequate time to prepare.
Before your interviews, take the time to compile a list of questions to ask each attorney. In particular, you need to know how many Section 1983 cases they've handled and what percentage of their practice consists of Section 1983 lawsuits.
At the consultation, you also want to observe each attorney's demeanor to get a sense of how they work, the attention they pay to you, and the sort of working relationship you might have with them.
 After you've finished your initial consultations, make a list of strengths and weaknesses that you can use to evaluate the attorneys you've interviewed.Your most important factor may be your confidence in the attorney and his or her passion and commitment to your case. An attorney who is committed to working with you typically can overcome a lack of specific experience compared to the other attorneys you interviewed.
In contrast, an attorney may have the most experience and expertise of any you interviewed, but if you feel uncomfortable or intimidated in their presence the working relationship may not be a good one.
Typically attorney's fees also will be a significant factor in your decision, but it shouldn't necessarily be the only or deciding factor.
Keep in mind that if you win your case, federal law allows you to recover reasonable attorney's fees as well. However, this doesn't necessarily mean you won't have to pay any attorney's fees up front.
 In preparation for filing your complaint, your attorney will need to know certain factual details such as where and how the unreasonable search and seizure took place.If there was a criminal action involved, your attorney likely will want court and other legal documents regarding that case. They may ask for contact information for the attorney who handled your defense in the criminal case so they can gain access to that attorney's case file.
Your attorney also will likely talk to you and any eyewitnesses of the incident to get a sense of what happened.
 Your complaint is the document that opens your lawsuit by setting forth your factual allegations against the government, and asserting that these allegations add up to a violation of federal law for which you are entitled to receive monetary damages.The allegations will be based on the facts of the incident that you told your attorney, as well as the elements required by Section 1983 to plead a violation of the law.
Some of these allegations may be facts for which you have no proof. Over the course of litigation, you may acquire evidence to support those allegations through the process of discovery, in which you and the defendant exchange information and evidence about the case.
 To sue the government for unreasonable search and seizure, you must file a complaint in the federal district court that has jurisdiction over your claim. This typically is the court located in the area or region where the unreasonable search and seizure happened.To file your complaint, you must pay a $400 filing fee. You may have to pay this up front or the attorney may add it to the costs and bill you later or take it out of the retainer you paid, depending on the payment agreement you've worked out.
You must file in federal court because Section 1983 is a federal law. Your state may have a similar law that also entitles you to collect monetary damages for unreasonable search and seizure.
If your state has a similar law, your attorney will make the decision whether to file the lawsuit in state or federal court. Federal courts can hear state law claims, but state courts cannot hear claims based on federal law.
 Once your complaint is filed, you must have it delivered to the government so it has sufficient legal notice of the lawsuit against it and the opportunity to respond to the allegations.State and federal law name specific offices where complaints must be delivered to meet the service requirements if you are suing a government entity.
In federal court, service typically is accomplished by having the complaint and summons hand-delivered by a U.S. marshal. Complaints and summons filed in state court may be hand-delivered by a sheriff's deputy.
Service also can be completed by mailing the complaint and summons using certified mail with returned receipt requested.
 After the government has been served, it has 21 days in federal court to file an answer to the complaint or other response such as a motion to dismiss. If you sued the federal government, it has 60 days to file a response.If your complaint was filed in state court, there may be a different deadline. Some states provide additional time to respond if the complaint and summons were served using certified mail rather than being hand-delivered.
If the government files a motion to dismiss, the court will hold a hearing to determine whether to dismiss your lawsuit. You may have to attend this hearing depending on whether your attorney wants to call you to the stand.
If the government files an answer, it will include a response to each of your allegations as well as any defenses the government attorneys believe may apply in the case.
 Law enforcement officers must have probable cause to conduct a search of you or your property, or to arrest you. You can recover damages for an unreasonable search and seizure by proving the officers lacked probable cause to conduct the search.Typically, if you are filing a Section 1983 action, a judge has already ruled on probable cause because you challenged probable cause to defend against criminal charges.
In those situations, the judge's ruling that officers lacked probable cause to search and arrest you serves as proof of that fact in your Section 1983 case.
If you don't have a previous order on a motion you filed challenging probable cause, you generally must present the same sorts of evidence you would have to show at a motion hearing challenging probable cause.
Your evidence may consist of witness testimony, or by showing vagueness or inconsistency in the warrant itself.
If there was no warrant, police must show special circumstances existed to negate the warrant requirement. You can prove a lack of probable cause with evidence that these special circumstances did not exist.
For example, police may search or arrest without a warrant if they reasonably fear for their safety or the safety of the general public. Evidence demonstrating that you were no threat to anyone's safety would be used to prove a lack of probable cause in those circumstances.
 Police may defend a warrantless search by claiming you had no legitimate expectation of privacy in the place where the items seized were found. You can prove the search and seizure was unreasonable by showing you had an expectation of some degree of privacy that society would consider reasonable.No "search" has occurred, in Fourth Amendment terms, if police seize something from a place in which you have no reasonable expectation of privacy.
For example, if your car was parked in the driveway and you had stolen electronics sitting next to the car, the police could seize those electronics on the theory that you have no reasonable expectation of privacy in your open driveway.
However, closed doors typically indicate a reasonable expectation of privacy. Police typically would have to get a warrant if the electronics were inside your locked car that was parked in your driveway. It's reasonable for you to expect that people would not walk onto your property and peer into the windows of your car.
Keep in mind that analysis might be different if your car was parked on a public street or in a parking lot, rather than in your own driveway.
 To prevail in a Section 1983 action, you must provide evidence that the police officers who searched or arrested you actually intended to illegally search you or your home and arrest you.Evidence of malice depends primarily on statements of witnesses including testimony from the officers who arrested you.
Typically a judge has dismissed previous criminal charges against you on the grounds of malicious prosecution.
Without a malicious prosecution judgment, you'll have a difficult time getting monetary damages in a Section 1983 lawsuit.
 Even if you have the evidence to prove the search and seizure conducted by law enforcement officers was unreasonable, you still must show that you are entitled to the exact amount you've asked for in your complaint.You can ask for the same types of damages in a Section 1983 action as you would be able to in a personal injury lawsuit.
This includes compensatory damages, which compensate you for any losses you suffered as a result of the unreasonable search and seizure.
For example, if police officers tore out the interior panels of your car and cut open the seat upholstery looking for drugs, you would have compensatory damages for the amount it would cost you to repair and replace the upholstery and panels in your car.
You also may have compensatory damages stemming from an arrest, typically in the form of lost wages if you lost your job or missed shifts at work as a result of being in jail.
If you had criminal charges against you dismissed because of malicious prosecution, you also may sue for punitive damages, which are meant to punish the government for the unlawful acts of the police officers.

