 They are:


e/s is eye shadow. e/l is eyeliner.
l/s is lipstick. "Lippie" can also be lipstick. l/g is lip gloss.
FOTD is Face of the Day, which usually consists of pictures of the eye makeup, blush and lip product used that day.
Swatch is a picture of the product rubbed onto the skin or finger to show you the color or texture.
Dupe is usually a lower product that is the same or similar to a higher product (although both products could be low end or high end).
LE means Limited Edition item.
MUA is either makeup artist or MakeupAlley.com.
HG means Holy Grail (must-have) product.
NIB means a product is new in box.
BOGO is buy one get one free sale.
DC is discontinued item.
LOTD is Look of the Day.
MA is also makeup artist.
Haul is a large collection of things shown at once, usually bought over time.
GWP is a Gift with Purchase.
T/M Tinted Moisturizer.
A Collection is when a brand comes out with a set of makeup products that is out for a limited amount of time (usually), there is usually a theme or sponsored event for the collection.;
, These are commonly abbreviated as:


BB is Bonne Bell.
BM is Bare Minerals.
SH is Sally Hansen.
TF is Too Faced.
OPI is a nail polish brand, although it may seem like an abbreviation.
YSL Yves Saint Laurent.
VS is Victoria's Secret.
UD Urban Decay.
CG Covergirl.
BFTE Beauty from the Earth.
EDM is Everyday Minerals.
ELF is a brand EyesLipsFace.com that sells affordable makeup. MUFE is Makeup Forever.
CS Coastal Scents.
NYX is a makeup brand as well.
 They are as follows:


MSF is a MAC powder: Mineral Skin Finish.
UDPP is Urban Decay Primer Potion.
CCO is cosmetics company outlet.
PRO is a MAC makeup item that is limited to makeup artists; you need a pro card to get them in store, although you can buy things online without the card.
B2m is Back to MAC which is a MAC recycling program.
MES is Mineralized Eye shadow.
TLC is Tinted Lip Conditioner.
HK is Hello Kitty, which was a coveted MAC collection.
BoS is Book of Shadows which is an Urban Decay product.
NC __ is Mac's foundation index, NC is neutral cool which means yellow undertones, NW is neutral warm which means pinker undertones. PP is Paint Pot, a MAC product.



Cupid's Bow is the dip in the middle of your upper lip.
T-zone is the T area on your forehead and down the bridge of your nose.
Waterline is the inner bottom rim of your eye.
Crease is the dip of your eye socket.
Lid is below the crease.
Browbone is the area under your eyebrow towards the outer eye.
Tightline is the inner upper rim of your eye (under the eyelashes).
Tear duct is the inner edge of your eye (nearest to the nose).
To Contour means to use a bronzer or darker shade of powder under the cheeks to create a slimming effect.



Matte means the product is void of any shimmer or glitter.
Satin means it leans towards matte bus has some shimmer.
Frosty means it is shiny or has a duo-chrome finish.
Metallic means the product is shiny but not glittery, much like metal.
Bleed or bled usually means a lip product that after wear can leave residue on the outer part of the lip.
Fall-out means an eye shadow that is powdery and flakes or dust from the product transferred onto other parts of the face.
Chalky means the product is powdery and of low quality or hard to blend.
Low-end means drugstore products or affordable products, while High-end means department store or exclusive makeup.
To "foil" means to use an eye shadow with a damp or wet brush, creating a more vibrant or pigmented effect. When a mascara "runs" it means it transferred to the under the eye area or down the face.
To "stipple" means to use a duo-fiber stippling brush with a foundation to create an airbrush look.
A Palette is a set that includes many eye shadows, lip colors, or blushes.

