 Some men are liars and will lie to your face, consistently they think that they can always get away with it! To find out the truth, you can spy and then you can decide whether to make or break your relationship. Once you accept the fact that you are being lied to and that your man is sneaky and devious, you can move on.;
, Believe it or not but some men have everything on their phones! Check to see if there are any apps downloaded on his phone that look funny or fishy. You would be surprised that an app that looks like a game can really be an app for hidden text messages and stuff! So keep that in mind and an have an eye on what is downloaded on his phone!

, You know that there may be nasty girls who will send pics of themselves naked to him privately and you wouldn't know. Like Instagram now has the direct message thing where they can send private pics back and forth. You should check out who has been sending him messages.
, If he does that all the time, you can make the assumption that he IS hiding something. If he he leaves it around only once in a blue moon, it could be because he has deleted everything and he isn't worried.
 Keep mental notes of the phone numbers because for all you know, he has his friend James, for example, in his phone and its really Jennifer!

, You need to check on that because they can pretend to be picking up a shift so that you would not be suspicious if they are gone all day! Get your butt in the car and you need to stake out! You even get a chance to see who he is going out for lunch with.
 You can almost guarantee that they are getting numbers, not saying all the time (depending on much of a POS that he is) but they may be flirting and getting numbers! They make excuses and blame it on the liquor. Don't accept lies from your man.
 You never know who they are talking to on their way home from work or anywhere!

, Just make sure that you pay attention to the small details that they think you aren't paying attention to! You don't want to live on a lie and so don't waste your time anymore and move on with life. That way you don't have to worry about any of this.
 When you forgive them are back with them and catch them again, they will make it seem like its your fault by saying "Well, you stay with me so why shouldn't I cheat?"

,