 This prevents one or both parties from becoming hurt throughout the process of trying to make your ex jealous. A healthy approach to jealousy is when your goal is to deepen or rekindle your relationship with your ex, while an unhealthy approach is when you want to seek revenge or intentionally hurt your ex for breaking it off in the first place., Ending all contact with your ex can make her wonder what you’re up to, and why you’re no longer talking to her. She may suspect that you’re seeing someone new, or keeping busy with fun activities that don’t involve her. If you don’t feel comfortable ceasing all contact, at least wait two or three weeks before contacting her again.
 An old Spanish proverb says “Living well is the best revenge,” which is great to keep in mind when making your ex-girlfriend jealous. Improving yourself as a person is healthy, and boosts your self-esteem when you’re going through a breakup. Exercise more often, devote more time to friends and family, read books, and make other positive changes that will have your ex questioning whether your life is better without her.
 This indirectly keeps your ex in the loop with what’s going on with you, even if you’re not staying in touch with your ex. Your friends may even mention to your ex that they’ve seen you, and that you’re doing well without her. For example, inform your friends that you recently got a job promotion, lost weight, or have plans to run the next 5K marathon. The news may circulate back to your ex and make her feel jealous about your accomplishments., Your ex may browse your social media profiles out of curiosity to see how you’re getting on without her, and to see if you’re spending time with someone new. Keep all social media posts positive in nature, and try to be mysterious without posting explicit details. For example, share photos of yourself having fun with friends on a Friday night without explaining where you are, or what you’re celebrating.Share photos of yourself spending time with other women, especially those you consider attractive. Seeing you having fun with other women can make your ex feel jealous and confused about her true feelings for you.
 If meeting your ex in person is inevitable due to seeing her at work or spending time with mutual friends, smile and say hello, then move on with your day. This positive behavior can make your ex wonder why you’re not unhappy without her, and also shows that you’re confident and have moved on.
 If your ex tries to call or text you, don’t reply right away. This makes it look like you’re busy, and will make your ex feel curious about what you’re up to. This also helps you avoid looking desperate to hear from her. Depending on the nature of your ex’s phone call, put off returning her call for several hours or several days., Though you may still have feelings for your ex and want to win her back, re-entering the dating scene is a natural way to make your ex jealous because it makes it look as if you’ve already gotten over the breakup and moved on. Plus, you may end up meeting someone you enjoy spending time with more than your ex.

