 Use sharp shears on young trees with branches that are 1/2 inch (1.27cm) in diameter or smaller. Use pruning saws or long-handled loppers for pruning mature trees.If you don’t have pruning tools of your own, you might be able to rent some from your local hardware store – a good option for a tool you might use for only a few hours each year.
 After pruning a particular tree, dip the blades of your shears or pruning saw in a solution of one part alcohol and one part water for at least 60 seconds before moving on to the next tree. This will prevent disease from spreading to other trees. Alternately, you could use a solution of water and commercial cleaning solutions like Pine-Sol, chlorine bleach, or Lysol. Just mix one part cleaning solution with a volume of water five times that of the cleaning agent and dip your pruning tools in it for at least 60 seconds., Always cut dead, damaged, and diseased branches (the “three D’s”). Additionally, cut any suckers – short, new branches sprouting from the trunk. Watersprouts – branches that grow straight up from an outward-facing limb and typically appear in spring – should be pruned, too.Remove competing and downward-growing branches. Downward-growing branches generally do not produce a very high fruit yield.
Generally, do not prune branches that are growing out of the trunk at about a 45-degree angle. Anything growing at a much smaller or larger angle should be pruned., If the trunk of the tree splits into several parallel and competing trunks, your tree will have trouble growing and will be more difficult to prune. Prune your tree in such a way that discourages direct upright growth, except from the central trunk. Only the uppermost bud of the leader should be allowed to remain during pruning sessions.This system is appropriate for most trees, and crucial for apple, pear, cherry, and European blue plum trees.
For a few fruit trees – peach, nectarine, apricot, and Japanese plum trees – pruning to a central leader is unnecessary.
 Try to prune the top of the tree more heavily than the undergrowth. This allows more sunshine to reach the shaded branches, encouraging them to produce fruit.Additionally, cut branches that are too close together. Every branch should have six to 12 inches (15 to 30 centimeters) of space around it. If you have a cluster of close branches, prune the thinnest of the bunch.