 The purpose of the Pap test is to take a sample of cells from around your cervix, which will subsequently be examined under the microscope to look for any abnormalities that could be indicative of or concerning for cancer.


A new test that is becoming available is something called "HPV co-testing."
HPV co-testing may be done when you get your Pap test. What it does is it looks specifically for the presence of the HPV virus (as opposed to simply looking for abnormal cells that may be cancerous or precancerous).
Because the HPV co-testing option is relatively new, there are no definitive guidelines around it yet.
If you receive HPV co-testing with your Pap test, you may be able to prolong your screening interval from every 3 years to every 5 years.
Note that women over the age of 65 no longer need to be screened, unless they fall into a "high risk" category.
Note also that women who have received a total hysterectomy (who have had their uterus removed) no longer need to receive Pap tests.
 The speculum is then opened so that your doctor can centre it around your cervix, and a sample of cells is then taken from your cervix.


The cell sample will be sent into the lab for formal analysis under the microscope.
When your doctor hears back about your results, he or she will let you know whether they are normal, or whether any further investigations or repeat testing are needed.
Note that it is best to plan your Pap test for a time when you are not on your period. Having your period may cloud the results, and you may need to come back in for a repeat test, so it is best to simply avoid doing it while on your period altogether.
 If your results are highly suspicious, or if you get two abnormal results in a row, your doctor may proceed to something called "colposcopy," which is where an instrument is used to directly visualize your cervix to get a more clear picture of what is going on.


Being diligent around going for Pap tests and any follow up tests as needed will play a huge role in reducing your risk of HPV related cancers.
Prevention and early detection are key, as most HPV related cancers can be effectively treated and oftentimes cured if caught early enough.

