 Measure the desired length, width, and height relative to your work space and write these dimensions down.






;
, You can use thick, wooden, butcher-block-style Workbench tops (which are quite pricey), thin, hard, wooden sheets for industrial bench tops (which are more affordable), or a few pieces of plywood stacked on top of each other. For a thick, sturdy, affordable alternative, salvage a solid-core door; check your local listings, find a rebuilding center, or even ask around at a building undergoing renovation. The most important thing to keep in mind is that the Workbench should be flat and sturdy.









Cut the bench top to size if necessary.
 The length of each leg should be the desired height of the bench minus the thickness of the bench top.
 If you want the top of the Workbench to be flush with the frame underneath it (which you will be building in Steps 8 and 9), each brace should be equal to the width of the bench top minus the width of two 2x4s; however, if you’d like the frame to jut slightly out from underneath the bench top, which can be useful for storing clamps, for example, cut the braces to same length as the width of the bench top.









Since 2x4s aren’t actually 2 x 4 inches and can sometimes even vary in thickness, measure the (skinny) width of your 2x4s for a precise cut.
 Lay down two of the 4x4s perfectly parallel to one other so that the distance from the outside left edge to the outside right edge equals the length of the brace. Lay one leg brace across them so that it is flush with both the sides and (what will eventually be) the tops of the legs. Repeat on the other leg pair.
 Using a 3/8-inch (10-mm) drill bit, drill two holes clear through both the 2x4 and the 4x4. Make sure to drill the holes at a diagonal from each other (i.e. one at the top left, one at the bottom right) so that you will later be able to fit a third bolt into the space between. Moving from the 2x4 to the 4x4, slide bolts through the pre-drilled holes. Close them by sliding washers over the ends and holding them in place with nuts, which you can tighten with a wrench. When you’re done, the bolt ends should stick out of the 4x4s. Repeat on the remaining leg pair.
 Flip one of the leg pairs over and repeat the process you followed in Steps 7 and 8 with another brace; however, instead of lining the brace up with (what will eventually be) the bottoms of the legs, raise them a few inches so that they won’t sit flush with the floor. When you’re done, you will have a top brace at the top of one side of each leg pair and a bottom brace near the bottom of the other side of each leg pair.









If you would like to build a low shelf across the bottom braces, position them accordingly provided that they do not rise above 1/3 of the height of the legs; the lower the braces, the more stable the bench will be.
 Each support should equal the length of the bench top.
 Lay the leg pairs down with the top braces facing outwards (i.e. away from one another) so that the distance from the outside left edge to the outside right edge equals the length of the top support. Place one of the top supports across the leg pairs so that it lines up with the top braces. Pre-drill a hole through the top support and into the 4x4 on either side (making sure to drill between the existing bolts) and then bolt the support into place with coach bolts. Flip the structure over and repeat on the other side. When you’re done, your four legs should be surrounded by a frame at the top.
 Lay the piece(s) in place and pre-drill bolt holes downward through the underlying supports where necessary. Screw coach bolts into place to secure.









If you have a thick bench top, consider bolting from the bottom up; this will keep the bench top smooth and bolt-free. However, only do this if the bench top is thick enough that it won’t risk popping off of the bolt ends.
 Simply measure the dimensions between all four legs, cut a shelf to this size from your desired material (ex. plywood), and screw into place.
 Sand the wood smooth and apply stain, varnish, polyurethane, etc.








