 Leaf Stones are a type of Evolution Stones that forcibly evolves Grass-type Pokémon like Nuzleaf. To get a Leaf Stone, you need to know first the places where you can get one. The locations of Leaf Stones vary depending on the version of the game you’re playing:


Ruby, Sapphire, and Emerald—Can be acquired from a Diving Treasure Hunter trainer and while travelling on Route 119 (Central Hoenn).
FireRed and LeafGreen—Can be bought from the Celadon Department Store and while walking inside the Safari Zone.
Diamond, Pearl, and Platinum—Can be found while traveling inside the Underground Path and Floaroma Meadow.
HeartGold and SoulSilver—Found inside the Viridian Forest, by defeating trainer Picnicker Gina on Route 34, and as first prize on Bug-Catching Contest and Pokéathlon.
Black and White—Can be acquired while travelling on Route 6, Castelia City, and Black City.
Black 2 and White 2—Found while travelling on Route 7, White Forest, and Lostlorn Forest; also available inside the Antique Shop on Join Avenue.
X and Y—Inside Lumiose City’s Stone Emporium, while traveling on Route 8 and Laverre City, and by defeating trainer Inver on Route 18.;
, Once you get to the places where you can get a Leaf Stone (step 1), all you need to do is walk around the area. When your character walks on the right section of the floor (which is randomly selected), a message prompt will then appear telling you that “Your character has found a Leaf Stone,” and it will be added in your Bag.


You can also get Leaf Stones by defeating certain trainers on some versions of the game (also mentioned in step 1).
 Press the Start button on your console (Game Boy or Nintendo) to open the menu. Use the directional keys to select “Bag” from the menu then press the "A" button on your device to open it.
 Navigate through your Bag using the arrow keys. Find and select the Leaf Stone from your inventory list, and once you’ve found it, press the "A" button to use it.
 After pressing "A," your current party will be displayed on the screen. Select Nuzleaf from the list, and press the "A" button to confirm using the Leaf Stone on it.
