 Foals have weaker immune systems than those of adult horses. Therefore, foals could get very sick if they graze with adults in a pasture area that has a heavy parasite load. If you have multiple horses, put them in groups according to age before turning them out to pasture. This will decrease the likelihood of foals getting exposed to heavy parasite loads.If a horse has internal parasites, the eggs would pass through the feces and hatch into larvae (developmental stage before adults) on the ground. While grazing, a horse could ingest these larvae, which would develop into adults in the intestines.
 Pasture rotation involves moving horses from pastures with a heavy parasite load to those with fewer parasites. It also prevents overgrazing, which increases the chances of a horse ingesting parasite larvae. Deworm your horses before moving them to a new pasture to prevent contaminating the new pasture with parasites. If you have foals, move them to the cleanest pasture to minimize their exposure to parasites. Below are more tips for pasture rotation:Divide your pasture areas into multiple sections.
Move your horses when the grass in the current pasture area is 3‒4 inches high.
Mow the grass after moving your horses to a new pasture.
Allow the grass to grow back to about 8 inches before putting your horses back in that pasture area.
 Sheep, goats, and cows (collectively known as ‘ruminants’) will not get sick if they ingest horse parasite larvae. Therefore, they can graze in pastures after horses without a problem. As they graze, the ruminants will decrease a pasture’s parasite load.Have the ruminants graze after moving your horses to a new pasture area.
 If there are too many horses in one area of pasture, that area could get overgrazed, increasing the likelihood of parasite larvae ingestion.There is no universal standard for the number of horses per acre of land, so your vet can help you determine how much grazing area each of your horses should have.
 Manure management is key to preventing parasites in horses. Remove manure weekly from pasture. After removal, either compost and spread it or discard it.Because 1 horse can produce as much as 40‒50 pounds (18‒22 kilograms) of manure per day, regularly removing manure from your pastures will be important.
Spreading the manure dries out and kills parasite larvae.If you spread the manure after composting it, do not spread it in the areas where your horses graze.Your local agriculture extension department can provide guidance on proper spreading of manure.Contact a professional manure removal company if you are not able to compost and reuse the manure.

