 Unfortunately, there are a lot of myths surrounding food and increased levels of serotonin. These myths include:



Foods rich in tryptophan automatically boost serotonin. This is false. Most foods that contain tryptophan, an amino acid, compete with other amino acids to be absorbed by the body's transport system.Eating a lot of turkey, which is rich in tryptophan, will not automatically give you more serotonin.

Eating a lot of banana will automatically boost serotonin. Bananas do contain serotonin. That serotonin, however, is unable to cross the blood-brain barrier and be absorbed by humans.;
, Complex carbohydrates are absorbed by the body differently than simple carbohydrates. Simple carbs raise your blood levels quickly, causing a spike in insulin, which drops after a while.Complex carbs are absorbed more slowly by the body and therefore avoid the massive peaks and troughs brought upon by simple carbs.



Complex carbsinclude:

Legumes like peas and lentils
Whole grain breads
Whole grain pastas
Brown rice
Starchy vegetables like sweet potatoes and parsnips



Simple carbs include:

Yogurt
Fruit juice
"Normal" pasta
Cakes, candies, and other refined sugar products
White bread and white rice, while not technically simple carbs, are absorbed by your body in a similar way.
 Caffeine suppresses serotonin, which could also help explain why it's a hunger suppressant as well.Energy drinks contain large amounts of sugar, which the body processes quickly, but which produce an energy-zapping low after the insulin has finished surging. If you have to drink caffeinated products, wait until after you've eaten, doctors recommend.
 Omega-3 fatty acids are hypothesized to affect the functionality of serotonin in the brain. People with low serotonin levels commonly have low DHA levels, which is an essential building block in the brain, and which needs to be replenished with foods such as fish oils, which are high in omega-3 fatty acids.Look for omega-3 fats in:


Fish, such as salmon, and fish oils
Nuts, seeds and seed oils, such as flax seed oil

, Eating dark chocolate improves serotonin levels partly because of resveratrol.Resveratrol boosts both endorphins and serotonin levels. Remember to reach for dark chocolate instead of milk chocolate, as milk chocolate contains far less cocoa (the stuff that produces serotonin) than dark chocolate.