 With a bit of creativity, you can turn common doggy instincts like fetching, chasing, circling around, and jumping into a solid workout routine that matches your own. How you go about this really depends on the type of workout and the dog's reaction to it.


When doing sit-ups, hold a dog toy. Every time you sit up, pretend to throw the toy. Your dog should think it has been thrown and try to chase after it. A variation on this is to have a whole basket of toys to toss, grabbing one and actually throwing it every time you stretch up. You can take any retrieved toys back off your dog each alternate stretch back up.When doing any upward stretch, hold a toy before your dog and reach it right up to the sky, encouraging your dog to jump for it. Great for your upward stretching, fun for him.
 Place your usual exercise equipment in the backyard when the weather is good. Ensure that the equipment is at even intervals––you're turning this into an exercise course for you and an obstacle course for your dog. Place your dog on a leash and walk through all the things you've set up, such as jumping rope, dancing with your hula hoop and stretching with your stretch bands. At each interval, have him wait for you or, if he gets bored, try to involve him in some way.


Every time he runs off, see it as a chance to rev up your workout as you chase him back. A variation on this is to include agility style obstacles that are made just for your dog. That way he gets to do some special workout activities too., When running, capitalize on your dog's natural inclination to stop and sniff at random intervals as an opportunity for improving your own agility. Being able to stop or turn during a run at a moment's notice is an excellent skill to develop for sports and general fitness.


If you dog stops for an extended sniff or to take care of some doggy business, do some dynamic stretches, jumping jacks, push ups, etc.
Of course, you should still make sure you can control your dog with the “heel” command, and can get him to spend more time exercising than sniffing.
 This approach is great if you're the athletic type, as you'll both get a great all-round workout. Playing fetch, throwing or dribbling a ball to/with your dog, having a tug-of-war, and playing hide and seek with him can be workout material without too much difficulty involved in setting it up.Try flyball, flying disc and freestyle dancing as other fun options.
”Fetch” workouts can be especially fun for Retriever/sport breeds like Labradors and Spaniels.
Terriers love tug-of-war, as they love to hold onto things! Avoid playing tug-of-war until your dog knows how to drop on command though, or you risk over-exciting the dog (in which case he can become aggressive).
Herding dogs like sheepdogs, collies, and corgis may enjoy playing soccer with you.
Although your dog will probably prefer some games over others, try to sprinkle in a variety of activities to ward off boredom or over-exertion of certain muscles or joints.

