 Right after you get rejected, it can be tough to get a handle on your emotions. If your crush teases you during this time, you may not be able to control your reaction well. Do whatever you need to do (in private) to get over the fact that you were rejected. Cry, kick, scream — get it all out of your system.


If your crush has really gotten to you, don't be afraid to talk to your friends or family about how you feel. Your must trusted relations can comfort you and offer helpful advice during this time.;
, When your former crush wants to get a flustered reaction out of you, staying away will deny him or her the satisfaction. Don't go where this person likes to hang out. Don't talk to this person unless you are forced to. You should even avoid your crush's friends — it's impossible to tell whose side they have actually taken.


This advice extends to technology. Don't answer your crush's calls or texts. Delete your crush from your social networks (Facebook, Twitter, etc.).
 Eventually, you may be forced to talk to this person (especially if you share a class or are paired together at work). Ignore him or her until you are spoken to first. When you do have to talk, try to act polite but disinterested. Speak in short, proper sentences (e.g., "Yes, that's good. No, it doesn't matter. OK. Sure.")


If your crush teases you, shut him or her down immediately with silence and an icy-cold stare. S/he is trying to get a reaction out of you, so don't allow yourself to become upset or angry.
 Don't let yourself wallow in thoughts of what could have been if your crush hadn't ended up being a jerk. Instead, show that you don't care about this person by moving on with your life! Devote yourself to your work or school work. Start a new exercise routine. Take up a new hobby. Try to master an old one. Anything you can do to stay busy will help keep your mind off of your former crush's negativity.


Remember: dwelling in the past will only hold you back. If you let yourself do this, you may eventually end up picking up your phone, checking out old pictures, and even getting the urge to text this person. Stay strong — don't go back to a person who's been hurting you.
 When someone's been mean to you, it's only natural to want to get even. Unfortunately, if you're trying to prove that you don't care about someone, this is one of the worst things you can do. Lashing out with an angry outburst or plotting an ice-cold revenge scheme may make you feel good in the short term, but they won't help you get over this person in the long term. For this, happily ignoring the person who hurt you is almost always the best revenge.


Also, it's wise to remember the old saying, "Don't argue with idiots. From a distance, people can't tell who's who." Trying to get back at an old flame can make you look petty or childish to others. The best course of action? Don't even run this risk.

