 Having your car stolen or vandalized is not only inconvenient, it can be very distressing. Unfortunately, car theft and break-ins are not unusual, especially in towns and cities. However, vehicles fitted with security systems such as immobilizers are far less likely to be stolen. You'll pay less for your insurance if your car has such a device, ­ but make sure it's one that's approved by the insurance industry.


Here are a few security tips that could help reduce the cost of insurance and the risk of having your car stolen:

Use an approved immobilizer and alarm.
Park your car off the road (preferably in a garage) to reduce the risk of theft.
When you're out at night, park in a well-lit area, and if you're parked in a ticketed car lot, make sure you don't leave the ticket in your car.
Don't leave stuff visible inside your car. The only thing in that carrier bag may be an empty chocolate wrapper and a pair of laddered tights, but thieves won't know that until they've broken in.
If your stereo can be removed, pop it out when you're parked.
Resist the temptation to modify your car with expensive accessories that scream out, "steal me."

;
, Insurance companies really don't like modifications to cars. Keep them to a minimum on yours. Anything added to your car beyond standard factory equipment could increase the cost of insurance. Some modifications can make your car more vulnerable to theft. Modifications you should avoid if you want cheaper insurance include:


Body kits and spoilers
Exhaust pipes
Engine changes
Audio equipment

, Just as looking after yourself helps keep you young looking and reduces the risk of illness, looking after your car will keep it running well. ­You'll be safer on the road and at less risk of being involved in an accident. Here are a few things you should be looking out for:


Keep an eye on your tires. Check the tread and the pressure. If the treads are looking worn, get them checked out. Worn tires can be dangerous. Under- or over-inflated tires can increase your stopping distance and make your vehicle consume more fuel.
Adding windshield washing fluid is a task many people put off until the windshield is really dirty. Top it off regularly for your own safety.
Check the oil and coolant regularly, too, to avoid damage to the engine.
, This varies from one insurance company to the next. Compare quotes with and without a male included.
If you include younger drivers on your policy, your premium might increase substantially. #*Include only people who drive regularly. If someone wants to use your car temporarily, you can add them to your policy for a few days. This is cheaper than adding them permanently. In fact, some companies won't charge you any extra for this.
 Such drivers will pay lower premiums if they take formal driver training.
In the UK, Pass Plus is a program available to young and new drivers which can lead to lower insurance rates.

