 Unfortunately, glaucoma, particularly open-angle, is likely genetic. You are more likely to have the disease if someone in your family is suffering from it. However, that does not mean that you are guaranteed to develop it.If you have a family history of glaucoma, be sure to see an eye specialist regularly to monitor for the disease. Even if glaucoma is inevitable, you can slow its progress.
 Those over the age of 50 have a greater risk of developing glaucoma. As you get older, your body is less capable of regulating normal functions, like maintaining proper eyeball pressure. If you are over the age of 40, be sure to receive regular eye exams and get checked for glaucoma.
 In the United States, glaucoma is about five times more common for African Americans than for other ethnic groups. Although it is unclear why the African American community has higher rates of glaucoma, there is some evidence pointing to genetic factors. Environmental factors, such as diet and access to health care, may also play an important role.African Americans over 40 years old have a greater risk of getting glaucoma, and African American women are more likely to have the disease than men., A recent study found that those with diabetes had a 35 percent increase risk of developing glaucoma. This is due, in part, to the fact that diabetes damages the blood vessels in the retina, leading to irreparable nerve damage.If you have diabetes, be sure to let your optometrist know so that they can monitor your eyes for increased pressure or possible nerve damage.
 Myopia, or nearsightedness, and hyperopia, or farsightedness, can both be indicators for glaucoma. This may be due to the shape of the eye and its ability to drain properly., Those who use regularly and consistently use certain topical ocular (eye drops) and dermatological (creams) steroids over a long time may be more likely to develop glaucoma. If used regularly over an extended period, steroid eye drops can cause increased pressure inside the eye.If you are prescribed any of these steroids, be sure to use them as recommended and receive regular eye checks.
 Previous injuries or surgeries involving the eye can cause nerve damage and impact fluid drainage. Examples of eye problems are retinal detachment, eye inflammations and eye tumors. Complications from eye surgery can also lead to glaucoma.Because of this, be careful with your eyes! Always wear protective gear when necessary and follow doctor's orders when it comes to pre- and post-surgery protocol.

