 Many people who speak too fast skip over places where pauses would make sense in normal conversation. This includes between sentences, after a major piece of information, and when the topic changes. Try to make a conscious effort to add more pauses while you are speaking.You may need to pause between each word, or add extra-long pauses after important information.
 Filler words are conversational tools that allow the listener to better understand the topic, and also provide the speaker with time to think before completing a response. Allowing yourself to occasionally use these words in your speech can help you slow down your presentation. It can also allow your audience to connect more strongly with what you’re saying.


These include things like “um,” “uh,” “I mean,” “you know,” and “like.”
Keep in mind that using too many filler words can make it look like you are struggling to find the right words, or don’t know the answer. Use these sparingly, and only as a means to help you slow down your speech.
 Sometimes people hold their breath a bit, or speak more quickly in order to get through more of the words in one breath. If you want to speak more slowly, make a concerted effort to breathe more often while you are speaking.If you have a typed speech, you should consider adding notes for yourself to remember when to breathe and to do it more frequently than you normally would.
 When you are giving a speech or talking to other people, it can be helpful to make eye contact with whoever is listening. By practicing this trick, you will be waiting for verbal or body language cues from your listener(s) before you move on with your topic. This means that you will be forced to slow down to accommodate your audience.Speaking more slowly and engaging with your audience with eye contact will help them keep up with you and understand what you’re talking about.
 Talking too fast is often caused by anxiety or nervousness in speaking situations. It can be helpful to practice calming yourself down so that you can slow down they rhythm of your speech.Try counting your breaths slowly. Inhale deeply and exhale slowly. Count each breath and continue this practice for one to five minutes.
Try clenching and releasing your muscles. Start with the muscles at the top and work your way down. Clench the muscles in your forehead and face while you breathe in. Hold the breath for a moment and then slowly release it, unclenching the muscles as you go. Repeat this process as you work your way down your body, clenching and releasing all of your muscles.

