 Most babies will begin teething when they’re around six months old (although it is not uncommon for age ranges to differ greatly). Normally a baby’s two bottom front teeth come in first, followed by the two top front teeth. If your baby is teething she may drool, need to chew on solid objects, become irritable, or have sore gums. There are a few things you can do to help alleviate your baby’s discomfort:Use your finger to rub your baby’s gums and apply pressure. The pressure may help ease the pain for a short time. Make sure your hands are clean first.
Cold can sometimes ease the pain of teething. You can give your baby something cool to chew or suck on to help alleviate the pain. A cool washcloth, spoon, or teething ring work best. Make sure the item is only cool, not frozen.
Try giving your baby cooled hard food to chew on while teething. A peeled and cooled cucumber or carrot work great; place the food into a mesh feeding bag designed for this purpose, or supervise your baby so the food doesn’t become a choking hazard.
Depending on how painful teething is for your baby, you might also want to try medications. Children’s strength acetaminophen and ibuprofen can help ease the pain. Talk to your doctor or pharmacist if you are unsure of the proper doses of medication. Ibuprofen is given only to children over six months old.
 Once all of your baby’s baby teeth have grown in, you can switch to brushing twice a day. Until your child is able to spit out the toothpaste on his own, continue to use only a rice-sized amount of toothpaste at each brushing., Sucking on a thumb, finger, pacifier, or other objects is a perfectly natural behaviour for babies. However, thumb sucking after adult teeth have grown in can cause permanent damage with how the mouth grows, how teeth align, and how the roof of the mouth forms.Pacifiers are no better than thumb sucking when it comes to long-term damage to the mouth.
It is a good idea to encourage your child to stop sucking a thumb (or pacifier) before adult teeth grow in. One way to do this is to praise your child for not sucking on her thumb. You could also give your child a comfort item such as a stuffed animal or blanket to use when she is tired or wants to suck her thumb or use a pacifier.
Thumb sucking is often a side effect of insecurity or discomfort. Therefore, one of the best ways to stop thumb sucking is to address the underlying reason for it. If your child feels insecure or uncomfortable, address that problem first, and thumb sucking should stop as your child becomes more secure and comfortable.
If you are having trouble getting your child to stop thumb sucking, you can also consult with your dentist for additional ideas and even medication that may help.
 When your child is about two years old, you should start to teach spitting. You need to encourage your child to spit out excess toothpaste instead of swallowing it.While it may seem easier to use water to help your child spit out the excess toothpaste, the sense of water in her mouth might actually increase the chances of swallowing. And rinsing a mouth with water after brushing can also rinse away the fluoride that is beneficial for teeth.
 Babies and children learn a lot by watching what their parents do. To help teach your child that brushing and flossing are good habits to get into, allow your child to watch you do these things. You can even have your child imitate you while you’re brushing and flossing., Once your child is able to spit out excess toothpaste while brushing, you can increase the amount of toothpaste used to a pea-sized amount. This normally happens when your child is about three years old., Even when your child is old enough to brush, you should continue to supervise until your child is at least six years old. The main reason for continuing supervision is to ensure your child isn’t using too much toothpaste or swallowing it.