 Always write down and organize the list of names and addresses of people who were sent bridal shower and wedding invitations. This will make writing your wedding thank-you notes much easier than starting from scratch with making a new list. Keep this information in a spreadsheet so you can later add a column for gifts. , Writing thank-you notes can be a long and arduous process, especially for those with packed weddings. Treat writing thank-you notes with the dedication of a job, complete with an area for you to specifically write thank-you notes. Find a nice spot in your house, and make it your consistent location to write. Make sure you have an easy-to-access drawer in this spot to house all of the thank-you cards. , Follow the gift list created at the bridal shower as your guideline for writing the thank-you cards. Go back to your spreadsheet with the names/addresses, and start adding in gifts next to the corresponding names so all of your information is in the same place. Begin at the top of the list and check off each name as you complete the thank-you card. Be sure to add names to the bottom of the list as late gifts arrive.
 Work as long as you can, but do not feel as though you must finish all of the notes in one sitting. For example, set aside 30 minutes each day to work solely on your thank-you notes. This way the work is divided up in reasonable increments instead of dealing with an entire day of writing cards. You should also plan to write your notes as soon after you get your first set of wedding gifts as possible. Words are simpler to express while the gifts are fresh in your mind.
 Purchase high quality thank-you or white note cards with Ecru paper. Consider adding a symbol that represents your wedding’s theme, such as a pumpkin if you had a Halloween theme or a sunflower if it was fall themed. Having your new married name or initials on the card also adds a special touch.
Use Google to find a variety of websites specializing in customizable thank-you cards.
Ideally you should purchase your thank-you notes at the same time you buy wedding invitations.
 Instead of trying to track down postage after every thank-you note, buy a sizeable roll of stamps first. Forever-47 cent stamps are a good choice because you can choose a design that fits the aesthetic of your wedding while making sure you can order enough without going to the store and buying more. , Find a blue or black ink pen with which you are comfortable writing. Other colors often do not appear to be as formal and are harder to read. Buy a firm, roller ball that will make your handwriting boldly stand out on your thank-cards. , Every thank-you card should incorporate the guest’s name and gift. Do your best to personalize each note and try to incorporate some specific fact or memory about that person into your writing. For example, instead of writing “Roger, I appreciate your set of pots and pans,” consider writing, “Roger, your set of pots and pans are perfect. They remind me of all the times we spent in your parent’s kitchen cooking up burnt grilled cheese sandwiches at 2 in the morning. I’m looking forward to perfecting them this time around.” , Instead of merely thanking them for their present, make each guest feel like their gift will be put to use by detailing how you plan on using it in your married life. A good example would be, “Samantha, thank you so much for the blender. Daylynn and I have always wanted to get into juicing and fruit smoothies and now we finally can. I’ll be sure to whip you up a strawberry banana smoothie next time you visit.” , It may be easier to just slip a cash gift into your pocket and forget about it, but you need to let your guest know it’s going to something worthwhile. Detail exactly what you’re going to use the cash for, and make sure it’s something useful, like a newborn’s crib instead of the latest video games.
 Some obscure family members or unknown family friends may send you gifts before the wedding, but you still need to try your best to make their card feel personal. For example, you could write, “Don, thank you so much for the high quality toaster oven. My mother must have told you how rusted my current one is. She tells me all about the wonderful college days you two shared together. Looking forward to finally meeting you at the wedding.”

, Inevitably you will receive gifts that are useless, distasteful, or downright gaudy. Nevertheless, you must find a way to express your gratitude, even if it’s a bit insincere. For example, if you were gifted an ugly picture of a wine cork with the $10 price still attached, you could write, “Dear Sylvia, thank you so much for the wonderful piece of art. Kendrick and I are both avid wine aficionados, so it will be a perfect fit in our kitchen.”

, Weddings can be difficult to attend, and there may even be some guests who weren’t able to bring you any gifts. These friends and family members should still be thanked and made to feel like they have a special place in your life. If someone couldn’t get out of work, for example, you could write, “Dear Erykah, I’m sorry to hear your veterinary clinic wouldn’t give you any time off for work. I know how hard it is to get a break from such a demanding and important job. I know we’ll be able to see each other seen and I can’t wait to hear everything that’s been going on in your life.” , A good way to end each note is by saying thank-you once again and signing the bride and groom's names to the note, if their names were not mentioned within the text. Instead of saying something bland like “All the best,” try an ending like, “With Much Love, Binh and Jeremy.”

, You can either print address labels or neatly write the person's address on the envelope. Remember to add your return address to ensure that everyone has your correct new location.

