 In order to find the right job, you need to understand where your strengths lie. You can do this by taking a look at your skills and determining what you are best suited for.


Figure out what types of skills you have.
This includes both hard skills (teachable skills) such as project management and soft skills (skills that are usually not taught but are part of a person’s natural abilities or personal traits) such as problem solving skills.
You can determine these skills by looking back at your accomplishments and failures.
The areas in which you have excelled will be your skills.;
, Figure out which parts of your past experience you enjoyed and excelled in the most. Determining this will help you determine which career path is right for you if you are currently undecided.


For example, you were a customer service representative in a call center.
You loved talking to the customers and were able to quickly solve their problems, but you did not like being on the phone all day.
Since you enjoyed helping customers and you excelled at problem solving, perhaps retail customer service is better for you.
 If you have a degree or certification in a particular field, determine if it will be helpful during your job search.


For example, you have a marketing degree and you are interested in a marketing position.
 Based on the evaluation of your skills and experience, define the type of job you want to apply to. This does not only include just job title, but also the type of company and industry you feel you will work best in or have the most experience in.


Before you start applying to jobs, it is best to determine a few key facets of the jobs you will pursue.
 While it is good to try to apply for jobs that interest you, you may find you will get more responses back from jobs that you appear most qualified for.


This is why taking a look at your qualifications is so important.
You will find searching for a job a bit easier if you can define the job titles and levels within the organization you want to apply to.
You can narrow your search down even further by defining acceptable work schedules (days, nights, etc.) and employment status (full time, part time, contract or temp).
For example, based on your self-evaluation you want to apply to a full time customer service manager position in New York City with no specified shifts.
 If you can define the type of company you want work for and the type of environment you would fit well in, you will be able to focus your time by applying to open positions only at these companies, instead of places where you would never be happy.


Factors to look at when evaluating the type of company you want to work for include: private vs. public, size (small, mid or large), global vs. non-global and company culture and fit.
 You may be more qualified or interested in one particular industry than another. Think about the type of experience you have and the role you are looking for.


Then, determine which industry or industries you would like to work in.
Take the location into consideration when targeting an industry.
Before wasting your time applying for jobs you will not accept, you must pinpoint the location or locations you would work and/or travel to.
Think about working remotely or telecommuting as well.
 It is not recommended to submit a general cover letter and resume for each position you want to apply to.


Every job has certain qualifications and experience they are looking for, that may not be necessarily needed for another job (even if it is the same title but at a different company).
Therefore, you must update your cover letter and resume to include the most relevant information for each particular job.
In order to adjust your cover letter and resume properly, you should read each job description carefully and highlight the qualifications needed.
 Updating your social media profiles is slightly different than updating your resume. Although your profiles should remain very similar to the resumes you submit to companies, they must include all of your experience as pertaining to the types of jobs you are looking for.


This means instead of being specific to each job description, you should include qualifications that are required for the majority of jobs you are applying to.
For example, you are applying to several customer service representative positions that all stress problem solving experience, but one position is for a technology company while the others are for major department stores.
While it is not necessary to add your tech experience to your resume for the department store applications, it is definitely important for the technology company.
Therefore, it is important to note your tech experience in your social media profiles to provide a full picture of your experience.

