 Trying to come up with ways to entertain a toddler can be difficult when they're impatient and you aren't prepared for the situation. It’ll be much easier to remain calm when dealing with an impatient toddler if you've planned ahead.This way you'll already have strategies in mind to use with the toddler and you can address the situation with a positive attitude.


Try keeping a list of activities to use. Being anxious may make your mind go blank, so it will be helpful to have a list of activities that you can turn to as needed.
If you know you're going to be in a situation that might try a toddlers patience, go ahead and plan ways you can both limit the wait and preoccupy the toddler. For example, you might want to avoid taking your toddler with you to the bank at the end of the day on a Friday.
When possible, find out if there's a wait where you are going and how long of a wait it is. For instance, you might call ahead to a restaurant and ask how long the wait is to be seated.
Try to always keep a few entertaining and distracting items with you to help time go by a little quicker for the toddler. You might, for example, keep a coloring app on your phone, or keep some action figures or stuffed animals in your car.;
, This is a great way to relax yourself so that you are in the right frame of mind to tackle an impatient toddler. Deep-breathing relieves tension and stress and can help you feel more energized and focus – all of which help when you're working with toddlers. It’s something you can do before you interact with a toddler. You can also have the toddler do it with you as a way to address their impatience.


Inhale slowly through your nose, hold the breath for a few seconds, and then release it slowly through your mouth. Repeat this a few times until you're calmer.
Talk through your actions with the toddler. You might say, “Now I'm going to breathe in through my nose. Now we hold it… and now, we let it out through our mouth.”
You can also try doing a body scan to see where you are holding tension in your body. This can help you to relax any muscles that you are clenching, which may make it easier to take care of your toddler.
 If you've been dealing with an impatient toddler and you feel yourself losing your patience or your temper, take a brief break from the situation. Physically or mentally separating yourself can help calm you, improve your mood, and give you the extra energy you need to remain patient. It can also give you a few moments to come up with more creative ways to handle the toddler.


Before your interaction with the toddler take a few minutes to yourself. Take a brief walk away from the area to make sure you are calm and have a positive attitude.
If there is another adult that can take care of the child, you can also take a brief break while you are interacting with the toddler to maintain or regain your composure.
If you can't physically leave the area, take a mental break. Depending on the toddler, you may not want to close your eyes, but you can still picture yourself peaceful and calm.
Another option is to go outside. Try heading outside with your toddler if you are able to help your brain identify that you are taking a break.
 Sometimes as adults our expectations for children can be a bit unrealistic. We may forget that emotionally, mentally, and socially toddlers are still developing the skills they need to show patience.Most toddlers have very little patience or understanding of ‘later’ or ‘in a little while’. Keeping in mind what is age appropriate behavior and situations for toddlers can help you be patient with an impatient toddler.


For instance, it’s unreasonable to expect a three year old to sit still, quiet, and patient through a documentary on undiscovered tribes of the jungle.
If a wait extends past a reasonable time, be a bit more understanding of the toddler’s impatience and reconsider rescheduling the activity.
Keep in mind that your child will not be a toddler forever. They will grow out of this stage eventually. Try to enjoy spending time with your child and make happy memories.
 If you approach the situation thinking how awful it to deal with an impatient toddler, chances are you’ll have a difficult time. Instead of dwelling on the negative, try to find the silver lining. Keeping a positive attitude can help you remain calm and patient and can also help you keep the toddler occupied and calm.


Remember that toddlers are easily distracted. Eventually they'll forget what they wanted so urgently and turn their attention to something else.
Also keep in mind that even the longest wait has to end some time.

