 Panic attacks occur when your brain is overcome with signals from bodily systems, such as the adrenal gland. These attacks are characterized by physical distress such as shortness of breath, fear, and vertigo. They can be brought on by stressful situations or a psychological trigger from a past event.To avoid panic attacks, try to stay away from smoking or caffeine. (You may be forced to do this in a doomsday scenario in any case.)
Work on controlling your breathing and focusing on taking control of your body.
Understand what triggers your panic attacks and try to acknowledge the stress. If you think through what makes you panic, you can work to mentally overcome or avoid the trigger.
 Studies have shown that you can reduce stress by practicing deep breathing techniques.To practice these techniques you must be in tune with your body.


Try to practice deep breathing by focusing on deep breaths through your nose and out through your mouth. Try and relax further with each breath and develop a consistent breathing routine.
Yoga is also a helpful way to practice healthy breathing techniques. There are many helpful tutorials online to teach you basic yoga techniques. Some basic poses that can help your breathing techniques include warrior pose and sun salutation., Transference, or re-directing your emotions, is the conscious act of cognitively switching off or moving past strong emotion. This takes time and practice and may not be an easy skill to develop.Learn to recognize your emotions first. This may seem difficult. Practice by writing down the strong emotions you feel and what is happening in your environment. This journal will help you to associate situations with emotions.
Then, try to mentally stimulate another emotion. For example, if you know something triggers panic in you, try to embody a sense of calmness. Practicing this will help you do this automatically, although it may be difficult.
 You never want to “space out” during a doomsday event. However, learning to disconnect from your emotions and your racing thoughts just might save your life.


Learning emotional transference will help your brain more efficiently handle emotions. When you are put in a life-or-death situation, your brain is trying to save your life. Emotions and panic may hinder response time. Learning to let go of strong emotions may help your brain better protect your body.

