 Melt 2 Tbsp (30 mL) of butter in a small to medium saucepan over medium heat.


Let the butter melt completely before moving on to the next step, but try to avoid letting it boil or steam.
You could also use a large skillet to make country gravy instead of a saucepan.
If you were cooking meat in your skillet before you started cooking the gravy, you can use the leftover pan drippings from the cooked meat instead of or alongside the butter.Reduce the amount of butter so that the butter and pan drippings combined equal no more than about 2 Tbsp (30 mL) of fat.
Vegetable oil can also be used instead of butter, but it is a little less traditional.;
, Add the flour, salt, pepper, paprika, and garlic salt to the butter in the pan, quickly whisking the ingredients together into the butter until the mixture forms a smooth paste.


The flour, salt, and pepper are necessary. The flour and butter combine to form a thickening agent known as a "roux," which is a vital component of the gravy. The salt and pepper are basic seasonings needed in order to provide the gravy with country-style flavor.
The paprika and garlic salt are optional, however, and many basic country gravy recipes do not include them. The spices add a hint of extra flavor to the gravy without being too overpowering., Cook the roux over medium heat for about 10 minutes, stirring frequently to prevent burning.If you want the gravy to remain whiter, do not let the roux brown. Only brown the roux if you want something slightly deeper in color and flavor.
Do not cover the pan.
 Add the milk a little at a time, whisking thoroughly the entire time so that lumps do not form.


Adding too much milk at once will make it almost impossible to break down the lumps and create a smooth gravy. Only add about 1/4 cup (60 mL) at a time.
Start with roughly 1 cup (250 mL) of milk. If you do not like how thick the gravy is, add up to an additional 1 cup (250 mL) to thin it out.
 Continue cooking the gravy, stirring frequently, until it bubbles and thickens.


This should take another minute or two.
Again, note that more milk can be added if you prefer a thinner gravy.
 Remove the thickened gravy from the heat and serve immediately.

