 As a business owner, you should try to see every review from your customers as a way to learn and expand your business. Studies have shown that for every disgruntled customer there are 26 customers who remain silent but may have the same or similar issues with your business.Responding to a negative review with thoughtfulness and care will allow you to keep your customers happy and ensure they remain loyal to you.You should start by reading the review over or listening to an in store review carefully. Then, consider how you can learn from the review. You may ask yourself, “How can I use this customer review in a constructive way?” or “What type of feedback is being given in this review and how can I act on it?”
Sometimes customers simply have a bad day and use an online review as a place to vent. If you cannot identify any constructive feedback or learning moments in the review, you may not be able to solve the customer’s issue as a business owner.
Remind yourself that this is a review of your business and not a review of you. Although your business if important to you, it is important to remind yourself that a negative review is not a criticism of who you are.
 You should then consider any issues in the review that you can address right away. You may be able to come up with a solution to the negative review by taking a few steps to improve the customer experience. Or, you may offer a solution to the customer to help address their issue.For example, you may get a negative review of your product from a customer that notes the product did not work as advertised. You may then consider how the product is being advertised and think about whether it being advertised correctly. You may decide to adjust the wording or language in your marketing so it feels more accurate and does not make any false promises.
Keep in mind there may be issues in the review that you cannot solve right away. For example, a customer may complain about the taste of your product. You may consider adjusting the taste of your product slightly, but you may not be willing to do an overhaul of your entire product because one customer did not enjoy the taste.
 You may ask clarifying questions if the customer is in front of you, such as “How do you feel we can improve next time?” or “How could we do better in the future?” If you are responding to an online review, you should do so concisely and with appreciation. You want to come off as sincere and thankful that the customer has provided you with feedback in your response.For example, you may respond to a customer who received poor service by saying, “Thank you for your review of our business. We apologize for the poor service you received from our customer service team. We take customer reviews very seriously and will be speaking to our customer service team about your review.”
Avoid responding with anger, frustration, or a passive-aggressive tone. The customer will likely pick up on this and may not appreciate this type of response from you. This may also lead to another negative review from your customer, which will just make the issue worse.
 If you feel your business really failed the customer, you should also try to offer the customer an incentive to try your business or product again. This may be a complimentary product on their next visit or a discount on a service that you offer. Try to make it up to the customer in a concrete way, as this will show them that you take customer reviews seriously.You may decide to offer only a few customers an incentive, especially if their negative review is especially critical of your business and points out some clear issues that you need to fix or adjust. You cannot please every customer, no matter the incentive, so you may decide to pick and choose which customers you respond to directly.

