 In many federal cases, you are required to file a complaint or charge with a federal agency before filing suit in federal court.Some federal agencies such as the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission require you to go through the agency's administrative procedures first. If the administrative investigation closes with no resolution, you receive a notice of your right to sue and you can file a suit in federal court., Federal courts must have personal and subject matter jurisdiction before they can hear a case. This means the court must have the power to order the person you're suing to do something related to a claim the court also has power to decide.


Federal courts generally can hear cases involving federal laws, or involving residents of different states.Typically, you must file your lawsuit in the federal court that has personal jurisdiction over the person you're suing. Check the federal districts to find the district court that covers her county., The statute of limitations provides a deadline beyond which you can't file a claim.


This period of time normally begins the moment the event happened that serves as the basis for your lawsuit. If the deadline passes, the court will dismiss your case., If you decide to proceed without an attorney, the judge will still expect you to know all of the applicable rules., Each district court has a pro se manual, which may include forms and instructions for a basic complaint.Federal courts require you to file a cover sheet, a complaint, and a summons to initiate your lawsuit., Before you start filling out forms or drafting your complaint, make sure you have all the information you'll need to tell the court about your claim.


If you are suing a business, you should double-check to make sure you have its correct legal name. For example, if you put "Sally's Seashell Company" when the legal name of the company is "Seashells by the Seashore," Sally can get your lawsuit dismissed.
If you have any other documents that support your claim, make copies of them so you can include them with your complaint., The cover sheet provides the court with basic information of your claim.


It's a good idea to fill it out first so it can provide you with an outline of your complaint.
Where the cover sheet asks for the name and contact information of the attorney handling the case, you should put in your own name and contact information since you're acting as your own attorney.After basic information about the parties, the cover sheet requires you to indicate the basis of jurisdiction for your case, the nature of your lawsuit, and the amount of damages or other relief you're requesting the court order., Follow the instructions in the pro se handbook to draft your complaint using federal rules and the district's local rules.


Make sure you use plain white paper and either type or print legibly using blue or black ink.Your complaint, and every other document you file with the court in your case, will have a caption on the top of the first page that identifies the court, the parties in the case, the case number, and the title of the document. Since this is your first pleading, however, you don't yet have a case number.If you choose to include evidence to support your claim, attach those documents and reference them in your complaint as exhibits. For example, if you have an employment discrimination claim, you might include the notice of right to sue that you received from the EEOC as an exhibit., The summons tells the person you are suing that you are filing a lawsuit against them and they must answer the lawsuit within a certain period of time.


Make sure you include the name of the person or business you're suing and a correct address.
Since the summons will be sent to the defendant, make a copy of it before you file it if you want one for your records., You must sign your documents in blue or black ink and date them before the court will accept your complaint.The federal rules don't require any further verification such as signing in front of a notary, or any additional affidavits.Once you've signed everything, make at least one copy of the whole packet for your own records and another copy for each person you're suing., Take your originals and your copies to the clerk's office to file your lawsuit.


You also can send in your documents and file your initial papers by email. You'll have to scan in your signed documents and send them to the email address provided in your pro se manual.You'll have to pay a filing fee of $400 to initiate your lawsuit in federal court.
If you can't afford the filing fee, you can file a form asking the court to waive the fees in your case. You'll have to provide the court with proof that you have limited income and assets., After you've filed your lawsuit, you have to notify the other side about it using a legal process server before the court will hear the case.


You may use the U.S. marshal to serve your federal lawsuit, or you can use a private process serving company.
You also may be able to use certified mail., After you've served the other side, you must file a proof of service lettering the court know that the other side knows about the lawsuit.