 Putting your money into a company's stock is essentially an investment in that company's wellbeing. If the company is poorly managed, or if their products/services are declining and the company is sliding towards bankruptcy, you'd do well to avoid that company. That's where doing your research comes in.Read through the company's website and find articles about the company's performance over the last few years.
Check into the company's financial statements and track their gains/losses through the last few years as well.
Look into how long the current president or CEO has been in office. A recent shakeup in management could lead to policy changes, changes to the company's business model, and ultimately loss of profits.
Try to find a company that has had stable growth without a lot of management changes in the last few years, but also consider whether the company will still be relevant a few years into the future.
 Utility stocks are generally considered a fairly sound investment. Unlike stock shares based on a specific company or industry, utilities will always be in demand at a fairly stable rate no matter what is going on with the rest of the economy.Utilities stocks tend to be more stable than other more volatile stock options.
If you're young and want to watch your stocks grow over many years, you might only invest three to five percent of your total stock options. If you're retired, you may want to invest 10% or more to see a faster return.
Invest whatever works best for your portfolio. Talk to a financial advisor about the best options for you.
 Similar to utilities, healthcare is an industry that will always be in demand. As the population ages there will be an ever-increasing demand for medical care, and new technological innovations push the healthcare field further and further into the future.Healthcare companies tend to have strong financial management, and typically see steady profits.
Do your research before investing in a healthcare company. Check for reports of any pending mergers, risk of bankruptcy, and other factors that might affect the value of your stocks.
Consider seeking advice from a professional financial advisor before investing in these or any other stocks.

