 This means try on lots and lots of swimsuits until you find the bathing suit that’s exactly the right match for your body - no matter what it might be. It should be the right size for you - no cutting straps or pinching elastic. But it’s also about finding a suit that fits your personality.Pick out the cuts and colors that make you feel most confident, and don’t worry about what’s the current trend or fashion.
Mix and match with tankini suits, bikini tops and surfer bottoms, or any other combination that makes you feel happy about yourself.
If you've got larger breasts, you may want to find a suit with underwire support. These suits are generally sized by cup size, like your bra.
Sales clerks in lingerie departments and upper-end sales departments can often help you determine the best size swimsuit for you.;
, You can often find a wider selection of suits online than in your local stores, and online stores usually allow you to return clothing that doesn't fit as long as you've not worn it. Good retailers often encourage you to call and chat, or instant message with any questions.#*Start by taking your measurements, and then carefully compare them to the measurements shown in the online sizing.


It's a good idea to order two sizes of each suit you're ordering, so that you can select the one that fits you best.
Ordering online allows you to try on the suit in ordinary lighting, the way you'll actually be seen in it. Try them on when you're in a good mood, feeling confident, and in the privacy of your own home.
Move around in your suit before you buy it. After all, you want it to stay in place when you're actually wearing it.
 If you're purchasing a bathing suit for lounging about the side of a pool, you might choose a string bikini or bandeau top that shows off your cleavage. But if you're planning on swimming laps at the gym, or wearing your bathing suit to dive in the surf with your friends, you might need something a little more secure.


Remember that swimsuits will expand in the water, so you might want to pick a suit that's a little tighter than you'd like if you're planning to get it wet.
 Maybe you have great collarbones, or you’re really proud of your muscular arms. Whatever you love about your body, you can find a bathing suit that’s made to flatter it.Vintage swimwear, for instance, often shows off a lot of cleavage while being cut low on the hip.
If you’re proud of your legs, try a suit with high-cut thighs. Racer-back bathing suits will show off your strong arms.
 Wearing scarfs, sunglasses, broad-brimmed sun hats, colorful earrings or a new pair of wedge heels will help you bring your most glamorous self to the beach. If you’re feeling less than confident in your swimsuit, accessories might be what you need to feel great about yourself again.You’ll want to be realistic when accessorizing with your swimsuit. Attending a pool party, you can go high-glam, but tone it down for a mountain rafting trip.
Don’t forget the lipstick! Not only does lipstick help you feel more confident, it usually protects your lips against UVA rays.
 You can have fun accessorizing with swimsuit cover-ups that will allow you to feel more confident in your bathing suit. You can find cover-ups that really bring out the parts of your body you might feel proud of, while hiding the parts you’re not quite comfortable with.If you don’t like showing your hips and thighs, for example, try wearing a colorful sarong wrap around your waist.
Sundresses or caftans that slip on over bikinis will flatter almost every body, and prevent you from getting sunburned as well.

