 Bring your dog to the vet for diagnosis (Method 2 will discuss the means of diagnosis further). If tests reveal canine stroke, your doctor will discuss with you the causes that led to the condition. There are no specific treatments for a stroke except for targeting the underlying cause of the condition.An Ischemic stroke is associated with such conditions as diabetes, improper functioning thyroid glands, heart or kidney disease and hypertension. A Hemorrhagic stroke is often due to a blood clot, hypertension, rat poisoning and compromised blood vessels.
It is not uncommon for a dog to suffer a stroke due to a tumor on the brain and head trauma. Once diagnosed as a canine stroke and the underlying cause is identified, a treatment plan can be implemented.;
, When admitted for canine stroke treatment, the first step will be to decrease any swelling within the brain and to keep re-hydrating your dog. Your dog will be given an IV of fluids so that he can get hydrated.


Medications such as Amlodipine may be administered to protect your dog's neurologic tissues. Other medications may also be given, including an anti-inflammatory such as an NSAID if swelling is evident, antibiotics for a diagnosis of infection, a sedative for ataxia and disorientation, an antiemetic for vomiting and stomach distress, and anticonvulsants to control seizures .
Your dog will be placed in a soft, comfortable position during treatment so that his head is not laying below the rest of his body; this position will help to promote proper blood flow.
 In order to prevent lung congestion, pressure sores and urine burns, your dog needs to be monitored and turned over daily. Hospital care may require at least 72 hours of constant treatment, most often with positive results.


With further at-home care as prescribed by your veterinarian, your dog should return to normal within three to four weeks.
 At-home care involves constant monitoring of your pet while he heals. You may need to employ the assistance of others, such as having your neighbor look in on your dog if you have to leave the house. You could also hire a pet sitter to keep an eye on your dog when you are away.


Consider taking long lunch breaks to go and check on your dog, or work from home if you are able to. You could also ask if you can bring your dog to work.
 Medications may also be prescribed to help your dog fully recover from a stroke and possibly prevent further attacks. Dogs with symptoms of ataxia and disorientation may be given a sedative. Other medications may include being prescribed:


Antiemetic for vomiting issues.
An anti-inflammatory for swelling symptoms.
Antibiotics for infections.
Anticonvulsants to control and further prevent the stroke.
Antiplatelet drugs similar to Plavix, an anticoagulant for long-term therapy for the prevention of blood clots.
 How quickly your dog recovers depends on how quickly a treatment plan was put in place to treat the underlying cause of the stroke.


Depending on the severity of the canine stroke, any permanent physical damage from the stroke cannot be reversed, possibly leaving your dog with a disability. However, your dog can still lead a normal life if you give him his medications.
You can also give your dog a daily massage to increase his ability to move around. Use the palm of your hand to rub his entire body.

