


Nobody can help you market yourself and your business better than those that know you the best. Let your friends and family know you are looking for hosts and hostesses for your business and let word-of-mouth take its course.
Ask your friends and family to host your first parties to get the ball rolling. They can benefit from the hostess rewards and you can get valuable experience at the same time. You also may be able to get some of their guests to book future parties.;
,


Not only can they pass on your information to their customers, but they also may let you post fliers or set out your business card in their place of business. Consider offering them a free product or service in return for use of their already established client base.
Be sure to select businesses that appeal to the same type of clients that would be interested in your home party business.



Social networking has spread beyond the traditional networking happy hour after work. Social networking can now be done online. There are many web sites through which you can connect with old friends who can be the source for a wider client base. These web sites can also lead to whole networks of people with specific interests in your niche.



Join forces with other in-home party consultants to throw a one-stop-shopping party. Clients who may come with an interest in another home business may end up finding an interest in your party business. Choosing businesses that are different, yet, that compliment each other can make for a very interesting mix of customers.



Electronic mail (e-mail) can cover quite a large territory. Distribute e-mails detailing the hostess special for a month along with an attached flier of the benefits of being a host. Send the note to your whole address book and ask recipients to forward it on to anyone they think might be interested. This is a cheap and quick way to market your home party business.
Although regular mail costs a little more, it appeals to a different set of people. Many of these potential clients that are not computer savvy, so a flier in their mailboxes is more likely to do the trick. If you have the time, you can hand-deliver the fliers.



Create your own incentive plan beyond the company's offerings. Even if you just throw in an extra lipstick or a small food storage container, it gives your clients a great incentive to want to spread the word of your private party business.

