 To get started on your first quilt, you'll need to have everything ready and easily accessible. Get all your tools, clear an area and let's get started. You'll need:


Rotary cutter
Scissors
Ruler
Thread (multiple kinds)
Cutting mat
Seam ripper
Pins;
, Different kinds of fabric wear differently over time -- so it's best not to blend. Sticking to cottons will probably be your best bet. What's more, think about color and scale -- not thinking it out may result in a quilt that seems flat and off-kilter.


Stay in the same color family, but don't use the exact same shades -- your quilt will seem monochrome and dull. Think about lights and brights, bolds and darks, and avoid ones that are a bit matchy-matchy.
Don't pick fabrics that are all small or large prints. A good variety of both will create a dynamic, vivid piece. You may want to pick one fabric and base the rest around that specific pattern.
Consider having a "zinger" fabric. It's one that is significantly brighter than the rest and, as a result, makes the entire quilt pop.

You'll also need fabric for the back, the border, binding, and the batting.
If you stick to high-quality 100% cotton quilting fabrics that come from the independent shops or the higher-end selection at JoAnn, Hancock, etc., you should not have a problem with colors bleeding, etc. If the fabric is older or lower-quality, prewash before you start cutting.
 A beginner must have a quilting kit to make learning easier. Quilting kits are packaged sets of materials to make a piece of work. They ordinarily include a pattern, pre-cut fabrics and instruction. However, they do not include thread, quilt backing and batting.


Be sure the kit is for the appropriate skill level. Most kits are marked with level skills. Some are designed to fit the needs of unskilled beginners, usually for a wall hanging to start with before undertaking a full-size quilt. An alternative to a quilt kit is to buy jelly roll only which is a rolled up collection of coordinating fabric strips. One roll can make a small quilt like a wall hanging.

