 While you can eat meat and healthy fats on paleo, many other foods are not allowed on the diet, such as legumes, whole grains, and dairy. These foods provide valuable nutrients, so it may not be wise to eliminate them.Dairy can help to maintain bone integrity. It may also reduce the risk of cardiovascular disease, osteoporosis, and high blood pressure.


Eating no dairy also significantly lowers your source of calcium.
Many people find that having strict “cannot eat” lists can be too difficult to follow. Determine if you can sustain yourself on such a strict “allowed” and “not allowed” list.;
, You may need to think about whether or not paleo is a good choice for you due to your medical conditions. Many people who are lactose intolerant, have celiac disease, or have food allergies may benefit from a paleo diet.


If you don't have any food allergies or sensitivities, decide if any other medical condition, such as diabetes, may be improved by going paleo.
Make sure that you discuss a paleo diet with your doctor first.
 The paleo diet takes a lot of prep time and planning. Since you make most of your meals at home, you have to take the time to do meal prep on weekends or in the evenings. Then you have to cook the meals. While you can precook a lot of lunches, dinners, or breakfasts, it still takes time to cook these meals.Many recipe websites and cookbooks offer easy paleo recipes and quick tips to help you find the time to cook with the paleo lifestyle even if you are busy.
 If you are single and live alone, you only have yourself to think about. However, if you have a spouse, partner, or children, paleo may be a lot more difficult for you. Decide if switching to paleo will be a family-wide lifestyle change, or if you will be the only person doing it.If you have children, make sure to discuss the diet with your child’s pediatrician first. Calcium is important for your child’s developing body and it may be harder for your child to get this vital nutrient on a paleo diet.
If you want to do paleo but your family doesn’t, you should think about how you will prepare two different meals - one for you and one for your family. This also requires buying many different ingredients in the grocery store.
Many paleo recipe blogs, websites, and cookbooks have family-friendly and kid-friendly paleo recipes if you want your whole family to make the change.
 There will come a time when you will go out to eat. It may be vacation, with friends, or for a work function. Even though you may think a salad and a piece of grilled meat is the answer, these are not guaranteed to be paleo.For example, you have to consider what ingredients are in any dressings or sauces in a dish. You must also think about toppings, such as dried fruit or nuts. Does the dried fruit have added sugars? Do the nuts have processed toppings or salt? Is the meat grass-fed? What kind of oil is the food cooked in?
Some people use special occasions when they go out as “cheat days.” This may be a method you can use as long as you are not “cheating” often.
Many paleo blogs, websites, and books have suggestions on how to dine out while paleo, and what to do when you are on vacation or not in control of your food.
 For some people, the first few weeks to a month of paleo leaves you feeling bad, which is called "carb flu" or ketosis. This is considered a detox period, where your body gets all the unhealthy toxins from grains, legumes, and additives out of your body.Not everyone gets "carb flu," but it can be a frustrating time when first starting paleo.


"Carb flu" can include headaches, fatigue, mood swings, stomach upsets, flu-like symptoms, foggy brain, and dizziness.
Paleo supporters say "carb flu" will go away after three to four weeks, and afterwards you will feel great.

