 When you bump into your ex, you want to give him/her the impression that you're happy but busy, even if that's not strictly true. If your ex sees you moping around in the mall, sad and depressed, they're definitely not going to believe that you've moved on.


When you see your ex, smile a few times at him or her, but not in a flirty or longing way. You want them to think that you're happy because your life is good, not because you saw them. Try not to let any of the unhappiness you experienced during and after the breakup ruin your mood.
If your ex asks you about how you're doing, focus on only the good, not the bad. That competition you won last weekend? Tell them. That school you got accepted into? That too. Don't lie, but focus on your accomplishments rather than failures.
Don't make time for him/her. This will make them think twice. Say something like, "Oh, I'm just about to meet a friend, good talking to you," and walk off without looking back. Do this relatively early on.;
, Nothing says "I'm desperate" than when you immediately answer your ex's texts or phone calls. Take your time. Take a couple days to respond, pretending that it's really not a big deal.
 The internet is a great way to convince your ex that you've moved on. Facebook, Myspace, and Twitter are all golden opportunities to publicize your newfound freedom.


Take plenty of pictures when you're out with your friends, especially when you're having a blast. Going out to the beach? Take a picture and post a caption with something like "Tamed two beaches in two days with my two best friends. Beach bod, say hello to summer!"
Stay a little mysterious. Have your ex and their friends wondering what you're actually up to. Post something a little mysterious to your social network that will get your ex thinking about all the cool things that you're doing without him/her.
Master the humblebrag. Humblebragging is when you pretend to be humble but actually brag. It sounds a little something like this:
"Ugh, my hair is sloppy, I have no makeup on, and I'm wearing sweats and Uggs, and still I get honked at walking down the street. SMH."
"My date this Saturday is way too cute.... I'm already nervous/excited and I don't get nervous around guys."
"Kinda wish I didn't have VIP tix to Coachella so I be with my besties the whole time. Music thrills but love kills."



, It's perfectly okay to still have feelings for your ex, but if you want to show them you've moved on, they can't know about those. The following signs are ones to be avoided:


Go to his/her parties or special events. Make up an excuse if you have to.
Pay him/her compliments.
Call your ex "just to talk." If you need to talk, have something specific in mind you want to talk about. ie: children, family, finances.
Late night talks. S/he will feel vulnerable and believe you are still interested if you are telling them “Good Night” or reflecting on the past. They may feel you are missing him/her, therefore s/he will hold on to hope.
Get caught staring or looking too long at your ex. Try pretending they're not there.
Opening up with your secrets, dreams, and inner thoughts. Do not reveal your dreams. This falls under future plans and hopes, and your sleeping dreams. If s/he is to move on from you, they do not need to know you still dream of them.
 Letting other people — including your ex — know that you're seeing other people doesn't mean you have to be in their face about it. Be seen going to the movies, going to dances, and flirting, but don't be seen doing anything you'd be embarrassed doing around your parents (i.e. kissing, making out, etc.).
If you are still in contact with your ex and they inquire about your dating, be honest and up front. Tell them. If they are asking, they need to know in order to have closure and to move on from the hurt. If you are still hiding the fact that you are dating, s/he will feel that you are still interested in him/her and you will never have peace.
 Act like you know the program. The signs you show your ex directly are one thing; but the signs you show the rest of the world reinforce what you show your ex, and they help you actually move on, if that's what you want to do.


If someone asks you how you're holding up, say something like: "You know, any breakup is hard. There were parts about that were great. But after we broke up, I realized the parts about that weren't so great, and now I'm focusing on finding someone who can change that."

, Nothing says "I'm not going to let this breakup keep me down" quite like a good trip will. Some people travel to far-flung places like India or Tahiti after a breakup, but all you really need to do is find a change of scenery, even if that scenery is only an hour away!


When you're out and about, hang out with the locals. There's no better way to forget your sorrows than learning from and partying with the locals.
Remember to publicize your travels on social media! Never pass up the opportunity to brag about where you're going to the rest of the world, especially if it's a darn cool place.
Try different things. Be adventurous. Be curious. Put yourself out there. Very few people regret doing this once they've summoned up the courage to try it. It'll help soothe your soul.
 If you're constantly talking to your ex about past memories or saying each special occasion is bittersweet now that you are no longer an item, chances are, they'll never stop guilting you for leaving them, and that could cause both of you more extensive pain than you have experienced when you first made the decision to move on. When you are able to show them that their words of pleads and guilt no longer affect you (even if it does, don't reveal this to your ex) then and only then will s/he know you have moved on. If one person still feels hope, and they are entertained by their ex's attention to their feelings, they will never let go. They will never feel peace. You will never feel peace. You will never have enough peace within you to love again. You are doing a disservice to your ex if you do not permit them to move on and see a life without you if you shield them from pain. They need closure. And the only way to have closure is to feel the final blow of pain that there is no hope of the relationship reigniting. You cannot protect your ex and expect to move on and protect your next love. You may very well miss out on the love of your life if you are too busy protecting your ex. Allow yourself and your ex to move on and start new. Do not lead people on with the idea that you are easing their pain. You only further the pain and hurt for s/he, yourself and others involved. Be free. Let s/he be free.
 To help keep you preoccupied, and to help keep your mind from wandering, consider taking up a new hobby or really getting back into an old one you gave up.


Sports have the added benefit of giving you a great workout while you have fun. Going to the gym and hitting the treadmill every day can get boring, but playing 3 on 3 half-court is about as fun as it gets.
Try something that will push your limits. Breakups are opportunities to get to know yourself better. Why not learn about yourself by trying something you never would have thought you liked? Glass-blowing, rock climbing, wildlife conservation — whatever it is, keep it fresh!

, In order to move on, you need time to yourself to think like,"Who am I? Is this really me?" Spending time on yourself will allow you to truly move on and feel detached from your ex. The more confident you feel, the easier dealing with confrontations or meetings with your ex will become.

