 You can select multiple photos by pressing Ctrl while clicking each of the individual photos. As each photo is selected it will become highlighted.


If you want to select all the current photos, press Ctrl+A and all the photos will be selected and highlighted.;
, Once you’ve chosen the photos you want to export, right-click on any of the photos and Export.


You can also press Ctrl+⇧ Shift+E and the export dialog box will appear.
 This is the location at which your photos from Lightroom will be placed. You can define a subfolder under the main directory for better organization.


You can also set here what the program will do when it encounters existing files in the destination folder bearing the same filenames.
 Define how your output files would be named.


You can leave this option empty and have the photos use their existing filenames, or you can opt to define their naming convention through the use of their current filenames, sequences and timestamps, metadata, and a custom text.
 Select what file type or format you’d want your edited photos to be in. You can also define, between 0 and 100, what the image quality would be and the maximum file size of a file.
 You can resize your image by ticking on the "Resize to Fit" checkbox and selecting from the dropdown box what measurements to use.


You can resize using Width and Height, Dimensions, Long Edge, Short Edge, or Megapixels.
You can also choose not to enlarge your photos by ticking the Don’t Enlarge checkbox to reduce quality degradation caused by enlargement.
 You can define how much sharpening would be applied to your photos. Choose to sharpen for Screen, Matte Paper, or Glossy Paper or leave this blank (unchecked) if you don’t need any sharpening.
 If you would want to automatically embed a watermark on all of your photos, you can easily do that during export from Lightroom.


Tick the Watermark checkbox and define what watermark should be used for all of them. This is useful when you want to put your name, copyright information, or your logo on your photos.
 If you just want to use or keep your edited photos as they are after Lightroom, opt for ‘Do nothing’ in the "After Export" dropdown box.


If you want to use these photos in another application, you can select this option by choosing Open in Other Application and defining the program to be launched after the export process.
