 Keep an open mind about your son- or daughter-in-law’s family as you get to know them, and don’t assume that their differences are flaws. Every family has their own traditions and quirks, so it’s not realistic to expect that your child’s in-laws will do everything the same way your family does. You also have to consider that you will have to "share" your child and their family with the in-laws.For instance, as soon as your grandchildren are born, you might expect to be the primary babysitter. However, if the other in-laws live nearby, they may want to share in the childcare duties, too.;
, Before you meet your child’s in-laws for the first time, ask your child whether there is anything you need to know about them. Find out whether there are any topics you should avoid talking about or any rules of cultural etiquette you should observe.You might say, “We want to make sure the first meeting is pleasant. Fill me in on your in-laws, dear.”

, Be friendly and curious when you get together with your child’s in-laws. Try to establish common ground by finding out whether you share any interests or have had similar experiences.Being genuinely interested in your child’s in-laws is a good way to start the relationship on the right foot. Everyone is flattered when someone else wants to know more about them.
Keep topics of conversation light when you’re still getting to know each other. Avoid touchy topics that might offend or upset someone.
If you’re worried about not having enough to talk about, ask your child to help you establish common ground with their in-laws.
 Maintain a positive frame of mind towards your child’s in-laws, and focus on the qualities you appreciate in them. If you’re unsure about whether you like them, give them the benefit of the doubt – time and familiarity may help you to like them more in the future.If you like your child’s spouse, start by appreciating the fact that these people raised your son- or daughter-in-law. You might say, "I don't know you well, but you've raised a mighty fine daughter. We are so glad to have Jessica as a part of our family."

