 Research the company and find out who its clients are, and then research those clients. This will give you some insight into the types of problems the firm is helping clients solve.;
, Consultants are usually hired to solve problems or help companies in transition. Think of as many examples as you can of instances in which you've done these things in the past. Practice telling these stories, taking care to outline the situation, the action you took, and the end result.
 Some websites provide detailed insight into the interview process at consulting firms. A few even provide a list of typical interview questions that you may be asked. Knowing what to expect will allow you to prepare effective answers.
 There are words, phrases, and acronyms that are somewhat unique to the management consulting field. Search the Internet and talk to consultants to find out what they are, so that you're fluent by the time you have your interview.
 You may be asked your opinion of current events in the business world or about challenges a particular company is facing.
 At some point, you'll likely be asked if you have questions for the interviewer. Asking insightful questions will show that you're interested in the job. Ask about the interviewer's background and experience with the firm, specific practice groups within the firm, and the day-to-day life of a consultant.
 Case studies are actual or hypothetical client problems. Many consulting firms ask candidates to review a case study and recommend a solution. This is an opportunity for you to demonstrate your analytical skills, grasp of basic business concepts and practices, creativity, and communication skills.


Some firms post sample case studies on their websites, and there are a number of independent websites devoted to case study preparation and practice. If you're a student or recent graduate, your school's career services center may have practice cases for you to work on.
 Heavy travel and long hours are very common among management consultants. Since most firms have offices only in mid-size or larger cities, you'll likely need to relocate if you live in a smaller town, especially if you want advancement opportunities. Let your interviewer know that you are aware of and comfortable with these aspects of working in management consulting.
 Consultants serve a variety of clients, including some who wear traditional business attire. A dark, plain suit is appropriate attire for an interview at a consulting firm.

