 Women and men alike can benefit from doing kegel exercises, which strengthen the pelvic floor and improve continence and urinary flow.You can do Kegels anywhere, simply follow these instructions:While urinating, squeeze the muscles that stop your flow midstream – those are the muscles you want to isolate. You can do the exercise in any position.
Tighten those muscles, hold for 5 seconds, then relax. Repeat this several times in a row.
Gradually work up to holding the contraction for 10 seconds, then resting for 10 seconds. Try to do three sets of ten repetitions every day.
Don’t squeeze other muscles like your abs, legs, or butt. Focus on flexing only your pelvic floor muscles.
 Sometimes, vaginal childbirth or heavy coughing or straining can weaken the muscles that hold your bladder in place, causing your bladder to droop into the vagina, also known as a prolapsed bladder. This can affect how well you can urinate, and may be your problem if you have a feeling of fullness or pressure in your vagina or pelvis, it feels worse when you strain or bear down, you feel like your bladder isn’t fully empty after you urinate, you leak urine during intercourse, or you see or feel a bulge of tissue in your vagina.Ask your doctor about getting a pessary – a support for your bladder that sits inside your vagina.
In severe cases, you can have surgery to reinforce your pelvic muscles and ligaments.
 Most women with leaking or weak stream experience the trouble after menopause – as estrogen decreases, skin and tissues thin and weaken. Using an estrogen cream that’s made for your vagina may help strengthen the surrounding skin and tissues. Ask your doctor or OB/GYN whether your urinary troubles might be helped with “topical” estrogen., Place a hot water bottle or heating pack on your low abdomen between your belly button and your pubic bone. Like with other muscles, the heat may relax your bladder and help you urinate more freely.You can also try taking a hot shower or soaking in a warm bath.
 Cholinergic medications increase how strongly your bladder contracts, which will help you urinate if your weak flow is due to nerve issues. Bethanechol hydrochloride (Urecholine) is usually prescribed, but can have many side effects, so talk to your doctor about whether it’s right for you.Ask your doctor questions about your condition, such as, “What is causing my urinary problems?” and, “What type of medicine will help? What are the possible side effects?”

