 The process of painting trim is generally the same whether or not you do it indoors or outdoors. However, there are a few pros and cons to each:


If you paint your trim outdoors, you’ll have to remove it from your house, which takes a bit of time. However, you’ll generally end up with better, cleaner results and you won’t have to be bending over while you work.
If you paint your trim indoors, you don’t have to take extra time to remove it from the walls. However, you’ll be forced to bend over and stand on ladders to paint it, and you’ll be required to tape off the walls and floors.;
, To prepare your trim, you’re going to need fine-grit sandpaper (80-grit, 100-grit, and 120-grit), spackle, a putty knife, paint primer, caulk with a caulking gun, and painters tape. For painting, you will need a few high quality paintbrushes proportionate in size to the trim you are painting, foam rollers, and a durable paint. You may choose to use a sealer to finish the trim at the end, as well.Although you may spend more at the start, it will be worth it to buy quality materials for your project. Your trim will look better and last longer if you do.
You’ll need to calculate the amount of paint you need based on the total space of all the trim you’re painting. Ask for help with this at a local home center, if necessary.
 Sanding trim will help to remove any oily coating on the wood that might prevent your paint from sticking, and will give a clean, smooth base for your new paint to be applied to. Sanding is an especially important step when you are painting over old trim that is previously stained or painted, or new trim that has a glossy sealer over the top. If you’re working with trim with many layers of paint, start with an 80-grit sandpaper and smooth down the wood. Move to 100-grit sandpaper after that, and finish with 120-grit sandpaper for a smooth base.


If you’re working with trim that is relatively free of stain or paint, you can start with just 120-grit sandpaper.
You’ll need to take extra time to sand down sections of trim that have curves or decorative edges.
 This step applies primarily to old trim that you are painting over. Many times there are dings, dents, and holes in old trim, all of which should be repaired prior to painting. Use a bit of wood spackle and a putty knife to fill in and seal over all these damaged areas. Follow the package directions for application, as it may vary depending on the brand you purchase. Allow the spackle to dry completely for several hours before moving to the next step., If you’re painting your trim indoors, you will need to use painters tape to block off the walls and floors prior to priming. Carefully spread it so that all visible areas adjacent to the trim are covered by the tape.
 Pour your primer into a painting pan or bucket, and remove any packaging from your paintbrushes. Work slowly along your trim, adding 1-2 coats of primer to it; this will cover up the woodgrain and underlying color, giving you the best foundation for your paint. Avoid slopping on thick layers of primer, as this will take longer to dry and the strokes/drips will show up under your paint job later., Your first layer of paint is most important, because it will sent the stage for any brushstrokes that might appear in the final product. Realize early on that patience with the first coat of paint will greatly improve the overall look of your trim when completed. Start by pouring your paint into a tray or bucket. Saturate your brush with paint, and wipe off any extra that might be dripping. Start in the center of the trim, and brush back and forth in the same direction, horizontally. When you’ve finished painting a piece of trim, use a foam roller to go over the top of the paint to reduce the appearance of brushstrokes.


As you add paint along the rest of the trim, spend time blending the edges of different paint patches together so as to reduce the appearance of brushstrokes.
If you’re painting your trim indoors, you’ll need to ‘cut in’ the trim - meaning, carefully paint along the edge where the trim meets the wall/floor. Paint the center section of the trim after the edges.
Wait several hours (or days, if using oil paint) for your first layer to dry completely before moving onto the second coat.
 The goal of the second layer of paint is to smooth out the color and fill in any patchy brush stroke areas. Work along the trim, using the same painting technique as you did for the first layer. You should paint all of the trim with a second coat, even if the first coat looks like it covered everything. Simply filling in patchy areas may seem like a good shortcut, but it will typically leave you with a blotchy end-job. Use your foam roller to smooth out any visible brushstrokes along the trim, when you’re finished.
 Depending on whether you decided to paint your trim indoors or outdoors, what you do now will vary. If you worked outdoors, you’ll need to bring your trim back in and reinstall it in its original location. If you painted your trim indoors, you will need to remove all of your painters tape along the floor and walls, and any other protective plastic you might have laid down.
 Caulking is a final step many people overlook, but which makes a serious difference in the appearance of your trim. Caulking will seal any gaps between the trim and the wall, both protecting it from damage and giving it a more finished look. Carefully spread your caulk around the seam between the trim and the wall. Use your finger as you go, to spread the caulk into the crevice and seal the gap more evenly. Use a damp rag to clean the nozzle on the caulk gun to prevent it from clogging, and to wipe your dirty hands on.You should always use a caulk that is close in color to your trim - typically white. The idea is that the caulk will blend in seamlessly.
Wait for the caulk to dry several hours before returning furniture to its original locations.

