 While you don't have to cut out coffee completely to better you sleep schedule, be conscious about when you drink caffeine and in what amount.


Moderate caffeine intake, which is around three 8 ounce cups of coffee a day, is not associated with any health risks. However, consuming even a moderate amount of caffeine late in the day affects sleep. As caffeine is a stimulant, it can increase alertness and even induce anxiety. This can easily result in trouble sleeping.Try to keep your caffeine consumption early in the day. Avoid drinking caffeinated beverages after 2PM. While coffee is a major culprit when it comes to caffeine, be aware some teas and many sodas also contain caffeine., Regular physical activity is greatly beneficial to forming a good sleep schedule. However, exercising too late in the day can make sleeping difficult.


Try to get some vigorous physical aerobic activity in, like jogging, 3 or 4 times a week. This can help with your overall health and also help regulate your circadian rhythm. However, do not engage in vigorous exercise within 2 to 3 hours before bed.If physical activity helps you unwind after a long day, try moderate activity like a brief walk around the block close to bedtime., Having established ritual you associate with bedtime can help signal your body that it's time to wind down and rest. Choose a low-key, relaxing activity to engage in close to bedtime.


Many people enjoy non-caffeinated tea as it has a calming effect for some. Try chamomile tea or SleepyTime teas sold at supermarkets.Reading is a great activity to slow your mind down in preparation for sleep. However, be mindful of the material you read. Anything too heavy may distress you, making sleep more difficult.Watching television can interfere with sleep, due to the light it produces. However, if there's a particular show that helps you calm down it might be okay to watch a small amount of television. Watch lighthearted programming over the news or drama shows. You do not want to watch anything that will cause you distress and interfere with sleep., Often, stress and anxiety can result in difficulty sleeping. If this is the case, finding ways to manage your stress more effectively throughout the day can help you regulate your sleep schedule.


Practicing meditation is a good way to help shut your mind off close to bedtime. There are a variety of guided meditations available on wikiHow, online and in books; there are even ones offered through smart phone apps. You can buy books on meditation online or from a bookstore or borrow copies from your local library.Journaling can help with troublesome thoughts. Try writing down your worries in a notebook half an hour before bed, then putting it aside. Writing it out might help you get negative thoughts out of your system so they don't bother you while you're trying to sleep.If you have habitual struggles with depression and anxiety, it might be a good idea to find a therapist or counselor. You can find one by searching online, going through your insurance provider, or asking for a referral from your primary care physician. If you're a student, you may have access to free therapy through your college or university.