 If you do not drink enough water, this may result in water retention. Some people believe water retention can cause your face to look puffy and bloated. Make a point of drinking more water throughout the day and see if your face looks slimmer.Start your morning with a cold glass of water. Try to have a glass of water, or water bottle, near you at all times. Take a water bottle to work or school and sip it throughout the day.
If you're not in love with the taste of water, consider adding lemon, lime, or other fruits to add flavor. You can also look into purchasing flavored water at a local supermarket.
Make a point of stopping by any water fountain you see and taking a drink.;
, Salt and sugar may contribute to a puffy-looking face. This can result in water retention, leading to a puffier appearance in the face. Strive for a low-sugar, low-salt diet.Avoid sugary sweets. If you're having a sugar craving, go for a piece of fruit which is rich in vitamins and nutrients and contains only natural sugars. Avoid soft drinks, energy drinks, and other sugary beverages.
Check the sodium content on packaged, canned, and processed foods. Convenience foods are often loaded with unnecessary salt. Try to cook meals at home instead of eating frozen meals.
Be careful when eating out, especially at fast food restaurants. Fast food meals are often loaded with extra salt and sugar.
 Smoking may contribute to a puffy-looking face and is unhealthy overall. Smoking can remove the elasticity of skin, which can affect the appearance of your face. Do not start smoking and, if you currently smoke, quit.Talk to a doctor about quitting smoking. A doctor can help suggest medications and a cessation program, as well as nicotine supplements to help manage the transition.
Be prepared for some frustration. Quitting smoking is notoriously difficult, and you will experience withdrawal symptoms during the process.
Seek out support of friends and family members. Ask that smokers not smoke in front of you. You should also look for support groups, both online and in person.
 As overall weight loss is the best way to get a slimmer face, maintain a healthy diet. Go for a diet rich in fruits, vegetables, complex carbohydrates, and lean meats.Try to eat at least five portions of fruits and vegetables each day. Add fruits whenever you can. Add slices of banana to your breakfast cereal or replace a mid-morning snack with a bit of fruit.
When it comes to protein, fish is particularly helpful. Fish is rich in essential nutrients and is a leaner meat than other choices. Tuna, salmon, herring, and trout are all good options when it comes to eating fish.
Go for whole grains when possible. Opt for whole grain breads, bagels, and pastas. Choose brown rice over white rice whenever you can.
 Alcohol may contribute to a puffier face, and can also prevent weight loss. If you drink, do so in moderation. Women should try to drink only one drink daily and men should drink no more than two. Avoid activities where you'll be tempted to binge drink.Let your friends know you're cutting back on alcohol. Ask them not to invite you to events where there will be a heavy amount of drinking.

