 Temporomandibular joint disorder, or TMJ, is a common problem with the joint connecting your jaw bone to your skull – and the cause of what many people think of as “lockjaw.”TMJ can cause clicking, tenderness, pain, and aches in the jaw, as well as trouble chewing and a locking sensation.Lockjaw results from toxins made by the tetanus bacteria that cause severe muscle contractions.Infection is caused by a deep wound or one that’s contaminated with dirt or animal feces, and it requires immediate medical attention. Go to the emergency room or call emergency services if you are experiencing lockjaw symptoms.


You are most at risk of a tetanus infection if you have not received a tetanus vaccine.If you are injured by a dirty object, clean the wound thoroughly and see your doctor. You may need a tetanus booster if you haven’t had one in the past 5 years.You should not attempt to treat tetanus lockjaw at home.
Other symptoms of tetanus, which usually occur about 10 days after the injury, are trouble swallowing, tension in your abdominal muscles, painful body spasms, fever, sweating, and a fast heart rate.”Lockjaw” from TMJ may be easily treated at home. If your jaw tightness or pain is persistent, worsens over the course of a day, or makes it impossible to open or close your mouth completely, see your doctor., Mustard oil improves blood flow to the area, and garlic is an anti-inflammatory. Garlic also has anti-microbial properties that help to fight infections that might be worsening the condition. A jaw that's neither infected nor inflamed will be a lot easier to move.Boil 2 cloves of garlic in a teaspoon of mustard oil and then let it cool. Massage this oil onto the area 2-3 times a day.
Be sure to consult with your doctor, dentist or orthodontist before using any natural remedies.
 Herbal tea prepared from the following herbs may assist in the treatment of lockjaw:



Kava kava: reduces anxiety and aids in relaxation.

Passionflower: decreases anxiety, restlessness and discomfort caused by muscle tension and emotional turmoil.

Feverfew: diminishes pain and muscle soreness.

Chamomile: has a calming effect in adults, and helps reduce muscle pain caused by stress.Peppermint: is calming and reduces pain.

Echinacea: decreases pain and swelling., Magnesium can aid in relaxing muscles and it calms the firing of the nervous system, which may minimize muscle spasms in your jaw.Add foods rich in magnesium to your diet to help reduce the stress and inflammation of muscles that leads to lockjaw.


Good sources of magnesium include almonds, cashews, bananas, avocados, dried apricots, peas, beans, soy, and whole grains like millet and brown rice.The daily requirement for magnesium is 310 to 320mg for women and 400 to 420mg for men.Talk to your doctor about your diet, and consider taking a magnesium supplement if you are not getting your daily requirement from your foods.
 Calcium helps to strengthen your bones, and calcium deficiency leads to spasms of the muscles known as tetany.Consume foods rich in calcium to strengthen the jaw bones and regulate the movement of jaw muscles, preventing spasms that might lead to lockjaw.


Rich sources of calcium are milk, yogurt, cheese, green leafy vegetables like kale, fish such as salmon and sardinesAdults should get 1000mg of calcium daily., A deficiency of vitamin D leads to weakening of the bones and possibly pain in the bones, so being low in vitamin D may cause an increased risk of TMJ dysfunction and increase your risk of lockjaw.Fatty fish such as tuna, salmon and mackerel contain vitamin D, as does fish liver oil. Small amounts of vitamin D are found in egg yolks, beef liver and cheese. Other sources include fortified foods like milk, yogurt, orange juice, margarine, and some ready-to-eat cereals.Daily requirement of vitamin D for an average adult is 600 IU (international units).