 Chemo can cause everything from thinning hair to complete loss of it. Clean your hair and scalp with a gentle shampoo and conditioner. Wash your hair or scalp every other day or as little as necessary and avoid scrubbing vigorously.Consider a baby shampoo, which isn’t as harsh on the hair or scalp.Rinse with warm water and let it to flow from your scalp down the ends of your hair.Apply a conditioner along the length of your hair from ends to scalp after you rinse out shampoo. You can use a leave-in or rinse-out conditioner.
 Drying with towels and hair dryers can damage your hair and delicate scalp. Pat your hair dry with a towel to prevent breakage and promote regrowth.Avoid wrapping your hair in a towel, which may damage weakened hair.Instead, let your hair or scalp air dry if possible.
Use the lowest heat setting if you prefer a hair dryer.
 If you brush your hair or scalp, do so infrequently and as gently as possible. Invest in a soft brush, which may stimulate hair follicles and provide a nice head massage. It may also prevent damage.Brush your hair only to style it. This includes letting your hair air dry slightly before brushing.
Style any hair gently. If you want to style your hair, choose loose styles and avoid heavy products or heat tools if you can.
 Many people chemically treat their hair with color, perms, or relaxants. This can damage any hair and may irritate your sensitive scalp. While you are undergoing chemo and as your hair grows back in, stay away from chemical treatments that may be too harsh on your hair and scalp., Use a sunscreen or large hat when you go outside. This can protect your strands and scalp from the sun’s harmful rays.Select a wide-brimmed hat to protect your scalp and hair.Apply a leave-in conditioner with zinc oxide to protect your hair and scalp. You can also use a sunscreen specifically formulated for hair and scalp., Gentle massage can increase blood flow and stimulate hair growth. Consider a professional scalp massage or gently rub your own scalp to prevent hair loss, promote growth, and help you relax.Ask local masseuses if they are specifically trained to help increase blood flow to the scalp with massage.
Recognize that massage can strengthen the roots of your hair, which chemo often attacks.

