;
, Offer to donate ten percent of your monthly earnings to the school. This way you can't get in trouble, and you're still making money.
 Some things that children might like include chewing gum, candy, drinks and all different kinds of things. Just ask your principal beforehand if it is okay to sell a certain product.
 Store them in your backpack, pockets, or locker. Let's say gum is what everybody in your school wants but they aren't able to buy it. All you need to do is go to the store and buy a pack of gum.
 You might not be able to, but you are selling convenience as well as your items. Charging a little bit of profit is acceptable. If it's higher, then people will just go to the store, rather than buying from you. Say it costs 75 cents. You will have to raise the price by 10-20 cents to achieve profit, or for an example if your school has vending machines buy people soda and have them pay you back plus give the returnable can back so you make a 10 cent profit and make them pay an additional ten cents for labor since you are taking garbage off their hands.
 You should sell these to the rest and use the money obtained to repeat the previous step. If you have enough money, take higher risks, go to a wholesale store that sell things cheaper than normal stores and buy a whole box of gum instead, there may be 25 to 30 packs of gum in one box.
 Since you are well known as a young entrepreneur in your school now, you may be a target of thieves, bullies, and other students in your school. You may want to hire a trustworthy "bodyguard" near you so that he/she will take care of your money while you will serve the customers.
 Now that you know the whole process, be innovative in what you sell. Make the strangest item that people would ever buy. Maybe marshmallows dipped in chocolate? A pen gun? Think of something creative. Nowadays, these are the kinds of ideas the market wants.
 Find some kids that will work for free. Use them to sell the stuff. But you be the treasurer. Even though they may be good workers, you might not be able to trust them with your money.
 People will want to buy from you and you only if you have items no one else has. For instance, If you were selling baseball cards, sell the good ones that people want. Also, never sell fakes. Or if you're selling candy/gum, sell some candy from a specialty shop, or some imported candy from Japan or something.
 Never be pleased. Remember, you are making money. If someone pays you a lot of money, take it. Just make sure you are not ripping the person off really badly.
 Make sure you are keeping track of your earnings in a notebook.
 Make sure that you have fun making a little cash but not to brag about this, or else you will see a big decrease of buyers!

, If not, do not take the risk.

