 If you decide to confront the person you gave the gift to about their lack of thanks, do so face to face and in a private spot. You may choose a neutral spot, like a coffee shop or a park bench. Or you may invite the person over for coffee or dinner at your home and have the talk then. Try to choose a setting where you can talk honestly and freely with the person.


If you can, have the conversation with the person face to face. Confronting the person over text message or email can make it difficult for you to strike the right tone and manner. Even a phone call would be a better option than a text or an email.;
, Before you confront the person, ask them directly if they received your gift. You may do this if you did not give them the gift in person, such as a gift sent by mail, or if the gift was left in a pile of presents and opened later. Confirming the person has received your gift will ensure you are not confronting them for something they did not get or open yet.For example, you may say to the person, “I was just wondering if you got my gift?” or “Did you get a chance to open my gift?”
Doing this may also prompt the person to remember to thank you for the gift. Give them some time to respond and see if they offer their thanks when prompted this way.
 If the person confirms they received the gift, you may tell them simply and honestly that you were surprised and disappointed you didn’t get a “thank you” for the gift. Explain how it made you feel to not get a thank you and be honest about your feelings.


For example, you may say to the person, “I was disappointed to not receive a thank you from you for the gift” or “I was hurt when I didn’t get a thank you. Did you not like the gift?”
Often, saying this will prompt a person to respond with “Sorry” and “Thank you” or explain why they did not say thank you to you right away. Be patient when listening to the person’s response.
 If the person brushes off your question or does not respond with a “thank you,” try not to let it bother you. Work on ending the conversation on a positive note, even if you did not get the thanks you wanted.


For example, you may say to the person, “It bothers me that you do not show thanks for the gift. But I can accept it and move on.”

