 Before you start, you need to make sure you have all your supplies together. You need your catheter, open and ready to be used, a cleaning wipe, lubricant, and a container for the urine, if needed.After opening the catheter, make sure to only touch the end of the catheter that will be outside your body.;
, Wash your hands with soap and water. After drying them, put on disposable gloves if you want. Washing your hands and using disposable gloves helps to prevent contamination and reduce the risk of infection., Place one leg on the toilet and twist just a bit to one side. Using one hand, spread the labia and locate the urethral opening. Using your other hand, wash the entire genital area three times, going from front to back to avoid introducing bacteria from feces into the genital area. Rinse well and dry with a cotton towel.Use a fresh towelette or baby wipe every time you wipe.
Alternatively, you can use cotton balls with mild soap and water.
You can use a mirror to help you see what you're doing.
 Apply a small amount of the lubricant to the tip and the first 2 inches of the catheter. Take a deep breath, and with one hand separating the labia, use the other hand to insert the catheter gently into the urethra using firm, gentle pressure. Don’t push hard, and don’t force it. As you insert it, exhale slowly. Twist the catheter slightly one way and the other to help it through the urethra.Insertion can be quite uncomfortable, so breathing can help make it more comfortable. If the catheter is not sliding in, don’t worry. Try to relax, breathe deeply, and try again.
If the catheter comes pre-lubricated, you don’t have to apply more lubricant.
The tubing cannot be pushed through the bladder, so don’t worry about that.
 Once the catheter enters the bladder, the release of urine will be immediate. Have the external end of the catheter in the toilet or have a drainage bag ready. If you use the the drainage bag, keep it as low as possible so gravity can do its part., Remove the catheter with a gentle and even pull. Dispose of all the used supplies. Wash and dry the entire genital area as well as your hands.If your catheter is disposable, you can throw it away at this point.
Removing the catheter is much easier than inserting it.
 After you are finished, wash your catheter with soap and water. You can also wash it with antiseptic. Rinse the catheter thoroughly after washing it. Dry the catheter by folding it in a towel and hanging it up to air dry. After it is dry, place it in a plastic bag.If your catheter is not reusable, it is important that it only be used once, and not reused.

