 Answering these questions will help you find that out: do you want a fibreglass or aluminum hull; inboard engine or outboard; what length; is there a type or brand of engine you would prefer, and how powerful, in horsepower, do you need it to be? Do you want a hardtop cover, canvas, or none? One of the best ways to answer these questions is to know what you are going to be doing with it. Will you be on a lake, a river, or ocean? Is it for fishing, hunting, cruising, skiing, or racing?;
, This is to get a feel for the market. See what is selling and what isn't in your community.
 Don't say you want to buy the boat. Simply call to ask them some simple questions. Write the questions and answers down on paper. Here are some simple questions:


Find out the year and make of engine and boat hull. If the difference between the two is more than three years, chances are the engine has been replaced.
Ask if they are the original owner, if it has been in salt water, when was it last used, how was it stored in the winter, and if it has had any major or minor problems fixed (new wiring, crack in hull, replaced engine head) or still existing. If you are talking to the owner, pay attention to their tone. If they seem nervous, in a hurry, or annoyed, they may be hiding something. One of the most important questions you need answered is why they are selling. This, more than anything else, can affect how much you offer.
 If you don't want to do that, you can also hook up a water hose to the engine to check if it works properly. Either way if he or she tells you they don't have time; walk away. Do not waste your time.
 Neglect in one area, such as the hull or upholstery, may mean neglect in other areas, such as the engine. Depending on what you are looking to spend, and what you are capable of repairing on your own, this may be a good or bad thing. If there seems to be any major inconsistency between what they said on the phone and what you see, walk away. If they refuse to take it out on the water after they said they would, no matter the deal, walk away. Now is a good time to find out how many hours are on the engine.
 Assuming everything runs great, this is where the 'why' he is selling it comes into play. Is he moving? Maybe you can offer him less. Is he paying off a debt? He may accept a lower offer. Does he have a better boat or want to buy a better boat? Then he'll probably hold out for a better price. Every defect you identify works to your advantage in getting a better price. Try offering cash (it looks sexier than a cashier's check) for less than you think it's worth based on these questions and on its local market value. At very least, don't pay more than you think it's worth; there will always be another deal, so you need not worry, especial as summer turns to fall.

