 Because you are shooting in low light at night or perhaps no light at all, you should have your camera set at a wide aperture. Use the widest aperture setting on your camera, also known as the smallest F number or F-stop. This will help to bring in as much light as possible into the lens and make your shot much clearer, even without a tripod.You may want to go for a 50mm f/1.8 lens if you plan to do a lot of photography at night. These lenses are great for their sharpness even at low light. They are often not very expensive and easy to find.
 The ISO is the level of sensitivity your camera has to light. A lower ISO setting will mean your lens is less sensitive to light and a higher ISO will increase the light sensitivity of your camera. Using a higher ISO will allow your camera to pick up as much available light as possible, which is important if you are planning to shoot at night. It will also make it easier to get a sharp, clean image at night without a tripod.Keep in mind a higher ISO means you may have more of a grainy look to your images, known as “noise.” You may decide to keep some noise in the image or edit it out in post processing.
 The shutter speed determines how long the lens stays open and captures an image before it closes. Often when you are shooting at night, you are trying to capture images with light, such as cars on a dark highway or stars in the sky. Go for a slow shutter speed to allow the lens time to pick up light trails in the dark. You may opt for a shutter speed of 15-25 seconds to give the camera time to capture all the light in the image.You can also check if the camera lens has an image stabilization feature. This feature allows the lens to pick up light at lower shutter speeds and produce clearer images. You may be able to drop the shutter speed to very slow if this feature is available for your camera lens., If you own a digital SLR camera or even a phone camera, you may have a night mode setting you can use. Night modes are great for taking landscape or portrait photos at night, as they will set the shutter speed and the aperture for you. You can check the settings on your camera to see if you have this feature.You may still need to keep the camera steady and level when you take a picture at night on the night setting to get a good image. This may depend on the quality of the night setting on the camera as well as your ability to keep your arm stable when you take the picture.

