 To create an enchanted book, you will need the materials for the following items:


Crafting table - Four wooden crates, which come from one wood block.

Book - Three pieces of paper, which come from three pieces of sugar cane, and one piece of leather.

Enchanting table - Two diamonds, four blocks of obsidian, and a book.;
, You should see your crafting items here.

In Minecraft PE, you'll tap the ... icon to open your inventory.
 To do this, you'll use the four wood crates, which come from placing one block of wood in the crafting grid.

On the PC version of Minecraft, you'll click and drag each of your four wooden blocks into the two-by-two crafting grid at the top of your inventory.
On Minecraft PE, you'll tap the tab above your inventory tab on the left side of the screen and then tap the crafting table icon, which resembles a box with lines on it.
On console, you'll press the "Crafting" button (X or circle), then select a wooden crate.
 You'll need to select it from the hotbar at the bottom of the screen to do so.

If your hotbar is full, you must first open your inventory and replace an item in the hotbar with your crafting table.
 It will open to a three-by-three grid, along with the contents of your inventory (PE and PC versions only)., To do so, you'll place three pieces of sugar cane across the middle row of the crafting grid, select the resulting paper, and then place the three pieces of paper in an L-shape in the top-left corner of the crafting grid. Your leather should go in the top-middle box, thus filling in the "L" shape.

In Minecraft PE, just tap the book icon on the left side of the screen, then click the 1 x button on the right side.
On the console version of Minecraft, select the book icon from the paper section of the "Decorations" tab.
 The enchanting table requires a book in the top-middle box of the crafting grid, a diamond in both the middle-left and middle-right boxes, and obsidian in the center box as well as the entire bottom row. You should see the enchanting table icon appear on the right side of the crafting grid.

On consoles, select the enchanting table from the crafting table area of the "Structures" tab.
 You'll do this in the same way in which you placed the crafting table here., It will open to one space in which you can place your book., To do so, simply click and drag the book into the space (PC).

For Minecraft PE, you'll tap the book on the left side of the screen to place it in the table.
For consoles, select the book in your inventory.
 The level of enchantment you can place on your book depends on your level. Selecting an enchantment will apply it to your book, causing it to turn purple.

For example, if you're level 3, you can select any enchantment with a 1, 2, or 3 next to it.
Enchantments are randomized, so you won't be able to select a specific enchantment.
 Doing so will place it in your inventory. Now that you have an enchanted book, it's time to apply it to an item.

In Minecraft PE, you must double-tap your book to add it to your inventory.
 Having an anvil will allow you to apply your enchantment book to an item. To craft an anvil, you will need the following:


Three iron blocks - Each iron block requires nine iron bars, for a total of twenty-seven iron bars needed.

Four iron bars - These bars bring the iron total to thirty-one.
You can create iron bars by adding iron ore, which is the grey stone with orange-brown spots, into a furnace that has coal in it.
 As it did earlier, the crafting table will open to a three-by-three grid., To do so, you'll place the three iron blocks in the top row of the crafting table grid, three of the four iron bars along the bottom row of the grid, and the final iron bar in the center of the grid, then select the anvil icon.

On the PE version of Minecraft, you'll tap the black anvil icon on the left side of the screen.
On the console version of Minecraft, you'll select the anvil icon in the "Structures" tab.
 You're now ready to craft an enchanted item., It will open to three boxes., You can place it in either the far-left box or the middle box here.

For example, you might add a sword.
 It goes in either the far-left box or the middle box., This is the box on the far-right side of the anvil's menu. Doing so will add your enchanted item to your inventory.