 If you're considering holding your assets in a trust, an attorney who is experienced in state and federal law can help ensure your assets are protected.


Some states such as Alaska and Nevada allow asset-protection trusts that keep your assets out of the reach of creditors and other court judgments, provided the statutory requirements are met.Although you don't have to be a resident of the state to create an asset-protection trust there, you do have to keep some or all of the trust's assets in that state. Additionally, the independent trustee or trust company that administers your trust must be located and licensed in that state.An attorney experienced in asset-protection trusts can ensure that your trust satisfies all regulatory requirements and doesn't violate any tax laws.As with transferring ownership to another person, a court can invalidate a trust if a judge determines you created the trust with the intention of defrauding creditors or shielding your assets from a judgment.The legal protection of trusts has limits. For example, most states don't allow protection against child support debt. Additionally, many states have exceptions for division of property in a divorce, particularly if you were married when you created the trust., In some cases you may be able to better protect your assets by moving them to a bank overseas.


Keep in mind that offshore trusts are expensive to create and maintain, so this is a viable option only if you have significant assets or pre-existing ties to another country.For example, if you own a vacation property in The Bahamas, you might consider creating a trust there since you already own real estate in the country and presumably visit on a regular basis.
Some countries require anyone trying to reach assets held in a trust to hire an attorney in that country and personally appear in court. This can decrease anyone's interest in going after those assets as it would be extremely expensive and time-consuming to do so.Historically, foreign trusts were considered more effective at protecting significant wealth and assets from lawsuits. However, at least 12 states now have laws allowing for the creation of asset-protection trusts. These domestic asset-protection trusts have most of the benefits of offshore trusts, but are generally less expensive to create and maintain., Your state may have basic forms available that you can adapt to create your trust.


Make sure whatever forms you decide to use are sufficient to create an irrevocable living trust. You may need to research your state's law to find out the legal requirements.
An irrevocable trust is one you don't control and can't revoke. If you put money or assets in a trust you don't control, those assets are no longer considered yours. For this reason, they would be protected from most lawsuits.The change in ownership means future legal judgments cannot be satisfied by those assets. This is true even if you've named yourself as the beneficiary of the trust., When you create a trust, you must have a trustee to manage the assets held in the trust.


Generally, the trustee must live in the state where you are creating the trust. If you use a bank or trust company, the company must be licensed to operate in that state.The trustee also must be independent from you, meaning you can't select someone such as your spouse, your child, or your business partner as your trustee.Choose your trustee wisely, keeping in mind that once your trust is created, he or she will have complete control over your assets and can distribute them or manage them using his or her own discretion., Once you've decided on a trustee, you can write up the documents that will define the parameters of your trust and describe what assets the trust will hold.


Although you typically can create a basic living trust without an attorney, irrevocable trusts most often require drafting by a skilled and experienced attorney who has knowledge of the laws of the state in which you want to create your trust.You must ensure that your transfer of assets to the trust complies with the fraudulent-transfer laws of the state where you're creating the trust as well as the state where you live, if those are two different states.Generally, you should avoid placing real estate in the trust that isn't located in the state where you're creating the trust. Otherwise, that real estate could be used to satisfy a judgment against you, potentially allowing the creditor to gain access to the other trust assets as well.For example, if you own a beach house in South Carolina but are creating an asset-protection trust in Tennessee, you generally shouldn't transfer ownership of your South Carolina beach house to your Tennessee trust.
 You typically must sign your trust documents in the presence of a notary public.After you've signed your trust, make copies and file or distribute them wherever is necessary. Keep your original documents in a safe deposit box or other equally safe place.

