 When drinking something that will stain your dentures – coffee, tea, carbonated drinks, fruit juices, and, when blended into beverages, fruits like berries – remember to use a straw. Drinking through a straw allows the beverage to bypass your teeth, and you’ll avoid stains, especially at the front.;
, Tobacco can stain your dentures, so quit smoking if you can. Otherwise, try, at least, to limit the number of cigarettes you smoke.
 After meals, and especially if you have coffee, tea, wine, or something else that will stain, rinse your dentures thoroughly under running water.


If you can’t get to a place to rinse your dentures well, having a drink of water will help remove any colorants.
 Foods like berries, tomatoes, soy sauce, and balsamic vinegar will stain your dentures, but you can mitigate the damage by eating crunchy fruits and vegetables, like apples and celery. These foods will naturally cleanse your dentures.
 You should brush your dentures at least twice daily, just as you would brush your teeth. Make sure that your brush reaches every part of the dentures, but don’t push down too hard: you don’t want to break them.


Consider buying a special toothbrush made for dentures.
Use a toothbrush with soft bristles. Hard ones can scratch your dentures, reducing their sheen.
 When you go to bed, remove your dentures and leave them to soak in a glass of water, or fill your denture container with water and soak them there. Soaking will loosen any plaque and food debris that could cause stains.


Do not put your dentures in hot water – this could warp the shape of your dentures or cause them to shrink.
Do not soak your dentures overnight in anything but plain water. Prolonged exposure to soaps and detergents will harm them.
 When you go to the dentist, ask if ultrasonic cleaning might work for you. Your dentist can use this technique to cleanse your dentures with sound waves. It sounds strange, but ultrasonic cleaning is one of the most effective means of eliminating stains and preventing deposits from forming.

