 Maybe you're too clingy? Maybe you're demanding? You should have a talk with him and discuss these problems. If you did something bad, just apologize, it will help the friendship. Also, try to think of reasons why you want him back. Also, if you're the one who broke up with him and you want him back, think of why you broke up with him in the first place and try to fix that.;
, And for him too, you don't want him thinking that you are really desperate. So, just pamper yourself so that, by the time of your next confrontation, you'll look stunning. When it comes to the time to confront your ex-boyfriend about the whole mis-happening, don't beg and plead for him to take you back. Give him subtle hints about memories that you two shared together. This shows him that you're still thinking about him.
 When it comes to that time to lay out the big guns, don't make him uncomfortable. When he's with you, he wants to have fun, so don't lay out the serious talk just yet. Save it because you'll have plenty of time later to have those talks.
 By the time you reach this step, you should be pretty close to getting your boy back. But, if he has moved on to another girl, don't try to pick fights with that girl or sleep with him behind her back.
 Don't act as if you care what he does, or who he's with. 'Kill him with kindness' and don't worry about the new girl - she's probably just a rebound and trying to make you jealous. He'll eventually realize what he had. If he looks at you while he's with her, smile, and if he still talks about you, live it.
 Don't write him a couple of sad notes. Have you friends and family that he likes talk to him about you to see what he has to say. If he says he's over you, act like you're over him. Dress more attractively, hang out where he does, put things on your Facebook, etc. that you know he will read. Be irresistible so his mouth will drop every time he sees you. Act nice, be beautiful and attractive.
 That means that he will want you back even more.
 If he really wants to get back with you, you only need to change what you were doing wrong. For example, if you were being too clingy, back off a little bit. Don't make the classic mistake of telling him you've changed; show him.
 If he ignores you, ignore him. if he talks to you, talk to him, but not too much. If he wants to hang out with you, hang out with him. If he flirts, try to flirt (or do the opposite- don't flirt, act like you're over him, but then flirt, he'll get the hint). If you're a preteen or teen, don't go crazy, tell everybody lies about him and brag. If you're an adult, be calm and relax, but don't be crazy and follow him.

