 If you have allergies, the histamines released by your immune system in response to your triggers may cause swelling and broken capillaries under the eyes that leave you with dark circles. Use an oral antihistamine to help limit your reaction and keep your under eyes bright.Be sure to talk to your doctor or pharmacist before taking any over-the-counter pills to ensure that they won’t cause a reaction with any other medications that you’re taking.
Itchy eyes are also common with allergies. Rubbing your eyes frequently can cause the pigmentation under your eyes to darken. An antihistamine can usually relieve the itchiness, but try to avoid rubbing your eyes in general.
When your sinuses are congested, fluid can build up under your eyes that causes swelling and darkness. Using a neti pot to flush out your sinuses may help alleviate your dark circles.
 The skin under your eyes is extremely thin, so it’s vulnerable to sun damage that can cause hyperpigmentation. To keep your under eyes bright, apply a broad spectrum sunscreen with an SPF of 30 or higher all over your face, including your under eye area, every day as part of your skincare routine.Avoid getting any of the sunscreen in your eyes. It can be extremely irritating.
To avoid having the sunscreen run into your eyes, you may want to use a stick formula.
Natural sunscreens that use minerals such as zinc oxide and titanium dioxide tend to be less irritating for the eyes.
 You can help reduce discoloration and swelling under eyes by incorporating an retinol eye cream in your evening skincare routine. Retinol is a derivative of vitamin A that helps fade hyperpigmentation and smooth fine lines, so it’s an ideal ingredient in an eye cream. Dab a small amount of the cream under your eyes, and pat gently until it’s fully absorbed into the skin.Retinoids make your skin more vulnerable to sun damage, which is why it’s important to use your retinol eye cream at night and wear sunscreen during the day.
Retinol is a potent ingredient that can sometimes irritate the skin when you first begin using it. To avoid dry, flaky skin, you may want to start by using the eye cream every other night until your skin is used to it.

