 Indications of depression can include several physical symptoms. It’s important to determine whether your symptoms are typical of pregnancy or if they seem more extreme or enduring for longer. If you’ve suffered from some of the following symptoms more days than not for two or more weeks in a way that affects your normal functioning, it may be related to depression:Decreased energy/feeling constantly exhausted
Feeling restless; fidgeting often
Feeling overly lethargic or making slow movements;
, Pregnancy often affects emotions, and it’s important to differentiate between emotional changes that are part of a normal pregnancy and those that may be due to depression. Check to see if you have had emotional symptoms of depression for two or more weeks that have affected your functioning at home, school, or work. Emotional symptoms that may indicate that you have depression include:Feeling worthless
Difficulty concentrating, problems with memory
Persistent sadness, crying
Low mood, feeling numb
Feeling irritable, angry or aggressive
Decreased interest in activities you used to enjoy
Feeling unmotivated or detached from your typical routine
Having thoughts of harming yourself or the baby

, You or other people may see changes in the way you act that differ from your normal behavior. While it’s typical to experience some hormonal changes during pregnancy that can affect your behavior, it’s important to determine whether your behavior changes are within the range of ‘normal’ or if they may be related to depression. If you notice behavior changes that impair your functioning and that last 2 or more weeks, it’s time to consider depression. Behavioral symptoms can include:Changes in sleep habits (sleeping too much or too little, such as staying up all night or wanting to sleep all day even if you slept well at night)
Changes in eating habits (beyond what may be considered “normal” in pregnancy, such as binge eating or not wanting to eat at all)
Socially withdrawing from friends and family, isolating yourself
Engaging in reckless behavior (like things that may harm the fetus, like drinking)

, Look at your family members and ask yourself if there’s a family history of depression. Then, ask yourself whether you’ve previously experienced depression at any point in your life. If so, you are at a higher risk for developing depression.Does anyone in your immediate family (parents, siblings) suffer from depression or take medication to treat depression? What about your extended family (grandparents, aunts/uncles, cousins)?
Have you ever taken medication, seen a therapist, or struggled with symptoms of depression in the past?

, Dealing with the changes and pain from pregnancy can become wearing day after day. From morning sickness to back pain to minimal sleeping positions, the physical stress from pregnancy can deplete normal ability to cope and leave you drained and exhausted.Are you finding it more difficult to respond to stress due to the pain you experience regularly? Do you feel like you have a shorter fuse or that your discomfort is making you excessively sad or irritable? How is your pregnancy affecting your emotional state?
Help your body relax by taking warm baths, using a heating pad for muscle aches, and using good posture., If you’re struggling with a high-risk pregnancy or have increased medical complications with your pregnancy, you may be at higher risk for depression. Dealing with stress and the fear of any problems with your baby can be too much to handle.You may also feel frustrated or unhelpful if you’re not allowed to work or do things you could previously do with ease.Are you feeling worthless or unneeded in your family due to a complicated pregnancy? Are you bedridden and frustrated at your lack of independence? Are these issues affecting your emotional or mental health? These situations can contribute to depression.
Make sure you stay in contact with your medical practitioner and communicate any questions you may have about your pregnancy.
 If you’ve endured several months of fertility treatments, it’s likely that your body and emotions are under stress. Especially if you tried tirelessly to get pregnant and now are, you may be worried to lose the baby you tried so hard to conceive. The fertility process is a difficult one and emotionally taxing. Once you’re pregnant, it can stay difficult. All of these factors can make you more prone to depression.Have you found it more difficult to manage your emotions since fertility treatments? How have the treatments and resulting stress from the treatments affecting your mental and emotional health?
Think about the stressors your body, mind, and emotions have experienced during and after treatments. Find ways to express these feelings healthfully, such as through talking to a friend or a therapist.
 A previous loss such as a miscarriage can impact your feelings about the current pregnancy.You may find yourself excessively worried about the baby and if it will survive. Acknowledge the loss and allow yourself to work through the grief and disappointment.


Do you find yourself constantly worried about the baby’s health? Have you fully healed from the past loss? Does this affect your own well-being and emotional health?
If you’ve experienced a pregnancy loss, don’t hesitate to reach out for help. Your friends and family want to support you. Talk about the baby and use the name. It’s okay to acknowledge what would have or could have been.For more information, check out How to Cope With Grief.
 If you think you may be depressed, ask a friend to reflect back to you any changes to your emotional health that he or she has noticed. Ask someone you know will be honest with you, such as a sibling or best friend. Share how you’ve been feeling and if he or she has noticed changes in your behavior, emotions, or moods.
 If you have suspicions that you may be depressed during your pregnancy, seek a mental health professional. You can talk about your symptoms and how you feel. A therapist can give you a diagnosis and help emotionally support you through the pregnancy. She or he can help you find coping strategies to help lift the depression, help shift negative thoughts, give you tools to help adjust behaviors, and arm you with how to prevent future depression., If you’re struggling with your romantic relationship with your partner, it can trigger depression. Some people try to stick it out and assume that having the baby will dissolve all the problems; it won’t. The baby will only add strain to the relationship.Do you find yourself taking your stress out on your partner? Are issues between you and your partner more tumultuous than before you were pregnant? Think about how your relationship may have changed since becoming pregnant.
Holding on to relationship stress can affect the growing fetus and increase the likelihood of the baby developing behavior problems in childhood. Let go of anger and resentment and work through relationship problems as quickly as possible.If your relationship is struggling, get counseling. Don’t delay on getting the help you need. For more information, check out How to Tell if You Need to See a Therapist.
 It’s normal to be concerned about affording a new baby. However, financial difficulties may cause a significant amount of stress and contribute to depression.Before the baby comes, create a budget to help you feel more in control and reduce finance related stress.


Try to make small changes to save money. For example, you can purchase generic items, watch for sales, clip coupons, buy frequently used items in bulk, or limit entertainment purchases, such as eating out or going to the movies.
Consider DIY options to save money, such as making your own baby food or making reusable cloth diapers.
Ask friends and family if they would be willing to help you with childcare after your baby is born. Friends and family members may also be willing to donate items to you such as baby clothes, a car seat, a baby monitor, or a stroller.
 A history of abuse as a child may contribute to your risk of suffering from major depression as an adult.Abuse may take the form of sexual abuse, physical abuse, emotional abuse, and neglect. No matter what type of abuse you suffered as a child, it is important to seek help as an adult.


If you were abused as a child, seek help from a therapist to work towards recovery.
If you’ve experienced past abuse, check out How to Love Yourself After a Long Battle in an Abusive Relationship.
If you’re experiencing current abuse, please report it and seek help. See How to Leave an Abusive Relationship.
 If you are young, single, or have an unplanned pregnancy, you have a higher risk for depression.Other risk factors include a maternal age, lifestyle choices (like taking drugs, drinking alcohol, or smoking), medical history (like previous pregnancy complications), and carrying multiples.Think about how these factors may affect your well-being during pregnancy. You may need additional support during your pregnancy to avoid developing depression.

