 A cute garland can be made with 10 empty yogurt cups. You'll also need gold acrylic paint, small paint brushes, a string of Christmas lights with 50 lights, thick ribbon, tulle netting, and an X-acto knife. You can get these supplies at a craft store.To start, clean out the yogurt cups. You should also remove any plastic seals around the cups. Use the acrylic paint to paint the bottom halves gold. You may need to paint in two layers to get the color to stand out.






Cut about 80 strips of ribbon and tulle netting into 6 by 11 and a half inch strips. Alternating between and tulle netting and ribbon, tie bows along the wires of the Christmas lights.






Use the X-acto knife to cut a small "x" in the bottom of each yogurt cup. Push a yogurt cup through every fourth light. When you're done, you can hang your garland up in your home.





;
, If you have an old wine bottle laying around, don't throw it away. You can make a jewelry container from the bottle. This can be a nice gift for yourself, or for a friend who wears jewelry. You'll need acrylic paint in your chosen color, gorilla glue, and an old salad plate.Clean the wine bottle and remove any labels. Then, pour some acrylic paint into the bottle and swirl it around until the inside is painted. Add more paint if necessary. When the inside is roughly evenly coated with paint, pour the excess paint back into its original container.






Coat the bottom of the wine bottle with gorilla glue. Then, glue it to the salad plate. Set aside to dry for a day and then use your creation as a jewelry holder.
 If you subscribe to a local newspaper, tossing old papers may account for a lot of your waste. Instead of discarding old newspapers, use them to cover an old lamp. For this craft, you'll need a lampshade, old newspaper, Mod Podge, and a foam brush.Use some scissors to vertically cut the newspaper into 1 and a half and one-inch strips. Apply a layer of Mod Podge to the lampshade. From here, apply the newspaper in strips until they cover the lampshade. Smooth out the newspaper as you go and trim any excess paper from the edges of the lamp.






When the lamp is covered, you should apply another layer of Mod Podge. This will give it a smooth, clean finish.
 With some sisal rope and empty aluminum cans, you can make cute storage containers. Any kind of old can will work. You will also need a hot glue gun, scissors, and a plastic lid. You can use a plastic lid from something like a nut can as long as the diameter of the lid is at least half an inch larger than the diameter of the can.Begin at the bottom of the can. Apply a layer of glue around the can. Loop the rope around the can. Hold in place until dry. Then, apply another layer of glue around the can. Loop the rope up further, holding place, and let dry. Keep going until you reach the top of the can and then cut the rope at an angle and glue the end to the edge of the can.






Take the plastic lid. Apply glue all around the edge. Tie the rope around the edge and hold in place until dry. Circle the rope inward towards the center of the can, gluing it down as you go. When you reach the center, cut the rope off at an angle.







