 Instead of saying "happy birthday," why not show it? People love getting things in the mail, so it will be an extra special surprise for her when she opens her mailbox. You can buy a funny card or a sincere card. You can also make your own card for a bit of a DIY personalized touch.


Sending a card shows you care because it shows that you took the time to purchase or make a card, and also that you thought about the person ahead of time.
Send a card that plays music to give the person an extra special surprise. Or buy a card where you can record your own voice so you can personally say happy birthday without physically being there.
 If you didn't think about it ahead of time, or you don't know the person's address, send an e-card. Many websites offer free cards that you can send as long as you know the person's e-mail address. Type up your own message or give her a short greeting, and send away.


You can choose from thousands of different designs - funny, serious, animated, or with pictures of animals.
Some of the cards have short animated movies, play music, or are interactive. You can go as simple or elaborate as you want.
 No matter if you are just acquaintances or best friends, wishing someone happy birthday on social media makes the person smile. To not be like all the other boring "happy birthday" wishes, personalize the message. Add birthday photos, or a photo of the person's favorite celebrity. You can even find animated pictures to accompany your message.


Instead of a generic birthday photo, find a funny birthday picture on the internet and post it instead.
Make your own picture in Photoshop or Paint and post it for the person.
 Cards are not the only way to tell someone happy birthday. Instead of sending a card, contact a local florist and send a flower arrangement. If she is not into flowers, send cupcakes or cookies from a local bakery.


Other ideas for surprise gifts include balloons, singing telegrams, fruit arrangements, chocolate covered strawberries, or truffles. Investigate what local businesses are in the person's area that can deliver a birthday package.
If you don't find anything local, go online. Many businesses do birthday packages and arrangements that you can order and have shipped to her home or workplace.
 Everyone loves cake on their birthday. A great way to say happy birthday is to write it on top of her favorite homemade cake! If you don't want to bake a cake yourself, order a cake and have the bakery write a message on top of the cake with icing.


You can also do the same thing with cupcakes. Write a letter or a word on each cupcake to spell out a special birthday message.
 Think about ways you can surprise someone on her birthday. Maybe throw the person a surprise party. Show up at work to take her to lunch, or after work to take her to dinner. Bring her an extra-special gift she wasn't expecting.


Make sure if you want to surprise the person and take her somewhere that you make sure she is available. You don't want to have a party or special dinner planned when the person already has plans.

