 You can charge your wand by transmitting energy from yourself into the wand. Usually do this through the hands by holding the wand in both hands. Other methods include:


Pyramid chargers. Placing the wand in a specially built pyramid charger can give it a strong charge. Pyramids can transmit energy to other items as well, and can send energy over long distances.Natural light sources. Sunlight or moonlight, particularly strong moonlight from a full moon, are also powerful sources of wand energy.
Use desirable energy sources. This is often yourself, but be aware that wands are sensitive to other energy sources as well. Since, you don’t want to charge your wand with unwanted energy, protect your wand with a covering. This could be a cloth or a pouch, for example. Black, blue, or purple pouch coloration and celestial designs are often popular.
Be careful of depleting yourself of energy when self-charging the wand. If you feel this happening, be sure to draw energy toward the center of your body: upward from the feet and downward from your head.;
, For example, if your wand’s magic powers were provided by an herb bag, you may want to keep herbs handy for when you are running low on magic.
 This is a way of ridding your wand of unwanted, negative energy prior to recharging it from a new, desirable energy source. There are a variety of ways to cleanse a wand. Just make sure that whatever method you use doesn’t damage the wand. So, be careful of smoke, fire, and water damage when implementing the methods below.


Selenite is a common cleanser. Selenite, often used synonymously with gypsum, is the transparent variety of the gypsum mineral.You can put your wand in contact with selenite for any length of time, and anywhere from a couple of hours to several days is common.
Sage smoke is another method. Light the sage, and allow the smoke to circulate around the wand.
Flowing water cleanses as well. Holding your wand in a river, stream, waterfall, or other flowing natural water source can wash away negative energy.

