 Because detoxing from many drugs can be dangerous and often requires medical supervision, make sure that a home detox is the best choice for your loved one. Arrange an assessment by calling a nearby detox center for information, and always have a physician or nurse that you are able to contact for advice.


Find a nearby detox center by calling your state’s Alcohol & Drug Information Service.;
, Know what physical and psychological symptoms to expect as you help your loved one through detox. Since withdrawal symptoms vary by drug, be sure that you are prepared to deal with the symptoms unique to your loved one’s drug(s) of choice.


For alcohol detox: headache, shaking hands, eyes blinking on their own, clammy skin, rapid heartbeat, sweating, nausea, nervousness, irritability, insomnia, nightmares.

The symptoms of alcohol withdrawal can begin within just a few hours without having a drink.


For opiate detox (heroin, morphine, codeine, Oxycontin, Dilaudid, and methadone): Early symptoms include muscle aches, tearing, runny nose, sweating, and yawning agitation, anxiety, insomnia, irritability. Late symptoms include abdominal cramping, dilated pupils, diarrhea, goose bumps, nausea, and vomiting.

Symptoms typically being to emerge within 12 hours of the last dose, and within 30 hours for methadone., Be on the lookout for withdrawal symptoms that seem especially worrying. If you see your loved one having a fit, becoming unconscious, hallucinating, or having serious chest pains, call 911 to send an ambulance right away., Try to get as much natural light in your home as possible, and keep lots of sanitary items in close reach. Make sure that your loved one has an accessible place to rest in peace.


Remove anything that might tempt or trigger him to use, like alcohol or other prescription medications.
 Help the person to manage any physical pain and discomfort, like cramps, vomiting, diarrhea, and fever. It may be helpful to learn a few basic first aid skills, like how to effectively use a heat pad and cold compress. To avoid messes, keep buckets in convenient places in case vomiting occurs suddenly.


If the nausea, vomiting and diarrhea is severe, then medication such as Maxalon or Lomotil may be helpful, but keep in mind that these can only be prescribed by a physician.You can also try homeopathic remedies like acupuncture pressure points to encourage a settled stomach.
 Most withdrawal symptoms leave the body dehydrated and exhausted. So, see to it that your loved one doesn't get dehydrated. He should be drinking at least two liters of water per day, even if this proves quite difficult. Eating may be even more difficult, due to nausea and indigestion, but light foods like soup, rice, noodles, vegetables, and fruit will provide nutrients that are important for recovery., Help your loved one relax by reminding them about techniques that they already use. Even if it's simple, like taking slow, deep belly breaths, listening to music, or relaxing in the bath, don't try to teach him something he doesn't already know. These techniques will help take his mind off of the pain of detox and send a signal to his body to stop resisting this pain and simply allow it to pass.


If your loved one is familiar with yoga or meditation, join him in a practice of his choosing.
 It’s not always the best idea to be the sole person helping your loved one through detox, as you may end up with caretaker burnout. Caretaker burnout occurs when you spend so much time worrying about and helping your loved one that you neglect your own needs, which can lead to unexamined resentment and ultimately lead to a poorer quality of care. If possible, enlist the help and support of other mutual, local contacts.


These others can provide support to your loved one detoxing, help you with the tasks you are taking on to aid the process, and even help you with responsibilities that you've put aside to take care of your loved one.
 Make sure you ask for advice to prevent the spread of infection, for which there is high risk, throughout the detox. Know what to do should you be faced with an emergency situation. Always call your doctor or go to the emergency room if you think your loved one is in severe medical danger.


Be sure to put off the counseling or psychological help until after the detox. This is because the detox puts the person in a very vulnerable physical state, and counseling may create more stress than help at that point.

