 Family Feud accepts applications on a rolling basis, so you can mail your family's application in whenever you are ready.


Your chances of being accepted or noticed do increase if you mail in an application while the show is actively seeking out contestants. You can determine when the show is seeking out contestants based on when the show holds its live auditions. Usually, the time frame is between the middle of January through the middle of April.
You can also call the show's contestant department hotline to verify whether or not sending an application would be wise. The phone number for the hotline is 323-762-8467.
 If you do not meet the show's basic contestant requirements, your application will be automatically rejected.


You must have five family members, including yourself. The members must be related by blood, marriage, or law.
All members of your family must either be U.S. citizens or have permission to work in the U.S.
No one on the proposed team can be related to or personally acquainted with someone who works for Family Feud, Fremantle Media, Debmar-Mercury, or Wanderlust Productions. No one can be related to or know an affiliate that carries the show, either.
No one on the proposed team can be actively running for political office.
No one on the proposed team can have been on more than two game shows within the past year.
Anyone who has appeared on the show within the past ten years is ineligible.
There is no age requirement, but the show's producers recommend that proposed teammates are at least 15 years old.
You should note your eligibility in your application by re-stating each requirement and stating that your family meets each one. You can either include this information in the video or in written form when you submit the video.
 Make a short video that introduces your family in the most informative, innovative way possible.


The video should be three to five minutes long.
Begin your video by introducing each member of your proposed team. All five members should appear on the video, and each person should introduce himself or herself.
When making your introduction, state something interesting about yourself. You can talk about your place within the family, your job, your hobbies, or anything else that makes you stand out. The idea is to be informative but unique.
Do your best to make yourself stand out. Consider playing a mock round of the game or using props. Be energetic, but also be yourselves. You need to let the casting directors know how enthusiastic your family is about being on the show because enthusiasm makes for greater entertainment.
 You can either e-mail your video as a YouTube link or mail the video through the postal system as a DVD.


Upload the video to YouTube and email the link to: casting@familytryouts.com
Burn the video to DVD and mail it to: Fremantle Media NA, 4000 West Alameda Ave, Burbank, CA 91505, attn: Family Feud Casting Dept.
Include the city and state you are from in all correspondence.
 Auditions are usually held between the middle of January and the middle of April, but you should find out more specific information by checking Family Feud's official auditions website.Auditions usually take place shortly before the new season starts.
Auditions are typically held in four to six cities across the United States. They take place over the course of one weekend at each location.
 No team can audition if its members violate the show's basic rules.


Your prospective team must consist of five members, and everyone must be related by blood, marriage, or law.
All family members must be U.S. citizens. Anyone who is not a citizen must at least have permission to work within the U.S.
No team member can be related to or acquainted with someone who works for the show, Fremantle Media, Debmar-Mercury, Wanderlust Productions, or any of the show's affiliates.
No one on the team can be running for political office.
Anyone who has appeared on more than two game shows within the past year is ineligible. Similarly, anyone who has been on Family Feud within the past ten years is ineligible.
The show has no strict age requirement, but it is recommended that the teammates should be at least 15 years of age.
 To ensure that your family has a chance to audition, you should send an e-mail to the appropriate casting department for the city you will be auditioning in.


The e-mail address for each city can be found on the show's auditions page, but it is usually the name of the city followed by "@familytryouts.com." For instance:

The e-mail address for Austin, Texas try-outs is Austin@familytryouts.com.
Phoenix, Arizona try-outs go to Phoenix@familytryouts.com.
Boston, Massachusetts try-outs go to Boston@familytryouts.com
San Francisco, California try-outs go to bayarea@familytryouts.com.
Indianapolis, Indiana try-outs go to Indianapolis@familytryouts.com.
 Your family will be assigned a time slot on the date of the audition. It is best to show up at least an hour early to make sure that you will have time to make it through the check-in line., After checking in, your family will be given forms to fill out before the actual audition. Families who turn in the forms first will audition first.


Prepare to fill out basic information, such as name, age, and other eligibility factors.
Write down an "interesting fact" about yourself. The fact can concern your job, hobbies, or anything else that makes you stand out.
Prepare a narrative about your family. Again, the more unique it is, the more appealing your family will be to the casting directors.
Explain what you would do with the money if you won. Families that have a purpose or plan in mind are more likely to be accepted than those who do not.
 After turning in your applications, the moderator will have you play two rounds of a practice game.


In one round, you will do the face-off while the other team prepares for the steal.
In the other round, another team does the face-off while your team prepares for the steal.
Winning or losing the rounds has nothing to do with who passes the audition.
The practice game is played in front of an audience consisting of other auditioning families.
Be energetic and natural.As a whole, your family needs to be enthusiastic in order to catch the attention of the casting directors. If one member of your family is a little more subdued, however, let that person behave naturally instead of trying to force a bubbly personality that does not exist. As long as the rest of the family has the excitement to make up for the one person who lacks it, you might still have a chance.
Don't stress out about right and wrong answers. You need to take the game seriously, but at the end of the audition, the casting directors will care more about the families whose members stood out than those whose members had all the answers. Being an entertainer is more important than being a genius.
 If the casting directors like what they saw on your audition or in your application, you will receive a card in the mail.


You should receive a card within a month or two of auditioning. If you mailed in an application during an off-season, you may not hear back until several months after the next round of auditioning ends.
If your family does not receive a card in the mail, you were not accepted. You will not receive a formal rejection notice.
 If your family is accepted, the show's producers will book your airfare, hotel, and transportation to Atlanta, Georgia, where the show is filmed. The show will also pay for all the expenses.


The date of the filming will be determined without asking your permission, but if you have extenuating circumstances that prevent your family from flying out on a certain date, you may request that those dates be excluded from selection. For best results, do so before a filming date is chosen for your family.
 If your family is not selected to be on the show, you can still re-apply the following year or any year after.


The only time you cannot re-apply is if one of your teammates appears on the show on another team. No team can have a member who has been on the show within the past ten years.

