 Anyone with a serious chronic disease, suppressed immune system, or skin condition is at risk, as well as people who live or work in close contact with others, such as health care, group home, correctional facilities, etc. Those at higher risk for staph infections include people with:Influenza
Chronic lung disorders, such as cystic fibrosis, chronic bronchitis, or emphysema
Leukemia
Tumors or cancer
A transplanted organ, any implanted medical device, or long-term catheter
Second or third degree burns
Chronic skin disorders
Recent surgical procedures
Dialysis for kidney disease
Diabetes mellitus
Immunosuppressant drugs, such as corticosteroids, who are undergoing cancer chemotherapy, or use injected illegal drugs
Need for radiation therapy

, Staph is spread by direct physical contact with an infected person or a carrier, a contaminated object, or by inhaling droplets spread by sneezing or coughing.A carrier is someone who has the bacteria in his nose or on his skin but does not get infected.
A contaminated object may be a catheter, medical device or equipment, hypodermic needle, gym equipment, telephones, door knobs, among other things.
 There are a number of relatively fast tests for staph infection. Depending on the infection, a skin scraping, blood sample, sputum (mucus from the lungs) sample, or other tissue sample can be tested for staph. Skin infections can usually be diagnosed by a physical examination.


During this process the specific strain of Staph will be determined.
 The strain must be tested to determine which antibiotics, if any, that strain can be killed by. Staph infections are treated with oral, or if there is a serious infection, intravenous (IV) antibiotics. Mild skin infections can be treated with antibiotic ointments. Abscesses are drained. Surgery may be required if a heart valve or bone is infected.


The antibiotics that may be used include vancomycin, linezolid, tedizolid, quinupristin plus dalfopristin, ceftaroline, telavancin, daptomycin, trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole, clindamycin, minocycline, or doxycycline.
There has been a recent increase in the types of staph that are resistant to antibiotics. This is in partially due to the overuse and the misuse of antibiotics., Methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus, or MRSA, is a staph infection that is resistant to antibiotics, and therefore difficult to treat. If it is not treated quickly, MRSA can lead to sepsis, which can cause tissue damage, organ failure, and death.Two in 100 people are carriers of of MRSA and show no signs or symptoms, and if a carrier comes into contact with an open wound or if you share personal items with a carrier, you may be infected.People with MRSA skin infections often think they have been bitten by a spider at first. Signs of a MRSA infection include skin that is red, swollen, painful, warm to the touch, full of pus, and accompanied by a fever.If you show signs of a MRSA infection, cover the infected area with a bandage, and contact your doctor immediately. Early treatment is key in preventing MRSA from becoming severe or developing into sepsis., If you are at risk or start to show symptoms, like boils, or they start to spread, you should see your physician. Since staph can be an extremely contagious and serious infection, it’s better to be safe than to have it get worse.