 There are other ways besides using the internet to determine whether a business is legitimate or not. You can learn a lot about a business by simply visiting its brick and mortar location. Your visit may allow you to communicate directly with management and ownership in order to determine legitimacy.Trade and/or specialty businesses should have their relevant permits, licenses and approved registration documentation clearly on display for customers. If so, check and make sure that these displayed certifications are up to date.
Restaurants should have relevant documentation required by the local Department of Health and Sanitation clearly displayed on the wall. Typically, this type of documentation provides the business with a grade, and the presence of such documentation indicates the legitimacy of the restaurant.
 You can sometimes find the name and information for the person who registered the website, which you may want to use for further research. Determine when the website was created and when it will expire. If it was only created recently and will expire soon, that may point to the website being a temporary cover for a scam.



The International Corporation for Assigned Names and Numbers (ICANN) provides registration authorization for many website domain names and is a great resource for determining who is the actual owner of the business website that you are researching. , Businesses that operate as LLCs, Corporations or under other official business entity vehicles are required to register with the secretary of state where they are operating. Similarly, businesses that pay wages to employees are assigned state and Federal Employer Identification number. A business being listed on a state or federal listing shows that they are likely a reputable business.Review the business's website or promotional materials to see whether they use the phrases “LLC”, “Inc”, “Corp”, in their official business name. If so, you should be able to check secretary of state websites to determine whether the company is properly registered, and thus has the right to use the particular business entity type designation in their name. , The Better Business Bureau (BBB) has both local and national branches that are committed to providing consumers with relevant and useful information regarding businesses operating within their communities. The BBB’s website allows you to search for specific business names, and also provides general information regarding scam and fraud trends.


A lack of a listing on BBB does not automatically mean the business is a scam. In fact ,some BBB listing pages have become a place where consumers can freely voice complaints about the fraudulent nature of a business, as well as past scams that have occurred.
 Some industries have regulatory bodies they are required to register with in order to maintain relevant licenses and certifications. Local and national industry organizations may provide relevant information to the public about its' members and the specific businesses that have successfully registered with the industry organization. .
 Using a company credit report service can allow to determine a company's:


Credit score
Contact details
Financial performance
Governance/leadership structure
Number of years in operation
Past legal judgments brought against the company

