 You can store most of the smaller items in a box, but a backpack or a bag would be better. When collecting items for your kit, remember that the most important things in a dust storm are fresh water, food, clean air, and warmth. Unlike a general emergency kit, the breathing protections are really key. Thus, some items you should include are:A facemask or dense cotton fabric (to protect your breathing)
Airtight goggles (to keep dust out of the eyes)
Non-perishable food
Filled water bottles (3 gallons of water per person)
First aid kit
A blanket or heavy clothes
Self powered weather radio
Flashlight and extra batteries
A list of items to collect from your home (this could include prescription medications and important papers);
, You need to be able to access your emergency supplies quickly when you get a storm warning or the storm hits. This means that your emergency supplies should be stored in a place that you can get to without a lot of trouble. For example, you could put them in a designated spot in your basement, pantry, or garage.


It's a good idea to place your emergency supplies in the space you will go to in an emergency. That way you will not need to move them in order to have access to them when taking shelter.
 Dust from a dust storm can invade your home, making it difficult to breathe even when inside. In order to avoid this if your area is prone to dust storms, make sure your house is well sealed before a storm even hits.Check door and window seals. Make sure they are not damaged and provide a good seal.
Know how to block off all your vents. This could be under-house vents or air-intake vents for your HVAC system.
 Turn on weather radios or go online and check for alerts and warnings. Be aware, though, that most dust storms come without any warnings or signs. This is why it is so important to be prepared for them if you live in an area that have them.


If no warnings or alerts are there, don't think your city is safe from dust storms.
 If you suspect a dust storm is developing then it is important to get your family inside. Hopefully this will be in to your house, where you have your emergency supplies, but it may not be. If a storm is really happening, find the closest building to you and go inside. Taking cover from a developing storm is the best way to prepare for the storm.Make sure that your pets stay indoors during a dust storm as well. If you have animals that can't come in your home, for instance animals that live in barns, try to protect them from the storm as best you can by making sure they have shelter.

