 The first and most obvious condition of a loan for most borrowers is the interest rate. This is the amount of interest that the bank will charge to lend you money. The interest can be considered as the “cost” of getting the loan. A higher interest rate, assuming that all other terms are equal, will cost your business more money.Also, be sure to factor in any associated fees and determine how they relate to the various interest rates offered. A loan with a higher fee and a lower interest rate may end up costing more in total than a loan with no fee but a higher interest rate.


For example, if your business borrows $500,000 for five years at 6% interest, you will wind up repaying $579,984.05. The extra $79,984.05 is the cost that you pay for this loan.
To compare, the same loan of $500,000 for five years at 7% interest will result in a total of $594,035.06. This loan, therefore, has a cost to your business of $94,035.06.
The increase of just 1% would result in a net increased cost to your company of $14,051.01. It pays to shop around and find the lowest interest rate possible.;
, Two types of commercial loan interest rates are available to most borrowers -- adjustable (or variable) and fixed. A fixed rate is a single interest rate that applies consistently for the entire duration of the loan. With a fixed loan, you can calculate the monthly payment and then plan for that payment every month. A fixed rate provides certainty and stability. A variable rate, however, adjusts from month to month based on certain elements in the business world. If the rate goes down, then you can save money. If the rate goes up, you may pay more.An adjustable rate can be a gamble, but it tends to start at a lower position than a fixed rate.
Most adjustable rates will adjust at certain intervals. Determining whether or not an adjustable rate is right for you will depend on when those intervals are and what the adjustment caps are. Frequent adjustments with high caps is the most risky loan type.
 The repayment schedule takes into account both the duration, or “term,” of the loan as well as the amortization schedule. The term of the loan is the length of time from the date you borrow the money until you must repay it in full. The amortization schedule is the theoretical length of time that is used to calculate your monthly payments.


Business loans, in contrast to residential loans, usually have a shorter term and a longer amortization schedule. This will require a balloon payment at the end, which some businesses will pay and others will merely refinance again.
When you are considering the repayment schedule, you will need to consider your ability to make monthly payments. Consider your company’s income. You may be able to negotiate the amortization schedule and the loan term in order to adjust the monthly payments to an acceptable level.
 Banks give loans in order to make money from the interest payments. When a bank gives a loan, it is counting on receiving a certain amount of interest over the life of the loan. If the borrower repays the loan early, this can reduce the bank’s interest income. To account for this, some banks assign a penalty for early payoffs. You should try to negotiate for the right to pay off the loan early, if you think this is a possibility for your business, without such penalty. If the bank requires a penalty clause for early payoffs, then you (either alone or working with your accountant) should calculate the penalty provisions that are most advantageous for your company.Most lenders use a “declining balance” schedule for prepayment penalties. This method charges a fixed percentage of the remaining balance, which declines over time. As a example, you might pay a 5% penalty if you pay off the loan in the first year, but only a 2% penalty if you pay off the loan in the fifth year.
A “yield maintenance” penalty requires the borrower to pay an amount that would be equal to the amount of income that the lender could have earned, if it had collected and reinvested the full amount of the loan interest. This will tend to be higher than the “declining balance” payoff.
A “defeasance clause” penalty requires the borrower to provide additional treasury securities in the amount of the value of the mortgaged property, to secure against early payoff. This provisions serves as a disincentive to pay off the loan prematurely for most borrowers.
 The loan-to-value ratio (LTV) is a calculation that compares the amount of the loan to the value of the property being purchased. Most of the time a borrower will be looking for a specific amount of cash and the lender will try to offer an affordable LTV. Many people are familiar with the 80% LTV that is a common threshold for residential loans. In the business world, the more common level falls between 65% and 80%. , When your business borrows money, the lender is going to require some collateral for the loan. If the loan is to purchase some piece of real estate for your business location, then the collateral is likely to be the property itself. However, if there is a need to cover extra risk, you may be asked to assign some other assets as collateral. This could include your inventory, motor vehicles, equipment or accounts receivable (future income) of your business.Depending on the stability of your business and the amount of the loan that you need, the lender may ask for you to provide some personal property as collateral. This could include your own home or personal property. You should try to avoid this, if possible, or at least limit the amount of your own property that you assign as collateral. This is known as an SBA.
 Business loans are generally divided into two classes: recourse and non-recourse. A recourse loan is one that requires some individual (probably YOU) to sign a personal guarantee in case the business defaults on the loan. A non-recourse loan does not have such a requirement. With a non-recourse loan, the lender may foreclose on the property, but you would not be personally responsible for any deficiency that might remain.If your company is in good standing, has a strong history, and has good financial prospects, then you may be able to convince the lender to give you a non-recourse loan.
Comparing the two options, you should prefer a non-recourse loan over a recourse loan. If two different lenders offer similar loan packages, but one is a recourse loan and one is non-recourse, take the non-recourse loan.
 If you have more than one loan with a lender, the lender may want to cross-collateralize the loans. This ties the collateral of any one loan to the other loans. As a result, a default on one loan would allow the lender to foreclose on any of the collateral.If one lender would require cross-collateralization, while another does not, it may be advantageous to take the loan that does not (assuming other terms are comparable).
Many loans have a provision that does not allow cross-collateralization or if it is allowed a "subordination fee" may be changed.
 A cross-default provision is a clause that lenders may try to include in the loan to provide them with additional protection. If your loan contains a cross-default provision, this links the loan to any other loans or accounts you may have with that lender. The result is that a default on any one of your accounts will constitute a default on the others as well, allowing the lender to increase fees, demand immediate payment, or take some other similar action. You should try to limit or remove any cross-default provisions as much as possible.If the bank insists on the cross-default provisions, then you should at least demand adequate notice and cure rights. These allow you some opportunity to correct a problem in the event of any default that may occur.
 Covenant agreements are terms that are included in a loan that can limit some freedoms in your business operations. For example, the lender may include covenants that limit your ability to incur additional indebtedness, to enter into additional leases or new business agreements without the lender’s approval, or take some other actions that could affect the company’s financial stability. Such covenants can be negotiated at the outset. However, you must be aware of them in any loans you are considering, since failure to abide by such covenants can result in a default on the loan.When comparing two similar loans, the one that requires the fewest operating covenants is generally the preferable loan.
 In some cases, life in the business world needs to move quickly. If you have identified a particular business opportunity, but you need to move quickly, then you may need a loan that can be decided quickly. In general, assuming that you have all the requisite documentation ready and submit your loan application, the time lenders will require to determine whether to grant your loan may vary widely, as few as a single business day but possibly 10 or more. If you need additional documentation or are not very well prepared, this can take longer. If time if of the essence, you may want to ask potential lenders if they can speed up the process for you.For example, when you are having an early conversation with a loan officer at the lending institution, you may ask, "After I submit all my application materials, how long will it take before I have a decision?"
If you need a faster decision, ask, "Is there anything I can do to help the decision process go more quickly?"

, In addition to the interest rate, which is commonly advertised very publicly, many lenders charge a range of fees that are not made as visible. When comparing commercial loans, you will need to ask about the fees that each lender charges, and consider them as part of the cost of the loan. For example, some common commercial loan fees may include the following:Appraisal fee. Depending on the amount of the loan and the classification of the lender, the lender may be required to conduct a formal appraisal of the property. The cost of this appraisal will generally be passed along to the borrower.
Legal fee. In addition to your own lawyer, the lender may require you to pay a legal fee, which covers the cost of the lender’s attorney to prepare the documents for the loan and to conduct the closing.
Loan application fee
Loan origination fee. A loan origination fee is simply a cost, which is often added as a percentage of the amount of the loan. For example, a loan of $1,000,000 could have a 1% origination fee, which results in a cost of $10,000 that must be paid as a cost of getting the loan. This is commonly referred to as paying "points."
Survey fee. This generally accompanies an appraisal fee, to allow the lender to verify the legal identification of the property that is being purchased.
 All other things being equal, try to find a lender that understands your business and has a history of working with similar operations. You can find information about many banks and lenders at the federal FDIC website, www.fdic.gov. Read the lender’s annual or quarterly reports to see what other types of businesses they work with and to review the lender’s own financial stability.For a small business that is borrowing a modest amount of money, you can probably use most local banks. As the size of your business and amount of the loan increase, then you may need to consider a larger lending institution.
 Visit the bank, brokerage or lender and meet directly with a loan officer. Ask any questions that you may have. For most residential mortgage loans, the homeowner will get the loan, simply mail in a monthly check, and have limited interaction with anyone at the bank. However, because business operations can fluctuate monthly or even weekly, you may need a lender with whom you can establish a more personal relationship. Consider asking any of the following questions:"How does this bank handle a loan with a large LTV ratio? What is the largest amount I can borrow for the property I am buying?"
"If my store's sales go down for a month, what is the bank's policy about giving me a grace period for my monthly payment?"
"How many other companies do you lend to who are in the same business I am?"
What fees do you charge - is there an option to waive any of those fees? How is the interest rate affected if the fees are waived?
How long does the process take?
What other types of collateral will be required?

