 You can find pebbles for purchase at lawn and garden stores, and pool and pet stores.These pebbles will be of a wide variety of types and prices. Find the best one to match your needs.Types of stones available as pebbles include: Marble pebbles, which are pink, white, black yellow and brown.
Limestone pebbles, which show up in natural colors such as tan, black, white and brown.
Granite pebbles, which are pink and red in color.
You can also search riverbeds and streams for unique pebbles to use as accents.
 You can use flat pebbles, round or elliptical shapes, or combine many different types.The different pebble types will work better depending on your environment and pebbling plan.


Pea gravel, river rock, crush granite, and Mexican beach pebbles all offer different textures. Find different pebbles that work best for your garden environment and look., You can use one pebble color and shape, or can mix up up many different shades and textures in the garden. Plan out your design before pebbling the garden.If a less natural, and more polished look is desired in the garden, use monochrome stones in onyx or white for a brighter, refined appearance. These are available at landscaping stores and are more uniform in size and shape.
You can also make a pebble mosaic, where you combine a variety of different pebbles into one pattern. This can create a fun and interesting look for your garden.Some other pebble design options include blurring the boundaries boundaries of your pebble garden with plants, combining different sized stones, and adding a rock border. Try to find the best one that suits your particular garden., Pebbles can be heavy, especially if you are buying enough to pebble a large section of a garden. Make sure you have a good way to transport the pebbles from the store or environment, as well as some help when carrying them to your pebble garden.


If you are gathering the pebbles from the natural environment, like riverbeds and streams, use a wheelbarrow to get the pebbles to the place where they will be laid.
If you are buying them from a store, have someone help you transport them. Many bags of pebbles can be tiring to carry alone.

