 The notion that baking soda can help to get rid of pimples has been around for some time, and although this simple home remedy may not be as effective as some of the professional acne-treating products on the market, it still has its benefits.


Baking soda is amphoteric - which means that it can operate as either an acid or a base. In this way, it can help to neutralize any pH imbalances on the skin. pH imbalances on the skin are a common cause of acne.
Baking soda helps to dry the skin, removing the excess oil which leads to blackheads and breakouts. It also has mild anti-inflammatory and antiseptic properties, which help to reduce the size of pimples.
When mixed with water, baking soda forms a fine, gritty paste which helps to clean and exfoliate the skin, removing oil, dirt and dead skin cells.;
, Baking soda can also be very drying and sometimes causes redness and irritation in people with sensitive skin.


Therefore it is a good idea to test out the baking soda treatment on a small patch of skin before applying it all over the face. If you experience any negative side effects, do not continue
Even if you do not experience any negative side effects, you should avoid using baking soda too regularly. Over time, the baking soda can upset the pH balance of your skin, potentially leading to bacteria growth and more pimples.
Therefore, baking soda should be used on the skin no more than twice per week.
 Mix two tablespoons of baking soda with two tablespoons of water to form a smooth paste.









Cleanse and dry your face thoroughly, then apply the baking soda paste to any pimples. If any of the pimples are open, this could sting a little.
Leave the spot treatment to sit on the pimples for 15 minutes, then rinse off. Some people leave the baking soda on their pimples overnight, but this can be very drying on the skin, so exercise caution.
Moisturize your face after using the baking soda treatment., Mix two tablespoons of baking soda with two tablespoons of water (or more if necessary) and add a teaspoon of fresh lemon juice.









Thoroughly cleanse and dry your face, then apply a light layer of the baking soda mask all over your face. It may tingle or sting slightly.
Leave the mask to sit for 10 to 15 minutes, then rinse off with warm water. Your skin may appear quite red afterwards, but this will fade shortly. Make sure to moisturize after using the mask., Mix two tablespoons of baking soda with two tablespoons of water until it forms a smooth paste. Add a dash of lemon juice, if you like. (The citric acid in the lemon juice also acts as an exfoliator and helps to dry out pimples.









Dampen your face with warm water and apply the baking soda paste to the skin. Gently massage the paste into the skin using small circular motions - avoid scrubbing too hard.
Wash the paste off your face using warm water and a washcloth. Your face will be red and glowing afterwards. Apply a good moisturizer to the skin.
 If you suffer from acne on the skin of your back or chest, you can benefit from taking a bath with baking soda.

Sprinkle half a cup of baking soda into your warm bathwater (don't use any bubble bath) and stir with your hand to combine.
Hop into the tub and try to stay there for at least 15 to 20 minutes. Rinse yourself off in the shower following the bath.
The baking soda will help to prevent breakouts and minimize blackheads on the back, chest and any other acne-prone areas of the body.