 A recent study concluded that while rare, the frequent use of talc around a woman’s genital area can be associated with an increased risk of ovarian cancer by about 20-30%.An opinion prepared for a civil lawsuit concluded the same.Overall, the use of talc is a smaller risk for ovarian cancer as compared to obesity, the use of hormone replacement therapy, and family history, but is does appear to be real.
The International Agency for Research on Cancer, a division of the World Health Organization, has talc listed as a possible carcinogen., Talcum powder is found in many baby powders and may pose a risk for your baby. The main danger for children is inhalation of the talcum powder dust, which can cause problems. Infants are especially at risk.Inhaling talcum powder may cause coughing, eye and throat irritation, difficulty breathing, wheezing, shallow breaths, chest pain, lung failure, diarrhea, vomiting, and even urinary or circulatory problems. In severe cases, comas or fever may occur.
You can buy talc-free baby powders, use an alternative, or skip the powder all together and use creams or ointments.
 Decades ago, some talc products also contained asbestos, a known carcinogen. Today, products sold in the US and in many other parts of the world are not allowed to include asbestos as an ingredient and are tested to determine if asbestos is a contaminant.Since the 1960’s, there have been concerns that asbestos-contaminated talcum powder may be associated with cancer, particularly ovarian cancer in women who used talc around the genital area.
Recently, a study was conducted by the FDA to survey “currently marketed cosmetic-grade raw material talc, as well as some cosmetic products containing talc” for contamination with asbestos.The study ran for a year, and the results found no talc products contaminated with asbestos.
The FDA, however, was only able to test four separate talc suppliers, and a larger number of personal care products. The results were considered informative but not definitive.

