 You can create, big, soft “beach curls” without heat or rollers by twisting your hair and putting it into buns. For this method, you will need hair ties, hair spray, and bobby pins.Start with damp hair. You can either spritz your hair with a spray bottle, or let it partially air dry after you wash it.
Use hair ties to divide your hair into four roughly equal sections: two low ponytails at the back, and two pigtails higher up on the sides of your head.
Tightly twist each section in whichever direction you prefer. Twisting the sections in different directions from each other will create a more natural effect.
Coil each twisted section into a tight bun, and pin it in place with bobby pins.
Blow dry each bun until completely dry, or allow the hair to air dry completely.
Release each section, and gently loosen the curls with your fingers once your hair is completely cool.
Use a little hair spray to lock in the style.
 You can create ringlets or waves by twisting your hair around a soft, cloth headband. For this technique, you will need one or two headbands, a spray bottle for water, hair spray, and a hair texturizer.Part your hair into two sections on either side of your head, then gently place the headband around the top of your head. Slide it down so that it rests just above your ears.
Dampen each section of hair slightly with a spray bottle, starting at the tops of your ears.
Begin twisting the hair on one side. Once you’ve twisted a little bit of hair, wrap the twisted portion around the headband. Make the first wrap just behind your ear. Twist a little more, then create another wrap next to the first.
Continue until you have wrapped the entire section around the headband. Then repeat with the other section. The smaller you make each wrap, the tighter your curls will be.
Spray your hair with hairspray while it is still wrapped around the headband.
Allow the hair to air dry for a few hours, or dry with a blow dryer.
Once your hair is dry, release the twisted sections from the headband. Loosen your curls with your fingers, and scrunch with a small amount of hair texturizer.
 The simplest approach to creating twist curls involves making a few twisted sections and tying them together with elastic hair ties.Apply a little hair spray or other styling product to your slightly damp hair.
Part your hair down the middle and divide it into four sections: two behind your ears, and two in front of your ears.
Take hold of the ends of the two back sections and twist them toward each other until the entire length of both sections is twisted. Then fasten the twisted sections together with a hair elastic.
Repeat with the two front sections. Fasten the sections together behind your head with a hair elastic once you are finished twisting them.
Once your hair is completely dry, release the sections and gently open up the waves by shaking them out or combing through them with your fingers.

