 Only take prescribed dosage of Armour thyroid. Never increase or decrease your dose of Armour thyroid without discussing it with your physician. An overdose is possible and can be very dangerous, especially if there is any underlying heart condition.Overdosing on any thyroid HRT can cause hyperthyroidism, and in severe cases, coma and death.
 Armour thyroid should not be used to treat obesity. it has been shown to be ineffective for weight loss in people with TSH levels in the normal range.Large doses or using it when your levels are fine may cause serious or life-threatening side effects.
 Keep in mind that Armour thyroid is derived from pigs. If you have any allergies to pigs, or any religious or philosophical objections to using products from pigs, the synthetic alternative may be better for you.Synthetic thyroid hormone replacements are man-made. They have only T4 in them instead of both T3 and T4. Most physicians prefer to prescribe synthetic thyroid hormones because they believe synthetic thyroid hormones are safer.
 While most people take the same dose for long periods of time, even for life, you should always be aware of possible side effects of high levels of thyroid hormone. These include chest pain, fast, pounding, or irregular heartbeat, swelling hands, ankles, or feet, and seizures. If you experience any of these symptoms, seek medical help immediately.Other symptoms can include increased sweating, sensitivity to heat, mental or mood changes such as nervousness or mood swings, fatigue, diarrhea, shaking, headaches, and shortness of breath.
Some patients may experience other side effects. If you experience any side effects, go to the doctor immediately.
 Any form of thyroid medication can interact with many different medications. Always tell your physician about all medications that you are taking. In some cases, dosage needs to be changed, and in other cases, the medications need to be taken at different times.If you take an anticoagulant (blood thinner), your blood clotting needs to be monitored and the dose of Armour may need to be adjusted.
Armour thyroid may interact with insulin or anti-diabetes medications.
Cholestyramine and colestipol, which are used to treat high cholesterol and other conditions, should be taken at least four to six hours apart from Armour or any thyroid HRT.
If you take estrogen or oral contraceptives, the dose of Armour or any thyroid HRT may need to be increased.

