 A musical hipster only listens to select artists and stays away from what’s currently popular. If you have a very specific musical taste, consider yourself somewhat of a musical snob, and do your best to discover obscure music that suits your taste, you may be a musical hipster.

You may enjoy vinyl records and actually be on your way to becoming an accomplished musician. If you are in several bands and enjoy experimenting with sound, you may also be a musical hipster.
 Political hipsters have a cause or distinct political view. Keep up to date with both local, national, and world politics if you want to be associated as a political hipster. Keep yourself informed and take a stance when necessary.

The Occupy Wall Street movement could be seen as a political hipster movement.
 Artistic hipsters enjoy expressing themselves through a variety of medium. Whether you enjoy poetry, painting, photography or just creating art, express yourself.Artistic hipsters want to express themselves as individuals. They may have tattoos, piercings, and coloured hair.
Hipsters are often categorized as creative types. Many of their jobs may be associated as being creative like designers, bartenders, or writers. You may look into freelancing to help fund your artistic endeavors.You may see many hipsters at coffee shops are as servers.
 Just like it sounds, ‘adorkable’ is the combination of being adorable and a dork. You may wear cute glasses and have sci-fi posters. The actress Zooey Deschanel can be inspiration as she is often described as adorkable.Having a tattoo of a mustache on your finger or wearing quirky t-shirts are often associated with being adorkable.
 Find other people who you think are hipsters. You may have a neighbourhood in your city, store in downtown, or club at school that seems very hipster. Join the conversation and see what inspires them and what catches your favour.Look on social media or forums to find like-minded individuals. You can also check out record stores, coffee shops, or art galleries as these are common interests of hipsters.
 Take up a social cause or inform yourself about politics and social issues. Hipsters value their role in society or want to effect change in the community. Have a stance and strengthen your voice when necessary.
 Hipsters are very media savvy. Whether it’s pursuing a career in media or developing an analytical eye, make sure that you understand the role media plays in the your life.


Have a strong social media presence and read blogs and forums that interest you. Participate in dialogue with other hipsters about topics that interest you like music or cinema.
 Let irony inform your style and your sensibilities. You may also use sarcasm when speaking. Irony is easily expressed with funny t-shirts or in your social media presence. Make sure you get the right context to express irony properly., You may incorporate hip hop, skateboard, or preppy styles into your own. There are no rules for becoming a hipster. Discover what appeals to you and bring it into your sensibilities. , If you are male, don’t be afraid to wear clothes or take up hobbies associated with females. Likewise, females should feel free to take up style choices and interests more closely associated with men.


For example, women can wear baggy plaid shirts and enjoy beer and men can wear skinny jeans and enjoy making jewelry.

