 The old "turn it off and on again" trick isn't the answer to all of your problems, but it will reset the computer's RAM cache, which--when full--can cause performance issues. Additionally, restarting your computer after it has been on for several days is both helpful for system speed and good for the computer's overall health., Having anything running in the background will detract from the amount of RAM and processing speed which your computer can dedicate to your game; this isn't a huge deal if you simply have Minesweeper or Tetris minimized while you're playing a game, but having multiple programs open at once will certainly impact your games' frame rates--especially on a low-end system.You can close background apps and processes on Windows by pressing Ctrl+⇧ Shift+Esc, clicking a program in the window that pops up, and then clicking End Task.
You can close background apps and process on a Mac by pressing ⌘ Command+⌥ Option+Esc, clicking a program in the window that pops up, and then clicking Force Quit.
 If your computer is outdated to the point that it isn't able to run your games well, updating to the latest version of MacOS or Windows isn't going to fix the games' performance--in fact, it may cause more problems since your computer's processor and RAM will have to dedicate more power to sustaining the operating system.
 If you're just experiencing problems with one specific game--especially if it's a new game that just released--look to see if there's a recommended patch or update for the game. Sometimes, PC games will launch with locked frame rates or other bugs that prevent the game from reaching an acceptable FPS speed.Counter to your computer's operating system, you should always keep your games up-to-date, since developers will often release periodic performance improvements and tweaks.
 If your computer has space for extra RAM cards (or can replace your current RAM cards with better ones), consider taking your computer into a technology department to have professionals add it for you. RAM is by far the easiest (and cheapest) upgrade you can perform, and having more of it will decrease a running game's impact on your computer's overall memory consumption.If your computer's processor is severely outdated, adding RAM won't help prevent lag, as the processor is likely the problem.
Before purchasing RAM, talk to a tech department employee or look up your computer's make and model number to see which types of RAM it supports.
 One way to improve a game's performance is by toning down its graphical settings; while this will noticeably reduce your game's visual presentation, it will also reduce the amount of information on the screen, thereby allowing a faster FPS rate.


If the game with which you're experiencing trouble is an online-based game, you must be connected to the Internet to continue.
 You can typically access game settings from the game's home screen, though you may first have to choose a profile.


This may be called Options, Game Options, or something similar on some games.
 This area is where you can control the game's display. By lowering certain settings in the Video menu, you will greatly increase your game's performance.


You may also see a Graphics option here. If so, some of the settings covered here may be in the Graphics menu instead of the Video menu.
 Some games have an overall quality setting that can be turned down to "Low"; this is by far the easiest and quickest way to lower your game's graphical complexity and raise your game's frame rate.


Some games don't have this option. If you can't find a "Quality" item, don't worry--just proceed to the next step.
 You'll need to lower your game's textures' quality to "Low" if possible. Doing so will remove some of the fine detailing in your game, but your frame rate will increase as a result.
 You should turn shadows off entirely if this option is available. Naturally, doing this will remove the shadows from your game, but the positive effect on your frame rate will surpass the negative effect on the game's appearance.
 Anti-aliasing smooths the edges of hard lines and intersecting polygons (e.g., stairs or walls). Especially in newer games, disabling this option won't make a huge, noticeable difference in visual presentation, but it will likely increase your game's performance.
 Few games have the exact same Settings menu entries, but you should look for some of the following items:



Shaders - These effects create a sense of detail and dimensionality. Set any shaders to "Low" or "Off".

Particles - Things like smoke, sparks, and fire. Your particles should be set to "Low" or "Off" for best results.

Fog, Draw Distance, View Distance, Horizon, etc. - Any setting which pertains to the maximum viewable distance in-game. Lowering this setting will greatly increase performance on a low-end system, though it might adversely affect gameplay for games like multiplayer first-person shooters wherein other players can see farther than you can.

Water Quality - Pertains to water animations. This may be a setting you wish to leave alone on some games, though it's generally okay to turn down to "Low" for first-person shooters and RPGs.

Lighting Quality - This setting often works in conjunction with the "Shadows" setting, and is sometimes called "Dynamic Lighting". Turning it down to "Low" or "Off" will increase your game's FPS.
 Doing so will save your changes and apply them to your game, though you may have to restart the game (or your browser if it's an online-based game) before the changes take place. Your game should now be running better than it was before.


If your game runs flawlessly after making these adjustments, you can go back and bump up the settings to add back in some of the game's original detail if you like.

