 You will need about a cup and a half of blueberries, 1 ½ teaspoons of baking powder, 1 teaspoon of vanilla extract, ½ teaspoon of salt, 2 eggs, 1 ½ cups of milk, 1 ½ cups of flour, and 3 tablespoons of melted butter.You will also need two large bowls and a whisk.


Melt the butter by microwaving it in a microwave safe container for thirty seconds.
You can use fresh or frozen blueberries. Thaw the frozen blueberries by letting them sit in the refrigerator for a few hours.;
, First, mix the salt, baking powder, and flour into a large bowl. If you’re worried about the mixture clumping, use a sifter to mix the dry ingredients.Hold the sifter over the bowl. Pour in each dry ingredient, shaking the sifter back and forth to create a powder in the bowl.


If you have two bowls of different sizes, use the larger bowl to mix the dry ingredients.
 In a separate bowl, mix together the melted butter, eggs, milk, and vanilla extract. You can use a whisk or an electric beater. Beat the mixture until the eggs are completely combined.


The melted butter should be hot, but not so hot that you can’t touch it. Otherwise, it will cook the eggs as you mix them.
 There shouldn’t be any flour on sides of the bowl or lumps in the batter.After you’re done mixing the batter, you can either fold in the blueberries or wait to add them until you cook the pancake.


If you fold in the blueberries, the blueberries will be unevenly distributed. Many cooks prefer to add the blueberries later to control the blueberry-to-pancake ratio.
 Cover the batter with plastic and leave it on your counter. If possible, let it rest for one hour.This will aerate the batter and create fluffy, tall pancakes. However, the pancakes will still be delicious if you decide to start cooking immediately.
 You can use a frying pan or a large griddle to cook pancakes. Grease the pan with a pastry brush dipped in melted butter. Alternatively, use cooking spray to grease the pan.If you’re using a non-stick pan, use a small amount of butter to grease the pan instead of cooking spray., Use a quarter-cup measure to scoop batter onto the pan.This will make medium-sized pancakes. The larger your pan, the more pancakes you’ll be able to cook at once.


Don’t crowd the pancakes. If you place them too closely together, they will melt into one giant pancake.
 Distribute the blueberries evenly throughout the pancake and press them gently into the batter.
 Look for cooked, dry edges and small popped bubbles in the surface of the pancake batter. You can also gently lift the edge of the pancake with a spatula to see if the bottom is golden-brown. These are signs that your pancake is ready to flip.Slide a spatula underneath the pancake and carefully flip it over to cook the other side.


The cooked side of the pancake should be a light golden color. If it’s too dark, reduce the heat on the pan or cook the pancakes for less time.
If the pan is giving off smoke but the pancake is still doughy and hard to flip, you need to reduce the heat.
 Line a large plate with paper towels. Once the other side of the pancake has cooked for a few minutes, use a spatula to transfer it to the plate. Make sure the blueberry side of the pancake is facing upwards and the non-blueberry side is against the paper towel.
 Blueberry pancakes can be topped with a variety of delicious spreads. The most popular serving method involves slathering butter on the hot pancakes and pouring over thick maple syrup. Some other popular toppings include:



whipped creamlemon curdfresh blueberries
powdered sugar
pancake syrup
blueberry syrup

, Place a tray of pancakes in the middle of your table. Next, arrange serving dishes with the different topping options and a small spoon. If you have other breakfast dishes such as eggs or bacon, place these on the table as well. Your diners can serve themselves pancakes and top them with whatever they’d like.


If you don’t have room on your table, place the serving dishes on your counter. Your guests can serve themselves in line and sit at the table to eat.
 This option is good for a fancy brunch. Place two or three pancakes on each plate. Next, place a square of butter at the center of each stack. Add your other toppings to the pancakes as the butter melts.


Add powdered sugar after you’ve poured on the syrup. Otherwise, the syrup will absorb the powdered sugar.

