 This should be non-slip and soft but supportive. Firm (but not hard) earth or the surface of an arena or indoor school is fine. Find a level surface, neither up or downhill, for minimum impact on the limbs.


Avoid hard surfaces such as tarmac or concrete, since these have no "give" and the concussive force of the hoof hitting the ground will be transmitted back up through the limb and possibly worsen the injury.
A softer more supportive surface has a greater cushioning effect and absorbs some of those concussive forces. However, avoid excessively soft substrates such as muddy ground, since these tug and pull on the leg and are hard work for the horse to walk on and maintain balance. , While it might seem obvious how to lead and hand walk a horse, you need to address safety factors before walking an injured horse. This includes having the right equipment for the type of injury your horse has and for their temperament.


The halter: For docile horses a halter is sufficient restraint but make sure it is in good repair with no frays or tears that could break if the horse pulls hard. Also, make sure it is a good fit and not too loose so that the horse can pull out of it.The lead rope: Again, make sure it is in good repair and not liable to snap when put under force. Twisted cotton or nylon rope is a good choice for a lead rope, but these can cause friction burns if pulled through your hands so it's best to wear gloves.
Never loop the rope around your hand, since if the horse pulls the tightening looks could break your fingers. Instead, with the horse to your right, hold the rope about a foot below the buckle in your right hand, allow some slack rope and grip the far end with your left hand. This allows you to let go with your right hand if necessary, without letting go of the horse. Do not be tempted just to hold the halter. If the horse jerks its head up this could dislocate your shoulder., Consider taking the horse out before a feed, then he's more likely to stop and graze than want to tank off and pull you over. While this is not ideal from the walking aspect, the horse is at least out of his stall and taking some gentle exercise as he steps forward to graze. , If all else fails, and your horse it too active, speak to your vet about sedating the horse. Vets can give you a mild sedative such as Acepromazine (ACP) to keep the horse calm. However, sedating your horse on a regular basis is not ideal. All drugs have side effects and ACP lowers blood pressure, which can in elderly animals carries a small risk of compromising kidney function.


The sedative effect can also make a horse more dozy, which makes it more liable to trip and fall.
Never use ACP in breeding stallions as it causes paraphimosis, or prolapse of the penis, with possible trauma to the penile tissues.
Also, the sedative action is not guaranteed and can go the other way and make some horses hyperactive and uncontrollable.Only give ACP as directed by your veterinarian and follow their dose recommendation. Horses vary in size and the recommended of dose of ACP varies according to the desired effect, so never give ACP without consulting your vet first. Take their advice on dosage, depending on the size, health and age of your animal, plus their temperament and the desired effect.