 There are many ways you can fasten or position something to hold your phone upright to help you use it while cooking. Then, you can prop your phone up where you can easily see it. This will limit the amount you have to touch your phone and reduce the risk of dirtying or damaging it.You can likely use something you already have. For instance, you can quickly and easily fashion a stand out of cardboard, a plastic cup, or even paper clips.
Bending a coat hanger into a stand is another great option, as it can be adjusted to hold your phone in different locations.Even while using something to prop your phone up, be sure to set it out of harm's way.
 Aside from touching your phone with dirty hands, another common risk to your phone in the kitchen is spilling. To reduce the likelihood of spilling on or near your phone, avoid placing it on the same surface you're using to cook. For instance, if you're mixing up some batter on the counter, open the cabinet above and set your phone on one of the shelves.


You can even lean your phone against a stack of plates or whatever else in the cabinet to provide easy viewing. Alternatively, you could also grab a box of cereal from the cupboard and set it wherever you're cooking to hold your phone off of the cooking surface.
If you accidentally spill a liquid ingredient on the counter, it won't submerge or seep onto your phone.
 There are likely stands that are designed specifically to hold your phone. One advantage these have is that they often hold your phone off of the surface on which you rest the stand. As such, not only will you be able to easily read from your phone or otherwise use it, it will also be better protected from spills.


If you want to use your phone for audio while cooking, consider purchasing a speaker dock that you can plug your phone into. Some of these are even damage resistant, though they are likely best positioned in a place where they cannot be spilled upon.
 An especially helpful feature in your kitchen may be a custom built holder for your phone. If you tend to work in the same location, think about whether you could mount a small box or other type of holder where you could easily see it.For instance, mount a small box or tray above your cutting board or prep station.
You can easily screw a small plastic box directly into a wooden cabinet for instance. The degree of craftsmanship - and the location - is entirely up to you.

