 The System Restore tool can restore your computer to any of the available restore points. Any settings, installations, and other changes that occurred between the restore point and the present will be rolled back, but your files will not be affected. This means that while System Restore can quickly fix problems with programs and settings, it cannot be used to retrieve documents and files. Accessing System Restore is slightly different for different versions of Windows, but the tool is the same:


Windows 8 – Open the Start screen and type “recovery”. Select “Recovery” from the list of search results. This will open the Recovery window. From there, click the “Open System Restore” link.
Windows 7 and Vista – Click Start and type “restore” into the Search box. Select “System Restore” from the top of the search results list.
Windows XP – Click Start and then select All Programs → Accessories → System Tools. Click on System Restore.;
, Windows will automatically select the most recent restore point in which something was installed or changed. The change will be displayed underneath the date the point was created. If you want to select a different point, click the bottom option and click Next. You will be provided a list of available points with a short description of what occurred to create the restore point. The number of points available will depend on your restore point creation settings.


For more details about what will be affected by the restore, select a point from the list and click the “Scan for affected programs” button. This will open a window which will display all of the currently-installed programs and drivers that will be deleted and currently-uninstalled programs and drivers that will be restored by this restore point.
Check the “Show more restore points” box to display points that Windows thinks are less useful.
The interface for Windows XP is different than Vista-8. You will need to manually choose which restore point to use from a calendar interface. Each point will have a short description as to why it was created., When you select your point, you will be given one more chance to ensure that you want to proceed. Review the point you selected and click the “Finish” button and then “Yes” to start the restore.
 Your system will reboot and the restore process will begin. Be patient, as the restore process can take a while to complete. Once the restore is finished, Windows will load and you will be shown a message confirming that the restore was successful.
 Once the restore is complete, you can go back to using Windows as you normally would. Check to see if the problems you were encountering still occur. If you want to use restored programs, you will most likely need to reinstall them.

