 Children with ADHD usually have lower serotonin and dopamine levels. A change in diet can sometimes improve those deficiencies to some extent. A diet rich in complex carbohydrates can increase serotonin for improved mood, sleep, and appetite.Feed your child complex carbohydrates like whole grains, green vegetables, starchy vegetables, and beans.All these release energy gradually, rather than all at once like simple sugars.;
, A protein-rich diet may improve your child's ability to focus. Prepare meals that include several proteins over the course of the day to keep dopamine levels high.Proteins include meat, fish, and nuts. Some protein-rich foods like legumes and beans double as complex carbohydrates., Some research suggests that zinc may help counteract hyperactivity.Make sure your child gets plenty of this important mineral.


Seafoods, poultry, and fortified cereals are all good choices for boosting you child's zinc intake. Zinc supplements may also be effective.
 Some spices also have helpful properties. Specifically, Saffron counters depression, while cinnamon helps with attention., Just as some foods are helpful in controlling ADHD, others can worsen the situation. Specifically, avoid the following:


Simple sugars. Simple sugars like those found in candy and soda create a burst of energy and a serotonin spike. Your child should eat foods that help maintain stable levels, as complex carbohydrates do.Bad fats. Avoid serving your child fats such as those found in trans fats and fried foods, burgers, and pizzas. Instead, pick foods rich in omega-3 fats like salmon, walnuts, and avocados.These fats may actually help lower hyperactivity while improving organizational skills.
Dyes and food coloring. Some studies suggest there may be link between food dyes and ADHD symptoms. Red dyes in particular may be an issue.Wheat, dairy, and processed foods. These foods make up a big part of most American's diets, so you may not be able to cut them out all together. Some studies suggest, however, that limiting your child's intake of these foods may help.