 If you want to pose like a model, do not look directly into the camera. When posing as a model, you'll rarely be striking a pose where your head is pointed directly at the camera. You'll usually have your face turned away slightly. Therefore, it can look unnatural to have your eyes pointed at the camera.It's a good rule of thumb to follow your nose with your eyes. Look straight out over your nose. This will make your gaze look natural.Many people feel they look somewhat bug-eyed when gazing directly at the camera, especially if their head is turned to the side. You also may feel more self conscious when staring at the camera, which can affect your expression in subtle, unconscious ways.;
, If you raise your chin forward slightly, and then tip it downward, this elongates your neck and makes your jawline more pronounced. This can be a slimming look that highlights your facial features.








However, if you're posing from a side profile, this method can make you look like a turtle poking its head out of its shell. Hold your head in a more natural position for side profile shots., If you don't plan on smiling in a photo, open your mouth slightly. This is a small change, but one that can completely alter the feel of a photograph. If your mouth is closed, your jawline can clench. The expression can also look bored and neutral. Opening your mouth gives the picture an intimate, inviting feel.You do not need to open your mouth too much. This can look forced or unnatural. Just open your mouth slightly, parting your lips by less than a centimeter. The effect will be subtle, but can change the tone of a photo drastically.
If you choose to smile for a picture instead, go for a natural smile. Try to think of a happy moment or funny memory to try and provoke a smile.
 It's important you look as slim and stretched out as possible in a model photograph. Therefore, try to elongate your neck when the picture is being taken. Depending on the angle, your neck can easily look smaller and shorter than normal on camera. Stretching your neck outward can prevent this problem.Before the picture is taken, raise your head upward. You may even want to turn your face up slightly.
If you're looking to the side in a picture, try looking up a little. This can stretch your neck out, creating a slimming appearance.

