 Love is a strong predictor of well-being.Relationships in general are so crucial to our sense of well-being.We need mutually satisfying friendships and relationships with family in order to be happy; this is what makes us human.Happy people tend to be more social than unhappy people. So get out there and socialize.
If you feel uncomfortable or anxious meeting new people, spend time with others you already know and feel safe around. You can build your confidence from there and work up to talking to unknown individuals. Tell yourself, "Strangers are just friends I haven't met yet."
Remember that it is more important to have close relationships with others instead of having many acquaintances that you don’t know very well. It’s about quality over quantity. So cultivate and tend to the friendships you already have.
Understand that relationships are about give and take, or reciprocity. Sometimes you have to make compromises. Be agreeable, flexible, and willing to shift if you need to. But, avoid compromising your values in any way or engaging in risky situations.
Give affection and have positive intimacy with others. Share your thoughts and feelings with friends you you trust. Don’t isolate yourself when you are feeling sad or frustrated. If you need some time alone, that is fine, but remember to get social support afterwards.
 Negative people and their negative thoughts may block you mentally and bring negativity into your life. Toss their way of life aside as you would a bad piece of candy, and enmesh yourself with people who have the way to enjoy life and living and will share happiness with others.


Set boundaries with people who cause you grief. Say, “No” when you need to.
Take some time to consider leaving relationships or friends that are destructive to your send of well-being or happiness.
 Pleasure is an important component of happiness and life satisfaction.Surround yourself with the right activities and the right people that bring opportunities for happiness into your life.
Being active is correlated with happiness levels.Try fun exercise ideas like: hiking, kayaking, canoeing, fishing, gardening, dancing, kickboxing, or doing yoga.
Engage in pleasurable leisure activities.Some examples include: watching movies, writing, painting, playing music, sewing, knitting, and reading.
Focusing on experiences rather than on material possessions may increase your happiness.Instead of buying a new car, perhaps travel to another country. Objects will fade and break, while memories can last a very long time and experiences can shape who you are.
 Being concerned with the welfare of other people and acts of kindness can increase happiness.So, be positive in your thoughts and actions by sharing with and helping others. There are so many ways to help others, so find ways to benefit their lives: at the same time you will feel the joy inside of you by doing this for the betterment of others.


Spending money on others increases happiness.Buy a homeless person something to eat.
Be empathic and put yourself in someone's shoes. Sometimes a listening ear to a troubled heart is all that is needed.
Help others who need help by volunteering at a local service organization or hospital. For example, you could serve at a food kitchen, or help build a house for tragedy survivors.

