 It is possible to get some clues from what he or she teaches. It may also be a good idea to give something useful to your teacher. For instance, writing materials will be of use to your teacher since teachers usually have to mark many assignments.;
, For example, one traditional gift for a teacher is an apple. You could buy an apple shaped foam/polystyrene ball and create a glitter apple.
 Teachers tend to receive many gifts from many students. Making your gift stand out and creative using glitter will show your teacher that you have put in great effort and will surely make his or her day.
 (See the Things You'll Need list below).
 This will prevent the glitter getting all over the place.
 Make sure you have covered only the wooden part of the pencil.
 Ensure that just the right amount of glue is used. Too much glue will make it hard for the surface of the pencil to dry later on, causing the surface of the pencil to be sticky. You will not want your teacher's fingers to be stuck to the surface of the pencil while using it! Too little glue will make it hard for the glitter to stay on the surface of the pencil, which may then fall off when your teacher is using it.
 Make sure the glitter covers the pencil entirely. Another method is to pour the glitter into a small tray and dip the pencil into the tray to cover it with glitter.
 Once the pencil is dry, shake off the excess glitter. Tapping the pencil over a blank sheet of paper (gently of course), will take off all excess glitter.


The same steps can be carried out for pens too!

, (See the Things You'll Need list below). Cover your work surface with newspaper.
 You can use cardboard, construction paper, or cardstock.
, You can also cut it to different shapes (a heart or apple shape, for example).
 Use pens, pencils or markers for this.


Typical messages might be: Thank You! or Happy Teachers' Day!

Designs can be zig-zags, swirls, racing stripes, hearts - let your teacher's likes and the occasion guide your imagination.


Sprinkle glitter over the glue while it's wet.
Add other decorations using ribbon, adhesive jewels, stickers, etc.
