 Your poem might rhyme, but it doesn't have to. A good Gothic poem is built on images, emotions and theme rather than formally structured rhymes.Don't worry if it doesn't come out perfectly the first time. The main thing is to write it down, and then go back and revise until it sounds like you want it to.
Allow your poem to be irrational and strange if you like. The Gothic tradition relies on the human unconscious to draw forth its best manifestation.
 Your first line should attract the reader's attention and invite her to read the rest of the poem. A good first line will usually include a powerful image, and introduce themes that will be continued through the rest of the poem.


For instance, your first line might be, "Only a simple sheet of white could say/what the emptiness of her heart was like." This introduces an image (a white sheet, either paper or shroud) and a theme (emptiness, heart - or emotions) and also a main character (a woman or girl).
There are no easy rules for making a first line compelling, so just do your best.
 Details make a poem more engaging and intimate. The more clearly you can describe the things found within your poem, the more the reader will be captured by your imagery.For example, writing that it was a cold morning is not as clear as writing that the "streetlights were filtered with ice, and every living thing seemed to be shielded by a cloud of her breath."
Try writing about something familiar as if you've never seen it before.
 There are many familiar phrases which should be avoided, not because they aren't true but because they're so familiar that the reader will be bored. For example, if you write about a heart, don't say the heart was weary or broken. Don't write, "Absence makes the heart grow fonder." If it sounds like a bumper sticker, you probably don't want it in your Gothic poem.A strong image reveals something new to the reader. For instance, if you really do want to write about a broken heart, you might say, "her heart was shattered, and sharp splinters of it found their way to her words."
One way to test your poem for cliches is to do an online search for your phrases. If you find a lot of results, you should probably reconsider your phrase.
 One way that poets write is by responding to other people's poetry. If there's a Gothic poet you admire, consider writing a poetic response to his poem. In your response, you can say what you feel about the original poem.Your response can contradict the initial poem. Or, your response can offer your own feelings on the same subject.
Your poetic response does not have to be in the same form as the original, though it might be.

