 Hemodialysis is not a painful procedure. However during the process you may experience nausea and vomiting. If you become nauseated let your nurse know as you may be able to take medication to reduce the discomfort. This will depend upon your medical condition.


During the procedure some people find they are tired and will sleep. This can also help relieve feelings of nausea. Depending upon your medical condition you may also find that you can read a magazine, work on your computer or watch a show on your smartphone. Because your appointment for dialysis will be on the same days and times each week, many patients make friends with the other individuals there for dialysis.
 Dialysis has the potential to cause some serious cardiovascular effects. These effects include low blood pressure, high blood pressure, and pericarditis. Your doctor will monitor you for these conditions, but it is good to be aware of the risks as well.Low blood pressure. Low blood pressure or hypotension, may be a side effect of dialysis, especially for those who have diabetes. This can be accompanied by abdominal cramping, vomiting and shortness of breath. Report feeling these symptoms to your dialysis nurse immediately so changes can be made to the settings on your dialysis procedure.

Increased blood pressure. Taking too much salt or fluid between treatments can increase your blood pressure and your risk of heart disease, heart attack and stroke. Based on your individual medical needs your physician may recommend sodium and fluid intake limits.

Pericarditis. If the hemodialysis is not effective it can lead to pericarditis or an inflammation of the membrane that surrounds the heart. This reduces the efficiency of the heart muscle and can lead to stroke or heart attack.
 Even though dialysis is not a painful treatment, it may be uncomfortable at first. Symptoms such as muscle cramps and itchiness are common complaints during and after hemodialysis.Muscle cramps. Although the exact reason why is not known, adjustments to your sodium intake between and during the treatment can help to reduce muscle cramps.

Itchy skin. It is common to experience itchy skin during and after hemodialysis.
 Talk with your physician if you have trouble sleeping immediately after hemodialysis. You may be experiencing sleep apnea or restless legs from the process. People who use peritoneal dialysis do not appear to have this side effect., Anemia is a common side effect of both kidney failure and dialysis. The hormone erythropoietin is responsible for the production of red blood cells but is made in the kidney. Your doctor will most likely want you to have regular blood tests to check your iron levels.Talk with your physician if you experience fatigue, shortness of breath, or believe that you may have anemia.
 Changes in mood are common for people going through dialysis, but there are treatments to help with this side effect. Tell your doctor right away if you experience sadness, depression, or other disruptive mood changes.Changes in mood can be related to biochemical changes from the dialysis and kidney failure or from the experience.
Support groups and counseling with a therapist or pastor can help when the mood changes are related to the experience you are going through and not just from biochemical changes in your blood.
 After approximately five years on dialysis, your risk of developing amyloidosis increases. When proteins in the blood are deposited in the joints and tendons it causes pain, stiffness and fluid retention in the joint areas.If you believe you are experiencing these symptoms, discuss your options with your physician. They will depend upon your kidney function, overall health and dialysis prescription.

