 Chinos can be easily dressed up or down, making a statement color like green much easier to introduce into your wardrobe. Pair olive green chinos with a neutral-colored button-down shirt to create an office-ready look. Try a deep forest green pair with rugged boots and a plaid flannel button-down for a more casual style., Army green cargo pants are versatile when you’re going specifically for a casual look. Create a laid-back vibe by pairing green cargo pants in a relaxed fit with a loosely tucked in button-down. Sport loose-fitting faded cargos and a white v-neck t-shirt when running errands or hanging out casually with friends.Avoid cargo styles if you’re headed to the office or an upscale event.
To keep green cargo pants from looking sloppy, pair them with simple silhouettes and neutral colors.
 Olive is the easiest shade of green to wear, since the color is neutral and muted. You’ll probably get the most mileage out of an olive green pair, as well, since they tend to match with more items in your wardrobe. Olive green can look quite dressy and also very casual, so you can get a lot of different looks if you go with this shade of green.If you like to tailor your clothes to the seasons, create a great Fall look by pairing olive green pants with other jewel tones, such as burgundy, royal blue and pumpkin.
 Green pants can definitely work in an office setting, but the right fit is key. Avoid loose fitting green pants and opt for a streamlined pair with a slim fit. Try deep green skinny jeans or slim fitting khakis to create polished looks that are office-ready.When wearing green pants in a work atmosphere, the other pieces should also be slim fitting or, at the very least, not baggy. Go with fitted blazers and dress shirts.
 Dark and olive green pants are typically understated, but if you want to make a splash, try a bright grass or emerald green hue. To keep from looking too kitschy, pair bright green pants with a neutral colored t-shirt or simple button-down. It’s difficult to pull off bright green in an office setting, so save these for casual days.