 Give yourself at least 24 hours and NO LONGER than three days to grieve. This time is yours. Cry if you must, spend time with family and friends as you lament your lost relationship, write out your feelings, or even just jump STRAIGHT INTO having fun. Whatever it is you do to “mourn”, do it- for a short amount of time. Throw away any possessions that remind you of your ex (you may wish to do this with a family member or close friend present), rid yourself of their presence completely. Finally, admit aloud, “It’s over. Time to move on.”;
, IT DOESN’T WORK. Ever. You need to push them out of your life. Block them, do whatever you have to do. This individual’s time in your life is over, that chapter of your life is DONE. They played a part in making you who you are supposed to be, and now it’s time for them to go on and play a part in the lives of others. Begin your new chapter.
 The best way to begin this process is to keep a log of your happiness on a daily basis. Get an index card and a pen, carry them around with you. Whenever something good happens- whether you got to pet a kitten or you saw a beautiful flower on your front lawn- write it down. At the end of the day, you’ll realize just how many wonderful things happen in your life. Even the small things matter. Before bed, put this card in a designated jar or box. Whenever you’re down, empty out the cards from that box and read about all the wonderful things your life has to offer. There is no reason to get depressed.
 Dye your hair that wacky blue color you always wanted it, finally set to losing that extra 5 pounds you’ve been meaning to work off, give yourself a make-over. Now’s not the time to focus on what others expect of you- but what you want yourself to be, physically, emotionally, and accomplishment-wise.
 What do you want to be known for? What do you want to do with your life? Write it out. And set yourself forward to making it happen. You’re single now; it’s all about YOU. Focus on YOU. You always wanted to be a great writer? Get started on that novel. Always wanted to help people? Volunteer. Wanted to travel? Get to it! Now’s time to make yourself into the person you’ve always wanted to be.
 You are your own boss- there is no significant other to worry about. Focus on HAVING FUN. Do what YOU want to do. Go shopping with your best friends, enjoy movie nights with the family, attend special events- get out more and do MORE of what YOU want to do. Have plenty of good laughs, plenty of wonderful food, and keep your goals in mind.
 Do NOT sit around and mope about what could have been. Enjoy molding yourself into a more sophisticated, accomplished, productive, HAPPY you. Try new things, get out often, and avoid dwelling. Don’t LOOK for a new boyfriend/girlfriend quite yet- give it time and enjoy being single. When a special person does come along, take your chance and go for it- just don’t do so in order to “get over” your ex. You need to come to terms with your split before you begin a new relationship.

