 As anyone will tell you, parenting is the toughest job you can have. Sometimes, when parents are stressed and over-emotional, it can be helpful if you encourage them to take some time and space to care for themselves. By doing this, you are again showing support, showing that you are listening, and helping ease their stress by giving them permission to focus on themselves.Depending on the severity of the situation, you may need to suggest different things. For example, if there has been a loss in the family, encourage the parent to seek counseling. Offer to connect them with free services, or ask the parent to contact their insurance company to find a therapist that can help them. The parent may be beyond their capability to fully handle what is going on in their family, and seeking the help of a professional may be the best thing for them and for their child.
 Parents often forget to take care of themselves. Even if this means an hour alone in a hot bath with no interruptions, encourage the parent to find ways to relax. You don’t have to be explicit with your suggestions, but be sincere that you feel they deserve some pampering. Using your empathy, reaffirm that their stress and emotions are valid, and they must take care of themselves so that they can also take care of their child., It might help you to ask the parents what they think they may need to get through their stressful emotions. See if there is anything you can do to help, such as suggesting parenting classes or books. Depending on what is stressing the child, perhaps a support group would be helpful and you can help them find it.


For example, if the parents have an autistic child and are stretched beyond their limits, a support group for parents with autistic children might be a great way for them to relieve feelings of isolation and connect with other parents with similar stressors. , Impress upon the parents how important their emotional state is for the well being of not only themselves, but also their child. Sometimes parents can lose themselves in the daily stress of work and child rearing, and it can be helpful to hear that their emotional health is important and valid. Tell the parent that they matter, their feelings matter, and even though you care for their child as your job, part of caring for that child is caring for the entire family.


Be a pillar of support and validation for stressed parents. In the long run, better emotional health in the parents make for better emotional health for the child. As a youth worker, your job is to promote arenas for healthy children. Be kind, listen, validate, and empathize when parents get stressed.