 If both genetic parents were married before the child was born, the man is considered the presumed father of the child in Ohio, and there's typically no need to establish paternity.If the child's parents are married, all the father has to do is sign the child's birth certificate.
The parents don't have to have been married before the child was conceived. However, they do have to be married before the child is born.
Once a man is listed as the presumed father, this presumption can only be overcome through an administrative or legal proceeding with evidence through genetic testing that shows either that the man is not the child's genetic father or that someone else is the child's genetic father.;
, If the genetic parents are not married, Ohio provides a form that enables the father to voluntarily acknowledge his paternity without having to go through any administrative or court proceeding.If the parents were together but not married, it used to be enough to simply sign the child's birth certificate. However, the law changed in 1998 to require all unmarried fathers to complete an acknowledgement of paternity affidavit.
In most cases, the affidavit is completed at the hospital when the child is born. All hospitals have copies of the form available.
If the father is unable to be present for the child's birth, he can pick up a copy of the form at the nearest Child Support Enforcement Agency (CSEA).
 The acknowledgement form requires both parents to provide identifying information about themselves, as well as information about the child such as the date and place of birth.Be sure to fill out all required spaces, and type or print in blue or black ink.
Keep in mind that the acknowledgement is not valid if another man is considered the presumed father of the child. This would happen if the mother was married to another man.
Even if that marriage ended, if the child was born within 300 days of the separation, that man is legally presumed to be the father of the child.
If there is another man who is the presumed father, the parentage of the child must be determined either through administrative or court procedures and genetic testing.
 In Ohio, a voluntary acknowledgement must be signed in the presence of witnesses or a notary public. If you sign the document in the hospital where the child is born, the hospital will provide the required witnesses.The father and mother don't have to sign the acknowledgement at the same time. However, if the parents sign at different times, both signatures must be notarized. If they sign at the same time, only one notarization is required.
If you sign the acknowledgement after the child is born, make sure you sign it in front of a notary public. You'll have to pay the notary a small fee for their services.
The acknowledgement will be filed with the Central Paternity Registry, either by the CSEA or by the hospital where the child was born.
If you're responsible for filing the acknowledgement yourself, you should mail the signed document to Central Paternity Registry, PO Box 183206, Columbus, OH, 43218-3206. Make a copy for your records before you mail it.
You may want to contact the Central Paternity Registry after a few days have passed to confirm the form has been filed correctly. You can do this by calling 1-888-810-6446.
When you call the Central Paternity Registry, you also should ask for a copy of the form for your records if you haven't already made one.

