 This angle will help you look longer and thinner in photos. First, turn your body so that your side is closer to the camera than your front. Stand with your back straight, shoulders down, and chest out. Finally, flex your stomach to bring in your waist..Don’t stand flat-footed. Instead, balance your weight on the ball of your feet.Ladies should cross their feet while they stand. This will slim their hips and can also make a photo more interesting.;
, Keep your arms away from your body to make them look slimmer. If you’re a woman, put the hand closest to the camera on your hip and point your elbow behind you. This will elongate your arm and help it look toned. Men can put a hand in their pocket, holding the arm away from their body. Next, hide your other arm behind your body or gently rest it on a chest-high surface.


If you have to face the camera directly and want your waist to look smaller, put both of your hands on your hips.Hold purses or bags slightly away from your body or over a self-conscious area., A well-defined jaw will make you look slimmer in photographs. Bring your head towards the camera by extending your neck. However, don’t simply point your chin at the camera as this looks unnatural. Angle your head slightly as you pose by tilting it to the left or right.Remember to keep your back straight while you pose. Otherwise, you may look like a turtle with your head stretched out.
Men should consider growing a beard that will help accentuate the jawline.
 Turn your body away from the camera towards your picture partner. Balance your weight on your back foot and drop your hips, relaxing your front leg. Put the other hand around or on your partner’s shoulder. If you want to look extra slim stand slightly behind your partner. Remember, never flatten your arm against your body.Women can put the hand closest to the camera on their lowered hip and push their elbows back.
Men can put a hand in their pocket and push the elbow out.
 Never be the closest person to the camera. This will make you appear larger than anyone else in the photo.Next, either put your hands on your hips or around the shoulders of your picture partners. If you can choose who you stand between, choose people with similar body types to your own. This will reduce a contrast between body types in photos.


If you’re especially self-conscious about your arms simply put them around your picture partners’ waists. They won’t be seen in the picture at all.
Women can cross their legs one in front of the other to appear slimmer. 