 This is a plan, as part of the IRS Fresh Start Initiative, that may allow some qualified taxpayers to settle for a tax payment that is less than the full amount due. As a threshold matter, the following elements must all be true:you do not have an open bankruptcy proceeding
you have filed all required tax returns
you must have made all estimated tax payments, if any
if you are an employer, you must have submitted all federal tax deposits.
 You can find this by navigating to the IRS.gov homepage, then select the “Payments” tab and then the link to “Offer in Compromise.” Download or print and read the Offer in Compromise instruction booklet. This booklet is IRS Publication number 656-B. From the “Offer in Compromise” screen, you can download this and read it online, or you may choose to print and read it. This publication contains useful information about the Offer in Compromise program and the instructions for applying., Considering the amount of your total tax obligation, and your overall ability to pay, you will use the application form to make an offer to the IRS. Present what you believe is a reasonable offer, which you believe is the most you can reasonably afford to pay. The form you need is included in the information booklet, together with instructions for completion. Read the instructions and complete the form carefully and accurately. Make sure your responses are legible.Private individuals will use Form 433-A (included in booklet)
Businesses will use Form 433-B (included in booklet)
The instruction booklet and online tools include worksheets that will help you calculate a reasonable offer.
 You may choose one of two options for making payments. The first is the Lump Sum Cash option, and the second is the Periodic Payment option. Your offer amount and your payment choice will determine the amount of your initial payment and ongoing payments.Under the Lump Sum Cash option, you will pay an initial amount equal to 20% of your offer. Then wait for formal approval of your offer, and you will be instructed to pay the remainder over five equal installments.
Under the Periodic Payment option, you will divide your offer over a number of monthly payments. Make the first payment with your application, and continue submitting monthly payments while you await a decision.
 The IRS will consider several factors in reviewing your offer. When the review is complete, you will receive a notice that your offer has been accepted, modified, or rejected in full.Your application will be judged based on:


your income
overall ability to pay
other expenses
evaluation of all asset equity.
If your offer is rejected, you may appeal the rejection in writing, by submitting IRS Form 13711. This form is available at https://www.irs.gov/pub/irs-pdf/f13711.pdf.

