 In a nutshell, spam is too much messaging from one source landing in your cyber in-tray, be it Facebook, Twitter or other online networks. Spam can cover a variety of actions, including sending random game requests, posting links to shows, venues or urging support or votes for political candidates, companies or individuals (think of all those "vote for me on X site as the top social media tweeter"). This type of spam is well-intentioned as sharing material but all too easily can pass beyond tolerance when it's overdone. Another type of spam could be intentionally annoying, like posting the same words over and over again on your page with the goal of being noticed either by you or a search engine. Generally, spam may not be about what was sent but rather about how the material is sent; generally, over and over again.


According to Spamhaus: “An electronic message is "spam" if (A) the recipient's personal identity and context are irrelevant because the message is equally applicable to many other potential recipients; AND (B) the recipient has not verifiably granted deliberate, explicit, and still-revocable permission for it to be sent.”;
, Are you getting the occasional photo of a cute puppy or is your friend hitting you with something new every day? For example, your friend might have just received her puppy and feels compelled to update you on every new gesture, toilet training feat and cute pose that puppy manages as the puppy grows; this is clearly excessive and TMI (too much information). First, figure out what your personal spam threshold is (generally few people have any tolerance for external, non-friend spamming), in order to determine if you need to say something to your friend. Also, consider how you feel about the frequency and content. If you're okay about simply glancing and deleting the excessive information, there may not be such a problem; on the other hand, if you're super busy and the spam is clogging up the vital messages you need to see, then it is a problem.


Do you care or does it bother you? Some people just ignore the post immediately and move on, whereas others become completely annoyed when they see a random post. Your own tolerance levels may vary over time; if you're off work sick or laid off and have a lot of time to spare for social media, it may bother you less than when you're busy working, caring for a new baby or running your business. Everyone's connection tolerance levels differ.
Is the spam causing you computer problems? In some cases a virus may be attached to the form of spam being sent or posted, which can produce a myriad of issues that could reveal account numbers, spam your friend list and create a computer hardware meltdown. You won't know this until other people complain or strange transactions appear in your accounts, so being vigilant about chain letter type spam, Nigerian scam letters and other scams is vital.
 Before you respond to your friend to let them know you've had enough of the spam, consider the possible motivation:


Is this your friend’s attempt to stay in touch? Some people may not have a way with words and think that sending you links and pictures is a way to stay relevant. He or she may not know their constant random posts are annoying and there is no malice intended, so you’ll need to take a very gentle approach. A note to this type of friend should mention that you like seeing his or her name on your page, but that you want to have a real conversation instead of copious links to news articles about zits.
Is your friend simply lazy? Classic lazy ways to stay in touch include just pressing the “like” button on Facebook or spamming you with game requests or memes. You could either take a humorous approach to this by finding a good meme that addresses spamming and post it on his or her wall or just ask the friend nicely to stop posting so many links and pictures.
Your friend is trying to be annoying. If the spam is on purpose (such as posting the same comment over and over to spam your wall or account), tell your friend that you “get it” and to please stop because it’s stopping you from getting other messages. If the friend continues it may be time to “unfriend” that person.
Your friend is doing this to be malicious after some sort of falling out, however trivial, between the two of you. Some disgruntled friends may “attack” another friend’s Twitter or Facebook account by leaving numerous random posts so the user has to scroll through pages of annoying information to get to the rest of his or her content. While you can ignore something like this, it does provide hurdles to obtaining the info you really want and speaks volumes about the maturity of their response and their lack of EQ. This approach is particularly prevalent among teens and young adults.
 Whether your friend knows that he or she is spamming you or not, if it has become disruptive, they need to know that you’ve had enough. Stay genuine and friendly in whatever you write, and assume the very best of your friend at first. While in the previous step you may have discerned an idea of what is motivating the spamming, you still can't be sure that your friend is clear that the spamming is annoying. Explain what the spamming is from your point of view, how it's affecting and a simple request that it be minimized or stopped. For example:


Dear Peggy, your updates have been interesting lately but I have unfortunately found that I am just receiving too many of them. I use my Facebook account to receive messages from friends all around the world, many of whom are business associates, and I am finding it hard to find their messages amid all your Farmville updates and puppy photos. Could I please stop receiving all messages about Farmville (I don't play Facebook games and so they're really not my thing) and would you mind kindly just sending me a puppy update once a week? That way I'll have a lot more time to catch up on your puppy's news and really enjoy hearing about his weekly changes. And it'd be great if we could talk a bit more in live chat; that way it's much more personal. Thanks, Sascha.
 Tap into account settings to hide your friend’s posts or to dispatch them to the read box. In the instance where your friend doesn’t seem to get the message (unless they were unfriended), you may need to resort to just start hiding all their posts. That way, you can retain the friendship but not be assaulted with spam.


If your friend asks about a post he or she sent to you, gently remind your pal that you asked that they stop sending all the links, so you don’t receive them anymore. You don’t have to get into the details that you're hiding him or her, however, after the inquiry you may find that spam no longer hits your wall or account.
Get out of the habit of responding to anything vaguely spam-like, especially if you're sucked in to thinking you need to respond out of "being nice." Every reply to spam or reposting of it is affirmation that it's worth continuing doing.
 If your friend does seem genuine about reaching out and connecting regularly, and you have the time to comply with this, turn the spam around by engaging in conversation instead. This may be enough to curtail the flow of inconsequential trivia being sent your way, as your friend feels "heard." And if something is really urgent, deep and meaningful or delicate, get on the phone or see them face-to-face instead.

