 Review every cost you have, and see if there is a way to do it for cheaper. Make a list of everything you spend over a month, and then look over it at the end of the month to see where you can save money. Balance your "fixed expenses"—recurring necessities like bills, books, rent, food—with the "fluctuating expenses" that make your life more enjoyable.


Consider putting at least half of your money (after food, bills, and other immediate necessities) into a savings account. This can be an account for fun things, for future security, or for saving up to buy something you'd like to own.
 This might seem hard for a student who is mostly cash-strapped, but a small effort might go a long way to help. You might have to budget and deal with unexpected expenses – like repairing a broken phone, or weathering a reduction in the student discount on transit passes. Whatever the surprise may be, that extra cash will save you some misery.The other reason to do this is to give yourself a financial buffer to focus on schoolwork. If school gets especially busy, you might want to take some time off of work to catch up. In this situation, the current month's paycheck may not be as juicy as the months prior – but since you have some extra, you can manage to pull through.
 Many colleges offer meal plans so that students can eat reasonably-priced meals at campus dining commons or affiliated restaurants. This can be an exercise in frugality: if you get a meal plan, you'll need to carefully budget how much you eat, and when. Consider whether you have a kitchen to cook your own food, or whether there are any other factors that make a meal plan irrelevant.Meal plans usually come in two forms:


"Meal credit" plans: You may get a certain number of "meals" per semester, meaning you can enter the dining hall a pre-set number of times and eat to your heart's content. This can be a cost-effective option if you can eat large, nutritious meals when you do visit the dining commons – and maybe even sneak some food out to your dorm room.
"Debit" plans: Some schools offer something similar to a debit account, where you pay for each individual item that you purchase. Each time you eat, your account is charged until your balance reaches zero. Loading your card up with a pre-set food budget may help you learn how to allocate your spending. Your school may also offer a combination plan with some debit and some meal credits.
 If you can set up a steady flow of independent cash, you won't have to worry as much about saving money. Not only does it teach you how to interact with people who are working full-time, it also adds experience to your resume. Make sure that your job isn't a hindrance to your academic studies. You are, after all, a college student. Academics comes first. The jobs are just a way to facilitate your main responsibility of learning.


Get a job at your college. Anything from working in the library, the IT department, the bookstore, campus dining is good experience. These jobs may not pay as much as some off-campus jobs, but they have the benefit of convenience and job security. Many campus jobs are part-time, and allow you to choose the hours that fit best with your class schedule.
Get a job outside of college. Babysitting, modeling, freelance writing, secretarial work, and tutoring are all great choices. Wait tables in a restaurant or pour coffee in a cafe. Consider all of the options available to you. You might be able to make more money working off-campus, but you also might need to commute, and your employer might not always make your education the first priority.
 Internships are a great way to get working experience and save money. Ideally, look for internships that pay. Banks, law firms and big corporations generally pay students well for summer internships. If corporate life is not your thing, go for a humanities-focused internship: a building project, a curator program, or a magazine.


Consider that internships often don't pay as much as full-time summer jobs, but they may give you the opportunity to do something more relevant to your goals. If you're pressed for cash, you might need to take a full-time job in construction, service, etc. Weigh the costs and benefits of taking an internship.
If the internship doesn't pay, see if you can get a stipend from your school or a scholarship/grant from your home country. Alternatively, look for student grants from big NGOs and corporations. These grants help out students who do meaningful volunteer work or arts-focused internships.

