 Get up around an hour before school starts and do your normal routine. Eat a good breakfast and make sure you have a lunch, if needed. You never want to go hungry during school, so always carry back-up lunch money to buy a meal if you ever forget your lunch at home. Try to leave home a half-hour before school starts so that you can be sure not to be late.;
, Raise your hand if you have a question and don't call out answers without being asked for them. Don't be the "Class Clown" who creates disturbances for others; no one wants to be around a troublemaker. Smile and keep quiet while others are speaking, and behave well in front of your teachers and other students. You don't need to be a "Teacher's Pet", just turn in your homework when it's due, be respectful, and try not to get on your teacher's bad side. Remember, teachers may lower your grade if you misbehave, or deny you the opportunity to go on field trips.
 Have all your pens, paper, books, etc., packed the night before your first day. Teachers appreciate it when you have your supplies with you. Keep them neatly stacked in your locker during the day and always replace items you have run out of as soon as possible. You won't always get to visit your locker between classes, so be sure to have the things you absolutely need in your backpack or book bag. Teachers may allow you to return to your locker occasionally to retrieve a forgotten item if you ask promptly and politely.
 Everyone recognizes those who try hard. You will be rewarded for the effort by building up your knowledge. Seek help if you have areas of study that you find too difficult; other classmates, a tutor, or your parents may be possible sources of help.
 Tutoring classes are a good way to distance yourself from friends or family whose help may be limited by their own knowledge. Tutoring is a good way of improving your skills with extra practice.
 If he or she seems nice, ask for help from them; they'll know the school and will probably make your day easier. Be polite and don't encroach on their personal time with friends.
 If you're nervous about asking questions in class, ask another teacher. Any teacher in the school will be happy to help you with a problem, or point you to someone who can. Make sure you understand the content of what is being taught before you walk away. Don't forget to thank them

, It makes your day easier if you know where everything is. Binders with separators, and even folders, are a big help for this process. Staying organized in middle school will help you throughout life, in the workplace and in your home.
 The more comfortable you make others feel in your presence, the more comfortable you will feel in middle school and beyond. Broaden your base of friends to include as many people as possible, and don't give off the impression that you feel you are too good for anyone.
 For instance, if you know where the AV (audio/visuals) supplies are stored, you can help others find a camera when they need one to complete an assignment. Or if another teacher or student needs directions, you can provide them. The more independent you feel the more positive your experience will be.
 There is no need to take middle school too seriously; you're there to learn and you will get through it faster than you think. Middle school can be really fun as long as you let it be.
 It'll save you a lot of trouble in middle school. It will also help you get you better grades and stay on the teacher's good side.
 Your teachers probably know you can answer it; they have to see if others can do it too.
 There's lots of opportunities to take advantage of. Join a club or try out for a sports team. You'll meet new friends and learn more about life and the opportunities you'll have in the future.
 If you end up sitting by someone who is very distracting, ask your teacher if you can move.Also try to sit in the front.br>
, Stay in touch with your friends, listen to the latest songs, and (if you have one) check your Facebook at least once a week. Staying up-to-date with your friends and with other people will get you a good reputation with multiple people. People will know you and appreciate you if you drop in for a conversation from time to time.But you do not have to if you do not want to.

