 Deep breathing techniques are crucial to coping with anxiety and reducing panic attacks. When you breathe deeply it can help you reduce feelings of tension, anxiety, and jitters; this is because controlling your breathing reduces your heart rate, blood pressure, and resets your autonomic nervous system.This causes a physiological reaction which makes you feel relaxed.


Place yourself in a quiet and safe space. Begin by closing your eyes and breathing in through your nose and out through your mouth, slowly and deeply. Pay attention to how it feels in different parts of your body each time you let your breath out. Continue this exercise until you feel relaxed.
 Progressive muscle relaxation (PMR) is a very useful technique to reduce anxiety and promote relaxation.PMR reduces feelings of anxiety by lowering cortisol (stress hormone) levels in the brain.PMR is associated with contracting and relaxing different muscle groups throughout your body in a strategic manner.


Begin by putting yourself in a safe place. Tense your muscles in your toes for 5 seconds, and then relax the muscles for approximately 15 seconds. Continue tensing and relaxing all the way up your body from your toes to your face muscles.
 Mindfulness is being in the here-and-now by focusing your attention on your current feelings, sensations, experiences, and surroundings. Mindfulness helps to reduce anxiety because we are concerned with what is happening right now instead of regretting the past or worrying about possible future events that have not happened yet. Mindfulness relieves anxiety in individuals who experience panic attacks.Start by being in a relaxing environment and trying a basic mindfulness exercise. One exercise is to slowly and very intentionally eat a small piece of fruit; Pay attention to how it looks, feels, and tastes. You can do a mindfulness exercise with any object in the room you are in. Simply look at the object, note its colors, shapes, and your feelings about it. Then touch it and feel its texture. Focus on the object and make any observations you can about it.
 Grounding is called grounding because it helps “ground” us, meaning we can momentarily detach from painful emotions.It is especially useful when we have tried other relaxation techniques that may not have worked as well as we had hoped. Thus, we can healthfully avoid the emotion in the meantime, and come back to it later when it is more appropriate to deal with.


One mental grounding exercise it to name all of the states or colors you can think of. A physical grounding exercise is to run cold water over your hands, or take a shower/bath and simply focus on how the water feels over your body.
Find other grounding exercises online.