 You might want to set a budget for yourself. Ask your parents to give you money...like $200. Your parents probably won't agree at first, but tell them that's how much they normally spend when they take you shopping, and that that will be your absolute max, you'll be careful on what you buy, and you'll return the extra money. Even say you'll do extra chores and stuff to earn it back. If they don't give you all of it (e.c.t birthday money, pocket money or Christmas money), ask your grandparents, then get the rest yourself. Save up for shopping money.;
, Don't wear tight skinny jeans- wear something that slips off quickly and easily. Don't wear sneakers or other shoes that tie and are complicated, instead wear flip flops, flats, or maybe heels if they don't make your feet hurt. You could also wear loafers or something that can slip off quick and easy! Wear your best bra, and you might want to wear a strapless one or one that can go strapless, because you might try on a strapless shirt. And you also might want to wear a tank-top or cami underneath your shirt because you might try on a shirt you'd wear one with.
 Get a group of about 2-4 friends to go with. If one of you can drive, you could tell them to pick you each up. If you're like 12-15 have your parents drop you off, and agree to all meet at a certain time at a certain place (eg 2:00 outside of Dillard's).You don't have to go with friends, but it can be more fun and less boring if you bring friends.
 You may want to write a list or write it on the Memo Pad in your phone.
 Depending on where you're shopping though will depend on whether or not these stores are there. For example if you're going to a bunch of outlets they most likely won't have as much of these stores, whereas a mall will. Know what good stores- including you and your friends' favorites- are where you'll be shopping.
 If you're walking and see a store that looks good, go in it. There's tons of stores you've probably never heard of at outlets, and most of them are good.

