 However, flea bites are commonly found on the ankles and lower legs because these body parts are the most accessible to these pests. In addition to this, the blood vessels of the ankles and lower legs are close to the skin, making them an ideal place for a flea to bite.


Flea bites on the forearms are more likely to occur when you play, stroke or hold your pet.
You might get flea bites on your body is you lie down on a sofa that is infested with fleas.
Flea bites are also commonly found in the folds of your body joints, such as the armpits, legs, and elbows.
 Because of this, it is important to know how flea bites can look based on the reactions that different people have to them.


Most flea bites will appear reddish and look like a small bump. They generally have a pink halo around the center of the bite. If you look closely, you may see a small hole at the center of the bump; this hole is where the flea sucked blood.
Most bites are unnoticeable until they start feeling itchy.
Depending on your skin sensitivity, the flea bite’s radius of redness may become larger with a darker red spot in the center.
Most flea bites will come in groups, as one flea can make multiple puncture wounds.
The bites may feel itchy and sore. They might get painful after you scratch them excessively.
Flea bites are not life-threatening—they simply get itchy and red. Because of this, if you are experiencing other severe symptoms, like flu-like symptoms, difficulty breathing, or fever, you most likely have not been bitten by a flea.
 When you scratch a bite, you can injure the sensitive skin where the bite occur. If this damaged skin gets exposed to bacteria, it could get infected and lesions could form.


These infected lesions can turn into skin rashes or bigger wounds if left unattended.
 Severe allergic reactions to flea bites are extremely rare. Some signs that would occur if you were experiencing this reaction includes:


Difficulty breathing.
Dizziness.
Nausea.
Swelling of the lips or tongue.
Chest pain.

