 Symmetry means evenness or sameness. Melanomas will most likely be asymmetrical, meaning that the surface of the mole isn’t even. While having an asymmetrical mole doesn’t mean that you have a melanoma, you should get it checked because it’s a risk factor.Imagine a line down the center of your mole.
Compare the two sides of the mole. Consider the size of each half, the shape of the edges, the color, and how raised each side is.
If the two sides of the mole appear to match, then it’s symmetrical. If they don’t match up, then your mole is asymmetrical.;
, The border is the edge of the moles, which is where the colored part of the mole meets the rest of your skin. Melanomas usually have uneven borders, unlike benign moles, which have smooth borders.Uneven borders can include vague borders, which means that the melanoma edges won’t be clearly defined.

A smooth border does not mean that it will look like a perfect circle; rather, a smooth border will not have a jagged edge or be misshapen.
Melanoma borders may be notched or scalloped., A benign mole will have a consistent color, while a melanoma may have more than one color. For example, a melanoma could be a mixture of tan, brown and black. In some cases, a melanoma will take on shades of red, white, or blue., Benign moles are usually smaller in size than melanomas. Typical melanomas will be larger than a pencil eraser, which is about ¼ inch (6 millimeters).

Don’t dismiss a suspicious mole just because it is small. In the early stages, a melanoma can be small.If a mole grows at all, even if it’s still small, get it checked by your doctor.
Have your doctor check any moles larger than ¼ inch (6 millimeters), regardless of whether or not it has other signs of melanoma., Watch for changes to your mole, including size, color, shape, and becoming raised. Any other issues, such as itching or bleeding, are also a concern.If the mole or blemish grows rapidly in size, have it checked out immediately by your doctor, don’t wait.