 If you're just a member of clan, ask in your clan chat for a Leader, Elder, or Co-Leader to start a Clan War.


If you don't know any staff in your clan, click on View Clan and browse through a list of your clanmates. Below their username and stats, you will see their permissions.
Keep in mind that in mind that you need at least ten active players in your clan to declare war.;
,, If you're a Leader, Elder, or Co-Leader, click on View Clan, and then click on Start War.



It's better to choose a clan your level than choosing a higher level. If you can't, choose the one with the level closest to you.
 Click Yes.
 This is known as Preparation Day. You can organize your base, view enemies, and offer advice on clanmates' bases.
 You only have one day to do it, so choose wisely.


Remember, in a clan war, all you're out for is to crush the opponent's base and get as many stars as possible. As such, resources and storages shouldn't be protected by walls. Rather, keep them close to the outside of your base, with defenses such as Archer Towers or Mortars to protect them.
Enemies still get loot if when they destroy storages and resources, and getting loot from bases is the secondary goal of attackers. If you are a farming type player, keep your resources and storages inside your walls, and put utilities such as Builder Huts, Barracks, Spell Factory, and Army Camps outside your walls.
Keep your Clan Castle near your base. If your clanmates donate to you, the troops inside can help defend a siege against your village.
 Look at bases and decide where, when, and how you can your troops.


Remember, your primary goal is to get lots of stars. The best place to deploy is in range of the Town Hall, which is an easy star if destroyed.
 The clan war isn't all about you; your clanmates matter as well.


If you see their Town Hall out in the open, let them know, and remind them you don't want a farming type base in the war.
 Chances are they know quite a bit about organizing your base and attacking enemy players.
 Not only can donated troops defend your village, they can also be used in attacks.
 Not all of them are useful.


Use Barbarian Kings and Archer Queens if you have them.
Wizards are one the best troops for wartime. They deal heavy damage to buildings, but they are slightly weak. Use Healers to back them up.
Archers are also extremely useful, especially when leveled up, because they can shoot things from afar, whereas other troops, such as Barbarians, have to get close up to destroy things. We recommend using high level Giants to soak up damage and destroy defenses and deploying the Archers behind them.
P.E.K.K.A.S: They work best when used with another unit of their own strength. Barbarian Kings, high level Giants, and Golems all work great alongside this fearsome foe. Using a Rage Potion to boost its power makes P.E.K.K.A. virtually unbeatable.
Troops such as Lava Hounds, Barbarians, Minions, and Balloons aren't very effective unless you have a brilliant strategy for them.
 As mentioned above, Rage Potions and P.E.K.K.A. mix nicely, but there are also lots of other awesome combinations.


Use a Healing Potion on a Healer healing strong troops. This can literally turn the tide of the battle.
Jumping Potions are extremely useful when mixed with Barbarians. As you might already know, Barbarians have a tendency to destroy anything closest to them and not care about any defenses hurting them (not until it's too late rather). A Jumping Potion can redirect their attention to defenses, and with a swarm of them mixed with a few Archers, it can be devastating.
Use Frost Potions on defenses that are really damaging your troops.



You only get two attacks in the war. Use them both wisely.
, Click on Collect. You can collect loot won in the war.


If you proved your worth in battle, you might get promoted to Elder!

