 School shootings, acts of war and terrorism, as well as community violence are commonplace in the media. Children are alert to violence reported in the news, and may want to ask questions. Not talking about it doesn't help a child feel better, or gain understanding.If you avoid the subject, you're communicating that the topic is "taboo" even if you don't intend to.
Instead, allow yourself to be available to talk about anything your child brings up. Be available to help your child process her feelings about these events.
It's okay to try to limit your child's exposure to negative news stories. Research studies have shown that children who see repeated instances of the same news story may assume that the incident has happened again.
Even with limited exposure, don't assume that you can prevent your child from learning about bad news altogether.
 By being available to listen to what your child feels about these events, you're communicating that her thoughts and feelings are normal and safe. At the same time, you might be able to put any unrealistic fears into perspective.Ask direct questions to find out more about your child's perspective on these incidents, rather than waiting for your child to approach you.
Don't force your child to talk to you about feelings if she's not ready to.
 It can help your child to feel less alone if she knows that you're also feeling upset in the aftermath of a tragedy. Children often look to adults to know what's okay to feel about something. If you're able to show your emotions, your child will learn that even difficult feelings are okay.Healthy grieving involves balancing internal processing of feelings, paired with coping within your day-to-day life.
It's a good idea to model gentleness with your own feelings, as well as those of your child.
Recognize that there's no "right" way to grieve.
 Even though it's sad, it's true that people sometimes die for reasons that no one really understands. Make sure you reassure her often that many people are working hard to keep her safe, including you and other adults, including teachers and police.Talk to your child's school to learn specific ways that the school keeps the children safe.
Point out instances where safety measures have worked effectively.

