 In addition, you want to make sure that it keeps seeds protected from rain and has correct drainage.


Keep in mind while you are shopping for a bird feeder what kind of seed you want to put out. Make sure the feeder you choose can dispense the bird seed you intend on feeding.
Make sure that the feeder you choose is sturdy and will not be damaged if it falls. Bird feeders can really take a beating, especially from squirrels, so buy one that is strong and made of quality materials, so that you don't have to replace it quickly.
 A platform, or tray, feeder is a tray with a roof above it, and holes in the sides or bottom for drainage. Hang platform feeders on trees or poles, at least twelve inches above the ground. Birds attracted by platform feeders include sparrows, doves, jays, and cardinals.


Platform feeders are best suited to fruit eating birds. Cutting up grapes, apples, or pomegranates and putting them on a platform helps to attract fruit eating birds. However, be sure to put the fruit out fresh. Also remove it once it is no longer moist as it will attract vermin., Tube feeders are designed with short perches and large holes; the former is so small birds can feed without being intimidated by larger birds and the latter is so they can feed on large seeds such as sunflower seeds. Hang tube feeders from trees or porch leaves, or set them on high, flat surfaces.
 With a tubular shape and small holes, nectar feeders are designed for hummingbirds. Clean nectar feeders frequently to ensure scrupulous hygiene. Since you'll need to clean frequently, choose a container that is easy to take apart and clean.


Sugar solution does not just feed birds, it also encourages bacterial growth. In order for the birds not to ingest infected nectar, it's important to change it regularly and clean the feeder. In cool temperatures (below 70 F) once a week is sufficient, but if the temperature is above 90 F, you need to clean the feeder and change the solution daily., Suet feeders, which are square wire cages, are designed for feeding suet. Birds can hold onto the cages as they eat the suet. Having more than one in your yard is recommended to avoid conflict between larger and smaller birds.


If you have dripping or lard leftover from cooking, small pieces of it can be stuck onto clean upright nails or similar items along fence tops for the birds to alight near and peck at. Do not use rusty nails or objects and don't have any sharp ends poking out.
For birds such as Woodpeckers, consider rubbing suet on the bark of a tree, which will help attract them to your garden.Many suet eating birds don't like to feel exposed, so positioning the feeder near the cover of trees is a great way of helping them to feel at home. Woodpeckers like to store their food in tree crevices and enjoy eating on high branches, but will move to lower ground if necessary.If the suet starts to smell strongly or gets moldy, the chances are it has gone rancid. Birds can get sick from moldy suet, so throw it away!, With an appearance similar to a tiny house, hopper feeders can hold a variety of seeds and can have perches to suit small and large birds. However, hopper feeders are favorites of squirrels, and extra protection is necessary to keep them out.

