 Depending on what your customers want in a horse, you might consider breeding gaited horses, laid-back horses, or competitive horses. Of course, most horses are good in a variety of things. Do more research than you think is necessary––don't simply rely on your own current knowledge. Find out who is selling good stock at the moment, which horses are renowned for which traits, the types of issues you're likely to be faced with in caring for that particular breed of horse, etc. Go and talk to existing breeders for their advice, updates and tours of their facilities. Visit horse sales as an observer to get a feel for purchasing horses and how the auctions work. Go through horse farms for sale to see what is available and the prices being fetched. Doing thorough research will ensure that you're well informed and that you're making the right decision about the breed that you're choosing.


Don't jump into breeding rare, exotic breeds unless you've had experience with them. Start with a breed you know a lot about and have spent time handling.
If you choose a very popular horse (such as a Quarter Horse), you will have to compete with more breeders to sell, therefore lowering the prices. However, if your aim is to provide quality in all respects, plot this out as part of your business plan and keep to the plan when purchasing, breeding, caring for and selling these horses, so that you are on track to building a solid, good reputation as a reliable and trusted breeder. In business, provided you are focused, aware of your competitors' moves and consistent in producing quality outcomes, you can usually always provide a better service than other people in the same business.
If you want to breed racing horses, this requires an enormous outlay of money and should only be started by someone with excellent, firsthand knowledge of the racing industry or you risk making big and costly mistakes.
 It doesn't matter which breed you're breeding, but obviously some horses will cost you more, and some horses will sell for more. Before you buy a horse, make sure it's registered, a purebred, and has good bloodlines or ancestry. This means sighting papers and checking contractual clauses confirming the ancestry of each horse you purchase. In terms of how many horses you start with, that should be determined by your research, your land space and your budget. Initially it's probably best to start small and see how it goes rather than over-extending yourself only to find out you can't manage it.


If possible, buy a stallion too so that you can breed your mares for free. Beforehand though, make sure you know how to correctly handle and care for a stallion. If you're not yet ready to own a stallion, that's fine and it's good to recognize your limitations––it's far better to find other solutions initially than to get in over your head. Look for suitable sires in the local area and be sure to have a decent form of horse transportation (which you will need anyway, for vet visits and shows).
Research the pedigree of the horse you're interested in. Since a horse's lineage can affect the quality of her breeding outcomes, an in-depth knowledge of pedigrees for that certain breed is necessary. Pedigrees are basically a family-tree for horses, and they should list the dam, the sire, the grand dam and grand sire, and so on. Reputable horse breeders will be able to include this in the terms of sale of your new horses.

