 Whenever you’re going to be wearing a bold lipstick look – or any lip product for that matter – it’s a great idea to start out by exfoliating your lips. This will create a smooth base for your products, and help the colors glide on (and stay on) smoothly. Luckily, this isn’t a difficult process.Make your own lip scrub with coconut oil or olive oil and sugar. Mix it up to form a paste, and then rub it on your lips using your finger or a soft toothbrush.;
, Black lipstick will be the base for your galaxy lips, for a very logical reason. The galaxy is made of all sorts of colors, from black to pink to blue to purple. By making the base black, you will be able to add on all those other colors and they will stand out beautifully against your pitch-black background. It would not work if you put down your lighter colors first.








First, trace your lips with a black lip liner. This will help you create the perfect shape, while giving yourself a neat border to fill in later with your lipstick. Lip liner can also reduce the risk of your lipstick smudging outside the borders of your lips.Carefully fill in your lined lips with black lipstick.
 Applying super dark lipstick can be tricky, and unfortunately one mistake sticks out like a sore thumb. However, don't worry if you notice a jagged edge or a bit of lipstick out of place. Once you've applied your lipstick, use a small concealer brush and concealer to clean up the perimeter of your lips. With just a few smooth strokes, your lips will look flawless.
 Apply a bit of purple liquid lipstick along the inner rim of your lips, where the top and bottom lip touch. Paint a bit of the purple lipstick directly onto your lips, and then use a small fluffy brush to blend the color outwards. You want it to look almost sponge painted, with no stark edges between the purple and the black lipsticks.








Continue applying purple lipstick and blending it out until you are satisfied with the look. It should look as if the purple seamlessly flows into the black.
 Apply a bit of pink liquid lipstick anywhere you want on your lips. For example, you can do one spot on the corner of your top lip and one on the opposite corner of your bottom lip. Let the pink lipstick sit on your lips for a moment, and then start blending it out with a small fluffy brush once it gets a bit tacky. These will look almost like pink shadows on your lips, mimicking the surreal colors in space.








There are many different colors in space, and adding many colors on the black will make this look more realistic. The trick is to fully blend everything, so that the colors seem to blend into one.
 Just like you applied the pink lipstick, apply a bit of dark or royal blue liquid lipstick. Then, blend the blue product out with a small brush.The final result should look like a beautiful, abstract blend of black, purple, pink, and blue – like the fantastical space photos you’ve certainly seen!








, This is most effective when you apply it against the lighter pink areas of your lips. Gently stipple it on small sections of your lips – there is no exact science to applying it. Additionally, it’ll start to lighten up places of your lips, as if by starlight!








The light lipstick will create sections of your lips that are very light against the black base, adding an insane amount of dimension.
 Add a bit of light powder, or highlighter, to areas of your lips that you want to lighten up even more. Use a small powder brush, and remember that a little goes a long way! When it comes to creating the stars, you can be very creative. Lighten up your lips wherever you see fit!







, Use a very tiny brush to paint tiny stars on your lips with the white liquid lipstick. You can paint one as an accent, or add several – it depends on both your personal preference and the size of your lips. Instead of creating your typical, five point stars, try creating more realistic stars. Create a plus sign, and then thicken out the center to create the body of the star. Have fun with this step! It’s a very creative lip look, and it will never turn out the exact same way twice.You can also create clusters of tiny white dots to look like far away stars. You can also stipple a bit of white lipstick onto your lips and skip the blending – that can look a bit like the Milky Way!

