 Working out your lower body with squats will improve your fencing. This is because your lower body enables you to get around and to respond quickly, to lunge, and to leap away from an opponent. To do a barbell squat:


Squat under the bar.
Grip the bar shoulder width.
Hold your chest up and elbows down.
Breathe in deeply and unrack the bar.
Come to a full stand while exhaling.
Complete 4 sets of 6 reps each. Make sure to rest at least 1 minute between sets.;
, Rowing exercises are another exercise that will help condition you for fencing. By rowing, you'll exercise your back, shoulders, and will contribute to a total body workout that will help you be a capable fencer.


Use a rowing machine for 20 minutes 3 to 5 times a day.
Avoid using a rowing machine if you feel any back or neck pain., Cardio exercise is fundamental in endurance training for fencing. By training your cardio, you’ll be able to move around your opponent quicker and without tiring as easily. Some good cardio activities include:


Running
Cycling
Swimming, A core component of fencing is learning how to dodge your opponents’ attacks. This aspect of fencing makes it a great work out. However, there are a variety of techniques you’ll need to learn to master the art of defensive dodging. Some moves include:


Stepping backward.
Stepping to the side.
Swaying leftward, rightward, or backward.
Repeat this as part of your cardio work out or endurance training., The lunge is a rapid forward motion used to get closer to an opponent before attacking. It is perhaps the most important movement in fencing. To complete a lunge:


Stand so that one foot is about a 12 inches (30.5 centimeters) in front of the other. This will be your forward lunge foot.
Lift your (forward foot) toe and elevate your heel slightly.
Move your right foot forward in a subtle kicking motion and use your back leg to propel you forward.
Make sure your right arm thrusts forward as you move.
As you move slightly into the air, your knee should be bent so it is over your toe.
End by having your right thigh parallel to the floor., Lateral bound lunges will work out your lower body, provide a great cardio workout, and help you hone your reflexes and responses.


Place two cones 4 to 6 feet apart. This depends on your height and ability to jump.
Jump from one side to the other. Feel free to jump as high as you feel comfortable with.
Try to land so that one foot is a foot ahead of the other. This will be your forward lunge foot.
Perform a fencing lunge after landing on the other side., Lateral hurdle progressions will work out many of the same things as lateral bound lunges, but will enable you to practice different movements prior to completing a lunge.


Place several low hurdles in a line.
While facing the hurdles sideways, bound forward two hurdles. Use as much energy as you feel comfortable using.
Bound back one hurdle until you’ve finished your hurdle line.
Complete a fencing lunge (of your choice) after the last hurdle., A lunge and catch can be incorporated into lunge exercise to add increased rigor and to test your reflexes and reaction time. To do a lunge and catch:


Complete a lunge exercise.
After completing, have a friend or trainer toss a ball to you. Feel free to use whatever size and weight ball you want, just make sure you can catch and throw it comfortably.
Drop or throw the ball back and repeat the exercise.
This will hone your reflexes and force you to think on your toes., When setting time aside, you need to be cognizant of time you’ll need to warm up, work out, and complete your fencing regimen. In addition, you need to factor in time to meet and work out with your partner, if you have one.


Set aside 3 to 4 times a week for your fencing and workout routine. For instance, choose Monday, Wednesday, and Friday.
Put aside 10 to 20 minutes for warming up.
Set aside 30 minutes to an hour for days you do endurance training.
Reserve a minimum of an hour for individual fencing sessions with a partner. You will very likely have to build your schedule around your partner or others you play or workout with you.
Don't do endurance training on the same day as a match with a partner., On days you fence, you need to warm up. A warm up will allow you to loosen up your muscles and get your heart rate up. In the end, you’ll be able to fence much more effectively after warming up.


Walk briskly for 4 to 6 minutes.
Jog for 2 to 4 minutes.
Run for 2 minutes.
Do 2 to 4 intervals where you run very quickly for 30 seconds and then rest for 30 seconds., Fencing is a very involved and demanding sport. Thus, you need to make sure you’re not over-exerting yourself during your workout or during fencing matches. Consider:


Giving your muscles time to heal after working out or fencing. For example, take Tuesday off if you do endurance training on Monday. Then, participate in a match with your partner on Wednesday., As a combat-based sport, fencing is potentially very dangerous. Because of this, you need to embrace the best safety practices possible. Make sure to:


Wear all your safety gear including: fencing pants, fencing jacket, underarm protector or “plastron,” proper gloves, fencing mask, and fencing shoes or tennis shoes.
Do not use inappropriate, unsanctioned, weapons. This includes, but is not limited to: katanas, samurai swords, and machetes.
Never turn your back to your opponent.
Never run toward or away from your opponent.
See a doctor if you are injured or experience any pain after endurance training or a match., One of the biggest challenges to fencing regularly as part of an exercise routine is finding people to fence with. This is important, as without a partner, you won’t be able to do much more than simply train.


Join a fencing club in your area. The more populous your area, the better likelihood that there will be a club in your area. At fencing clubs, you’ll find other people who you can fence with regularly.
Contact the National Fencing Club for more information about clubs in your region.
If you don’t have a fencing club in your area, there may be some sort of fencing group or organization at a local college or university. If so, you can contact students or club members about sparring.