


Suggested items are string, no-residue tape, twist ties, Mentos, talc powder, stiff cardboard, or anything else you would need for a potential prank.;
, Be careful, however, as you enlist help. You do not want your targets to be forewarned of your intentions.



Eliminate those that would cause property damage, injury, or anything of that sort. There is nothing funny there. Keep your mind open to all sorts of crazy ideas, and write down whatever comes to mind.
,


Beware of people who would "flip out" and ruin your fun. Authority figures are not usually a good idea. Note rivalries (preferably friendly) between members of your group--this can present an opportunity for confusion as both prankees assume their rival has pranked them.



Hotel staff can be very helpful as you obtain a list "for your group." The below will focus on a hotel setting.



Card keys, doors left open or walking in are all effective. To get a card key: Most rooms will have multiple keys. Enter the room with accomplices and a friendly excuse. As you see a key, move over to it, then pick something else up and distract the people in the room with it (or have your accomplice make the diversion). While everyone is distracted, slip the card into your pocket and leave slightly after. Distraction is the key to keys.
 There are a multitude of pranks you can do; you are only limited by your imagination. Below are some suggestions.

Bathroom: Loosen the shower head. Turn off the water in the toilet, either by turning the valve on the wall or disconnecting the chain in the tank (mechanical toilets only). For a more grandiose toilet trick, disconnect Take the tank refill tube and bend it so it faces out from just beneath the tank lid. When flushed, the toilet will immediately begin to spray the refill water all over the occupant of the bathroom. Devastating. This only works if the water is on. Turn the water in the sink off. If there are hair dryers, discreetly place baby powder (talc or cornstarch) in one end so anyone using it will get a face full of powder. Here are some other bathroom tricks (not tested by contributor). Place Icy Hot or Vaseline on the toilet seat. Pour clear gelatin into the toilet bowl. Put Kool Aid, a jolly rancher or a meat broth cube in the shower head (beef, anyone?)






Bedroom: Unscrew all of the light bulbs and disconnect all electronics except the alarm clock. "Short-sheet" the beds by remaking the bed with the sheets folded halfway down the bed. Set the alarm clock for some time very early in the morning. Call the main desk and order as many wake-up calls as possible for times in the middle of the night. If you are feeling vindictive, put some salt in the bedsheets (not tested). Or, for a different touch, put water balloons or ice in the beds. Disconnect the receiver from the phone. Tape down the little button beneath the receiver with clear tape.






Front room: Unscrew the light bulbs. Put random things in the fridge. Put salt or other nasty tasting (but harmless) things in drinks. Get a Diet Coke and thread a Mentos on a small piece of string and hide under lid of the bottle; cut most of the string left outside the cap off. Strategically place the rigged Diet Coke; when opened, the Mentos will drop in, creating a sudden fountain of sweet goodness exploding all over the unsuspecting victim. Warm Diet Coke works best! (Do not place near valuable objects). Tape down and disable the phone as described above. Rearrange furniture. Raise and lower the room temperature as much as possible. If all else fails, hide in a dark corner and leap out making the freakish noises only you can make, scaring your target silly.






For a challenge, rig the door so that it dumps water on the first person to enter. There are two separate ways of doing this. Method 1: Get four plastic cups (or number desired) and fill with icy water. Take a thin, stiff object such as a blank CD and place a circular piece of tape on one half of one side of the CD. Have an accomplice place the disc's sticky portions to an underside of a door frame. While supporting the CDs, place the cups of water on top of them. Close the door slowly, pushing the CDs above door edge. When prepared, the CDs will be wedged in between the door frame and the top of the door with the icy water-filled cups waiting on the CDs. When an unsuspecting victim walks through the door, the CDs and water will be supported a moment by the tape (allowing victim to be directly below) before tipping and plunging the frigid contents onto the hapless person below. Method 2" If the door frame has a lip, place four cups (or number desired) on this lip. Hold them up with sufficiently strong tape, adhering them to each other and the wall. Take a piece of string, and connect it to the series of cups with one end. Tie the other end to the inside door handle (the side that will be seen last by the victim) of the room, leaving some slack to allow the door to be opened a certain distance before the trap springs. Fill the suspended cups with icy water, taking care not to exceed the sticking capacity of the tape (you want it to last for your intended victim.) If set up correctly, the target will walk through the door, opening the door as they walk in, using up the loose string. Once the slack on the string is used up, it will tauten and pull the water filled cups free, dumping the contents on the shocked person below. Works magnificently!







, If you have accomplices, delegate tasks for maximum speed and efficiency. Above all, be safe and have fun! Your friends and victims will never forget your kind, considerate gestures to make their boring, bland journey into a fun-filled fiasco!

