 Rafts are not available in all Zelda games. For versions in 2-D environment, it is only available on the following places:


The Legend of Zelda (first version) – A raft can be obtained when you play through “Manji,” the third level dungeon.
Link’s Awakening – Your main character (Link) can ride a raft at the Rapids Ride found in the eastern side of Koholint island.
Oracle of Season – The raft is an item that you will acquire during the “Item Trading” quest where in you need to trade various items with different non-playable characters. When you give the “Cheval Rope” to a man named Rafton on the eastern side of the island of Labrynna, he will give you a raft.;
, Rafts can’t be used just anywhere; you need to find docks that provide entry to bodies of water.


The Legend of Zelda (first version) and Oracle of Season – Docks are found all over the map. Approach bodies of water and see if there are any wooden platforms that extend out into the water. In the Legend of Zelda, you can find docks inside the Manji Dungeon, while docks are found all over the southern area of Labrynna in Oracle of Season.
Link’s Awakening – The only dock you can find is in the Rapids Ride shop. Once you pay the cashier 100 Rupees, it will then lead you to the back of the shop where you’ll find both the raft and the dock.
 Once you find the dock, approach it and open your item menu by pressing the Start button. Select the raft from the list of items you have and it will be placed on the water. This applies to both the Legend of Zelda and Oracle of Season.


In Link’s Awakening, the raft is already placed in the water. All you need to do is to move on and ride the raft.
 Once you get onboard the raft, press the A button on your controller to move forward, and use the directional arrow keys to move towards the direction you want to go. This applies to both the Legend of Zelda and Oracle of Season.


In Link’s Awakening, all you can do is to control the raft using the directional arrow key. The raft is already moving on its own because of the river’s strong current.
 Once you find another dock or get to the end of the Rapids Ride, all you need to do is to hop off the raft by moving towards the land and you’re done.