 They may be afraid of some negative stereotypes of goth culture. Your parents may be worried about you becoming involved with drinking, drugs, or illegal activities, as the goth style can look startling. Talk to your parents and explain you're simply exploring yourself and your individuality. Assure them you will not get involved in negative activities just because you're becoming goth.Tell your parents many kids become goth in middle school, and remind them they likely experimented with different styles at their age. Let your parents know that you simply want to try this look and lifestyle out.
Explain to your parents that being goth is about music, art, creativity, and fashion. Not all aspects of the goth culture are negative, and you are not necessarily depressed just because you're becoming goth.
Let your parents know drinking and drugs are not necessarily part of the culture. While all subcultures have negative aspects, whether or not you want to participate in harmful parts of the subculture is ultimately your choice. Reassure your parents they raised you well, and you will stay away from drugs and alcohol while becoming goth.
 Due to your unique style, you may get teased at school for being goth. If you're the target of bullying and teasing, find ways to disengage with your tormentors.Sometimes, the best way to deal is to simply ignore the bully. If someone makes a mean comment, simply keep walking and pretend you did not hear.
You should never get aggressive with a bully. Try to hold in your anger, and avoid retaliating in a physical manner. This will only escalate the situation.
Be confident in yourself. Remember, you chose the goth lifestyle because you're proud of your individuality. Work on conveying self confidence in your day-to-day life in order to deter bullies and be happy with yourself.
 Not all aspects of a goth style will work with your school's dress code. Review your student handbook and look at the dress code section. Some schools may ban things like certain piercings, chains, types of jewelry, and dyed hair. Make sure any aspects of the goth style you adopt are permitted in your school.
 There is some evidence people who adopt the goth lifestyle are more prone to depression. If you are going goth because you feel sad or left out, find better ways to cope. If you're feeling depressed, there are resources you can go to for help.Symptoms of depression include feeling irritable, hopeless, anxious, or unhappy most of the time without cause. You may also lack interest in things you once enjoyed, have difficulty sleeping, and have gained or lost weight without trying.
If you feel you are depressed, talk to your parents. Ask them for help finding you a mental health counselor who can help you deal with depression. Therapy and medication can be used to fight depression and get you back on track to being a healthy and happy teenager.

