


Use a light colour pen or a pencil, you will draw the final outline in a darker colour later.;
, As shown in the picture the shape of the chest resembles a backwards, capital "D" - also slightly slanted to the left. The chest should be roughly the same width as the head and about one and a half times the length.
 At this point simply use lines to show the arms' gesture, then circles on the end to represent hands. In the example, the right arm is drawn like a "C" with the top meeting the join of the head and cheat (or neck). The left arm is more "V" shaped but also joining the neck but on the other side.
 Again use lines and circles at this point to represent the leg and foot. In the example the right leg is slightly curved while the left is slight but angled to the bottom left. This stance makes the lion look like he is storming at the viewer.
 As shown in the picture the ears are shaped like an up-side-down "V" but the sides are slightly curved. To show the softer, inside of the ear another line is drawn inside that is curved like a bridge.



Starting halfway on the top of the right ear draw a curve, similar to the top of his head, to halfway on the top of the left ear.
From halfway on the bottom on the right ear draw a line, again following the curve of the head, until you reach the arm.
Do the same on the other side.
 This time however, draw the mane with a ragged.


Add a "fringe" that is also jagged.
Draw a "W" shape under the lions chin for a "beard".
 This time draw them thicker, not just lines. Look at the picture to see how to draw a bent arm. The paw should be drawn as a clenched fist - which means small bumps for each finger (only 3 needed and then a thumb).
 The eyebrow - or mono-brow! - is a line curved like a bowl with a horizontal, downwards tick at each end. Draw two dots underneath and touching the line, for eyes.
 The nose is a large bridge-curved line about halfway down the face with a small (thought larger than the eyes) circle underneath, but touching, in the center. The mouth is a simple smile - a line with the curve of a bowl.
 They should be roughly as thick as the arms but slightly thicker at the top than the bottom. The paws should be curved at the top but quite flat at the bottom. Separate the paws into claws (toes) with 3 curved lines.
 Make sure your lion is all joined up including drawing the back and torso lines.
