 For the easiest encoding experience, pick your intended destination device from the list on the right side of the window. These presets will make sure that the file is completely compatible with the selected device.


MP4 is the most playable format, so it is always selected by default in the Output Settings. If you plan on uploading the video to YouTube or other streaming service, check the box labeled “Web Optimized”
If you are encoding the video to watch on a computer or upload to YouTube, select the Normal or High Profile presets.
 You can click the Preview button to watch a small clip of the video you are encoding. This will let you check the quality before you commit to a long project. Encoding can be a time consuming process, especially if you are encoding high quality video. The preview may take a few moments to create.
 If you are unhappy with the results, you can use the tabs on the bottom to adjust your settings. Each tab relates to a specific aspect of the video.Picture: This will allow you to change the resolution of the video, as well as crop out unwanted edges such as black bars.
Filters: These filters can affect the playback of the video. They can remove layers that make a video look obviously filmed.
Video: This tab lets you change the codec of the video, as well as quality options such as frame rate and video optimization. One of the most important settings on this tab is the Quality section. Here you can adjust the bit rate of the finished file. Higher bit rate files are higher quality but much larger than lower bit rates.
Audio: The Audio tab allows you to adjust the settings for each audio track found in the source video. You can remove unwanted tracks (such as other languages), or adjust the quality of the audio independent from the quality of the video.
Subtitles: This tab will allow you to add subtitle files to videos. These files are usually found with the original video file.
Chapters: You can see the list of chapters in your video file here. These are most typically found in DVD images. You can import custom channel files as well.
Advanced. This tab is usually disabled, and can be enabled by checking the box in the Video tab. This tab will give you much more control over the x264 codec.
Changing preset settings may make the video unplayable in your chosen device. This is especially true if you change the frame rate or the picture size.
 If you have multiple files that you need to encode, click the Add To Queue button after you are finished with your project settings. This will add the project to the list of videos that will be encoded when you start.


You can click the Show Queue button to display a list of the projects you have lined up.
 Click the green Start button to begin encoding the video files in your queue. Encoding will take a significant amount of time, as well as a lot of system resources. Using your computer during encoding will slow the process down and may cause errors in the final product.
 Once you have finished encoding the video, transfer it to your device or open it on your computer. Make sure that the quality suits you, and that there are no errors.

