 It’s easy to feel left out when your partner is somewhere else, living a life you can’t be part of. You and your partner will have friends and experiences the other can’t be part of. To help keep them feel included and connected, send them texts and photos throughout your night so they know you are thinking of them and can almost feel like they’re there.This is especially important if you are posting photos to Instagram, Snapchat, or other social media. If you have time to update social media, you have time to send a text to your partner.
Send a special photo you haven’t posted on social media, and include a message like, “I miss you” or “Wish you were here with me!”

, Unless you tell your partner what you are doing, they won’t know. To help keep them in your life, let them know where you are going and who you are with. This helps keep the intimacy and passion between you because you both are including each other in your lives.For example, you might text them and say, “Going out with my friends to this really cool bar. They have a band I know you’d love! We’ll go next time you visit.” You may consider calling them afterwards and telling them about your night. Or, if you are attending an event, such as a concert, then you might consider using services like Facebook or Skype to share live video with them.
Do not think about this as a way for your partner to keep tabs on you. You are sharing your lives with one another, just like you would be if you lived in the same area. This is a way to keep each other involved in both your lives.
 It can be easy to slip into the habit of just texting about your day and expecting your partner to do the same. Help keep the passion by asking questions about your partner’s life, being interested in their new experiences, and remembering things they have going on.For example, you may text, “How is your job going?” or “Are you still liking your apartment?” You might say, “I remember you had a conflict with someone at work. How is that going?” or “Have you tried the new Indian restaurant you mentioned a few weeks ago?”

, Keeping in touch with your significant other is important because it show that you are thinking about them. When in a long distance relationship, you should text or call each other every day, even if it’s just to say hello and talk about your day. This helps you continue to feel close and connected.Some days, you can send a text, other days you can call, and a few times each week you can video chat.
 Love letters written by hand and care packages are a good way to keep the passion alive in your relationship. A handwritten love letter is an intimate and romantic gesture that can make your partner feel special. A package full of goodies you picked out just for them can also make them feel loved despite the distance.You can include pictures or drawings with your letters. Try baking them their favorite cookies or cakes, and buy them special gifts you know they’ll love.
You can also send sexy or naughty gifts, with messages like, “Send me photos” or “For the next time we’re together.”

