 As the cold winter months approach, it's a good idea to check your engine oil and decide whether it needs to be changed.


Dropping temperatures cause the oil in your engine to become more viscous (thicker). When this happens, the oil flows too slowly from one part of the engine to another — this prevents the engine from being properly lubricated, leading to overheating and an engine that won't start.
Therefore, it is often advisable to switch to a thinner oil during the cold winter months, in order to keep your engine sufficiently lubricated. If you're unsure about what type of oil to use, check the owner's manual for more specific instructions on what type of oil is best for your specific car, under certain temperatures and weather conditions.It's also important to remember that, as a general rule, the oil in your car should be changed every 3,000 miles (4,800 km), or once every three months.
 Your car's belts and hoses are susceptible to general wear and tear and are particularly affected by the cold weather.


If your car isn't due for its 30,000-mile full-service tune-up this winter (where the belts and hoses are often replaced) then it's a good idea to check them yourself for any signs of damage and get them replaced if necessary.
This step should not be neglected, because if something snaps while driving, you'll have no choice but to call a tow truck — which is far from ideal in the middle of winter., It's highly important that your engine contains the correct ratio of anti-freeze to water before the cold winter months set in, otherwise the coolant could freeze, causing the engine to overheat and potentially blow a gasket.


A ratio of 50% anti-freeze to 50% water is recommended for most cars, though in some circumstances this is increased to 60% anti-freeze, 40% water. Luckily, you can buy pre-mixed bottles of anti-freeze and water at the gas station.If you're not sure about the current ratio of antifreeze to water in your car's radiator fluid, you can pick up an anti-freeze tester at your local auto parts store for relatively cheap.
If the ratio is incorrect, you will need to flush your coolant system before you can refill it with the correct ratio. If this is not something you know how to do, take your car to a mechanic or oil change location. There is, however, no need to flush your system if you drain and refill on scheduled maintenance.
 If your car has a 4-wheel drive function, it's important to get it checked out to ensure that it's working properly, especially if you haven't used it since the previous winter.


Have a mechanic check the 4-wheel drive to ensure that the system engages and disengages smoothly, and that the transmission and gear fluids are at the correct level.
At this time, you (and any members of your household) should also review how the system works and understand the conditions under which it should be used. 4-wheel drive can improve your tires' traction on snowy or icy roads, thus decreasing your chances of getting stuck.
However, this doesn't mean that you should drive any faster or less safely than you normally would in unfavorable conditions.
 It's essential that your battery is in good working condition before the winter months — in cold weather, your battery takes more time to generate power, while the engine requires more current from the battery in order to start. If your battery is in poor condition, it won't be able to handle these requirements and your car will fail to start.


Keep track of how old your car battery is — they usually last between 3 to 5 years, so if yours is somewhere in that range it may be time to get a new one. You can also ask your mechanic to perform a battery load test to determine whether your battery needs to be placed.
Even if it doesn't need to be replaced, you should give your car battery a once over to check for any corrosion on the battery's posts and connections and for any fraying on the cables.
You also need to check the fluid level if your car is relatively old — you can do this by unscrewing the caps on top of the battery. If the fluid level is low, you can fill it with distilled water. Just be careful not to overfill it. However, most (if not all) new batteries are maintenance-free and do not require distilled water to be added. In fact, there are no caps to take off.
 The defrosting and heating units on your car are essential for your visibility and comfort while driving, so it's important to ensure that they are functioning normally.


The defroster helps to clear condensation from the inside of the windshield by blowing warm, dry air onto the glass. If it's not working properly, the windows can fog up and obstruct your view of the road. Have a mechanic check the defroster to ensure that it's working properly. If you find the window is still fogging up, you'll need to check your doors and windows for air leaks that could be letting in moisture.
It will become pretty obvious if your heater isn't working once the cold winter weather hits, but it's important to get this fixed as soon as possible. It may be necessary to replace the heater coil — this can be expensive, but it will be worth every cent on those cold winter mornings.
It's not just your comfort that's at stake, it's also your safety. If you're too cold while driving, this may affect your steering ability and attention to the road. Having a functional heating system could also save your life if you get stranded somewhere in your car.

