 You and your doctor or mental health professional should create an individualized treatment plan for your co-occurring disorders. Since you are dealing with OCD and another disorder, such as depression, a mood disorder, ADHD, eating disorder, or substance abuse, you need treatment tailored specifically to your conditions.The goal of your treatment plan will to manage the two mental disorders and their symptoms, improve your quality of life, and address personal issues.
For example, your treatment plan may include exposure therapy where you work on becoming comfortable with your obsessive thoughts while using cognitive behavioral therapy to address your eating disorder.;
, Cognitive behavioral therapy is an effective approach to the treatment of OCD. Therapists use talk therapy, exposure therapy, and cognitive behavioral therapy to treat OCD.These therapy treatments are also commonly used to treat OCD and co-occurring disorders. During cognitive behavioral therapy, a therapist or licensed mental health professional works with you to understand the relationship between your OCD and the co-occurring condition.For example, if you also suffer from an eating disorder, your cognitive behavioral therapy treatment will deal with the relationship between your ED and OCD to help treat it instead of addressing the two conditions separately.
 Group therapy is another common treatment for OCD that is also used for those diagnosed with co-occurring mental disorders. Group therapy connects you with other people who have two different mental illnesses. Group therapy is led by a trained mental health professional where you address the issues you are facing with a dual diagnosis.In group therapy, you can learn coping and social skills through your interaction with others.
You also can talk to others and learn how they manage their co-occurring disorders.
 Medication is often prescribed for the treatment of OCD. Your doctor may consider putting you on different or additional medication to address your co-occurring condition as well as your OCD.For example, antidepressants are often prescribed to treat OCD. If you are suffering from depression or another anxiety disorder, your doctor may prescribe an antidepressant or change the antidepressant you are on.Some co-occurring disorders may make the use of medication risky. For example, using selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) to treat OCD and mood disorders may lead to worsening symptoms of the mood disorder.Discuss the benefits and risks of taking medication for your OCD and other mental illness.
There is a delicate balance with antidepressants and mood disorders you do not want to overtreat and make the patient manic. You have to cautiously prescribe SSRIs when dealing with other mood disorders.
 One of the most important treatment and management options for coping with OCD is to manage your OCD triggers. If you have co-occurring conditions, these triggers may cause behaviors other than just your obsessions or compulsions. Your co-occurring condition may have their own triggers that cause obsessive thoughts or compulsions.For example, your OCD may be triggered by not washing your hands a certain number of times. This causes stress, which may lead to binge eating, depression, or alcohol abuse. You may be triggered by stress into not eating or substance abuse.
Your therapist can help you identify the triggers for your OCD and co-occurring condition, learn how they connect, and find ways to manage them.

