 If you're worried or unhappy about your friendship, the best way to air your concerns and then deal with them is by talking about them with your friend.Talk to them when the two of you are alone, and you are calm, in control of your emotions, and able to name what you are feeling.Indicate why you are worried, and give them a few examples of times when you felt that you were losing them to the new person. You could say, “It really upset me when you and Emily went shopping last week. I didn’t understand why I wasn’t invited. We used to go shopping together all the time.”
Give your friend a chance to respond. Listen to their feelings and thoughts about your friendship, and trust what they are saying. A good friend will reassure you and want you to feel better about this; however, you should be prepared to hear what you might not want to: that your friend is going to continue this other friendship.
Avoid questioning loyalty or friendship. Make sure you express that you love and trust your friend. Try saying, “You’ve been such a great friend to me. I know things are a bit different now, but I still love you and value our friendship.”

, As much as you might not like it, your friend is their own person and can be friends with whomever they wish — even people you don't like. It's okay if you struggle with this — acceptance can be hard — but remember that you don't have control over other people's actions. They are making decisions based on their lives and what makes them happy, and what makes them happy might be different from what makes you happy.


Acceptance is a decision that you make — you can choose to fight against things over which you have no control, essentially running yourself into a brick wall, or you can choose to accept your friend made the decision they thought was best for them., It’s okay to have some distance from someone. Do not smother your friend or be clingy. This will push them away.


If you know your friend is out with the person you don’t like, resist the urge to text constantly.
If your friend tells you what they did with the new friend, resist the urge the find out all the details. Rather than saying, “What did you guys talk about?” you could say, “I’m really glad you had a great time!”

, Join the same clubs and activities. This will allow you to spend more time together as well as give you tons of new things to talk about. And if you can engage with your friend in many different contexts, you will find that your friendship becomes more stimulating and exciting overall.
 Be there for the good times as well as the bad. You might be angry that your friendship has changed, but you can still be involved supportive.Go places together, do fun things, have parties and sleepovers, and hang out at each other’s houses.
Provide a listening ear on a bad day.

