 Do a few paced sprints to get your heart rate up. Mentally go through the race in your head. Know what times you want to have at each lap.;
, You'll want to start out a little faster than what is necessary to get your target time.


Psychologically, you're going to slow down as you get further into the mile, so make sure this first lap is good to compensate. At the same time, don't spend all of your energy on this lap.
A good example would be, if you want to run a 5:00 mile, each lap would need to be 75 seconds. A good time for your first lap would be 71 to 73 seconds. It's not too fast, but it's fast enough to give you some security.
 This is the lap which should be right on target. In the 5:00 minute mile we mentioned earlier, Lap 2 is the lap which should be exactly 75 seconds, so your time at the halfway point should be 2:26-2:28.


If you've been running 400m sprints, then you'll know the exact pace that you need to run this lap. You'll feel your body's muscle memory click into place.
Your adrenaline rush will probably start to wear off midway through this lap, and you'll start feeling it. Stay focused on maintaining your running form and keeping up your pace.
 Mentally and physically, this is the toughest lap for most people. More often than not, this lap will determine whether you hit your target time or not. Chances are, you will slow down from your original pace.


In our 5:00 mile example, most people will run Lap 3 in between 77 to 78 seconds. However, since the first lap was hopefully strong, this puts us almost perfectly at 3:45.
Make a conscious effort to keep pace on this lap or else you will fall behind. Remember, your next lap is the one that counts!

, This is it. You're almost there. That's what you need to be telling yourself at this point. You probably slowed down on your previous lap, so you need to really strut your stuff on this one and mentally push it to get to that time.


Especially important is the last 200 meters. On most tracks, that's the final curve. This is where you "kick."
All that can be said about this lap is that you need to mentally give it your all, and you'll make that target time. Just believe in yourself.
 For about 6 to 10 seconds as you go around the curves of the track, pick up your pace. This will help you to shave even more seconds off of your time.
 You'll slowly ramp up your running distance and speed while cross-training to prevent injury. Follow this progression:



Monday: 1 to 2 mile (1.6 to 3.2 km) jog

Tuesday: Bike or go swimming

Wednesday: 1 to 2 mile (1.6 to 3.2 km) jog

Thursday: Go biking or swimming

Friday: 1 to 2 mile (1.6 to 3.2 km) jog

, On Monday, Wednesday and Friday, jog 2 to 3 miles (3.2 to 4.8 km). Continue biking or swimming on Tuesday and Thursday.
 Skipping running may seem strange, but beginners are very vulnerable to injury. You'll pick up again in Week 4.
 Aim for a 12-minute mile. Run 3 miles (4.8 km) on Monday, Wednesday and Friday. Bike or swim on Tuesday and Thursday.
 Continue to increase your speed. Follow this routine:



Monday: Run 2 miles (3.2 km)

Tuesday: Run 3 miles (4.8 km)

Wednesday: Off--no exercise

Thursday: Run 4 miles (6.4 km)

Friday: Run 2 miles (3.2 km)

, You should be trying to run a 10-minute mile. Here's your pattern for the week:



Monday: Run 2 to 3 miles (3.2 to 4.8 km)

Tuesday: Run 3 to 4 miles (4.8 to 6.4 km)

Wednesday: Off--no exercise

Thursday: Run 4 to 5 miles (6.4 to 8.0 km)

Friday: Run 2 to 3 miles (3.2 to 4.8 km)

, Try to run for as long as you can at your goal pace. Track yourself to see how long you can maintain the pace that you want.

Tuesday: Run 6 to 8 sprints of 1/4 mile (400 m) at a pace of between 90 seconds to 2 minutes per interval. Between each interval, jog slowly for 1 to 2 minutes so that your body can recover.

Wednesday: Take the day off, swim or do an upper body workout.

Thursday: Run 2 miles (3.2 km), timing your pace to see how quickly you can complete your miles. Then, jog 2 miles (3.2 km) at a slower pace.

Friday: Run 3 miles (4.8 km) worth of intervals at a pace of between 90 seconds to 2 minutes. Really push yourself today to see if you can increase your pace. If you drop below your pace, take 2 minutes to walk or jog and then try to get back on pace. If you can't keep up a steady pace, go back to intervals. Just push yourself as hard as you can.

Saturday: Jog 4 to 6 miles (6.4 to 9.7 km) at an easy pace.
 Stay at goal pace throughout both miles.

Tuesday: Run 6 to 8 sprints of 1/2 mile (800 m) at a pace of between 3 and 4 minutes. You want to increase your distance while keeping your pace the same.

Wednesday: Take the day off, swim or do upper body strength training

Thursday: Run 2 miles (3.2 km) at your goal pace and then jog 2 miles (3.2 km) at a relaxed pace.

Friday: Run 3 miles (4.8 km) at your goal pace. If you can't keep up your goal pace, switch to intervals or try walking or jogging for 2 minutes before trying to run again at goal pace.

Saturday: Long, leisurely run of 4 to 6 miles (6.4 to 9.7 km). Make sure to stretch well., Choose someone who runs about the same speed as yourself if possible, as this provides encouragement and friendly competition. While you can train alone, training with a team of similar runners is a huge motivation booster. But, for some people a running buddy can slow you down, so you don't have to have a running buddy, but it's a good option to consider.
 Whether your goal is 10 minutes, 8 minutes or 6 minutes, you have to be extremely focused to break a personal record. The body will emulate your thoughts. If you believe something won't happen, then it most likely won't happen.
 Always do a 5 to 10 minute warmup and cool down. Adding warmups and cool downs to your routine will prevent injury.
 Posture is crucial and sometimes is what prevents many people from running faster.


Look at the horizon, not at your feet. Tilting your head at this angle will align and straighten your neck and back.
Keep your shoulders level and loose. If they start to come up toward your ears, then stop running and shake them out or stretch them gently.
Place your arms at a 90-degree angle and allow them to go forward and backward instead of across your body. Keep your fists unclenched with your finger lightly touching your palms.
Run tall. If you find that your torso is slouching, then take a deep breath and feel your torso naturally straighten. Maintain the improved posture while you exhale.
Keep your hips naturally aligned with your torso. Bending at the hips puts unwanted pressure on your lower back.
Take the right size strides. With each step, your foot should land directly beneath your body with your knee slightly bent. If your foot is landing in front of your body, then you are taking too long of a stride., Drink plenty of water. Around 64 fluid ounces of liquid a day.
 Strength training will improve your stamina, and plyometrics will help you to bring bursts of speed to your run.

