 Story mode is essentially a series of rooms through which you must advance. Some rooms include some sort of puzzle that must be worked out in order to enter the next room. Many gamers derive a great deal of satisfaction from figuring out how to get through a level with as little guidance as possible, but if you are completely frustrated and you just want to know how to get past a particular obstacle, then there are many detailed walkthrough available elsewhere on the Internet; for example, A FAQ/Walkthrough by Scott "CyricZ" Zdankiewicz, published at Game FAQs, Access date: 2008 Jun 15. Upon completion of each chapter, you will be awarded one gold brick; you will unlock freeplay for that chapter, and you will unlock the characters featured in that chapter. Some characters will become immediately available to you while others will be available to purchase in the Cantina. See below for a handy reference table of playable characters.;
, Points are awarded in the form of Lego studs. Silver studs are worth 10 points, gold studs are worth 100 points, blue studs are worth 1000 points and purple studs are worth 10,000 points. Studs are generally awarded when you destroy some piece of the scenery, but they can also be found laying on the ground like bread crumbs leading to the next challenge. Each chapter has a set number of points which must be obtained in order to achieve the status of True Jedi. A gold brick will be awarded if you achieve True Jedi and complete the mission. See below for a handy reference table of how many points are required at each level. If you are having trouble winning as many points as you would like, try these strategies.


Blow up everything you see. Take the time to wander around each area destroying everything.
Stay alive. You lose studs when your character dies. Avoid dying by taking care to collect red heart charms to restore your health or by activating the invincibility extra. You can also decrease the effect of your death by turning off the extra called adaptive difficulty. See How to use power bricks for more information regarding extras.
Turn on the stud magnet. The stud magnet is an extra available to buy after you find the associated power brick. When activated, it is significantly easier to collect studs during game play. See How to use power bricks for more information regarding extras.
Turn on character studs. Character studs are an extra available to buy after you find the associated power brick. When activated, enemy characters turn into studs when defeated. See How to use power bricks for more information regarding extras. This is particularly effective while playing levels with an unlimited number of enemy combatants; for example, Episode 2 Chapter 4 Jedi Battle and Episode 3 Chapter 4 Defense of Kashyyyk.
Turn on the stud multipliers. Stud multipliers are extras available to buy after you find the associated power bricks. They are very expensive, but when activated every point you find is multiplied by 2,4, 6, or 8, depending on which multipliers you have activated. See How to use power bricks for more information regarding extras.
 each chapter has 10 mini-kits. When you collect all ten mini-kits, you can build the kit outside the cantina, and you earn a gold brick. There are a total of 360 mini-kits (10 kits multiplied by 6 chapters multiplied by 6 episodes). If you collect all 360 kits, then you will have also earned a total of 36 gold bricks.
 There are 160 gold bricks to collect throughout the game, 36 available by completing story mode, 36 available by achieving True Jedi, and 36 available for collecting minikits, 12 available by completing the super stories, 20 available in the bounty hunter bonus missions, 6 available in the bonus levels, and 14 can be purchased in the cantina.
 each chapter can be played in story mode, free play or challenge. In challenge mode you receive a collection of characters to work with, and you are tasked with discovering the locations of ten blue canisters. You must find all ten in ten minutes. When you do, you are rewarded with 50,000 points.

