 This technique packs a one-two punch by decreasing ADHD symptoms and minimizing anxiety. Learning to use your breath to your advantage can help you increase relaxation and improve attention. Deep breathing jumpstarts your body’s natural stress response, helping you gradually become more at ease. Here’s how to do it.


Locate a place where you can sit in quiet for several minutes without distraction. Sit down comfortably and close your eyes. Breathe in deeply and slowly through your nose, making sure that your stomach is expanding with each inhale. Then, release the air by exhaling through your mouth, noticing your belly deflating like a balloon. Repeat this exercise several times until you feel more relaxed.;
, It may seem unlikely for a person with ADHD to successfully practice mindfulness, but research shows it is very possible and also effective at reducing symptoms. Mindfulness is the practice of focusing on the here and now, which can be a major barrier for folks with ADHD. However, studies show that mindfulness training can help improve concentration.What’s more, mindfulness techniques are also effective at reducing stress and anxiety.To practice mindfulness, find a quiet place where you can sit comfortably for about 15 to 20 minutes without distractions. Relax your limbs. Close your eyes and breathe normally. Now, start deep breathing, taking long, slow inhales in through your nose. Then, exhale slowly through your mouth. You can count mentally and say "1." Repeat. Whenever you find that your thoughts have wandered, simply return your focus to your breath and restart your count at 1 again.
Learning mindfulness to overcome ADHD on your own can be quite challenging. Talk to your psychologist or mental health provider about completing a mindfulness training program under professional supervision.
 If you are feeling stressed, there’s likely signs of tension in your body. Progressive muscle relaxation teaches you how to use your body to reduce stress. This exercise can be incorporated into a deep breathing practice for double the benefit.


Perform this exercise in a quiet, secluded place. Lie down comfortably on a couch or a bed. Relax your muscles and take several deep, cleansing breaths. Gradually move through each major muscle group in your body, contracting and then releasing the muscles.Start at your forehead. Scrunch up your forehead and arch your eyebrows for a few seconds. Then, release the tension and notice how it feels when the tension goes away. Move to the next muscle group until you have completed your entire body. Once the exercise is finished, you should feel both mentally and physically relaxed.
 Not having special times to care for yourself or find enjoyment simply sets you up for burnout at school or at work. Make time each week (or each day, if possible) to engage in an activity that you find pleasurable. This may include walking on the beach, playing with your pet dog, watching a favorite comedy movie, or baking cookies. Just make time to do what you love often., Don’t beat yourself up. Acknowledge that you are dealing with a serious mental condition and that you will make mistakes.If you hold yourself to the standard of people without ADHD, you will always feel like a failure.


Instead, give yourself a break and simply celebrate the small successes that you accomplish in a day. These may include getting to work or school on time, or remembering to write down your homework or chores list.
 Being conscious of your needs and using your voice can help you minimize excess stress in the long haul. Successfully battling ADHD and anxiety require that you become knowledgeable about both conditions and your limitations. When you have knowledge about yourself and your needs, you are better equipped to communicate those needs to others.Educate yourself thoroughly about both ADHD and anxiety and be aware of the symptoms of each. Be willing to speak up at school or at work if you are being asked to perform in a way that is difficult for you due to these conditions.
For example, if you have trouble taking tests within a scheduled window, you may have to speak with your school about getting test-taking accommodations. Raise your hand or pull your teacher aside and say “Ms. Winters, it’s really stressful for me to complete my test in 45 minutes. Can you work with me so that I don’t feel so much anxiety about taking tests?”

, You automatically feel more capable of handling stress and anxiety associated with ADHD when you can recognize what’s causing it. Worries, clutter, and idle time are all potential triggers that may upset your anxiety and exacerbate your ADHD. Of course, you will need to be observant of what’s happening in your life to truly pinpoint your triggers.Once you have identified your triggers, sit down and come up with solutions so that you can avoid them altogether. For example, if idle time seems to trigger anxiety in you, it can be helpful to develop a daily schedule that keeps you productive and busy while including a list of leisure activities you can do during free time. That way, you won’t have to feel stressed out about down time, you can simply participate in one of your agreed upon activities during that time.
 Although you may be against developing a routine, doing so can help immensely. Create a sense of structure in your life that helps you alleviate stress and reduce disorganization.For example, you might spend some time each evening getting prepared for the following day. Lay out your clothes. Gather any important documents, such as forms or assignments.
You can also develop a system for organizing paperwork that has gotten out of hand and completing homework.Talk to your school psychologist, mental health providers, or teachers to see if they can suggest any helpful systems for you to implement into daily life.
 A person with ADHD may have difficulty gauging time and handling deadlines. If you know that this is a barrier for you, research methods to employ to improve your time-management skills.These may include setting timers that tell you when to stop one activity and move to another. Or, you may need to set reminders in your phone so that you don’t forget important appointments or events. Be aware of your limitations and put measures in place that assist you.
 Stress can be building up and you not even notice it. In order to effectively manage stress, you must have natural breaks into your day that allow you to take notice of tension and ease it before it mounts.


Every hour or so, pause and take inventory of how your body feels. Is there tension present? Is your heart racing? Are you feeling overwhelmed? Are your thoughts negative?If you spot the signs of mounting stress, take action. Close your eyes and complete several minutes of deep breathing. Stretch your legs and go for a walk in nature. Call a friend for a quick chat. It’s important to notice when you’re feeling stressed and implement measures to decrease it accordingly.
 Although stimulant medications have proven to be highly successful in treating the symptoms of ADHD, this benefit does not come without cost. Stimulants have the power to cause or worsen existing anxiety symptoms.Some doctors say that the anxiety felt while taking stimulants happens as the body adjusts to the medication, and that symptoms should subside in the coming days and weeks. In any case, your doctor can also prescribe a non-stimulant in conjunction with a selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor (SSRI) for people who cannot tolerate stimulant medications.
Another option is to take medication to treat one of the disorder (i.e. the ADHD or the anxiety) and manage the other with behavioral and lifestyle changes.
 Attempting to treat either ADHD or anxiety with medication only may not demonstrate optimal results. In most cases, patients must consider global lifestyle changes in addition to other professional treatments, such as behavior therapy.


Behavior therapy is a treatment approach facilitated by a pediatrician, school psychologist, or other mental health provider to improve the more subtle symptoms of ADHD. A structured program is developed that uses rewards and consequences to improve skills and eliminate undesirable behavioral patterns., Although there is no clear evidence that dietary and nutritional deficits cause ADHD or anxiety, there is evidence to show positive changes can improve symptoms in both disorders. Foods that help the brain are beneficial for people with ADHD.These include an abundance of proteins found in meat, poultry, beans, nuts, and cheese. Eat less simple carbohydrates like sugar, white flour and white rice and more complex carbohydrates found in fruits, vegetables, and whole grains. Foods with omega-3 fatty acids also help, such as salmon and walnuts.
Nutritional supplements may also reduce symptoms. Consider taking a 100% vitamin and mineral supplement daily.
 You may already have received a recommendation to implement a regimen of physical activity from your primary care doctor. Regular exercise is beneficial for building strong bones and muscles. However, in addition to physical fitness, exercise also helps the brain.


Neurotransmitters, special chemicals in the brain, are generated during physical activity that can minimize inattention and improve cognitive thinking skills. An added benefit is that exercise also eases stress and anxiety.Most doctors recommend at least 30 minutes of moderate intensity exercise on most days in a week.

