 Five minutes is a great time to introduce yourself to this formal practice. Its recommended to formally sit around ten minutes a day.;
, Sitting in a chair is best for a beginner. Sit so that your feet are flat on the floor with your spine upright without overly slouching or sitting too rigid. If possible do not rest back of the chair. Knees should be the level of the hips or lower.
 In a city there is rarely a sound free place to sit. Quiet isn't necessary for Shamatha, but you won't want to play music.
 In an upright posture your shoulder will rest naturally down, but if you pull your hands too far back it raises your shoulders. Work to find a relaxed place to put your hands where you won't develop back pain.
 Continuous monitoring of relaxation by introspection is the sine qua non. Any time your mind wanders or you lose complete relaxation, relax more deeply. A wandering mind is agitated, relax more deeply.
 Because this meditation is about being present you can have your eyes open. You will see thee things in front of you and you will blink and your eyes will move. You do not focus on a spot, but simply rest your gaze. Naturally you will focus and unfocus. Come back to a resting gaze.
 The breath will be the primary point of attention which you come back to for the select length of time. You are not going to focus on the breath, but rest your attention on it. There are many ways, you will find, to understand when you are resting on the breath and when you are focusing on the breath. That comes later. For now, your attention should notice the breath going in and going out.
 Thoughts and ideas and feelings will come up. Most noticeably will be a narrative of what you are doing. When you notice this you can say to yourself "thinking" and then return your attention back to the breath.


"Thinking" is just a neutral label. You might just say "Ding!" It is a way to signify to yourself that you have wandered from your object of attention,

, to getting back to the breath. For example: you see you are off your point and you say to yourself "Ding!" Then you check your posture - is it still upright? Then you can come to your gaze - am I staring a hole into a speck of lint on the floor? Then you come back to the breath. To start, rest the attention on the breath as it comes in and out of the mouth and nostrils. Then more specifically rest your attention on the out breath as it goes out from you in a whoosh. Then relax and wait for another outward whoosh. Without concentration, without focus, just being present and aware of how the breath goes out.
 Do a sweep of gaze and body and environment, all seeking to relax into resting rather than focusing or spacing out.
 At the end of five minutes or whatever period of time - you can bow to yourself or ring a bell or take a large breath. Something to signify the end of your formal setting. I recommend a quote that you can personalize. "By this may everyone be happy."

