 Become a mentor to your own child. Even if you spend much of your time out of the home. Communication is a big issue. There are many ways to communicate with them. You can use the computer (chat with them), text (cellphone, computer), facebook, Myspace, by letters and just the regular telephone. Many times your words shape their beliefs. You can make a negative or positive impact on them. You have to speak positive to your child. Praise them for the little that they achieve, instead of focusing on their weaknesses. Please don't show differences. Yes, we know that each child is different. They have different personalities and needs. Focus on their needs. One child may have a more aggressive personality than the other. One might be more meek than the other. In life these characters traits play their part. We are all made to be different.;
, Allow them to express themselves. They are people with feelings, emotions, and thoughts. They have good or bad days just like adults. Listen to what they are interested in the most. Ask questions about what they like.
 Do they have certain skills, abilities, hobbies or interests. Example: Favorite TV shows, games, sports, writing, arts, crafts, computers, sketches, fashion, hair, etc.
 If you don't have the money, there are many resources out there today. The library has a wealth of information, internet, and schools. There is no excuse for a child to not achieve, study, or research any field.
 Find the resources and prepare while they are early.
 Sure, we can't be everything. But if they have the will and determination, they can achieve anything. One theory is: determination + preparation + opportunity = success.
 They were created as an individual being. They have their own ambitions, dreams, and desires. It is never to late to start on your dreams. The founder of KFC did, and he was in his 60's when he started. What is your excuse?

, If you found out that it was wrong or you were misguided, just remind yourself to never teach it to your children.
 Children are like sponges, they soak up everything. You never know if you are raising an astronaut, engineer, geologist, president, artist, etc.
 You are the parent, not their little friend. No, don't get me wrong. Allow your children to talk to your and come to your as a friend. When it comes to disciplining them and protecting them from the wrong crowd, that's when you parent. They know the difference.
 Please don't rule with an iron fist. Know when to correct and know when to listen. Weigh your options when you discipline them, maybe they just need a listening ear. Their actions might be them lashing out about a problem at school, etc.

