 The classic treasure hunt clue is a simple couplet, or rhyming lines. These can be easy, like "To find your first clue, look by the glue," or more opaque, such as "We travel together, one black and one white, you only meet us when the food isn't right" (by the salt and pepper)., Draw or take photos of places they should investigate, figuring out where the actual location is. This is a great clue for younger kids, as it lets them get moving quickly. For the older crowd, you can up the ante by using vintage photos, satellite shots, or extreme close-ups for a more difficult hunt., For example, you could get three identical cups. Show the kids which cup you are hiding the clue under, then rapidly mix around the cups. The kids then have to guess which cup contains the clue. You can run egg races, small obstacle courses, or mini scavenger hunts as well, giving out the clue only once the game is complete.This can be a good way to break up the middle of a hunt. Send them off on the first 4-5 clues, then go set up the game for the middle. After the game is over, they can get some food, water, and sunblock before hitting the next 4-5 clues.
 The simplest way to make invisible ink is to write something in white crayon, then have the kids go over it with highlighter. You can also make invisible ink, letting the kids figure out what to do with the "blank" clue on their own.For kids of all ages, you could turn all of the lights off in a room so it is pitch black. Tell the kids to search for the clues with flashlights or by feeling around.
 You might dunk the clues in a bowl of wet spaghetti "brains," forcing kids to go dig through. If you have some waterproof clues, you can put them in the bottom of the pool, giving kids a chance to jump in and swim (as long as they are supervised). Anything that makes them move and try out different things will be a blast., For example, you can get custom-made puzzles cheaply online, which you can print with a clue. Then, at each smaller clue, you give out a puzzle piece, which build up to reveal one last clue or secret. Other ideas include:


Giving out letters at each clue as part of a word scramble. The scrambled word is a password for another clue, or the answer to reveal the final treasure.
Themed questions such as -- "the final answer is the one thing all the other clues have in common," or "the final clue comes from the first letter of all the other clues."

, This is especially fun if you have a themed treasure hunt. For example, you can ask "Where part of the house did Harry Potter have to live in as a kid?" which would send the children scrambling towards the closet for the next clue.


Be sure to check with some kids beforehand, so that these clues are actually relevant or answerable!, This goes well with puzzles or multi-part clues. Write out a map, complete with illustrations and a few intentionally misleading parts (like an "accidentally" erased area). Then, at each location in the map, put a small prize or clue needed to open the final treasure, which prevents kids from racing straight to the end.