 It's often important to have a dedicated file for every single student. This helps you see at a glance where each student is, what has been done and a range of other key details.;
, As a tutor, you may use third-party billing. Or, you may use templates and print invoices. Whatever the system is, having a streamlined, accessible billing system can save you a lot of time.
 Having an organized Rolodex can eliminate trouble for tutors who need to do routine communications during a student's set of tutoring sessions, or when it becomes necessary to make some calls looking for new business.


Keep contacts for tutoring services. You may frequently have to call your third-party employing services about policies, payment and more. Having those phone numbers on hand can be critical.
Keep parents' phone numbers on file. In a variety of situations, including for scheduling changes, you may need to contact parents of younger students. Having both home phone and cell phone data close by can help.
 Having a good part of the filing cabinet dedicated to tax filing will help when it's time to file annually.


Keep receipts for deducted expenses. As a tutor, you can often deduct a range of costs from federal and state tax returns. However, proof is needed for an audit or other observation.
Keep any other tax-related items. Tracking earnings over the year is handy for making estimated quarterly payments.
 The actual books and tutoring materials that a professional uses also need to be well-organized. This works best when there is sufficient space and folders, dividers, etc. to collate materials well.


Keep materials accessible. Having books and handouts separated by age, subject and skill level often helps.
Label audio and video tools, etc. These larger items may only go out to tutoring venues periodically but it's important for you to track them and know where they are.
 All other applicable documents including qualifications and ongoing contracts also need to be a part of a well-stocked filing cabinet when tutoring.

