 There should be an eagle nearby waiting to attack one of your pups, so chase it off when it comes near the ground to ensure it leaves. Make sure all of your pups are well fed, (you can tell by how red the paws are) if the paws are pink, feed them. Eat some carcasses and get the red bar high for extra food on the way.
 Slowly carry them away. After you get a short distance away from your den, either wait for your mate to bring all the pups to you or go and get them yourself. Although this can cause your mate to bring the pup you carried back to you. Continue this until a predator comes or your pups are hungry., These steps are continued for the rest of the journey to make sure your pups survive. This is what to do when a predator comes.

Bear: Chase after it at fast as you can. When you catch up to it, bite it. If your mate is near it will come and help you. Make sure to bite it three times and it will run off. If you don't, it will bother your for the rest of the way, making it dangerous to keep your pups safe and if you become weak you or your pups may die.
Coyote: If you see any signs of a coyote at all, follow the scent trail or chase after it and kill it. 
Eagles can kill your pups even when they're in your mouth. The only way to make sure an eagle leaves is when it reaches the ground to grab your pup, run towards it and bite it. It's impossible to kill an eagle, so it will just fly away.
 When your pups gets hungry, you can either feed them with the extra food you saved or hunt yourself. If your pups' bars get too low, your mate will run off to hunt. Do not join her or him, because if a predator comes when you are away, it will probably kill your pup even if you run as soon as you get the warning. Just let your mate come to feed them.

If however, you want to hunt yourself, it is dangerous to hunt elk, because this can take a long time. The best chance you have is to hunt a bunny or eat off of carcasses to feed your pups. If you ever find a carcass, feed your pups then come back to eat some more. This will help when there is no food nearby and your pups are hungry.
 Even if it looks like you won't have to cross a river on the map, you still will, no matter what. If you decide to get a den close to the U shape in the river, it is much easier, though., This can take a long time, but you will know when you don't have to swim, where the shallow spot is. Some can run across the water without finding a shallow spot, but that is a risk. The glitch could stop halfway through and your pup could drown. So instead of having that risk, you'll need to find the shallow spot, and fast. Sometimes your mate will bring the pup to you while you're in the water. If this happens, run to it as quick as you can and take it out before it dies. Feed it and continue., If it gets in the water, pick it up and run to the next side and feed it. Don't go to grab your other pups. Wait for your mate to bring them to you, because if you go to grab another pup he or she might bring the pup back to you., Continue feeding and defending the pups, eating extra meat and carrying pups until you reach the end. Bring your pups to an area in the clearing, waiting for your mate to join. When you finish, there will be a screen of you and your pack howling.