 Taken together, Lexis or Westlaw, CourtLink or CourtExpress, Legal Dockets Online, or the U.S. Party/Case index on PACER cover almost all the federal, state, and local courts in the United States. Contact you local library to see which, if any, of these resources they provide access to. If your library does not offer access, try the nearest university library.Ask the librarian for help using these research databases if necessary.
Enter as much information on your subject as possible. If he or she is a felon, a search will often return case information detailing his or her crime.
Be aware that these databases do not include all criminal records. For instance, Lexis’s FINDER/CRIMNL database only has records from 37 states, rarely reaching beyond the year 2000. Westlaw’s CRIM-ALL database has records for 41 states, but not all jurisdictions in those states are represented.
 The National Center for State Courts website has information that will lead you to the webpages for all of the state and many of the local courts in the United States. Surf to the appropriate state and enter as much information as possible on the individual.


The states that provide statewide records are Alabama, Arkansas, Connecticut, Colorado, District of Columbia, Florida, Georgia, Hawaii, Montana, Minnesota, Missouri, North Carolina, New Jersey, Oregon, Oklahoma, Pennsylvania, Rhode Island, South Carolina, South Dakota, Texas, Tennessee, Wisconsin and Washington.
Keep in mind that state wide reports can be incomplete. Failure of a county to submit criminal reports results in missed information on the report.
 Some states do not have statewide searches, and even those that do may not report all records, so it is best to always check the lower courts.


A variety of sites provide links offering free access to public records resources. Some useful sites include VirtualChase.com, SearchSystems.net, Public Record Sources, and Public Records Online Searches.Do a web search for the county or city where the person lived, as well as the terms “criminal court records” or “criminal records”. If that does not work, try searching for the county along with “county clerk”.
Enter as much information as you can regarding the person you are investigating.
Case information is often coded and difficult to understand. Codes for felonies usually begin with a “F”, those for misdemeanors with a “M”.
 Not all county and local courts have records that are searchable online. If the jurisdiction does not, try contacting the county clerk to ask how to request a criminal record search.


Be aware that there may be a fee associated with non-web searches at the county level.

