 On average, a dog needs about an hour of exercise per day.Taking walks not only ensures that your dog gets this exercise, but it is an important bonding activity for the two of you. Try to walk your dog twice a day—once in the morning and once in the early evening.


If you work, you should try to walk them before you leave for work and once when you get home from work.
If you walk your dog at the same time every day, soon your dog will start to expect walks at those times. This will help you set an important routine that improves their health and your relationship.
 Games provide both physical and mental stimulation for your dog. Set aside some time every day to play with your dog. You can play tug of war, hide and seek, fetch, or pounce and shake.You can look for toys that you can use to play with your dog. These include ropes, rubber rings, balls, and squeaky toys.
Play is extremely important for puppies. If you have a puppy, you should play with them frequently throughout the day., Touch is extremely important in building a bond between you and your dog. As you spend time with your dog, pet, scratch, and massage them. You can:Brush your dog while watching TV.
Rub their belly during play.
Greet them in the morning by scratching behind their ears.
Pet them as you come home.
 Agility classes offer fun obedience training by teaching your dog how to do various obstacle courses. By going to agility courses, not only will you be providing exciting stimulation to your dog, but you will also have found a great weekly activity that you and your dog can do together., If you lead an active lifestyle, you can work out and spend time with your dog at the same time. High energy dogs, such as border collies, Labrador retrievers, huskies, and pointers, may love to run alongside you or follow you on a walk. You might consider letting your dog come with you while you:


Ride a bike
Swim
HikeRun, When you and your dog are spending time together, you should make sure that you are not distracted by your phone, computer, TV, or book. Focus entirely on your dog so that you both bond with one another. Not only will this make the activity more enjoyable for you, but your dog will appreciate it so much more.

