 Ideally, the color you should use is a soft, baby pink. You will also be adding an edging to the scarf. You can make the edging the same, light pink color, of you can make it white or dark pink.;
, Begin with 2 chain stitches. Next, do 2 single crochet stitches in the second chain from the hook. Follow up with a single chain stitch, then turn your work.
 Do 2 single crochets in the first stitch, then single crochets in each stitch for the rest of the row. Finish off with 1 chain stitch, then turn your work. This concludes row 2.To create a grosgrain pattern, work your single crochets into back loops. Do this for every row.
Remember this row. You will be repeating it shortly.
 Do 1 single crochet in each stitch except for the last one. Do 2 single crochets in the last stitch. Do 1 chain stitch, then turn your work. This concludes row 3., This will create the angled bottom of the ribbon. By the time you finish your second set, you will have a total of seven rows. Here is a quick guide for you:


Row 4: 2 single crochets in the first stitch, single crochet the rest of the way, chain stitch 1, turn.
Row 5: 1 single crochet in each stitch, 2 single crochets in the last stitch, 1 chain stitch, turn.
Row 6: 2 single crochets in the first stitch, single crochet the rest of the way, chain stitch 1, turn.
Row 7: 1 single crochet in each stitch, 2 single crochets in the last stitch, 1 chain stitch, turn.
 Do 2 single crochets in the first stitch, then 1 single crochet in each stitch for the rest of the row. Finish off with 1 chain stitch, then turn your work. Your scarf is now at it's final width. You are now ready to start on the body.
 Simply do a single crochet into each stitch, then 1 chain stitch, then turn your work. This creates the body of your scarf. After this, you will create the "keyhole" where the scarf slips into itself creating the symbolic, Breast Cancer Awareness ribbon shape. The more rows you add, the longer the "tails" of your ribbon will be.


Your scarf should be at least 29 inches (74 centimeters) long, starting from the tip., Place a stitch marker into the middle of your row. You can eyeball it, or be more precise by counting the stitches. Next, do 1 single crochet into each stitch. When you reach the stitch marker, do 1 chain stitch, and turn your work.If you don't own a stitch marker, use a safety pin or a piece of yarn in a contrasting color.
 This is very important; you will be sliding the other end of your scarf through this keyhole to create a loop.


In short: do 1 single crochet in each stitch, followed by 1 chain stitch, then turn your work.
 Slip your hook through the first stitch to the side of the stitch marker. Measure out a 6-inch (15-centimeter) tail from your skein, then loop it over your hook. Use your hook to pull it through the stitch.At this point, you can pull out your stitch marker.
 Make a single crochet into each stitch, then a chain stitch, then turn your work. Do this for 8 more rows. You should end up on the outer edge of your scarf., Do a single crochet all the way across your scarf. When you reach the center of the keyhole, hole the 6-inch (cc-centimeter) tail from before along the top of your work. Crochet right over it, encasing it between both rows. When you reach the other side of your scarf, do 1 chain stitch, then turn your work., Set aside your work for a moment, and go back to the bottom of your keyhole. Thread the 6-inch (15-centimeter) tail onto a yarn needle, then weave it back into your work.
 Keep doing a single crochet into each stitch, then a chain stitch, then turn your work. Stop when your scarf is a few inches/centimeters too short. You will need to do the other slanted end of the ribbon.Make sure that your hook is on the same edge as the top of your slant, where you did your last repeat of row 2. This ensures that the scarf keeps classical, Breast Cancer Awareness ribbon shape., Single crochet the first 2 stitches together, then do a single crochet into each stitch for the remainder of the row. Finish up with a chain stitch, then turn your work.To join 2 stitches together with a single crochet:Push the hook into the first stitch, and drape the yarn over it (yarn over).
Pull the yarn through the first stitch, so that you have 2 loops on your hook.
Push the hook through the second stitch, and drape the yarn over it again (yarn over).
Pull the hook through the second stitch. You should now have 3 loops on your hook.
Drape the yarn over your hook once more, and pull it through all 3 loops on your hook.
 Do 1 single crochet into each stitch, except for the last 2. Single crochet the last 2 stitches together as before. Do 1 chain stitch, then turn your work., The end of your scarf should be almost the same length as the beginning of your scarf., Do a single crochet into the first 2 stitches, then do 1 single crochet into each stitch for the remainder of the row. Do 1 chain stitch, then turn your work.
 Simply, do a single crochet through the last 2 stitches. At this point, you can continue using the same color of yarn for the edging, of you can switch to white or a darker shade of pink. If you choose to switch your yarn, remember to leave behind 6-inch (cc-centimeter) long tails. Tie the ends loosely together so that they don't unravel while you work., Starting at the point of your scarf, do 1 chain stitch, then do a single crochet all around the scarf. When you reach the other point, do another chain stitch, then continue doing a single crochet until you are back to where you started., Join your last stitch to your chain stitch using a slip stitch. Cut your yarn down to 6 inches (15 centimeters), then use a yarn needle to weave the end back into the scarf. If you used a different color for the edging, untie the loose knot you made earlier, and weave the ends back into the scarf as well., Start by wrapping the scarf around the back of your neck, and placing the ends over the front of your shoulders. Slip one of the ends through the keyhole you made, creating a loop. When work, the scarf resembled the looped shape of the symbolic Breast Cancer Awareness ribbon!

