 It'll help you feel better when you wake up. Gives you a little present from yourself to wake up to! Bonus points if the clothes are clean and ironed;);
, Even if you start with just making your bed every day or just a quick laundry pick-up, even if you just do it real quick as you walk in or just before you walk out! It's refreshing to have your own space that you actually get excited to look at.
 Fill out school, work, the days homework or work assignments are due, appointments, meetings, and time with friends or family. Don't overbook yourself! You shouldn't spend all of your time alone, but it's perfectly okay to have some "me time", too. Post the schedule on the fridge, or your bedroom door, or just keep it to yourself in a purse or backpack. It's way too easy to feel overwhelmed when you have to mentally keep track of all your plans. So don't! Just jot it down once you think of it. It doesn't take that much time. You'll thank me in two weeks when your life has already been so much more productive and organized and you're not in over your head.
 You want to put your best into what you're presented in life, and you're where you are for a reason.
 It's so easy and prevents conflict! Unless someone has hurt you (at which point you'd privately and calmly communicate it in a healthy way), you should ask yourself why bothers you. Remember, everyone is going through their own experiences every day and you are not in control of their actions, you're in control of your own. On top of being respectfully nice to the people you know personally, try to compliment someone you do not know very well, offer your talents to someone in need, or do favors for people when you can. You never know what it might mean to them!

, Don't drink if you're underage, and if you aren't underage, don't drink too much. Don't smoke cigarettes at all! Never talk about someone behind their back, or bully them.
 Eat healthy and exercise regularly, but remember that it's not about being super skinny or fit, it's about being healthy. Bathe daily. Brush your teeth twice a day, and floss to have good teeth. Wash your face every morning and night to prevent breakouts. Get your hair trimmed regularly, and clip or file your nails to keep them healthy.
 It doesn't matter if you're not seeing anybody else today or if you're seeing everybody. Wear what you feel the best in.
 It will sink into your pores and stay on your pillow and just be a big mess. Just wash your face twice a day.
 It's always good to try something new. Try saying "yes" to something new every once in a while. Try new food, clothes, cultures, or even something like shampoos! You never know until you try.
 You don't want to get in trouble with your boss/teacher for not having your supplies, or run into a problem because you didn't bring something you really needed! Throughout the day, make checklists for what you want to remember to keep you in check about what you need to do. Also, always keep a tab on your supplies! That way, you can make a note on what you need to buy. Download an app like evernote to keep track of your whole life with tabs and tags.
 Just try your best every day, make small and big goals and keep track of them. Do it for yourself, and be realistic! You are worth it. You can feel perfect.

