 Lacquer, even more so than paint and primer, gives off dangerous fumes that can be deadly in enclosed spaces. Unless you have a designated spray booth, you should spray your lacquer outside.You'll want a sturdy, level surface to work on, and a surrounding area free of unnecessary equipment or tripping hazards.


You can make a temporary work bench on level ground outside your home. Lay a flat board between two sawhorses, and you'll be ready to start lacquering.
You may still want to drape a large drop cloth over the surrounding area to protect accidental lacquer spatter on your house or lawn furniture., Set your goal board on your work surface. For the best results, you should prime your board before painting it. Use medium grit sandpaper (60 - 100 rating) for rough wood, fine grit paper (120 - 220 rating) for relatively smooth wood, and very fine paper (240 - 400) for smooth, unblemished wood.When sanding, use moderate, steady pressure to rub the sandpaper back and forth with the grain of the wood, smoothing blemishes, splinters, and so on.
Sand your goal board until it is completely smooth and even. Then, wipe away sawdust with a water dampened rag.
You can speed the sanding process considerably by using an automated sander, like an orbital sander. Be sure to wear a dust mask and protective eye wear when using automated sanders., At this point, you'll need to allow a few minutes for the wood to dry following its damp wipe down. This is the perfect opportunity to check and put on your safety gear for lacquering. You'll need:


Dust maskSafety googles
Gloves, Depending on the kind of lacquer primer you bought, there are several methods by which you might apply it. Many kinds can be brushed onto your board to improve the quality of your lacquer. Always follow your lacquer primer directions, but generally:


Mix the lacquer primer with a clean paint stirrer. Then dip a clean brush into the lacquer and wipe excess primer off onto the inner lip of its can.
Apply the lacquer in thin layers with long, even, overlapping strokes. Prime from the top to the bottom, and target cracks and joints, which can be difficult to prime.
Wait the required time between coats, indicated in the label instructions of your primer, then apply another coat in the same fashion. Apply three to five coats total., Depending on the kind of lacquer you have purchased, your method of application will vary. Many lacquers, however, use a spray applicators. Always follow your lacquer instructions, but for spray applicator lacquers, generally:


Shake the can for 5 to 10 minutes. Hold it so the spray nozzle is 10 - 18" (25.4 - 45.7 cm) from the surface you are going to lacquer.
Press the spray button down to emit the spray lacquer. Apply it in short, smooth, horizontal strokes.
It may take some trial and error before you achieve the correct spray distance. Dimpling in the finish is cause by excess distance. Streaking occurs when you apply lacquer too close to the wood., The wait time between coats of lacquer will be different depending on the lacquer you have used. Follow your lacquer's label instructions for best results. When your lacquer is ready for another coat:Sand the entire lacquered surface of your board lightly with very fine (240 - 400 rating) sandpaper.
Wipe dust free of your board with a clean rag or tack cloth. Pay special attention to edges and joints, where fine dust may have built up.
Apply a second layer of lacquer in the same fashion as previously described. Repeat this process until your lacquer has at least three to five coats.
 After your final layer of lacquer has dried, it's time for you to bring out its shine. You can do this by lightly buffing it with a 0000 rated piece of steel wool. Then wipe the surfaces of your board with a clean, dry cloth, and use a suitable wax to really make it sparkle.