 String lights are a great way to make your bunk look like a magical place. This soft lighting is also easy on the eyes, so you won't have to worry about being blinded by it. Use hooks, tacks, and so on to fasten the lights in place above your bunk.


With enough string lights, you can extend them all the way down the frame of your bed. In some cases, you may be able to use binder clips to hold these in place.
Short, battery powered strings of lights are a great option if you don't have a wall outlet that's convenient. These can be bought at craft stores.
To prevent the lights from getting to hot and potentially creating a fire risk, use LED string lights., Not to mention, enclosing your bed with fabric walls, much like a tent, will look cool. Put in an adhesive hook or a screw-in C-hook over your bed. Hang a sheet from the hook, and tuck the edges around the sides or your bunk.


To give more form to your fabric bunk shelter, you might want to put in hooks at the four corners of your bed. Otherwise, the sheet may hang too low and make it feel cramped.
You can also attach a sheet (or other fabric) to your ceiling with thumb tacks. Be sure to use a light fabric, otherwise its weight might pull out the tacks., Adhesive putty or poster adhesive won't damage your walls or paint like tape sometimes does. You can also display your pictures with a cork board hung from hooks. Use push pins to hang up pictures of your family, friends, pets, and so on.


If you don't have art but want to add some to your bunk space, visit a secondhand store, like Goodwill or Salvation Army. These often have lots of unique, inexpensive art.
 Stencil a message on decorative paper and cut out the letters. Use poster adhesive or adhesive putty to put up this message without damaging your wall. This way, you can easily change the message whenever the mood strikes you. Some message ideas include:Tanya's bed!
Fort Top Bunk
The Castle in the Sky

, You can also easily draw and erase designs on a white board. This makes it both functional and decorative. A whiteboard is also a great idea if you sometimes get ideas late at night. You can jot them down when they happen and look at them in the morning.


Dreams can be difficult to remember. If you've woken up from a cool dream, write it down on your whiteboard so you remember later and can share it with your family and friends.

