 Your company should have research on your target audience. They should also have information on demographics, such as the average age, the education level, and so on. If they don’t, you can send out survey emails to collect that information.;
, That is, for a younger generation, you might be more informal and open and even incorporate a bit of slang. For an older generation, be more straightforward and to the point. Think about what appeals to a person in that demographic.
 A hook is something that draws the reader in. In an email, the best hook should be in the subject line, since that may be the only chance you have to grab your reader. Some companies use tactics like posing an interesting question in the subject line, and the reader can only find out the answer by opening it.


For instance, it could be something like, “Have you ever wondered what octopus eat?” Obviously, you want to relate it to the product you are marketing; nonetheless, something that is out-of-the-ordinary will catch a reader’s eye.
It doesn’t even need to be very specific. Something like “Try this one strange product to clear your acne” can also pique a reader’s curiosity. Another hook is to advertise a sale, such as 50% off certain items.
The best hooks are ones that are targeted to the reader. That is, if possible, it’s best to advertise products that you know the reader will like because he or she has looked at them in the past.
 In other words, show you are human. People appreciate talking to other people (not machines) and that comes across in emails. For instance, you don’t have to start out “Dear Sir or Madam.” You can try something as simple as “Hello!” which is a bit friendlier.
 Make sure the email establishes what you are selling in the first couple of lines. That is, your readers should not be confused as to why they received the email. Get to the point quickly.
 The benefit is what makes up the bulk of the email. That is, you are trying to persuade the readers to buy something, but to do that, you have to convince them why to do it. Why would they want your product/service? Why is it special?

, Remember persuasive essays in grade school, where you wrote a paper trying to persuade your parents to give you a later curfew? Sales emails really aren’t so different.


For instance, saying “This product is the best.” may not persuade that many people. However, telling them why the product is good might, for example:
“This product is unique, as no other product on the market has the same formula; it will get your dishes sparkling clean.”

, That is, get positive quotes from your customers about your product. Your reader will appreciate hearing what other people think of the product. You can ask customers for unbiased reviews on the website feedback form or through an email.
 Don’t forget to tell the reader exactly what you want them to do at the end. You are spurring them into an action—buying your product!

, Keep it simple and to the point. If you really need a longer email to explain yourself, consider embedding a video in the email.

