 Use a spoon or dull knife to carefully scrape and remove any large pieces of lipstick from the carpet. Try to avoid pushing the pieces further into the carpet.;
, Lipstick stains attach to the carpet fibers with grease, so you will need a cleaning product that dissolves grease or oils.Most all-purpose stain removers will work, as will dry cleaning fluid. However, these may discolor your carpet. Apply the cleaning product to an inconspicuous corner of the carpet first and let sit five minutes before blotting dry with a clean cloth. If the discoloration is severe, you may wish to find another product.


Dry cleaning fluid is especially likely to discolor your carpet.If you do not have any stain removers or dry cleaning fluid, see the section on alternate cleaning solutions for other products or homemade mixtures you may have access to.
 Apply the cleaning product to a clean sponge or cloth. Press repeatedly over the stain, switching to a clean side if the cloth becomes heavily stained. Avoid rubbing, which may work the lipstick further into the carpet fibers or spread it to a wider area. Depending on the cleaning product, lipstick, and freshness of the stain, this step may remove the lipstick on its own.


Alternatively, you may spray the cleaning product onto your carpet and let sit five minutes before blotting. This may be more effective at removing the stain, but has a greater risk of discoloring your carpet.
Even if the stain is removed, skip to the end of this section for instructions on cleaning up traces of the solvent.
 If most of the stain has been removed, launder or rinse out the sponge or cloth, then apply more of the same cleaning product and blot. Two or three attempts may be enough to remove the stain, although you should stop and choose another product in the alternate cleaning solutions method if you see no major improvements.
 Whatever product you used, wash your carpet afterward to remove traces of cleaning product that could discolor your carpet or damage its fibers. Hand wash the area with a white cloth and a small amount of laundry or dish detergent mixed with warm water. Depending on how much stain is left, you may opt to use only a few grains of detergent in a glass of water; use 1/4 teaspoon (1 mL) for a stronger mix or even form a granular paste that you can rub thoroughly against the carpet.Check the detergent ingredients first. Avoid products that contain lanolin or bleach, as these may damage your carpet.If you're uncertain, test the product in an inconspicuous area of the carpet, such as a corner usually underneath furniture.
If you do not own detergent, skip to the next step.
 Rinse the carpet with clear, cool water, then blot it dry with a clean cloth. This should remove the detergent along with the traces of cleaning product and stain it picked up.


If the last residual traces are persistent, you may need to blot several times. Alternatively, leave a few wet paper towels in the area, weight them down with a heavy object, and wait for them to dry.