 Melt 1/2 tablespoon of unsalted butter in a medium saucepan over medium heat. Stir in 1/2 tablespoon of all-purpose flour and keep whisking the roux for 30 seconds. Whisk in 1/4 cup (60 ml) of half-and-half or whole milk. Continue to whisk the roux until it thickens which should take about a minute. Turn off the heat and let it cool.This quick roux will keep your crab filling thick and absorb moisture as the ravioli cooks.;
, Pick over 1/2 pound (226 g) of lump crab meat to remove any shell or cartilage. Add the crab meat to the cooled roux and gently fold in 1/2 teaspoon of Dijon mustard, 1 teaspoon of fresh minced tarragon, and one large minced scallion (only the white part). Add salt and white ground pepper according to your taste.To fold the seasonings, hold a spoon and use a twisting motion to incorporate the seasonings into the thick roux.
 Since you'll be assembling a lot of crab ravioli (about 48), you need to have your wrappers, water, and crap filling all laid out. Get out the 48 wonton wrappers. Set a small prep bowl filled with water on your work surface and get out a pastry brush. Place the crab filling in a bowl on your work surface.You should also line a baking sheet with plastic wrap and set it aside, so you have somewhere to place the filled crab ravioli before they cook.
 Practice filling and forming about three ravioli at a time. Get out three wonton wrappers and use the pastry brush to coat them with water. Spoon 1/2 teaspoon to 1 teaspoon of the crab filling onto the middle of each wonton wrapper.If you have someone helping you assemble the crab ravioli, you might have them divide the crab filling into 48 portions. This way, you can quickly fill the ravioli before you seal them up.
 Get out three more wonton wrappers. Place one wrapper over each of the filled wrappers. Ensure that you push out any air that might be trapped in between the wrappers. Press the sides of the wonton wrappers, so they seal shut.It's important to work quickly, so the water doesn't dry before the wonton wrappers are sealed shut.
 Press a 2.5-inch (6.3-cm) round cutter onto each filled wonton. This will give your ravioli a round or fluted shape while trimming away the extra wonton wrapper. Set the prepared ravioli on the baking sheet.Continue to fill, seal, and trim the crab ravioli in small batches until you've assembled all of them.
 Bring a large sauce pot full salted water to a boil. Carefully add the ravioli and stir them gently. Let the ravioli boil for about three minutes or until they float to the top of the water. Use a slotted spoon to gently scoop them out of the water and into a colander.You can pour the cooked ravioli with the water through a colander, but some of the ravioli may break in the process.
 Toss your drained crab ravioli with your favorite sauce and serve them right away. Crab ravioli works well with tomato sauce, cream-based sauces, butter sauces, or garlic sauces.If you want to make the crab ravioli in advance, you can assemble them, dust them with flour, and refrigerate them for up to 24 hours. When you're ready to serve them, just remove them from the refrigerator and boil them.

