 Mild detergent is fine to use for most clothing items as long as they are not made of delicate fabrics like silk, lace, wool, or fine-knit material. Look for liquid detergent that is made for delicate clothing. Brands like Woolite or Soak are good options.In a pinch, a regular detergent like Tide or Gain will work for delicate clothing that’s not made of lace, silk, or wool.
Baby shampoo or mild liquid soap would also work well.;
, For clothes made of delicate fabrics like silk and lace, go for a detergent that does not require any rinsing once you have soaked the clothes with it in water. This will make cleaning silk and lace clothing easier, and ensure the clothing is not damaged by too much rinsing.You can find no rinse detergents online or in the detergent aisle at your local store.
 Lanolin is a natural oil produced by sheep to help waterproof their fleece coats. It also makes wool and fine knit garments softer. Use a detergent with lanolin on any wool or fine knit clothing so they stay soft and do not get damaged during washing.You can find detergent with lanolin online or in the detergent aisle of your local store.
 Start with the lightest colored items first. Save the darker colored items for last. Wash each item one at a time to avoid bleeding color from one item to another.If you have a new item of clothing that is dyed or colored, wash it separately in a different tub or basin so the color does not get on other clothing.
 Use wide deep tubs that can fit at least one item of clothing. You can also use your sink as a basin. Fill both tubs ¾ full with water that is 85 degrees Fahrenheit (29 degrees Celsius), or just warm to the touch. Water that is too hot can make clothing dye bleed, and water that is too cold will not remove stains well.








If you are worried about shrinkage, use colder water in both tubs to prevent any shrinking of the clothing with warmer water.
 Use one teaspoon (5 grams) of detergent for one item of clothing. Mix the detergent into the water.








You can then add one teaspoon (5 grams) more detergent per item to the water if you are washing more than one item of clothing at a time.
 Put the clothes in tub with the water and the detergent until they are submerged. Then, use your hands to gently move the clothes around in the water so dirt is removed. Make a swishing action with the clothes in the water. Continue doing this for two to three minutes, or until the clothes look clean.









Do not scrub, twist, or rub the clothes in the water, as this can damage them.
Do not let the clothes soak in the water for longer than three to four minutes, as this can lead to shrinkage.
 Once you have washed the clothes well, remove them from the water. Then, carefully place them in the other tub of clean water. Rinse the clothes by pulling them in and out of the water for two to three minutes. This will help to remove any soap still on them.








Check that the clothes look clean, not soapy. If there is still soap on them, dump out the water in the tub and rinse them again with clean water.
If you are using a no rinse detergent to clean the clothes, you can skip this step.
 Avoid twisting and wringing the clothes to dry them. This can warp the clothes and damage them. Instead, lift the clothes above the water and let excess water drip off it it into the tub or basin., Place the wet clothes on a clean surface, such as a countertop or a table. Re shape the clothes so they lie flat and in their natural shape.You can also lay the clothes on a drying rack as long as they lay flat and do not hang off of the rack vertically. Hanging the clothes vertically can ruin its shape.
 Wait two to four hours for the clothes to dry on one side. Then, flip the clothes over so the other side can dry. Let the clothes dry overnight and check that both sides are dry in the morning.