 You want something that is easy to fold and crease, such as scrapbook paper, wrapping paper, or origami paper. You can use other types of paper in a pinch, however, including construction paper or even old calendars.If you want to make a traditional Chinese envelope, choose red.
This pouch may also work for Eid.
 If you are working on pattered paper, work on the blank side. The rectangle needs to be 2¼ inches wide and 3½ inches tall (5.72 centimeters wide and 8.89 centimeters tall). This will be the finished size of your pouch.
 The bottom flap needs to be ½-inch (1.27 centimeters) tall and 2¼ inches (5.72 centimeters) wide. The bottom flap will eventually be on the outside of your envelop, so you might want to give it rounded or slanted corners for a neater finish.
 It needs to be 1 inch (2.54 centimeters) tall and 2¼ inches (5.72 centimeters) wide. Give the flap either rounded or slanted corners, whichever matches your bottom flap.
 It needs to be the same height as your rectangle (3½ inches/8.89 centimeters), so don't include the heights of the top and bottom flaps! Make the bottom of the flap straight, but angle the top edge down towards the outer edge by a little. This way, when you finish folding your envelope, you'll have a wide V-shape in the center.
 It needs to be the same height as your rectangle: 3½ inches (8.89 centimeters) tall. Don't include the height of your upper and lower flaps. Make the bottom straight, and the top angled down towards the outer edge.
 Follow the outer lines of your flaps. Do not cut out the inside rectangle; you will use those lines as guides for folding.
 Use the line you drew at the beginning as a guide. Run your fingernail across the crease to make it extra sharp. Do not glue this flap down.
 Run your fingernail along the crease to sharpen it, then glue or tape the long, side edge down. Use a glue stick or double-sided tape for this.
 Run your fingernail across the crease, then secure the flap with a glue stick or double-sided tape.
 Do not glue or tape it, or you won't be able to put anything inside of it.
 If you used plain paper, you can always decorate the envelope to make it more special. Turn the envelope over so that the plain, seam-less side is facing you, and decorate it with stamps or stickers. If you are artistic, you can also draw something or write a message.


If this is for the Chinese New Year, consider drawing the current zodiac on the envelope. You can also draw bamboo or coins, both of which are common symbols of prosperity.If this is for Eid, you could write "Happy Eid" or "Eid Mubarak" on the envelope.
 This envelope is the ideal size to hold coins, but you can slip in some folded, paper money as well. You don't need to glue the top flap down, but you can tuck it into the envelope, if you wish.

