 Create a comfortable level of privacy so that the two of you can be fully present in your intimacy. Be reasonably certain that no one is going to barge in on you, and that you won't disturb anyone else with your romantic hug. You don't want to rush this.;
, It will be much easier to make the hug romantic if you are both already standing upright. Hug her when you are greeting or saying goodbye – during any transitional scene when you both happen to be standing. If you're going for a longer, deeper hug, then make sure that you have at least a few minutes.


If you aren't standing, wait for a better time, or simply ask her for a hug.
If one of you cannot stand for some reason, then you should at least be sitting next to one another without any barriers between. Sit on the ground, or on a bench, or on a bed.
 This perhaps goes without saying, but do not try to romantically hug a woman who is not romantically interested in you. The romantic hug is an intimate move, and it may not be well-received before she is ready.
 Look into her eyes. Place one arm under her armpit, in the lower half of her ribcage. Put your other hand on the general area of her shoulder blade. As the hug deepens, you can hold her waist or wrap both arms around the small of her back.Alternately, hug her from behind. Wrap your arms around her torso or waist, and hold her tight. Let her head rest comfortably against your chest.
 Make it steamy. Gaze deeply and longingly into her eyes, and use the warmth of the hug to show her how you feel about her. Squeeze her tightly enough to show her that you care, but not so tightly that you hurt her at all.Be confident. Don't hesitate to show her how you feel. It will be better for both of you if you go into the hug feeling comfortable with one another.
Try not to be self-conscious. Focus only on the moment, and on her.
 Pull her towards you and squeeze. Not too hard, or you'll hurt her. Slowly rub your hands up and down her back and rub your bodies together. Don't be afraid to explore with your hands, but make sure that she's into it.


If you know each other well enough, then you may be brave enough to go towards her butt. Squeeze a cheek gently but firmly, and then let go – just enough to tease her.
 Don't hold on for so long that you make her uncomfortable. If you feel her start to release her grip on you: lighten up the hug.
 Tell her how she makes you feel, or how much you want her. Tell her that you love her, or that she's beautiful. Use a low, sexy voice, and make sure that she hears every word., If you know her really well, then gently put a leg around her and pull her close. Slowly guide her to a comfortable surface. Sit her down on your lap while slowly turning her head towards yours. Kiss her passionately while still rubbing her back with your arms, and give her a little massage. Intensify the kiss as you slowly put her underneath you.


A romantic hug can lead to much more if the two of you are comfortable being intimate with one another. Just make sure that you're both ready.Always ask for consent. Before each move that you make to escalate the situation, ask her casually for permission. Say, for instance, "Do you mind if I take off your dress?" Try stating what you want, and giving her opportunity to say what she wants: "I want to make out on the bed. Is that something you want to do?", If she seems into it, then don't be afraid to keep going. If you pick up some hesitance from her, then slow down and let the hug just be a hug. Remember: it won't be romantic unless you're both into it!

