 Set up a free basic account, and click the upload link (upward facing arrow) at the upper right-hand side of the page. After this, you’ll see a prompt to create a channel. Follow the instructions that appear on the screen.If you already have an account with Google, you have a YouTube account. Enter the same username and password you use to log into Gmail, Google+, etc.;
, Any camera will work in the beginning. Webcams, cell phone cameras, or digital cameras are good choices. If you can afford it, consider buying something more sophisticated. Consumer-level video cameras can be found for under $300.If you’re really serious, invest in an HD video camera or even a high-end DSLR. These videos produce higher-quality videos that will attract a larger following to your channel.
Laptop, tablet, and desktop computers usually come with at least one free recording program installed. For Mac users, this is Quicktime. For Windows users, this is Windows Media Maker.
 Make a list of your best attributes.Use your amazing voice to become a singer. Take advantage of your debating skills to become an editorial presenter. Draw on your extensive knowledge of art history to become an online lecturer. Choose one quality to use as your brand.
 Open a browser window in Private or Incognito mode to see trending videos that aren’t based on your previous viewing habits. On the left-hand side of the page, click “Trending,” which is the second link. Videos listed under the headings “Trending” and “Shared and Liked” have the most views. Other ways of finding out what’s popular include:


Asking your friends what they’re watching.
Checking your social media account to see what’s trending.
Searching phrases like “popular YouTube videos” through search engines like Google or Bing.
 Now that you know what’s out there, you need to go a step further. If you want to record an op-ed about hate speech, you’ll have competition. Think of an angle that can make your channel stand out. Consider the age group and interests of your target audience. Ask yourself if the name of your channel implies any unique ideas. Think about what you’d like to see but can’t find. Consider if you can make multiple videos on your concept., Find YouTube stars whose channels are similar to yours. Ask them if they’d like to collaborate with you on a few videos. Tell them you really like their content and that you’d like to work with them on a project. Pitch whatever ideas you have, even if they’re sketchy. You can send a private message like this:


Click the username of the channel owner, which you can find below the title of the video.
When you get to the channel page, click the “About” tab.
At the upper right, click the “Send Message" button.
Type your message, and click “Send.”

, Take your smartphone or video camera everywhere. Maybe you’ll get lucky and catch something hilarious that could eventually go viral. You could even catch something more serious and help to bring justice to an innocent person. If the footage won’t work for your current project, save the file for later.
 Pay attention to different camera angles, close-ups, and scene transitions. If your video focuses on your face for several minutes, change it up with a change in angle (from frontal to three-quarter, for example). If you’re doing a demonstration, get a close-up of the project you’re working on. Listen for background music or white noise in the soundtrack. You don’t have to copy these things exactly, but it helps to know where in your video to put certain elements., While you’re waiting for your video to upload, set your channel to notify subscribers when you add new content. Click “Advanced Settings,” and scroll down to “Distribution Options.” The option “Notify Subscribers” should be checked automatically. If it’s not, check it. This way, everyone who subscribes to your channel will receive an email when you upload new content.


On the other hand, if you decide to upload multiple videos at once, uncheck the notification box. If you upload 20 videos in one day, your subscribers could get angry for the 20 emails they’ll receive as a result., After you upload your video, you’ll have the chance to set and edit automatic captions. No matter how clearly you speak, automatic captions contain loads of mistakes. This is unfair to your deaf and hearing-impaired viewers. Take the time to read and correct the captions after you upload your video. Ask your viewers to let you know if they see any errors.
 Replying to comments on your channel is a great start, but it’s not enough. Start conversations on Twitter, Instagram, or Facebook. Use specific hashtags on live chats to make it easier for your fans to find the discussion. Interacting not only makes your current audience think more highly of you, it can also draw new viewers to your channel.
 Few YouTubers become an instant hit with their first video. Most have to work hard just to get their viewing stats into double digits. Be patient, and use every opportunity you have to promote your channel., Below every video on YouTube is an arrow with the word “Share” next to it. Click it, and choose the icon of which website you’d like to post to. A pop-up window with a summary of your video will open. You can either edit the summary or leave it as it is. Just don’t alter the link! Websites like Twitter and Facebook will play the videos without having to open a new window or tab.
 Search the web or YouTube to see which channels are running contests.Find a contest that pertains to your channel, and read the rules. If the deadline gives you enough time to make a video, enter the contest. Usually, viewers have to vote on how entertaining, educational, funny, etc. a video is. If viewers like your video, they’ll likely head over to your channel and subscribe.
 Contact all your friends and family members in your address book. Try something simple like, “Hey, everybody! Check out this video I posted to YouTube. Let me know what you think.” Chances are, they’ll forward the link to even more potential viewers.
 Tags make search engines use your videos as results when someone looks up certain terms. Funny cat videos should have tags like “comedy,” “cats,” “cute,” etc. Make sure you stick to tags that accurately describe your video and channel. Don’t use inaccurate tags just to get more views. You’ll feel dishonest, and disappointed viewers will leave negative comments.
 By default, YouTube selects three stills from your video to use as the thumbnail image. If none of the selected stills accurately describe your video, create your own image. Take a selfie, a screenshot, or any other image that gives an eye-catching visual description of your video. Include a few lines of text that elaborate the image and flesh out the video’s title., No first-time video is perfect. If a viewer praises you for your script delivery but noted that the background noise was distracting, look for free and easy ways to erase unnecessary audio. Making small improvements to each video will eventually lead to a very professional-looking channel.

