 While waiting for the elevator, stand away from the doors. Someone may be exiting at this floor, and you should always let them exit before you attempt to board. Stand to the right of the doors so that the left and middle is open for those getting off the elevator. Don't board the elevator until everyone has gotten off., There is a lot of debate about this particular point: do you hold the door or not hold the door? When deciding whether or not to hold the elevator, use the following suggestions to guide you:


Don't hold the door if you are in an elevator full of people. You will be delaying everyone in the elevator and cramming one more person into a tight space.If you are alone in the elevator, it’s good elevator etiquette to hold the elevator for a person approaching the elevator.
Don't hold the door for a friend or colleague who has taken a quick side-trip, such as to get coffee or go to the restroom. Never hold the door more than 15-20 seconds on a crowded elevator.
 When the elevator doors open and you see it is full, don't try to be that person that squeezes into the elevator when you don't fit. If you have been waiting in line and the elevator fills with the person before you, just wait patiently for the next. Don't be the person asking for the elevator to be held. If you cannot make it before the elevator doors close, then wait for the next elevator politely instead of being rude. The people in the elevator's time is just as important as yours.
 If you are standing near the buttons, be willing to push a button for someone who asks. You can also ask someone who has just entered what floor they are going to.


Don't ask someone else to push the button for you unless you cannot clearly push the button yourself.
 When you step into an elevator, file in so others can board behind you or board on another floor. Stay farthest from the door if you will be the last person to step out. If you are traveling to the ground or top most floor, it's better to stand farthest from the elevator doors after you board the elevator. This way you will avoid inconveniencing others.


If you happen to be riding in the front, make sure to step off the elevator when the doors open on each floor. When in this position, hold the elevator with your hand as the people from the back of the elevator make their way out.
 When you reach your floor, get out quickly so that those waiting to board can do so. Don't worry about letting other people off first unless they are already exiting. Simply exit in a quick and orderly fashion. However, do not shove your way out or knock people over in the process.


If you're in the back, announce your floor is coming up as it approaches. A simple "Excuse me, my floor is next" is enough. Then, make your way to the front, or wait until the elevator stops.
 When only going one, two, or three floors, take the stairs instead of the elevator. Unless you are injured, unable to climb stairs, or carrying heavy objects, you shouldn't take the elevator for one floor. Taking the elevator for two or three floors, especially during busy elevator traffic, is also considered poor etiquette.Reserve the elevator for people who have long walk ups or who are unable to climb the stairs.
 If the elevator is busy enough to have a line, never break in line. Wait your turn just like everyone else. If you are in a hurry, try to arrive earlier or take the stairs.
 One of biggest issues with elevator etiquette is whether or not someone should make small talk. Most people are hesitant to engage in conversation while in an elevator. If you must talk, break the ice politely. It never hurts to say "Good Morning" or "Hello" to people.


If you are with someone, don't continue conversations while riding the elevator with someone else. Put the conversation on pause until you get to your destination.
If you want to speak to a colleague in the elevator, keep the conversation light. Never gossip or discuss personal or private information while in an elevator., There is nothing more annoying than having someone stand six inches from you on an uncrowded elevator. If the elevator is crowded, give as much space as you can without crowding others or yourself. Follow these guidelines when standing on an elevator:


If there are one or two other people on the elevator, go to separate sides of the elevator.
If there are four people, go to each corner.
If there are five or more, spread so each person is equally spaced in the elevator.
 Making quick eye contact, smiling, and nodding is appropriate when entering an elevator. After that, turn around and face the door. Keeping your back towards the door and facing the passengers is a huge break in etiquette and can make some people feel extremely awkward., When carrying briefcases, purses, backpacks, shopping bags, or other bulky materials, keep them low either directly in front of you or beside you. Legs take up less space than upper bodies, so there is more space for bags.


If you are at the back of the elevator and carrying a bulky object, keep it low, announce your exit as the floor nears, and excuse yourself if you accidentally bump someone when exiting., A huge elevator faux pas is talking on your cell phone while riding. End all conversations before entering the elevator, or put the phone on mute until you exit again., Elevators contain a limited space, and in busy office buildings, many people try to fit into one car. Unnecessary movements can annoy fellow passengers, or cause you to make unwanted bodily contact. Jiggling your leg, pacing, moving your arms, or other movements can result in you rudely bumping into other passengers.Texting or looking at your phone is a common way to avoid eye contact with strangers. However, do not text in a crowded elevator. Operating your phone takes space, which is limited in an elevator, and the movement can cause you to bump people.
 Good hygiene should be practiced every day, but especially if you are taking elevators on a regular basis. The small, confined spaces can draw attention to any body odor. Try not to pass gas or belch while riding in the elevator. If you do, excuse yourself. Don't bring extremely smelly food onto the elevator. Instead, bring your food in containers. Never eat in an elevator. Never apply perfume or lotion. What smells normal to you may make someone else very sick.