 The more you know about diabetes, the better. Take a class on diabetes with your diabetic loved one so you can both get educated about the disease as well as how to best manage it. Ask your doctor for a referral to an educational diabetes class. Look for diabetes education classes through a diabetes resource center in your area.During these classes, you will learn about the common signs and symptoms of low blood sugar, which can help you assist your diabetic loved one if needed. The class may also discuss different techniques and approaches you can use to support your diabetic loved one.
 You can also take the initiative and learn more about diabetes on your own. Research diabetes online, as well as the two different types of diabetes. Find out which type your loved one has and learn more about the dietary and lifestyle changes required for living with diabetes.One way to get more up to date information on diabetes is to subscribe to diabetes magazines and newsletters. Sign up to learn more about living with diabetes and how you can support those around you living with this disease.
 To ensure you can be there fully for your loved ones, educate yourself on the symptoms of diabetic issues like low blood sugar, high blood sugar, and hypoglycemia. Being able to recognize these symptoms in your loved ones can help you support them emotionally and respond to their needs.You can learn about the symptoms of common diabetic issues by speaking to your doctor or by researching the symptoms online. You can also ask the loved one with diabetes to tell you about any symptoms or signs you need to watch out for.
 Keep an eye on your diabetic loved one's behavior. If you start to notice any troubling signs or symptoms, take action. Sometimes it can be hard for someone with diabetes to notice warning signs or troubling symptoms, especially if they are feeling dizzy, distracted, or tired.


For example, perhaps you notice the symptoms of low blood sugar in your loved one. You may then suggest that they test their blood sugar or have a healthy snack. Or perhaps you see the symptoms of hypoglycemia starting to develop in your loved one. You can then suggest that they have a quick, healthy meal to recover.
 Make sure you are aware of your loved one's regimen for treating their diabetes, so you can support them with this when needed. Your loved one may be taking medication, such as insulin shots, and be on a routine where they check their blood sugar regularly. If your loved one is young, such as a child, it is important that you know what medications they are taking so you can give it to them, if needed.


This is also important if your loved one is elderly and has diabetes. Make sure you know what medications they should be taking in the event they become too ill or weak to take them on their own.

