 Throughout the day, hotels gain a better understanding of their occupancy levels and available rooms for that evening and the days immediately following. You are more likely to benefit from this information, if you check-in at a later time. Arrive at the hotel in the late afternoon to evening., Prior to approaching the front desk, discretely prepare your tip. Fold your bill in half neatly. Insert the bill between your credit card and ID.


The amount you tip is entirely your choice. Most people will slip clerks at least a twenty dollar bill., Once you arrive (preferably late), take a moment to observe the hotel clerks. Identify a clerk that looks confident, competent, and not in charge. Once you have selected the clerk you want to assist you, approach him or her at the desk.


If the clerk you have selected is not immediately available, allow a guest to go in front of you.Do not ask while other guests are around., When requesting a free upgrade, specificity and the word “complimentary” are key. If you do not ask for what you want, you may just end up with a room on a higher floor; if you leave out the word “complimentary,” the clerk may assume that you are willing to pay for the upgrade.


After providing the clerk with your name, smile and slide your cards and tip across the desk.
Tell the clerk that you are really interested in checking out a specific suite.
Ask “if there are any available complimentary upgrades?”, No matter the outcome, always treat the clerk politely. If the clerk upgrades your room, smile and thank them profusely. If the clerk does not upgrade your room, don’t berate them. Instead, smile and thank them for their time and effort.


If the clerk can upgrade your room, they will do so.
If the clerk cannot upgrade your room, they should return your tip. You may choose to take back the bill or leave it with the clerk.Hotels are more inclined to help and reward guests that are nice, generous, and polite. From the moment you make your reservation, treat every member of the staff with respect. Any staff member, from the bellboy to the manager, could make your complimentary room upgrade possible. 