 If the decedent had a will, that document will help you create your inventory for the estate. Any real estate listed in the will is a good place to start, although you'll also have to take an inventory of all personal items in the property.Even if the decedent didn't have a will, you're still responsible for filing an inventory with the probate court – although it may be a little more difficult to locate all the decedent's assets.;
, Since most states require you to file an inventory with the probate court, the court may have a form or spreadsheet template it prefers you to use for this purpose.Ask the clerk of court for guidance. You also may be able to download forms from the court's website.
The forms typically are accompanied by instructions. Make sure you read these thoroughly so you understand what items you must include.
Looking over the forms themselves also gives you an idea of the categories, so as you're going through the decedent's property you'll know where it fits on the form.
 For any real estate, or titled personal property such as cars, you will need copies of those ownership documents so you can determine the exact owners of the property.Deeds typically are recorded with the county clerk in the county where the property is located.
From a real estate deed, you can determine whether the property was held by the decedent alone, jointly, or jointly with the right of survivorship. These distinctions will help you determine whether the real property is considered part of the probate proceeding.
Other ownership documents may be kept with the decedent's records, or with the decedent's attorney or accountant.
If these individuals are mentioned in the will or among any of the other decedent's records, contact them as quickly as possible.
 You must provide a value for all property included in the inventory. For some property such as real property, you may have to hire a certified professional appraiser. Although the exact appraisal process varies among courts, the inventory form instructions may provide guidance.Real estate often is valued by looking at the fair market value of the property. If it was recently appraised, for example for property tax purposes, you may not need an additional appraisal.
Avoid the temptation to undervalue the property in an attempt to reduce costs to the estate – you risk unnecessary negative tax consequences to the beneficiaries, which will do nothing to endear you to them.
Personal property such as cars or boats typically is valued by looking up the item using a valuation guide such as the Kelley Blue Book. The probate court may have preferred valuation guides for you to use.
You typically don't need to appraise every item of personal property. You may need to get an appraisal of collector's items or valuable jewelry, but ordinary items and household furniture typically can be valued by checking similar items on online auction sites or similar resale locations.
 As you gain information on the decedent's property, categorize it and place the amount that represents the appraised value of that property in the appropriate spaces on the form.A good place to start is to group assets into cash assets (such as bank and retirement accounts), real property, and personal property.
Some inventory forms may have specific lines for certain types of personal property such as cars and boats.
Unless someone is contesting your management of the estate, your inventory need not list each and every item owned by the decedent.
It's safe to group items in large categories (such as "household furniture" and "dishes") and provide a ballpark estimate of the total value of all items in that category.
Keep in mind that sentimental value is not taken into consideration on an inventory form. The value you list should be the fair market value of the item, which means unless family heirlooms actually are priceless antiques, they may not actually be worth that much.
 Once your inventory is complete, you must file it with the probate court and distribute copies to anyone who has requested them. Pay attention to the deadline listed in the instructions – you typically only have three or four months from the date you were sworn in as executor or personal representative to file this document.You can check the probate court's records to find out how many copies of the inventory you'll need to distribute.
In some cases the probate court will distribute copies to interested parties for you, while in others you'll be responsible for doing this yourself.
Keep in mind that an inventory can contain unwelcome surprises for many beneficiaries, so you may have people contest the way you've inventoried the estate.
For example, suppose the decedent's daughter has always been told her mother's china was fine antique bone china worth tens of thousands of dollars. If you've discovered through the inventory process that it's actually just ordinary stoneware only worth a few hundred dollars, the daughter is bound to be upset.
The best way to handle disagreements is to maintain transparency and allow disgruntled family members, within reason, to inspect documents and inventory records themselves.
If you've had items appraised, make the appraiser's report and contact information for that person available.
 Even though the estate isn't necessarily an employer, you still must get an EIN for the state so that you can open accounts, file taxes, and handle other estate business.You can apply for an EIN online at the IRS website and get the EIN immediately. You will have to provide your own information and Social Security number as the responsible party requesting the EIN.
You also must provide information about the decedent and the estate.
The IRS also allows you to apply by fax or mail using Form SS-4, but keep in mind it may be days or even weeks before you get the EIN if you go that route, causing delay in fulfilling your other duties as executor.
Keep in mind that getting an EIN from the IRS is always free. Don't fall for companies or websites that claim to be able to do this for you more quickly than you can do it yourself for a small fee – you can't get any quicker than "immediate," which is how fast you'll get it if you apply online.
 Commingling funds is a breach of your fiduciary duty as the executor or personal representative of the estate. Accordingly, you must open an estate bank account from which payments will be drawn to pay off creditors.Make sure you open a bank account in the state where the decedent lived. You want it to be convenient to the probate court and the decedent's property, even though that may not necessarily be most convenient for you.
Many different types of accounts are available depending on the needs of the estate. Small estates with probate expected to last less than a year typically don't need more than a basic checking account.
If a larger amount of money is involved in the estate, you may want to open an account that pays interest.
Accounts that can handle both investments and cash are a better idea if the estate is larger and more complex, or if the decedent had significant investment property.
 Procedures vary among courts, but generally creditors must be notified of the person's death and file a claim with the probate court for the amount due.Some creditors must be notified directly, while for others a notice in the newspaper will suffice. The notice must be published in the newspaper of record in the city or county where the decedent lived.
Generally, if the creditor is known or reasonably ascertainable, you must notify them directly. This means you may have to do a little digging through the decedent's financial records.
The probate court will have a specific form you can fill out and send directly to the creditors you know from reviewing the decedent's records. Call the creditor or check their website to find out where the notice should be sent.
Some states may require you to use formal service procedures to notify creditors. This means the notice must be mailed using certified mail with returned receipt requested, and a proof of service form must be filed with the court when notice is received.
Make copies of all notices to be mailed directly to creditors before you mail them, so you have those copies for the estate's records.
Creditors have a specific period of time to file a claim with the court, set by the state probate law.
 You should have a section on your inventory form for cash assets, which may include money held in checking, savings, retirement, or investment accounts. Approved debts are paid from these resources first.If the decedent has enough cash assets to cover all debts, you can begin paying them using the estate bank account you set up.
If there aren't enough cash assets to cover all the debts, check with the probate court or your court administrator to find out what you should do.
Some debts can be given priority over others, but this requires court approval. Which debts can be paid first is a matter of state law.
 If the decedent doesn't have enough cash assets to cover all of their debts, you typically have the authority to sell other property and pay the debts from the proceeds.Keep in mind it's fairly typical that you'll have to sell off estate property to cover the decedent's debts.
If you've ever been to an estate sale or auction, you have a good idea of how these things work. Consider finding a local estate sale or auction company with which you can contract to organize, market, and operate the sale.
In some circumstances you may need court permission to sell assets. This is especially true of any real property.
Once property is sold, the proceeds will be deposited in the estate account for distribution to creditors. Anything left after the creditors are paid is distributed to the heirs or beneficiaries.
 Provided the decedent left a will, it will designate specific beneficiaries for various real and personal property owned by that person. You can use this document as a guide to make sure the appropriate beneficiaries are notified.While the will may provide you with names, it's possible those names may have changed – such as if someone got married – or they may have moved. Additionally, the will may not include specific addresses.
As executor of the estate, it's up to you to track down family members and others listed as beneficiaries, and it's better to do this before you file your final report with the court.
If the decedent died intestate, beneficiaries will be chosen from among their surviving family using a hierarchy determined by state law.
Intestate succession laws are complex and vary among states, but generally, if a person dies without a will only their spouse or blood relatives will inherit any of their property – no friends, unmarried partners, or charities.
 Once all debts, taxes, and administration expenses are paid, you must file a final accounting and proposed distribution document with the probate court. This document outlines how you intend to distribute the remaining property.The proposal outlines the name of each person receiving property, what property they will receive, and that property's approximate value.
You will need to file your proposal with the court and deliver a copy to each person listed to receive property.
Each beneficiary has a limited period of time, typically 30 days or less, to decline the inheritance. If they intend to accept it, they don't have to respond.
 Provided the beneficiaries accept their inheritances, it is your responsibility to complete whatever documents are necessary to transfer title to the new owners.Monetary assets will be transferred by writing a check to the beneficiary from the estate's bank account for the amount of money to which that beneficiary is entitled.
To transfer real property, you typically must prepare a quitclaim deed naming the beneficiary as the new owner.
A quitclaim deed is used because you don't know the decedent's exact ownership interest, so the estate won't be responsible for any promises made as it would with a warranty deed.
Titled personal property such as cars or boats must be transferred according to the transfer of title laws of the state in which the vehicle is titled.
For other personal property such as jewelry, books, or furniture, you must prepare an assignment or deed of distribution document indicating the beneficiary is the new owner with a right to the property.
The assignment document should name you as executor, name the beneficiary, describe the property, and include a statement that the property described is being distributed to that person.

