 We make assumptions about other people all the time. Making too many assumptions too frequently can result in being overly critical. As you go through your day, challenge yourself when you find yourself being critical.


Maybe you assume someone who dresses well or wears a lot of make-up is materialistic. That person could actually be insecure. Dressing in a certain way might make that person feel better. Maybe you see someone who didn't graduate high school as lazy or unmotivated. However, that person could have had extenuating circumstances at home that disrupted his or her studies.Remember, everyone makes mistakes. When you see someone slipping up, remember a time when you did not behave or act your best. For example, if you're judging someone for cutting you off in an intersection, remind yourself of your own past driving mistakes., Is there an issue in your own life that you're taking out on those around you? If you're unhappy with your job, relationship, social life, or other aspects of yourself, try to address these issues. The stress of a negative attitude can affect your overall health and well-being, leading you to unable to handle stress.This can lead to poor social interactions. If you take steps to be a more positive person, you may be better at interacting with others. You'll be able to cope with conflict in a more effective manner.
 Many people have hidden disabilities. Before you judge or criticize a person, stop and consider the possibility that person is dealing with an issue you cannot see easily.


The co-worker who seems rude because she does not make small talk may have social anxiety issues. Your friend who constantly talks about cats may be on the autism spectrum. The student in your algebra class who continually asks the same questions may have a learning disability.
Spend some time browsing informational websites that discuss hidden disabilities. Before you make an assumption about someone's character, remind yourself many people struggle with ailments others cannot see., If you find your criticism stems from your own unhappiness, therapy may be necessary. Conditions like depression, for example, can cause you to have angry outbursts directed at others.Therapy can help you better manage your emotions and be less critical.


If you feel you need therapy, you can ask for a referral from your regular doctor. You can also find a list of providers through your insurance.
If you are a college student, you may be entitled to free counseling through your university.

