 When it comes to the shuttle run, lateral—or side to side— speed is key. The side-standing long jump can help to increase your lateral power, which in turn will increase your lateral speed.Squat low, with your feet planted hip width apart. Jump to the right side by exploding off your feet and covering as much distance as possible. Do the exact same to the left side.Keep your center of gravity low, and maintain this low stance throughout the drill.
Distribute your weight evenly across your feet.
Do five repetitions on each side to complete one set. Do three to five sets.;
, You’ve probably seen this drill before, and maybe heard it called the “grapevine.” To do this, move sideways toward the right. Take normal side steps with your right foot, and alternate crossing your left foot in front of the right and then behind the right. Do this for a stretch to the right, and then for a stretch to the left, alternating your left foot to the front and back. Try to hold your arms in the same position you would hold them for a normal run.This drill will help you become comfortable quickly crossing your feet over each other for fast, explosive acceleration from side to side, which you will need during your shuttle run.Do five reps to each side for three to five sets.
 For a great shuttle run, you ultimately want strong, fast sprinting power. However, sprinting day in and day out can cause pulled muscles and injuries. By taking your sprints to the hills, your speed will naturally be slowed down despite doing the same amount of work. In other words, you can sprint as hard as you possibly can, thus improving your leg and cardiovascular strength, while protecting your legs with reduced speed and increased control.Keep your sprints short, generally between eight to ten seconds.Take a full recovery after each sprint.
Focus on standing tall as you sprint up the hill, rather than bending over and leaning into the hill.
 Shuttle runs have been criticized for causing twisted ankles, falls, and other injuries.While any athletic endeavor can potentially cause injury, doing side-standing long jumps, carioca drills, and hill sprints regularly can help prepare your body. These training techniques will increase your agility and strength, and they will help you develop the muscle memory and proper skills for the quick and explosive shuttle run.
 You might have heard of the concept “carbohydrate loading,” and it is something that many competitive runners do before a big race. Carbohydrates are a main source of energy for our body, so loading up on carbohydrates the night before your shuttle run is like filling your gas tank. This will help you avoid burning out in the middle of the sprints.Be careful not to go too far. It might be tempting to dive into a gigantic bowl of fettuccini alfredo in the name of athletic performance, but be careful not to overindulge. You can end up sabotaging yourself, and wake up with an upset stomach or feeling groggy and slowed down.Things like rice, peanut butter, potatoes, whole wheat pasta, whole wheat bread, and granola are excellent options for a pre-run dinner.
 The importance of properly hydrating the days before your shuttle run cannot be overstated, but don’t over hydrate. If you chug large amounts of water the day before the run, you risk throwing your body out of whack and actually feeling dehydrated on the day of your run.Remember to hydrate by keeping a bottle of water handy at all times. Sip it slowly but steadily.
If you don’t enjoy drinking water and have difficulty drinking enough, sip on sugar-free sports drinks or 100 percent fruit juice., This applies to resting your legs before the run, as well as getting enough sleep. While you want your legs to be rested and ready for your race, you also don’t want them to be rusty. In an ideal world, you can figure out what works best for you— maybe an intense workout followed by one day of rest is the best recipe, or maybe you need to do a low-intensity workout the night before. While you’re figuring out what exactly works best for you, just make sure you don’t overdo it the night before. If your energy is drained or your legs are sore on the day of your shuttle run, you probably won’t give your best performance.Try to get a full night’s sleep before you do your shuttle run. Sleep deprivation can hurt your performance. Everyone has different sleep requirements, but aim to get however many hours you know works best for you., The most important thing about your final meal before the run is to choose food that you have eaten before and know won’t upset your stomach. Bananas, toast, and oatmeal are all great options.Make sure you give your body enough time to digest, so that you aren’t running with an uncomfortably-full belly. In general, you shouldn’t be eating to the point of fullness on the day of your run at all— just eat enough to feel satisfied.
 By stopping your intake two hours before, you give your body enough time to process the water. You also give yourself time to use the restroom, which is important because running with a full bladder is not ideal or comfortable.Of course, you can take occasional sips of water as needed, just don’t chug a large bottle of water right before you hit the start line.
 When it comes to running, shoes are your most important (and only!) pieces of equipment. For a fast shuttle run, you’ll want to wear light weight shoes that will keep your steps light and quick.Make sure that you’ve trained in whichever shoes you decide to wear for your shuttle run, because you need to know beforehand if they are slippery, painful, or any other potential downfalls. Make sure your shoelaces are double-knotted and out of the way, because you will be rapidly changing directions during the shuttle run and don’t want to risk taking a spill!

, Rather than doing static stretches right before your shuttle run, move around to get your blood flowing. Jump, jog, bounce your shoulders, swing your arms, and keep yourself moving. Get your heart rate up and get oxygen flowing to your muscles, so that you are ready to take off when you get to the start line.This can also help you shake off any pre-run jitters.


Don’t disregard stretching completely. You can incorporate a few stretches into your warm-up, but just make sure you are moving around and actively engaging the muscles as well. You can focus on static stretches more after you complete the run and are cooling off.
 Instead of letting your nervousness overwhelm you before your run, think about using that energy to make your legs faster than ever. Having anxiety just means you are motivated to do well, so look at it as a positive thing. As you run, channel all of those doubts and concerns into your legs, using it to propel you through the run and to the finish line.


Don't let your nerves or anxiety cause you to be hard on yourself. Continuously tell yourself that you will give the best performance that you can give, but it is not a life or death situation. Positive self-talk can go a long way, so it's important to amp yourself up rather than expect the worst., Rather than thinking about how far you have to go, just think about making it to one line at a time. Look at the line you are running to. Is it really that far? You’ve probably run that distance before— maybe even dozens of times. Just get to that line, and don’t think about what will come next. Your mental and physical strength can and will surprise you, just focus on the immediate task at hand., These are calming breaths. They will help you conserve your energy, relax your muscles, and focus on the race in front of you.Try hard to keep your breathing steady, and focus on taking in as much air as possible. If you begin breathing rapidly, your breaths will be shallow and unhelpful. Deep breaths will deliver oxygen to your muscles more efficiently and help drive you toward the finish., When you think of completing a sprint drill, “relaxed” is probably not the first word that comes to mind. However, when your mind is relaxed, your body becomes relaxed. When you let go of physical tension, your legs become efficient running machines.Try to clear your mind before you begin your run. When you are at the start line, remember that you have prepared fully for this moment and there is nothing left to do but complete the run, which will be over before you know it.


As you run, focus on keeping your hands unclenched and your shoulders relaxed. As you relax your arms and shoulders, you will allow your energy and focus to go to your legs.
Repeat calming and empowering phrases in your head as you complete the shuttle run. This race will not break you, and the feeling of accomplishment afterwards will be worth any momentary discomfort.

