 Strength training is great for building muscle and bone. It also helps ward off age-related diseases such as osteoporosis.Incorporating a full-body strength training regimen can make your workout more intense because it targets major and small muscles at the same time.Talk with your doctor or a certified trainer before beginning or changing a strength-training program. They can help you create the best plan for your abilities and needs.
Incorporate full body moves such as squats to overhead presses, lunges with bicep curls, or mountain climbers with pushups.Use resistance bands if weights are too heavy. These offer a similar muscle building effect and intensity.Take a 90-120 second break in between sets. This can maintain your intensity and keep your momentum going.;
, Increasing the weight and reps you perform is the easiest way to increase the intensity of your strength training routine. However, you need to do this gradually to prevent injury from over-training your body.Make sure you are doing 3-4 sets of each exercise.
Increase the weight or reps only when you can easily perform every rep in each set. A good rule of thumb is to increase both no more than 10% each week. For example, if you are squatting and pressing 100 pounds for 3 sets of 6 reps each, go up to 110 pounds only when you are comfortable with the 3 sets at 100 pounds.
Make sure you are lifting in a controlled manner before you increase the weight. For example, lift as you inhale, hold for a second, and then release as you exhale.
 Yoga and Pilates are two other workouts that can intensify your strength training. Although they’re lower impact than many activities, Pilates and vigorous forms of yoga such as ashtanga, jivamukti, or vinyasa can also build muscle while providing short bursts of intense cardio. Try a yoga or Pilates class either in a studio or online.Choose from local classes or online yoga and Pilates courses. These will give you a chance to try out different types of intense yoga and figure out what suits your needs best. Look for classes taught by instructors certified in the yoga style that they are teaching.
 Interval training is alternating intense bursts of activity with lighter ones.Incorporating a few high intensity intervals to your workouts every week can make them more intense. You can dedicate one workout every week to doing high intensity intervals or add some intervals at the end of your runs 2-3 days a week.In addition, intervals can help you get faster over time.


Schedule 1-2 really intense workouts every week. Build in less intense workouts around those days. For example, you could do an intense workout on a Thursday and do the next on Saturday or Sunday.
Add 5-10 minutes of intervals during or at the end of your workouts 2 or 3 days a week. For example, run or jog at your “race pace” for 60 seconds and then increase your intensity for 30 seconds.
 Incorporating hills or inclines to your workouts automatically increases your workout intensity without changing pace. Either increases your strength and endurance. Tack on hills or inclines to one or two workouts per week for more intensity.Do hill intervals or add inclines at the end of one or two workouts each week. For example, set the treadmill at a 3% incline if you’re at the gym or live someplace flat.
 Like hills and inclines, walking or running stairs automatically increases your intensity. In fact, stairs are one of the best overall conditioning exercises. Choose to either run physical stairs—such as at a stadium—or use a stair machine at your gym.Add this to any running workout or replace one run a week with a stair run.


Run or walk up the stairs at a fast pace. Follow this by going back down them slowly to recover before your next flight up. If you’re using a stair machine, walk or run on them for a minute at a hard pace for a minute followed by an easy minute.
 Some people find working out on machines, the road, or trails boring. Adding some obstacles can make your workout more fun and intense. It can maintain your intensity and build smaller muscles.Use nature’s obstacles to your benefit. Trails are one great option because you can jump over logs and streams and swivel around rock formations.
Inquire if there are any public obstacle courses in your area. Some features that can challenge your intensity include: a cargo net to climb, a rope climb up a nearly vertical wall, leaping through tires, running through a concrete tunnel, and a mud pit through which you have to crawl.
 If you’re new to working out or a seasoned pro, it’s good to have a weekly workout plan. Formulating a plan can ensure you get a balance of higher intensity exercise with needed recovery workouts and rest. This is also a safe way to gradually increase your intensity while minimizing the risk of injury. Getting in a workout or another intense physical activity 5-6 days a week can help build up the intensity of your workouts.Work out most days of the week. Aim for least 150 minutes of moderate activity or 75 minutes of vigorous activity over the course of the week. If you are already working out for the recommended time each week, gradually increase the time you exercise. Ten minutes every week allows you to work out more intensively while minimizing the risk of injury.
Break up your workouts up into manageable sections if you’re just starting. For example, 2-15 minute intense workouts may be more effective than one moderate workout.
 Consider activities such as speed walking, running, swimming, rowing or biking. You can also use machines such as an elliptical or stair trainer. Try mixing different types of workouts throughout the week. For example, you could run two days, swim one, use a rowing machine another, and play a pick-up game of beach volleyball on the weekend.


Keep in mind other types of activities that count as a workout include team sports, running or playing outside with your kids, jumping rope or on a trampoline.
 Cardio burn classes, boot camp classes as well as barre and yoga that incorporate free weights and other equipment are another great way to up your intensity. These types of group classes often offer intervals of intensity with periods of lighter recovery. They can also motivate you to get to the gym.Sign up for a class in between other workouts to give your body a nice change up to a routine. Recognize that these classes often have the advantage of teaching you proper form, which you can apply as you make your workouts more intense.
 You may want to dive right into your more intense workouts. However, this is a recipe for injury and may make it more difficult to sustain your more intense effort. Gradually easing into the workout by warming up may prevent injury and allow you to work out with greater intensity.Walk at a moderate pace for 3-5 minutes. This loosens your muscles, tendons and joints and gets them ready to workout. Afterward, begin your chosen workout at an easy pace for another 3-5 minutes before beginning your more intense phase.
 You can figure it out by doing your chosen workout for a specific distance or time and see how you feel. This is your “race pace.” Gradually add more time to your workouts at this pace to increase your intensity.Consider your specific workouts and what your goal is. For example, if you want to run 10-minute miles, you first need to figure out where your time is. Run a mile as hard as you can and look at the time. That’s your “race pace.” You’ll need to incorporate faster intervals of running to get your time to your goal. Another example is if you swim. Swim 100m and clock when you finish. Use this as your baseline time to gradually improve by adding sprints.
 A big part of increasing the intensity of your workout is staying in the game mentally. Breaking intense workouts into manageable sections or playing games with your mind can help you get through especially intense parts of your workouts.For example, say, “Just make it to the next block. If you feel miserable, walk for a minute. If you’re in good shape, sprint to the block after that.”

, Staying hydrated is an important part to any workout. This is especially true if you want to make your workouts more intense. Making sure you’re hydrated before, during, and after a workout can help you maintain your intensity for longer.Drink 8-16 ounces of water one or two hours before your workout. If you’re working out for an hour or less, drink 3-6 ounces every 15 to 20 minutes. Have 3-6 ounces every 15 to 20 minutes if you are working out between 1 and 4 hours.
Remember that drinking water is usually enough to stay hydrated. If you like, you can also mix water and a sports drink to replenish any sodium or electrolytes lost during your workout. This combination is especially helpful if you’re working out longer than one hour. Use a sports drink that isn’t loaded with sugar, as it can upset your stomach.
Drink 8-24 ounces after your workout to replace fluids.
 After a more intense workout, it’s important to do a good cool down. This can shift your blood flow to resting patterns, prevent dizziness, and help your muscles recover. In turn, it will allow you to continue doing more intense workouts.Taper off your workout as it nears the end. Try and get about 5-10 minutes at this slower pace. After this, do a gentle and brisk 3-5 minute walk.
Aid recovery with a cold water bath, foam rolling, or stretching to help your body further recover. These are especially helpful as you gradually increase your intensity.
 Finish your planned workouts or as many as you are able each week. The frequency can help you gradually add more intensity. But if you’re sick or feeling tired, do a shorter and/ or less intense workout. Consider giving yourself a rest day. You can always pick up your workouts when you feel better.Be aware that not taking cues from your body can lead to injuries, especially if you have pain. Allowing for rest can be the difference between sticking with more intense workouts or needing to see a doctor.
Cross-train on days you’re feeling fatigued or ill. Swimming, biking, rowing, or using the elliptical can keep your endurance level at its peak.

