 Word lets you insert special symbols into your text through the Symbol dialog. How you open the dialog depends on your version of Word.


For Word 2007 and later, which use the ribbon interface, click the Symbol button (which displays the Greek letter omega) in the Symbols section of the Insert ribbon tab. Select "More Symbols" at the bottom of the popup menu of commonly used symbols to display the Symbol dialog.
For Word 2003 and earlier, select "Symbol" from the "Insert" menu.;
, In most cases, you'll want to display the exponent in the same font as the rest of the text, so you can leave the setting "(normal text)" in the Font dropdown alone. If you want to display the exponent in a different font, click the down arrow button at the right of the dropdown and select the font you desire from the list.


Be aware that not all fonts include superscripted numbers or letters. If the font you're using for your primary text doesn't support the exponent you want to add, you'll have to choose a font that supports the exponent.
 You can scroll to the exponent using the scroll bar on the right of the character display, or you can select one of these options from the Subset dropdown menu: "Latin-1 Supplement" (or simply "Latin-1") or "Superscripts and Subscripts." The available numeric exponents are "1," "2," and "3," and a superscripted "n" is available to represent an exponent variable. Click on the superscript character to select it.
 Click the Insert button at the bottom of the Symbol dialog. This will close the dialog and insert your exponent in the text at the point of your cursor.


In Word 2007 and later, after you select an exponent, it will appear in the Recently Used Symbols display at the bottom of the Symbols dialog page. If you want to use the exponent again, you can select it from this location.
You can also insert the exponent by using the shortcut key for that exponent. When you select an exponent, the Symbol dialog displays a shortcut key of "Alt" followed by a letter or 4-digit combination. By pressing the "Alt" key and entering this combination, you can display the exponent without displaying the Symbol dialog. (Older versions of Word may not display a shortcut key for some exponents.) You can also create or modify a shortcut key by using the Shortcut Key button.

