 If you're not sure to how many people should be in it take a look at the other group. Try to match your numbers with theirs, have a few extra people if possible. The bigger your troops the better, but make sure not to make it too big.;
, It's not fair to drag them into a war without them willing to be soldiers.
 Be fashionable but don't copy any of the celebrities or the leader of the other group. You need to stand out, wear bold colours, be brave and don't be afraid to make a fashion statement.
 Remember always to be nice while giving them tips. No one likes a mean army leader. Take your troops out shopping and invest in a few new accessories. Popular girls are stylish and wear different outfits most of the time. This doesn't mean you have to buy new clothes every day, just try another combination of the things you have in your wardrobe.
 If you don't know how to use it there are always make-up tutorials on you tube which can be helpful if you're trying for a unique look. Don't go hard on the make-up, keep it as natural as possible. That way you will win the schools affections faster and rise on the popularity ladder. Try out different shades of lip gloss , lipstick , eye shadow or eye liner before you make up your mind.
 It has to be washed and shiny, use products that give it more volume. All the people in your troop should have glossy hair, no matter what length. Try visiting the hair salon to see if what hair style matches you the most. Hair can change your whole look, especially if it suits you. The hairdresser should know what suits your face shape. If you don't want to visit the salon you can always look up different style on the internet and try them out.
 You and your soldiers should join as many clubs as possible. That way you will have someone everywhere. That is why you should have different kinds of people. Have sporty people to join the sports clubs and the ones who have other passions the school newspaper, ect. Be nice when you ask your new crowd to join things. If they refuse, don't push them. You should join the planning committee if one exists. That way you will have some say in what is going on.
 Simply ask one of your soldiers to get in there first and save the table for the rest of you. Don't be afraid, sit down and enjoy your lunch. If the other group order you to leave refuse to budge. After all, the table doesn't have their names on it. This will leave the rest of the school in awe and they will grow to admire you.
 If someone asks you help with their homework don't refuse. Being nice is the key to over coming the other popular group, especially if they are mean. Instead of following them the students will turn to you.
 If it's sports or writing articles make sure you shine. Join competition and if anyone from the other group are competing against you make sure to win. But don't cheat. If you do and that comes out into the open you will not look good. People will begin to wander maybe they should turn back to the other group.
 That way you will know if they are planning anything that will harm you. Always be on your guard, after all if a new member joins your group it is always possible they will be spies for the other group. But do not accuse them without any proof, as this will make you look like someone who's paranoid.
 There can always be two popular crowds in a school but always make sure that you're in lead. Be kind to all the students and gain their affection.
 Invite students exclusively to make them feel special. And if that party is amazing everybody won't be able to stop talking about it. Be creative. Musical chairs won't exactly work. Host the party in a house that's big. Or an old barn will always do if you have one at hand. Just make sure it doesn't smell.
 Your grades should always be high, or at least at the same standard that they were before. If you neglect your schoolwork your parents won't be happy. High school isn't everything, there's always college. And if you don't get good grades you'll fail to get into one.
 As a popular person you should be able to keep moving along with the latest tendencies. Don't stick to one thing.
 Doing the same old thing everyday won't get you anywhere.
 Your personality should be bubbly and cheerful, no one wants to see a gloomy face. So smile. And brush your teeth.
 Take a shower everyday, and take care of your skin. Nobody who's popular has a million spots. If you get one here and there you can always use concealer.
 Just a happier version of your old self.
 Upload pictures and make sure you like the pictures of your group members.
 Be ready if it doesn't work out you'll have a hard time. It's a risk you have to take.
, If you become the captain of the committee or the best player on the basketball team you will have more control. It's all about control. Becoming a school president will always work out in your favour. Or being the teachers favourite. You don't have to be all of those things. Your soldiers can take high positions on teams too.
 Beauty. Even if you think you're not pretty that can always be improved. Exercise to maintain a statuesque figure, eat healthy food and drink water to have clear skin and healthy hair. Change your hair style and wear colours that suit you. Just don't let anyone get the best of you.

