 Confirm that you're using monophasic pills and that you already have the next pack. Make sure that you can discern between the active pills (which suppress your period) and the placebo pills (which trigger a week of withdrawal bleeding). Use a calendar to chart out your birth control schedule for the weeks leading up to the period that you want to skip.


Monophasic pills cause less spotting than multiphasic pills, making them better suited to skipping periods.However, you can still skip a period using multiphasic pills. Ask your gynecologist about which pills you can skip in order to miss your period.If you aren't already on a birth control program, speak to your gynecologist about starting. Only take birth control pills that you've been prescribed by a licensed physician.
 If you are taking monophasic pills, then you just need to take the same pill every day. If you are using multiphasic pills, then you'll need to be careful to keep to the schedule. If you aren't sure, ask your gynecologist for advice on how to proceed.


If your birth control is packaged with a "period week" of placebo pills, feel free to discard the placebos. They are sugar pills, and you won't need them if you are going to skip your "period."

, Skip the placebo pills. Begin the next month's birth control packet immediately at the end of the regular three-week regimen. Make sure that you are ready with the new pills as the three-week mark approaches!Remember: if you're taking birth control, you are not actually getting your period on the fourth "placebo" week of the month. The bleeding that occurs is "withdrawal bleeding" as your body responds to stopping the hormones.Withdrawal bleeding does not pose a serious risk to your health and skipping withdrawal bleeding does not affect your health. It is safe to skip your period indefinitely using hormonal birth control.
You may experience minimal spotting. However, this should not last more than a day. Monophasic pills are more stable than multiphasic pills, and thus less likely to trigger spotting.
 If you've been taking the pills for three or more weeks, you can pause to take a period whenever it's convenient. Simply stop taking your active birth control pills for four days. Then, start taking the active pills again.Consider taking up to a week's break from your contraceptive after any skipped withdrawal period. It's good to give your body a rest.

