  Choose a method. If you're not satisfied, you can take them apart to go back and try another. In order of initial complexity:


A basic commercial "stereo bar" simply holds two cameras side by side. But fancier cameras' widths, plus side connectors that may be needed to synchronize operation, typically put their lenses too far apart. This excessive "stereo base" causes unnatural, distracting depth effects at usual foreground distances. And the cameras generally have to be removed or loosened to access bottom battery doors (then replaced and realigned).
Screwing them into each other's tripod sockets with a setscrew is even cheaper, and easy too. A practical  prerequisite is that battery doors or any other essential access points begin further out than the other side of the camera ends, so that they can be opened with the cameras mounted base-to-base. The setscrew method typically allows a somewhat shorter, typically near-natural, stereo base best for closer work like portraits.
A "Z-bar" holds the cameras' shorter sides together for the closest possible, but still usually mildly exaggerated, stereo base in the more-popular "landscape" orientation.  It often requires custom-fabricating the metal bracket - a relatively simple metalworking project, but still more demanding than typical do-it-yourself home improvement.;
, 
Shim each cameras' base with tape to take up their spacing along the screw threads and hold their lenses perfectly parallel in the horizontal axis, not toed-in or out. 
Tack the mating surfaces together with a little white glue, twist the cameras into perfect vertical alignment, and allow to dry (sitting on lenses adjusted to identical lengths, or otherwise supported so as to prevent creep). 

, 
Bend in increments, checking for and adjusting positioning in the bender to keep the axis perfectly straight-across as you go. 
Stick each end in a steel pipe to bend out a curve.  Use a pair of oversized adjustable wrenches to undo a twist.
  Generally, the cameras should share both a "half-press" signal to ready themselves and a "full-press" signal to then take the pictures at exactly the same time. 

,


Canons can generally do this by plugging one right into the other - with a submini stereo cable for cheaper ones, or a double-ended fancy shutter release cable for fancier ones (which one must improvise, it seems).  The EOS SL1 / 100D has its remote-release port vertically aligned with its lens, so a double-ended male adapter can connect them right through a Z-bar.
Two camera connectors can generally be connected to the same wired remote.
Two cameras can generally share an aftermarket wireless remote transmitter.  This works great with no mount for hyperstereo pictures with a friend.
On some cameras, an infrared remote signal can start video recording precisely simultaneously.
On some cameras, simultaneously triggering stills can restart video recording precisely simultaneously.  (A shutter-button press on one camera may fail to immediately communicate to the other in video mode, in which case an external trigger may need to be connected.)

,  Allowing the cameras to automatically prefocus on subjects they identify on their own usually works pretty well, especially when the subject is very prominent in the frame.  Selecting corresponding focus points helps.


Single-shot autofocus generally readies the cameras more precisely than continuous, enabling better synchronization.  Timing mismatches on moving subjects can be a little distracting in themselves, but even subtle mis-synchronization can cause one camera to fail to catch the other's flash at the higher sync speeds. 
Some cameras' setting to allow prioritizing release over perfect focus in continuous mode may help. With stepping-motor (Canon STM) lenses, one camera can simply command both lenses to precisely the same focusing position - you will need to match focal length. 
A relatively easy way to do this is surgery on a pair of kit lenses to connect all of the camera-conecting leads but the "DLC" pin, and a piece of tape on one's contacts to keep them from its camera.  (For anything but a pair of kit lenses, modifying the cameras would probably risk and devalue less gear.)

,  Post-processing can iron out little discrepancies.  So long as shutter speed is sufficient to prevent blur, matching aperture, and thus depth of field, is the more important to match.  Thus, aperture-priority is often the best automation mode.  Or just set matching manual settings for a given scene. 


A simple center-weighted pattern typically works better with a Z-bar than evaluative metering, which may be confused by upside-down lighting patterns on the inverted camera.  If a pair of Canon lenses is being controlled by signals from the same camera, this will include their apertures, and (in the basic implementation) the second camera will not know. 
In that case, shutter-priority on the first camera, manual shutter speed on the second, and manual sensitivities on each can prevent the second from becoming very confused and grossly mismatching exposure in other automation modes. 
Evaluative metering works fine, however, when the inverted camera isn't controlling the exposure.
  You could connect the lenses with a toothed "timing" belt or drive them with a pair of those neat stepper motors, or just remember to set them by hand.  Supplemental focus scales and pointers in tape on the same side of each lens let you do that with a glance.  They can be neatly made with contrasting print on clear backing with a label-maker.
  Digital cameras' typical "preflash" automation can introduce a small delay.  Avoiding the very highest sync speed generally, dialing back to 1/125 or so with automatic rather than manual flash power or continuous autofocus, or more with both, and decreasing shutter speed even further with automated multi-flash, typically slower built-in flash, and/or second-curtain sync will generally enable the two cameras to share a flash.  Special high-speed sync flash modes often enable synchronization at very high shutter speeds, possibly due to the overall beam being much extended (so each camera can capture part of it, although not necessarily the same part).  Experiment to confirm reliable operation.

