 The most common is “look” paired with your dog’s name. You can use any word that you like, but keep it short and snappy. You could also use a noise like clicking your tongue or smacking your lips as a cue. It doesn’t need to be loud since this command should be given only when you’re in close proximity to your dog.You may want to pair this cue with a hand signal, like pointing at your eyes, so that you can visually reinforce the cue and easily release your dog from the stare by putting your hand down.
 Pick a treat or special toy reserved only for training that your dog really loves. Have your dog sit in front of you, show them the reward in your hand, and gradually move it up towards your eyes.The minute your dog shifts their focus from the reward to your eyes, give them a reward and vocal praise (like, “good girl!”). If you’re using treats, give them a treat. If you’re using a toy, let them have the toy.
If your dog is failing to make eye contact with you, try this exercise using two treats instead. Put one treat in each of your hands, and hold your hands up on either side of your eyes with the treats exposed. That way, your dog will have trouble focusing on just one, making it more likely for them to divert their gaze to your eyes as they shift their attention back and forth.
Remember, at this point, you are using your action with the treat(s) rather than the focus command itself to gain your dog’s attention. This allows you to imbue eye contact with positive connections before you associate it with a specific vocal and/or visual cue.
Practice this several times in short daily sessions before moving on to the next step.
 Now that your dog knows that eye contact with you is a good thing, it’s time to associate it with a specific command. Repeat the same exercise as above, but give the focus cue just before you reach eye-level with your dog’s reward.After you’ve used the cue in several short training sessions, try giving the command without using the treat to guide their gaze. Simply have them sit in front of you, give them the cue, and reward and praise them when they make eye contact.
 Once your dog associates your cue with making eye contact with you, it’s time to increase the challenge by making them hold their stare for longer. Gradually increase the amount of time that they have to make eye contact with you over the course of each training session before they get their reward., The easiest way to do this is to go on a walk with your dog on a leash. Whenever there’s something that would usually draw their attention, such as a squirrel, fellow dog, or skateboarder, give them the focus cue and reward their attention.