 The jobs currently available are Explorers, Cygnus Knights and the Resistance. Dual Blades, Cannoneers, all 5 Heroes (Aran, Evan, Mercedes, Phantom and Luminous), the Nova (Kaiser and Angelic Buster), the Sengoku Classes Kanna and Hayato (JMS and KMS only), and Demon Slayers are also available, but are limited time classes. Korean players have access to two classes; Xenon, a Thief/Pirate hybrid and Demon Avenger, a spin-off of the Demon Slayer. Global players have an exclusive class called Jett (bounty hunter). Depending on the job, you'll begin your journey in different places. For example, Resistance members start in Edelstein while Explorers are at Maple Island.;
, A good place has a lot of monsters that are at least 3 - 5 levels below you. If your level is below 10, there will not be any monsters with low enough levels, so just train on snails and mushrooms on Maple Island. Due to the recent patches on the game, new, tougher monsters have shown up on Maple Island. If you want to be a Warrior, you may want to train on them.
 It will take some trial and error to discover your character's attack range, jumping height, etc. Once you become familiar with the basics, try to learn more advanced tricks, such as how to dodge a monster that is chasing you by turning around and jumping at the same time.
 You use the mouse and keyboard to navigate MapleStory. While the default keys may be acceptable, you might be able to improve your game by changing them. A good keyboard layout optimizes all of your skills.


Movement skills (ex. Flash Jump) should be put at the X key. This is because it's close to ALT, which is the space bar. You don't need the Sit button for MapleStory.
Put your main attack skill on the space bar. Also, put other skills you use on the lower part of your keyboard.
 To start a guild you will need 100k mesos, and you'll have to talk to the guild NPC (Non Playable Characters) (found in towns). If you create a guild, you become the guild master or leader. Then you may invite others, etc. You can also pick a logo of sorts, and distribute different titles to members. Membership in a guild helps you make friends, who you can then easily find and contact. Friends can help you with questions you may have or can go on quests with you. Plus, hey, it's good to have friends.
 Even though quests often give you little experience, they are a good break from training all day long.
 Sometimes when a monster drops equipment, the equipment may have a red border. You can go to a store and buy magnifying glasses. Use the glass on the equipment to get the potential. If you don't like the potential, you can use Miracle Cube and change the stats. If you're lucky, your item's potential may upgrade to the next tier. You may get free Miracle cubes from Hot Time or buy them in bulk in the Cash Shop.
 When you train in high leveled places, monsters may drop a box with a gear on it. Go to the USE section and click on the box to reveal the Nebulite. You can go to a town and pay an NPC to drill a hole in your equipment, so you can attach the Nebulite to your equipment.

