 To get into the one-legged king pigeon pose, you want to come to your mat in tabletop pose, with your knees directly under your hips and your wrists directly under your shoulders. Make sure your back is flat and your shoulder blades are tucked in alongside your spine., The cat/cow flow is a staple of most any yoga practice, and is a good way to get your spine warmed up for the movement it will need to go into the deep backbend required for one-legged king pigeon pose.From tabletop position, drop your belly to the floor as you inhale, allowing your spine to curve inward. Left your gaze to create a smooth curve from your tail bone to the crown of your head. This is cow position.
As you exhale, engage your abdominals and push your navel towards your spine, arching your back upward. Lower your head so that your chin meets your chest. This is cat position.
Move back and forth between cat and cow 5 to 10 times, which a breath for each movement.
 Just as you did with the pigeon pose prep, start one-legged king pigeon by moving your right leg so that your right foot is in between your hands. Then lower onto your hips so that your lower leg is resting on the mat, roughly parallel to your hips.Extend your left leg out straight behind you, and find a comfortable position where your body weight is evenly distributed and your hips are squared off and facing forward.
If it's more comfortable, you may want to angle your right knee out slightly, so it sits to the right of your hip. However, make sure your left leg extends straight out from the hip, and is not angled out to the left. Rotating your left leg slightly inward will enable you to rest the midline of your leg on the floor.
 As you exhale, hinge forward from your hips and lower your torso over your right thigh. Hold this position for a few breaths to stretch your spine, reaching your arms forward over your head., Slide your hands back until they are just in front of your shin, and press your fingertips firmly into your mat. Raise your torso, pressing your tailbone down to lengthen your lower back.It can help to roll your left hip a little toward your right heel. this will help keep your hips square and ensure your weight is distributed evenly.
If you're a beginner, stay in this position with your torso supported by your hands on the floor. When you're ready, lift your arms and place them on either side of the top rim of your pelvis. Push down as you lift with your chest, as though you're pushing your sternum toward the ceiling.
 Engage your glutes and hamstring as you raise your foot, bending your leg at the knee to bring your foot close to your buttocks. Extend your arms overhead and bend back at the elbows.You should feel a stretch in your groin as well as in your back. Do not go any further into this pose than you can comfortably.
 To complete the one-legged king pigeon pose, reach back and grab your foot with your hands to bind the position. Find the equilibrium by pulling with your hands at the same time that you resist with your foot for an intense thigh stretch.If you have difficulty catching your foot at first, you can use a yoga strap to modify the pose so it's easier for you to do. Loop the strap around your left foot and hold it in your left hand. When you reach up and bend your knee, pull on the strap as far as you comfortably can.
 As with any one-sided yoga pose, hold for 5 to 10 breathing cycles, then return to your starting position and repeat the same movements with the opposite leg. Observe how each side feels different, and make accommodations as necessary if one side is stiffer than the other.