 Drawing can be fun, even if we aren’t taking it that seriously. Although it might defy our expectations, we also concentrate more on whatever we are doing when we doodling at the same time. This concentration will make whatever else we do, whether it be work or television, more interesting than it would be otherwise., Focusing on something artistic can be a good way to push away a sense of boredom.Generally, novelty also helps to alleviate boredom as well. So, try an online radio program that will play new songs with which you aren’t familiar. Alternatively, take the time to go through and listen to some classic music you’ve heard people talk about, but never listened to.
 Try making a cake or another complicated dish you’ve never tried before. This can be a good way to pick up a new skill and keep yourself busy. Even better, when everything is said and done, you have a tasty treat to eat, or, at least, a good story tell., Especially when it is cold outside, a warm bath can make quiet time fun. Aim to get the water to around 92 degrees. Turn off the lights and set some candles to create a relaxing atmosphere. Put on some music and toss some oil into the bath for a pleasant aroma., Boredom is easier to deal with than ever before, because the internet is something like a bottomless hole of activities. Read news websites, surf social media, or find aps and games that do novel things. Be careful thought; prolonged use of the internet will decrease your attention span, which will ultimately make it harder to be interested in the rest of the world around you., Once upon a time, reading was nearly the only reliable thing humans could turn to keep themselves interested. It is still a pretty good option. It requires more attention than the internet, which helps to keep you engaged. It will introduce you to interesting characters and in the end you might learn something about people, stories, or language.


Consider acting out what you learn by writing. As you read, break to take notes, write your own stories, or think about what your reading. This will make you a more active participant in the reading process.

