 Rabbit droppings are very dry and round, so they aren't hard to clean up. Try to put a little bit of hay into the litter box, because rabbits like to eat while they use the bathroom. This encourages them to keep going to the litter box.


Don't wait too long to clean the cage. It will get disgusting, smelly, and is not good for your rabbit's health.
 Neutered rabbits make better pets as they are less territorial and less prone to aggression. Rabbits can be desexed from around 12 weeks of age. If you have more than one rabbit (of either sex), then this young age is strongly advised or you may have a rabbit population explosion on your hands., From 12 weeks of age rabbit's can be vaccinated against myxomatosis and viral hemorrhagic diarrhea. Both diseases are fatal to rabbits. One annual injection is all it takes to keep the rabbit protected.Also speak to your vet about a course of fenbendazole against a common rabbit parasite called Encephalitozoon Cuniculi. A high percentage of rabbits carry this parasite, which can cause neurological problems, kidney failure, or blindness in later life. A single course once a year is advisable to keep your pet safe.
 There is no need to give a rabbit a bath as they clean themselves frequently and the oil on their bodies is natural, not harmful. Water can get in their ears and their ears can get infected. Also, the stress of a bath can be very bad for your rabbit's health.


Rabbits are very clean animals and should never NEED a bath. If your rabbit gets a messy bottom, this is often the result of a problem.

Watery poop is fatal to rabbits. If your rabbit has watery poop, you must seek emergency medical treatment immediately.
Clumpy poo on the bunny's bottom may be the sign of too rich a diet, or a rabbit who has become too chunky to properly clean itself. In this case, it is fine (and important) to give a bunny 'butt bath'. This should be done very gently with just a few inches of lukewarm water. Set the bunny's bottom (only!) in the water and use your hand to gently loosen and clean the clumpy mess. Once clean, remove and thoroughly dry the bunny.
It is extremely important to address whatever caused the clumpy poo. Restrict food to unlimited hay and some oats for three days. In the case of a very chunky rabbit, make sure the rabbit is getting plenty of exercise. Rabbits were not designed to sit around!


If the outdoor hutch your rabbits are in does not protect from thunderstorms, snow, or rain, you need to offer protection to keep your rabbit healthy.

