 Take care of yourself during moments of pushback. If you have any reason to fear violence from anyone in your life, take steps to remove yourself from their power. Find another place to stay if you can.


If you are already in a vulnerable position from coming out, you may be at a greater risk for intimate partner violence. Seek a counselor or shelter if you are in danger.If you are assaulted, report the assault immediately to the police. Visit a doctor as soon as possible.
 If you are suffering from hostility after coming out, you may engage in risky sexual behaviors out of despair. Guard against these impulses. Limit your sexual partners. Use condoms and other protection when you have intercourse. Try not to have multiple drinks before sex, and never mix drug use and sex.


Behavior that risks unwanted pregnancy, HIV infections, and other STI infections is especially common among LGBT youth and homeless youth. Use protection when you have sex.If you have unprotected sex, visit a Planned Parenthood or your doctor immediately.
If you are sexually assaulted, visit a doctor and get counseling as soon as you can.
 By coming out, you pave the way for future LGBT people to come out. Visibility comes with dangers, but it's ultimately the greatest survival tool we have as a community. Every time someone comes out is an education. Be proud that you spoke the truth of your existence against the repressive forces that would silence you.


Get involved in community organizations for LGBT people.
Donate your time and money to organizations that combat LGBT youth homelessness.
Agitate for greater protection under the law for LGBT people.
Keep coming out. Coming out is a process, as you've learned.
 Dealing with pushback is stressful. It can be traumatic, especially if you are bullied or kicked out. To minimize trauma from this trying period, take really good care of yourself. Find others to help care for you to. Taking care of yourself is a political act.


Get proper sleep, eat well, and exercise.
Spend time with people who understand you. Talk to them about the difficult things that are going on.
Avoid alcohol and drugs, as these tend to make traumatic situations worse.
 While there are many joys to embracing your full identity, there are also many stressors. Talk to a mental health professional to ease your passage, especially if you are coping with rejection and hostility at home, school, or work.


If you are transgender, you will need the sign-off of a therapist to work with some surgeons, especially if you are underage.Get a therapist who works with LGBT people: http://locator.apa.org/

Call a support or suicide hotline if you are feeling despair or having suicidal thoughts: http://www.itgetsbetter.org/pages/get-help/


