 The small sensors in camera phones cannot run at high ISO speeds (i.e. high sensitivity to light, permitting indoor photos without a flash) without introducing large amounts of noise. In most circumstances, this precludes indoor photos other than in the best-lit places.


If you have to shoot indoors, consider what artificial lighting sources you have. Avoid fluorescent light, as it can cast a green tint on your subjects. Make sure you camera is stable in low light. Camera phones slow the shutter speed in low light, and this can capture any movement you make and blur your photo.
 This will either force the camera to under-expose the rest of the shot, or cause the camera to blow out the highlights on the brightest parts of the shot. The latter is worse, since it is sometimes possible to extract details from parts of the image that are too dark, but impossible to recover blown highlights (since there is no detail therein to extract). On the other hand, this can be used to artistic ends, such as with bright light streaming through a window. People pictures will look best in diffuse lighting such as open shade, under a cloudy sky, or in bright artificial light. Try to include bright colors, which will show up well, rather than a range of light and dark areas (which will both lose detail).
 Due to their very short focal lengths (the distance between a camera's optical elements and the sensor, again, owing to their small sensors), camera phones excel at shots where nearly all of a scene is in focus. However, this (and their typically weak auto-focus mechanisms) usually precludes focusing on objects very close to the phone, or having a very shallow depth of field to get a blurred background effect (which can, with varying degrees of authenticity, be faked in software later anyway).
 Mirrors also often end up confusing auto-focus mechanisms. Get outside and get someone to take the photo for you. If you'd rather take the picture yourself, most camera phones have an auto-timer feature so you can set the phone somewhere and get into frame.
 Fine details, such as leaves on trees at a distance, will be smeared out.


It is best to shoot things as close to the subject as possible. If you can get up close to your subject and frame it tightly, you will get the best results.
Most smartphone cameras have a digital zoom, but using this won't help you get detailed pictures from far away. Using this is just essentially cropping your picture on the screen rather than during editing.
 Camera phones won't automatically focus on the foreground and do not have settings to do so., If you find yourself using a flash because your whole scene is insufficiently lit, you're probably taking photographs indoors in poor light. Don't do this, and go back to the first step; a scene lit entirely by your flash will look un-natural, since on a camera phone it is not typically possible to aim the flash anything but directly ahead (i.e. you can't bounce it off ceilings or walls, as with dedicated flash guns for SLR cameras). On the other hand, a flash is a good option for filling in shadows in harsh sunlight.
 Make sure that everything you want in the shot is in the picture, and ready to be captured. Some phones show the entire viewfinder, meaning that what is on the screen is exactly what will be captured in the image. Other phones, however, only show what is in the middle of the image, but will capture more than the viewfinder shows. Err on the side of putting too much empty space into your picture; you can always crop it later.


Use the rule of thirds. When composing a picture, imagine two horizontal lines and two vertical lines crossing like a tic-tac-toe grid on top of it.Place strong lines and divisions like the horizon on the gridlines. Let elements of interest fall on the intersections.
 A black background is a good start, as it can make objects and colors pop in your photo.Black velvet material is a good choice because it absorbs all light that hits it. It will help diminish shadows and reflections.
Make sure the fabric is taught, as wrinkles will show up in the photo and distract from the subject.
 Keep your hand steady as you press the shutter button. After you take the picture, keep the phone in position to allow the picture to be recorded. If you move immediately after pressing the shutter button, often times you will just get a blur!

,