 If a new player asks how to play Mao, you have to tell them it's a frustrating card game and that you can't tell them the rules; they have to find out the specifics themselves. There is no limit to the number of players in a game, but you'll want a deck for every 4 to 5 players, maybe more if you have new players or complicated rules and are likely to need a lot of penalty cards.
 He or she has the authority to initiate the game, choose what rules to use, judge and resolve disputes, and deal with any unusual complications that might arise.


Since the dealer may be the only player who knows all the rules from the beginning of the game, it is critical that he or she enforces them consistently and fairly.
Some groups prefer to have a second player who also knows the rules so that the two of them can call penalties on each other.
 5 to 8 cards per player is typical, but the exact amount doesn't matter as long as everyone gets the same number. Place the remainder of the deck in the center of the playing area to be used as a stock of penalty cards, then flip one card over and place it next to the deck to start.
, They vary with every game. Look below for guidelines to figuring out rules for each particular game of Mao.
 In fact, no talking at all except when required by another rule, to call a point of order, or when in the middle of a point of order.;
, Counterintuitive as this seems, you have to do it when mandated or else you'll receive another penalty card.
 The game is similar to Uno in this respect, because you have to alert all the other players that you're close to winning, and if you don't you can be penalized.
 Additionally, no playing out of turn or trying to call a penalty on another player if that player hasn't broken any rules--if you're going to disrupt the game, it's better not to play at all. If a player unintentionally inflicts a penalty on another player because they themselves do not fully understand the rules, any other player except the one penalized can inflict a penalty card on the first player for "inflicting an incorrect penalty".
 They will then end their turn by adding this card to their hand.
 A point of order occurs when the game comes to a halt so the players can confer and discuss to clarify certain things about the game, although they still cannot talk about the rules directly. Points of order are an important part of the Mao process, and come with their own rules, which are:


Do not refer to the point of order directly by name (you can get around this by calling it "P of O", for example, or simply "point order", eliminating the "of")
Players must not look at their cards during a Point of order. If they are still holding their cards after someone calls a Point of order, they can be penalized.
The point of order ends when someone calls "point of disorder", "point taken", or even just "pick up your cards"
In some variations, only the dealer can start and end points of order; however, you can allow anyone to do so in your game
In another variation, point of order must be said before and after you speak during play. Players who do not do so will be penalized for "speaking out of turn."

,,
Requiring a player to draw penalty cards
Changing which cards can be legally played to the discard pile
Requiring a player to make a choice (such as specifying the value of a wild card).
 It's up to you!


Musical Chairs. A Four of Clubs forces everyone to get up from the table, run around once and sit back down in their original spot. The last player to make it back to their spot draws a penalty card.
Deuces. A Two requires everyone to touch their middle and index fingers to the table. The last player to do so draws a penalty card.
Have a Nice Day. A seven requires the next player to draw a penalty card. Sevens can add up, requiring players to draw 2, 3, 4, etc. penalty cards when multiple 7's are played in a row. Whoever plays it must say "Have a (Very) (Very, Very) (etc.) Nice Day.
Royalty. A King requires a player to say "All Hail the King (of spades)". A Queen requires the player to say "Neeumph" (Queen of Spades).
Manners. A person must say "Thank You" when dealt a penalty card.
Soap. Any cursing results in a penalty card.
Holiday. A six requires a player to say "Merry Christmas".
Jacks. A Jack allows a player to change suits (wild card).
Spades. Spade cards must be named when played.
Aces. Aces cause the next player to skip their turn.
Reverse. An eight causes the turn order to reverse.
Rhyme Fest. A nine causes the person who played it to say a word and all other players must say a rhyming word in turn without stating a previously said word. If a player says a non-rhyming word, takes too long to say a rhyming word, or says a previously stated word, he draws a penalty card.
Chauncey. If two identical cards are played in succession, everyone must say "Chauncey". The last player to do so draws a penalty card.
Diamonds. If any card with a suit of a diamond is played, the person who played it must say "Shine bright like a diamond".
Change of Suit. If a person plays a card with a different suit, but the same letter or number as the previous card played (Thus changing the suit), then the person who played the card that would be changing the suit must knock once on the surface of which the game is being played on (Such as a table).

