 Bring a large sauce pot full of water to a boil over high heat. Once the water boils, remove the lid and add 1 pound (454 g) of dry fettuccine pasta. Boil the fettuccine according to the manufacturer's instructions and stir it occasionally to prevent it from sticking together. Measure out 1 cup (240 ml) of the starchy pasta water and set it aside. Drain the pasta once it's finished cooking.You can make the sauce while the pasta is boiling.
 Wash 3 small heads of cauliflower and discard any leaves. Use a sharp knife to carefully chop the cauliflower into chunks. Heat 6 cups (1.4 liters) of vegetable broth over medium-high heat until it boils and add the chopped cauliflower. Boil the cauliflower for about 15 minutes. It should become soft.If the cauliflower isn't completely tender when you remove it from the heat, the sauce may have more texture.
 Melt 1 tablespoon of butter over medium heat in a large saucepan. Stir in 6 cloves of minced garlic and saute the garlic for 4 to 5 minutes. The garlic should smell aromatic when it's finished cooking.Keep an eye on the minced garlic since it can burn easily. If it looks like it's turning dark, turn off the heat.
 Scoop the cooked cauliflower into a blender or large food processor. Measure out 2 cups (473 ml) of the hot vegetable broth and add it to the blender. Add the sauteed garlic along with 1 teaspoon of salt, 1 pinch of nutmeg, and 1 pinch of black pepper. Puree the mixture for 5 minutes, so it becomes completely smooth.If you have a small blender or food processor, you can puree the cauliflower and aromatics in batches.
 Open the pouring spout on the lid of your blender, so you can gradually pour in 1 tablespoon of olive oil while the sauce mixture is blending. If the sauce looks too thick, pour in a little extra vegetable broth. Pour the sauce back into the saucepan.If you don't want to add more vegetable broth, consider using plain water to thin the sauce.
 Pour ¼ cup (60 ml) of heavy cream and 1 cup (240 ml) of the reserved starchy boiling water (from the pasta pot) into the sauce. Cook the sauce over low heat until it's slightly thick. Toss it together with the cooked and drained fettuccine.The starchy pasta water will thicken the cauliflower alfredo sauce.

