 Create a budget and a list before diving into a shopping spree. Use social media or just ask your friends if they want to have a clothing swap if your budget is tight. You don’t have to get expensive pieces like jackets or designer tops. Focus on smaller accessories that make it easier to switch up your look.If you’re lucky to have your birthday fall close to the start of school, ask for gift cards or make a wishlist of clothes you’d like so your family and friends know exactly what to get you.Think about the main outfits you’d need throughout the school year. Do you need gym clothes? Should you get a new winter coat?;
, Look through your closet and see if you can find new ways to wear your clothing. You could layer older pieces with something new to create an entirely new outfit. For example, if you have a favourite pair of shorts you could still wear it in the fall if you layer it with a sweater and tights.


You could also wear a summer dress with leggings, a cardigan, and boots.If you’re a guy, wear your favourite short sleeve shirt under a sweater so that the collar gives you the right touch of flair.
 Style can go beyond a wardrobe change. The start or school gives you an opportunity to reinvent your look. Rather than change your wardrobe, try changing your hair colour or style. You can also change your makeup and nail color. Make a statement with bold colours.Find inspiration from celebrities or look on social media sites if you don’t know where to start. You can also mimic the look of an older student or family member that you admire.
Pinterest is a great site to search for style as it allows you to save images and follow influencers.Whether you’re just getting a trim or going for a completely different hair style, make sure you find a hairstylist that you trust. Don’t be afraid to ask them questions about what look suits the shape of your face and texture of your hair.
You do not have to trim anything off your hair if you learn how to create different styles. For example, learn different braids or style your bangs.Research or ask a stylist which hair products work best for your hair. For example, gel is great for hold but gives you a wet look.

