 You should learn good form before attempting these exercises on your own.


Visit your doctor if you have high blood pressure. Weightlifting can further raise blood pressure, so the doctor may recommend an alternative method of strength training, such as resistance bands.;
, It is important to give yourself a day to rest and rebuild the muscle.


The benefits of Weightlifting carry on more than 24 hours after you lift. The process of making small tears in the muscle fibers by lifting encourages them to rebuild stronger. Weightlifting also increases your metabolism for 36 or more hours, burning more calories and fat than traditional cardio.
 With these exercises, you should begin without weights to perfect your form in front of a mirror. Then add in dumbbells or bars for extra resistance.


Perform squats. Stand with feet hip width apart. Sit back as if you were sitting into a chair. Your body weight should be in your heels. Pause at the bottom for 2 to 10 seconds, and then slowly rise. Repeat 10 to 20 times.






Perform lunges. Start with feet hip width apart. Step 1 foot (0.3 m) forward approximately 3 feet (0.9m). Bend both knees. Pause at the lowest point, and then slowly rise back up to the starting position. Repeat 10 to 20 times on each side.
Do calf raises. Strap ankle weights to yourself. Stand near a wall. Rise onto the balls of your feet, trying to evenly balance between all the toes. Rise slowly for 4 seconds, pause and lower for 4 seconds, doing this for 1 minute. Repeat with 2 second and 1 second intervals. Pick up 1 leg and do calf raises, then do the other leg by itself.
Do hamstring and quad curls. Find a weight machine and set it to the highest weight on which you can complete 2 to 3 sets of 10 to 12 repetitions.
Do adductor and abductor curls. Find these machines and set them as you did the hamstring curl machine. Pull in with your thighs on the adductor for 2 to 3 sets of 10 to 12. Repeat on the abductor.
 If you don't want to do all your strength training at once, then you can split the sessions, doing legs 1 day and arms the next. In this case, you may lift weights every day, as long as you are giving part of your body a chance to rest.


Do bicep curls. Keep your upper arms flush with your sides, while you curl your forearms in toward your chest. Choose the weight that you can do for 2 to 3 sets of 10, until you reach muscle fatigue.
Perform bicep curl variations. After you do a set with a full range of motion, do half sets, where you start in the middle, go up, start in the middle, and go down. You will tone fast twitch and slow twitch fibers.
Switch your hands, so you do bicep curls with your hands pointing inward and dumbbells in a vertical position.
Do push ups. Get in a plank position. Do 3 sets of 10, with your arms in different positions. Place them at shoulder width (bicep), wider than shoulder width (chest) and less than shoulder width (triceps), to work different parts of your arms.
Perform rows. Bend your knees slightly, while your feet are hip width apart. Lean forward at a 45 degree angle. Push your arms out and pull your elbows back, pinching between your shoulder blades.
Do chest presses. Lay back on a bench, or choose a row position. You will be able to lift more while you lie on your back. Start with elbows back and even with your shoulders. Push until the weights meet in the middle and your arms are straight. Resist the weight back down.
 Holding a push up position for 1 to 2 minutes is called a plank. To keep a straight position, you must use muscles in your entire body, toning them in the process.
 (0.9 to 2.2kg) every 3 weeks. You should gradually increase your strength and notice more tone.
 Cardio is necessary to burn fat, so your strong muscle tone will show through.
 Do not set a pace and stay with it the entire time. Instead, do 30 second to 2 minute bursts of high intensity sprinting throughout your workout.
 Do several different workouts, such as running, swimming, biking and sports to work more muscles and burn more calories.
 You may burn more calories and fat when you are being instructed to work harder.
 Try to avoid ruts by jumping rope, running stairs, or hiking large hills. Difficult, high intensity sessions will reduce body fat faster.

