 Use a bobby pin to hold the curl in place, then hit them with cool air from your hair blower. The cool air causes the hair to relax while still curled, helping them stay in place after their inevitable cool-off later in the day., Hair gel is one of the more conventional ways to get curls to stay. Apply as you style. The protein based goop dries in 15-30 min, stiffening and acting as support to hold hair in the place you left it.


Be aware, though, that adding more gel isn't always better. Too much can leave hair feeling crunchy and hard and actually weigh curls down and take away their form.
 This is a staple in urban hair salons, as it accomplishes what little else can. It can be applied before styling or after. A little stronger holding than conventional hair spray, spritz is responsible for some of the more complex updos not falling flat after two hours of wear. B&B or Luster's Pink are some of the best options.


Like gel, spritz can leave hair feeling crunchy or hard if applied too liberally, and can have an unpleasant chemical smell if too heavy.
 For best results, roll hair when wet and apply heat from a dryer. The curls will mold to your rollers and once they're removed, lightly run your fingers through to loosen to desired style. For a little more curl, apply a curling creme before rolling, and a bit of hairspray or spritz afterward.
 This is especially important when you use heat to curl your hair. Whenever applying heat to hair, proper conditioning and moisturizing is a must. Applying a light oil or moisturizer before styling keeps curls shiny.


Consider heat-protectant before turning on the hair dryer.
 These will turn your curly hair frizzy in a heartbeat, so do your best to avoid the weather with a hat. If you need to head outside, some spray may help prevent damage for several hours, but it will not last forever.
 Touching introduces oils and dirt to your hair, which weighs it down and causes your curls to flatten.
 Excessive heat treatment and shampooing every single day can damage your hair and make it easier to manage. Brushing your hair when it is wet can cause hair to break, as it is weakest when wet. Keep you hair clean, drink plenty of water, and eat healthy, and your hairstyle will hold for longer no matter what your style.

