 In order to set yourself up as an advocate for parents, try to focus on a specific issue and work toward a specific focus.


Get credentials in a specific field. For example, those who want to advocate on medical issues for parents can benefit greatly from a bachelor of science degree in biology, a nursing degree or other medical qualifications.
Practice in a specific field. Again, getting practical experience around the issue will help you to become a more effective advocate.
Evaluate legal issues related to advocacy. Make sure that you are approaching your advocacy in ways that will not expose you to liability over time. For example, if you plan to warn parents about a certain product, have your facts right and look into what constitutes obstruction of business to protect yourself from challenges.;
, Another step in becoming an advocate for parents is to promote your individual research and findings, and to present yourself as an expert on an issue.


Use a blog to pursue advocacy. The blog is a very popular format for this kind of outreach. Media reports have suggested that parents read blogs more frequently, on average, than other demographics. This can be a good way to get visibility for your issues.
Get on board as a contributor to various publications. Publications that focus on specific issues or provide advocacy are also good venues for establishing a position as a parental advocate.
Evaluate TV and visual media opportunities. Television and related video media can get you access to a much greater audience and springboard your role as advocate.
 Build your audience by speaking directly to families about issues that may impact them.


Find audiences at public events. Use public community events to promote your position as an advocate, displaying your experience and credentials and speaking out on parental issues.
Start a mailing list. The list can serve as an effective tool for growing your audience and getting parents to listen to your communications on issues. It also helps you to communicate further with those who have expressed interest in what you have to say.
 Parents will appreciate a consultative advocate who pays attention to the most recent data on issues, and remains informed about them on a day-to-day basis.

