 You can add cocoa powder to meals and snacks you eat for a chocolate flavor and an antioxidant boost. For instance, add cocoa powder to your morning oatmeal, or to a bowl of fresh fruit. Be creative: anything that a bitter chocolate flavor might add to is fair game.A cup of frozen banana slices with cocoa powder sprinkled on top is not only healthy, it will satisfy a sweet tooth immediately. Blend these two ingredients together for a healthy ice cream alternative.
Apples, pears, and strawberries, as well as all sorts of nut butters all taste great with cocoa powder too. Have a few of these ingredients together with one or two tablespoons of cocoa powder in a smoothie.
 Use only 100% raw cocoa powder, milk or nut milk, and a small amount of your favorite sweetener. Feel free to adjust the ratio of milk to powder, but keep the amount of sweetener low. Agave syrup is a good option for a jolt of relatively healthy sweetness., Another way to eat fruit (or anything you might want to dunk in chocolate) with cocoa is by making a chocolate dip similar to fondue. Simply mix raw cocoa powder with brown rice syrup until the desired consistently is achieved.You can use molasses instead of brown rice syrup if you’d prefer.
 For healthy double chocolate cookies, gather a cup of creamy peanut butter, ⅔ cup of coconut sugar, ½ teaspoon of vanilla extract, 4 tablespoons of unsweetened cocoa powder, 1 teaspoon of baking soda, one egg, and ½ cup of dark chocolate chips (at least 70% cocoa).Beat the peanut butter, coconut sugar, and vanilla extract together.
In a separate bowl, mix the cocoa powder and baking soda. Include a pinch of salt unless the peanut butter is salted.
Blend the two mixtures together, beat in the egg, and stir in the dark chocolate chips.
Form balls of dough and press them onto a greased cookie sheet.
Bake at 350°F (177°C) for 6 – 8 minutes. Watch carefully, as coconut sugar burns easily.
Let the cookies cool before enjoying, or enjoy them warm and crumbly.
 There are a plethora of “raw” cookie and brownie recipes online that will satisfy your craving for a chocolate baked good. Whatever your dietary preferences, these recipes will generally be healthier than other baked good recipes, in part because they employ more cocoa and avoid dairy and refined sweeteners.To assist your search, look for vegan or paleo recipes that use raw cocoa nibs or powder.
 To try your hand at a high-calorie but otherwise healthy chocolate fudge recipe, gather the following: ½ cup each of coconut oil, raw cocoa powder, and maple syrup, and 1 teaspoon of vanilla extract.Blend the ingredients together until the mixture is extremely smooth.
While transferring to a bowl, add ½ cup of dried fruit or nuts if you wish.
Spread the fudge into a baking pan lined with parchment paper. Place the pan in the freezer until the fudge is solid to the touch.
Cut the fudge into whatever shapes you desire and enjoy.

