 In most cases, entrepreneurs must work more than usual during the first few years in order to make the business a success. Passion and drive will help to propel you forward when you are trying to balance work and kids at home.;
, Many entrepreneurial moms work from home, using the computer, phone and websites to do business. Enroll in a series of courses that teach you to manage your email, website and finances.
 These may include working while caring for kids, starting your own business, doing something you are passionate about or being your own boss. For most moms, they want to combine their personal and financial goals, which leads them to be their own boss.
 Subscribe to blogs like theentrepreneurialmom.wordpress.com, workitmom.com and theentrepreneurialmother.com.au. Reading about opportunities for success may inspire your own business idea and interact with like-minded moms.
 The key to a successful business venture is formulating an idea that will work in your life. The following are examples of successful businesses for busy moms.


Consider the skills that you have developed from years of work. Many moms decide they want to work from home after years as a professional. Chances are you do something better than most people, so decide what that thing is and try to develop a business approach.
Become a virtual assistant. If you have worked in an office and you have a lot of technical knowledge and experience, then companies and business people can hire you on a contractual basis to do data entry, set up appointments, write business letters, make calls, manage websites and manage marketing. You would be self-employed, market to professionals and companies and work regularly or completely from home.
Become an antiques or eBay dealer. The prevalence of online classifieds and auctions means that a savvy sales person can buy and sell to make money. It is a good idea to choose a few different products and specialize. Sign up for accounts, develop your credibility and find some storage space. Cruise Craigslist ads to find cheap deals and visit second hand shops when you have the time. The rest of the work can be done from home.
Become a personal stylist or organizational consultant. If style or order are skills of yours, then start marketing yourself to people in need of a life change. Volunteer for friends and family until you get a client list, and then start to market on the Internet and in print or on television. Much of the research required can be done at home or at stores, with the kids in tow.
Become a copywriter, if you have professional experience in writing or marketing. There is a plethora of jobs available to people who can change the style and tone of their writing for different audiences. Develop a portfolio, promote yourself online and apply for telecommuting copywriting jobs. You may be able to use your experience to work with businesses in your hometown as well.
Become a craft seller. If you are passionate about a certain art or craft, develop it further. Once you have an original product, make an account with Etsy.com and/or your own website and start selling it online. Thousands of people start doing this part-time and end up making a living from their creativity. Consider signing up for booths at craft fairs to supplement your income.
 While it is essential for all entrepreneurs to have a well-vetted business plan, you should also develop a long-term personal plan, based on how much time you want to spend taking care of your children. Consider how your time will change as your children grow older.


Spend plenty of time developing an iron-clad business plan. You may need to present it to banks for loans or friends and family for investment. Include managerial, marketing, financial, demographic strategies and a calendar that extends at least 5 years into the future.
Develop a daily schedule. For example, read emails while the kids are in bed. Make calls and meet with clients while they are at school. Devote time to the kids after school. Return to your office when they are doing their homework.

