 Look at varieties of window boxes online or prefabricated models in stores to get an idea of the design you would like to use. (The instructions that follow are for a basic rectangular box. They can be easily modified to fit whatever specifications you are looking for.)


In particular, you may want to think immediately about how your window box will be attached to your house. Many designs employ wooden brackets or braces to hold up the box, and this should be taken into account in your plans. You can make these simple braces yourself, or there are a number available for purchase in home and garden stores.;
, This will determine how much lumber you will need to purchase.


If you want your window box to run the full length of the window, add twice the length of your window box plus twice the width that you are planning to determine how much lumber you'll need for the 4 sides of the box.
The bottom will be the same length as the sides.
 Your need to select a type of wood that is resistant to the elements (after all, this will be hanging outside). In making your selection, you need to think about the specific requirements that must be fulfilled. How harsh is the weather in your location? How big is this window box going to be, and how much weight will the boards have to bear? Every type of wood has unique qualities, and you should keep that in mind as you make your choice.


Fairly typical boards for projects of this sort are 1X6s or 2X6s--that is, its dimensions are one inch by six inches or two inches by six inches (the heavier boards may be useful for the bottoms of the box). These come in a number of lengths, so consider which one will be most appropriate for this project.
There are a wide variety of grades of pressure-treated lumber that can stand up to outdoor conditions, each designed for specific environments. Learn something about the grades and think about which one will suit your requirements.Though pressure-treated boards are no longer treated with the same toxic chemicals they once were, they are still treated with some peculiar substances. Additionally, new pressure-treated lumber will contain some moisture, and so it cannot be painted until it has begun to dry or weather.For those who would prefer natural woods that are relatively weather resistant without treatment, certain varieties of cedar, cherry, locust, or others may be appropriate., As noted above, this is something to consider when thinking about lumber as well. But the exterior coating will also affect both the appearance and durability of your window box, so strike the appropriate balance when making your selection.
 As most of you know, there has been an accumulation of home improvement stores throughout the country in recent years. Most have lumber, and nearly all have the additional supplied you will need (a complete list follows at the bottom of the page).


It is recommended that you talk to the people who work at the home improvement store to get any quick tips or advice they might have for the project. They often know something about that lumber or paint they are selling you (usually due to customer complaints following failed projects). Understand that they are interested in making a sale, but know that they may have useful information to share.
 Always remember, measure twice, cut once. You only get one chance at cutting before you make a mistake and discover that you have to make another trip back to the hardware store. And they will immediately know why you are there.
 Cut the longer pieces first, then use remaining pieces for the shorter sides or to create braces.
 If you can apply a sealant or paint before final assembly, do so. The purpose is to coat the wood, and so why not make sure that it is properly covered before screwing all of these joints together forever?, Though there are devices that will allow your to drill the screws directly into the lumber, doing so can stress the wood and cause splits near the end. It is also easier to maintain control when drilling guide holes than it is to screw directly into the wood, especially when using hard woods.,


Use a screwdriver bit with your drill to attach the ends of the window box to the bottom using rust-proof screws. Be sure to support the wood against something sturdy or have someone hold the lumber while you are screwing the pieces together.
Place the front and back sections onto the bottom section to make sure that all of the pieces are cut to fit (the ends should all be flush with each other) before attaching the front and back pieces of the window box. Screw the front and back pieces to the bottom and sides of the window box.
 You'll need several holes in the bottom of the window box to allow water to drain out of the window box.
 Let the sealant or paint dry completely before final installation.
 This will prevent the soil from rotting the wood.
 Use them to cover the drainage holes to keep the soil from coming out of the bottom of the window box.
 Drill holes into the exterior wall where you're going to hang your window box. Additionally, if you have left lumber to serve as a separate brace, drill holes for that as well. Attach the brace first, then the window box, screwing them in tightly but without damaging the wood.


When screwing the window box to the brackets from the bottom of the window box, use screws that are slightly shorter than the thickness of the bottom of the window box.
 Your project is complete.

