 Check with your local pet store to see what kinds of bling they have in stock and what bling they might be able to custom order. Larger pet stores, like PetSmart and Petco, generally have some bling in stock with the option to order more through their online store.Most large pet stores offer the option of customizing ID tags as well as limited options for apparel.;
, There are many other boutique and custom dog accessory vendors online who take custom orders as well as regularly stock items. Try looking for specialty boutiques that specialize in creating custom accessories for dogs.Online vendors will offer you the option of custom ordering apparel, collars, ID tags, and more. Custom orders can range from monogramming or embroidering apparel to adding accents to ID tags or collar, like rhinestones or laser engravings.
Be sure to check customer reviews about the vendor's service and the quality of accessories.
 Asking friend or other dog owners for recommendations will help you find a vendor that is trustworthy and makes high quality and durable bling.


If you see a dog with bling you admire ask their owner where they purchased the accessory.
Try using friendly approaches, like “I love the vest your dog is wearing, where did you get it?” or “I’ve been looking for a custom collar, how did you find a vendor?”

, Adding collar sliders, charms, or clip lights can add flare and emphasize your dog's collar. Try finding charms that express part of your dog's personality, are seasonally festive, or are alphabetical.Write out your dog's name in alphabetical charms.
Add clip lights for nighttime walks or to add festive flare.
Find custom collars fitted with studs, rhinestones, glitter, or fabric.
 Customized identification tags can be a highlighted addition to your dog's collar. Simply choose a style, size, and design, and add a custom message to be engraved on the tag.You can also add custom designed laser engraving to create an unique ID tag.
Some custom identification tags also come with crystal or rhinestone ornamentation.
Use a soft tape measure or piece of string to find the size of your dog’s neck. Be sure to add 2 inches to your measure to ensure your dog’s comfort.
 Add emphasize to your dog's neck by purchasing custom or novelty neckwear. There is a wide variety of dog neckwear, from necklaces to bow ties to scarves and party collars.Try picking out a few festive party collars for holidays.Give your dog a bow tie or necklace to draw eyes at a party.
Choose a matching bandana to wear with your dog while hiking.
Measure the circumference of your dog’s neck with a soft tape measure to ensure that your dog’s neckwear is comfortable.
 Give your dog paw wear to show off your dog's feet. They do, after all, have four of them.Try coordinating paw wear with specific activities, like boots for a hike and socks for a night in.
 There is a wide range of bling that can be added to your dog's lifestyle that is not necessarily worn. Consider adding bling to your dog's life by purchasing custom leashes or adding accessories to your dog's bed or doghouse.


Try finding custom leash charms or leashes made out of more exotic material.
Convert your dog's bed into a throne or other novelty, like converting your dog's doghouse into a castle.
 Try to avoid purchasing accessories that have sharp edges or corners, are too form fitting, or have long attachments that can be risked getting caught. If the item your purchased for your dog doesn't fit, don't force it. Get in touch with your vendor and ask about their return policy.
 Measuring your dog's collar size will make sure that the collar is both comfortable and effective. Although some custom accessories are novelty and are not necessarily to be used for training or walking, some custom collars can be both practical and fashionable.


If you are unsure about the capabilities of the custom collar you've purchased contact your vendor to inquire about its functionality.
 Measuring your dog for their clothing size will help your dog remain comfortable and ensure that the clothing does not restrict breathing or cause overheating.
 Although giving your dog bling or dressing them in accessories may be cute and fun, be sure to remove them if your dog is distressed. Feel the inside of clothing to make sure it isn't too itchy, charms or jewelry aren't too sharp, or collars are not too heavy. Being responsible about what might be "too much" will make sure your dog stays safe and happy.


Signs your dog may be distressed are difficulty walking, hesitation, or attempting to remove or resist the accessory.
 Both in-store and online vendors generally provide sizing charts that indicate your dog's average size (S, M, L) as well as listing dimensions in inches. Be sure to measure your dog before purchasing your accessory to ensure their comfort.


Always choose the larger size if your dog is in-between sizes.
Consult an employee at a pet store or get in touch with a representative from an online vendor if you have questions about sizing.

