 Cat repellent sprays and diffusers can be used in your home to keep kittens away from high places where you don’t want them jumping. Cat sprays can be sprayed on curtains, furniture, and other surfaces to keep kittens away.Diffusers can be plugged into the wall near areas your kitten is most likely to jump. The diffuser releases an aroma within a certain radius that will deter your cat from jumping or engaging in other bad behavior.
You can buy these products at pet stores or online.
You can try making your own repellent with lemon oil or lemon juice. Cats don't like lemon so that may repel them.
 Cats don’t like sticky or uncomfortable places to walk. To help deter your cats, make the surface undesirable. Place double-sided tape on the edge of counters, tables, or other high surfaces you don’t want your kitten jumping on. Cats don’t like sticky things on their paws, so they will not want to jump again.Try placing aluminum foil on surfaces you don’t want your cat to jump on. This will startle them and deter them from jumping again.
You can also place plastic carpet liners with the bumpy side up. The cat won’t like the way the small protruding bumps feel on their paws.
 Remote correction methods help reduce unwanted behavior when you are not around. They include motion-activated sprays or buzzers near areas where your cat jumps onto high surfaces.This helps the cat not associate the punishment with you while giving the behavior unwanted associations.
 Though you don’t want your cat to associate you with punishment, you can still deter them from jumping onto high places. When you see your cat jumping onto a high place or about to do it, you can hide out of sight and make an unpleasant noise that will scare your cat and let them associate the behavior with the unpleasant, stressful noise.


For example, you can use a whistle when they jump onto a surface. It will startle the cat and cause them stress.
You can make a shaker out of a can and rocks or coins. Whenever the cat jumps, shake the can to startle the cat.
 If you don’t want to buy commercial repellents or remote correction methods, you can make your own. These methods provide a startling experience for your cat so that they will be discouraged from jumping.For example, you can place cookie sheets on the edge of the counter. Your cat will jump on the counter, land on the cookie sheet, and be startled by the noise when the sheet falls to the floor. You may also place water on the cookie sheet, which will deter your cat.
Try a can trap. Fill a can with coins or rocks and connect it to a string. Place the can and string in an area where the cat will knock over the can when they jump onto the high surface.
 Cats don’t always respond well to punishment. Cats may become stressed instead of changing the behavior. If you have multiple cats, you may make a different cat think they are doing something wrong, like using the litter box or playing, if the noise trap goes off while they are doing the activity. Try other methods before using punishment.Be especially careful if you are using a shaker can or air horn yourself. You never want your cat to see you.

