 While seated on the floor, extend both legs out to the sides as far as possible without experiencing painful discomfort. Bend one leg at the knee and place the bottom of that foot along the thigh of your extended leg. Keeping your back as flat as possible, reach toward the ankle of your extended leg.








Gently sit back up and repeat this process after switching legs.
Hold each stretch for 30 seconds and repeat it 2-3 times per leg.
 From a standing position, lift one leg as high as possible directly out to your side, while keeping your hips square. Have your partner cup their hand below your calf to support your leg. Attempt to lift your leg out of your partner's hand and replace it. Hold the leg out of your partners hand for 2-3 seconds. Relax your leg back into your partner’s hand and repeat this stretch 6-8 times before changing legs.








Once you have lifted and replaced your foot 6-8 times, repeat this whole process with the other leg.
Adding a friend provides resistance and your body will have some recovery time while you assist them in their stretch.
 From a standing position, bend your right arm at the elbow and reach it behind your back as far to your left side as possible. Grab your right forearm with your left hand and gently pull your right arm further to your left side to increase the stretch.








Hold this stretch for 8-10 seconds.
Repeat the stretch on the other side.
 While seated on the floor, draw both feet in and place the bottoms of your feet together with your knees pointed out to the side. Draw your heels in toward your body as far as you can. Gently apply pressure to your inner thighs just below your knees by pressing them toward the ground with your hands or elbows.









Hold this stretch for 20 seconds, gently increasing the pressure throughout the stretch.
If this is easy and you would like to advance the stretch, lean forward at the waist while keeping your back straight.
Avoid bouncing your knees in the butterfly stretch.

