 If you are intending to try something new for the Christmas or New Year party, a trial "night in" will allow you to assess chosen colours and ensure that they work with your skin tone. This is great to test your hairstyle to see if it will last the night, and will give you some practice with your overall look. Why not invite a friend over for a ‘party dress rehearsal’? You can have great fun together and avoid last minute panic on your big night out.;
, At this time of year, you can really have fun with your makeup by adding glitter and shimmer to your look. Brights are strong this year, and really take your look to the top. Include red hues on the eyes for an ultra-festive look! Try smoky eyes and nude, glossy lips or go for festive gold or seasonal silver. The options are limited only by your imagination. If you feel uncomfortable outside your usual look, why not add a dot of shimmer and it blend into the middle of your upper eyelids. This highlight will really open up your eyes. Likewise, a dab of shimmer in the centre of your bottom lip will emphasise your pout. Have fun with your makeup by trying something new, but don’t go too far and end up looking like a drag queen (unless that is the look you’re going for).
 Your hair can really add to your image so make the most of it with plaits, quiffs or a fabulous up-do. Ask a hair stylist for ideas when you go for your next cut or colour and try something new. Pick up some of the pretty accessories that brighten your hairstyle. Do not try a last minute home dye, it may result in disaster. If you are toying with the idea of a colour change always think it through and try it ahead of time or go to a professional colourist.
 Just be sure that you have lifts organised both to and from the venue and do not forget to break in your new shoes well before your night out. This season’s trends include buckled and laced shoes, kitten heels and wedges. A favoured look for party shoes plays on the recent obsession with velvet. If you can find a pair of velvet heels, they will really add a touch of modern glamour to your outfit. Embellished shoes always look pretty for Christmas and New Year parties too.-- Think gemstones, mirrors, crystals, and even feathers and bows.
 Gold and red dresses work really well over the Christmas season, but if these colours aren’t for you, try anything with some sequin detail, or dress up your look with gorgeous jewellery or an artificial fur wrap.

