 Getting a copy of your ChexSystems report will allow you see precisely what your record says, and why you are being denied a bank account. To check your report, you must order the report online from the ChexSystems website. Ordering the report also allows you see if there are any errors or false information.


Find out if you are on the list by reading How to See if You Are on ChexSystems List.
To order the report, visit: https://www.consumerdebit.com/consumerinfo/us/en/chexsystems/report/index.htm

You will need to provide personal information to obtain the report. Once you do, your report will be mailed to you within five business days.;
, Once you receive your report, it is time to check the report for any errors. It is not uncommon to find errors on a ChexSystems report. If there is anything unusual that you do not recognize, or any information that is incorrect, you can contact ChexSystems to dispute the error. Note that information remains on a ChexSystems report for five years, meaning that any information older than that would be an error.To dispute the error, visit the following link: https://www.consumerdebit.com/consumerinfo/us/en/chexsystems/disputes.htm

You will need to fill out the "Request for Consumer Reinvestigation Form" (which can be found on the website), and mail it to the address indicated.
On this form you will indicate the account in question, the date, and a brief description indicating the nature of the problem.
You will receive notice of the investigation results within 30 business days.
 If your report finds no errors, or if there is information on your report you need to clarify, you have the option to write a 100 word statement to ChexSystems (200 if you live in Maine) that allows you to explain your situation. You can find the Consumer Statement Form on the same page as the Request for Consumer Reinvestigation Form..


For example, if you noticed a bounced check on your form, but that check bounce was an accident, or if there is an overdraft that was accidental or a one-time occurrence, you can explain this to ChexSystems.
Also, if you owe money to the bank and it listed on your ChexSystems report, but you have paid it, you can indicate this to ChexSystems in your statement and have it removed.
Remember to be professional and businesslike in your statement. This statement will likely be seen by banks in the future, and you need calmly and factually state why you believe the information on the report is unfair and poorly represents you as a banking user.
Do not include profanity, or the names of other businesses or people.
 This step can be done before or after you contact ChexSystems to dispute, and is one of the most important things you can do to clear your record. If your ChexSystems report indicates you owe money to a bank, try your best to pay the owed balance off. Sometimes, the balance you owe may be a very manageable amount you forgot about, or that is within your ability to pay.


If the owed amount is large and is outside of your current means to pay, contact your creditor. Creditors are extremely negotiable, and are often willing to accept a smaller amount back, rather than no amount at all. If you owe $1,000 and are only able to pay $700, contact your creditors and say you would like to make yourself right with the bank, and are able to pay $700.
 After you have paid the amount, be sure that your bank notifies ChexSystems to have the balance removed from your report. Once the balance is removed, your ChexSystems report will be cleared (unless you had other issues on it), and you should be able to get a bank account at another institution.

