 Combine one part oregano oil to three parts olive oil or coconut oil (or a carrier oil of your choice). Dip the cotton swab in the ointment and apply it onto rashes and insect bites to alleviate itching. You can also soothe and clear skin blemishes with the oregano ointment.Additionally, you can massage the ointment into the bottom of your feet to boost your immune system.For toenail fungus or wart/mole removal, combine one part oregano oil to one part carrier oil. Use a cotton swab to apply the ointment onto affected areas.
 Drink the water to relieve a sore throat, toothache, and menstrual cramps. Drinking oregano oil infused water can also aid in digestion and boost your immune system. You can do this up to four times daily for no more than 10 days. Alternatively, you can hold a sip of water in the back of your throat. Add two drops of oil to the water in the back your throat. Swallow the water and chase it with a few sips of fresh water., A daily dosage of 600 mg of oregano oil can help fight harmful organisms in your body. Additionally, to support healthy respiratory function, add one or two drops to a veggie capsule. For the best results, consult your physician first before supplementing your diet with oregano oil.Do not take the supplements for more than 10 days.
 Bring a pot of water to a boil and turn off the heat. Add one to four drops of oregano oil to the water while it is hot. Stand over the pot of water. Drape a towel over your head, shoulders and the pot. Breathe in the steam from a comfortable distance for 15 minutes or until the steam stops.Only use one drop of oil if you are treating your child’s allergy or cold symptoms.
The combination of oregano oil and steam is great for relieving cold and allergy symptoms.
 Place one to two drops of the oregano oil into your diffuser’s water reservoir, or per the instructions on the instruction manual. Turn your diffuser on and enjoy the calming benefits of oregano oil.Using oregano oil for aromatherapy can promote a balanced mood, reduce stress, and curb emotional abnormalities.