 Because you will be actively pursuing your dream, you may not have time to pursue a whole career like teaching or working a 9 to 5 job. You may still need an income to pursue your dream, however. So look for a job that you can work at consistently while you pursue your passion. Eventually, with enough education and experience working in the field you are pursuing, you will be able to make money doing what you love.


Some examples of flexible jobs include doing freelance work marketing, writing, doing graphic design or working in social media.Working at a restaurant, coffee shop or bar is another way to provide for yourself financially while you pursue your dream.
 Work to find a room or place to live that gives you the space you need to pursue your dream but allows you to save your money. Once again, what you want will might take time before it starts paying off financially. Finding sustainable ways to live is going to be essential to staying afloat while you work toward your dream.


Live with other people. Share a room or house with friends or family. However, make sure that your living arrangements are helpful and not harmful. Living with friends or family can be great but not if it hurts your ability to pursue your goals.
 This is going to help you identify what you need to do in order to get where you want to go.


Decide what you want your end goal to be first. What do you want your lifestyle to look like, and where should your career be in five years? This should be a broad idea of what you want. For example, you may want to be living on your own and supporting yourself fully selling music and teaching music classes.
Set a realistic timelines for the smaller goals that will lead to the end you created. For example, write down goals like receive training, get an internship, work with a mentor, get a job at a school.
Write down your goals and display them somewhere you will see them often. For example, tape the goals to your mirror or near your desk to remind you of the things you are working toward.
Track the progress that you make. If you do not get that internship, for example, cross out that goal and replace it with a comparable goal or a goal that will still serve to get you to your end goal.
Reevaluate your 5 year plan. If you change your mind about what you want, that is okay. Make another 5 year plan.

