 The best way to grow comfortable with smiling while wearing braces is to practice. Your facial expressions rely on a series of muscles in your face, so "exercising" your smile in front of a mirror can help you find a smile range that you're comfortable with.


Stretch the corners of your mouth outward, keeping your lips closed. Hold that pose for 10 seconds, then release it.Repeat the first stretch, but part your lips just enough to expose the line where your top row of teeth meet the bottom row of teeth. Hold that pose for 10 seconds, then release it.Stretch the corners of your mouth even farther outward until your lips part enough to expose roughly half of your teeth. Hold that pose for 10 seconds, then release it.Stretch the corners of your mouth as wide as you can, exposing all of your teeth. Hold that pose for 10 seconds, then release it.Practice these stretches in front of a mirror until you find a smile you're comfortable with, and continue to exercise your facial muscles until you have total control over your smile.;
, Once you've started exercising your facial muscles, the next step is to develop a more natural, comfortable-looking smile that won't look forced. One way to do this is to tone additional facial muscles.


Purse your lips, making them as big as possible while pulling in your cheeks.While keeping your lips pursed, try to simultaneously stretch the corners of your mouth outward, into a smile.Hold that pose just long enough that your facial muscles begin to feel fatigued. Then release it.Do not practice this exercise more than once a day, as excessive stretching may cause muscle strain. Over time, this stretch should help your smile look more natural and more radiant., Once you've practiced stretching and toning your facial muscles, you may want to work on gaining further control of your smile. One way to do this is by working other facial muscles while practicing your smile.Stretch the corners of your mouth outward as far as possible while keeping your lips closed.While holding that pose, try to wiggle your nose until you feel your cheek muscles begin to strain.Hold that pose for five seconds, then release. Repeat this exercise up to 10 times daily to develop a greater command over your facial muscles.