 Sit down with your boyfriend and let him know how his recent actions are making you feel. Try to set boundaries about behaviors that are and aren't acceptable.It's possible that your boyfriend isn't actually trying to make you jealous, and simply isn't aware of the fact that his interactions with another girl are causing you to feel jealous. Letting him know can help limit the behavior in the future.Even if he meant to make you jealous, it's possible that he has his own insecurities with the relationship. Opening the topic up to discussion can give you both the chance to talk things over while also giving him the chance to reassure you about his feelings., Before, during, and after your discussion, you need to remain calm. Don't explode when your boyfriend says or does something that makes you feel jealous.


Talk about your feelings using "I" statements (i.e. "I feel...") instead of placing blame (i.e. "You make me feel...").
If the misunderstanding is genuine, staying calm with help you work things out more completely and with as little conflict as possible.
If your boyfriend is intentionally trying to push your buttons, however, exploding at him will only give him the reaction he wants. Instead of responding the way he expects, keep your cool and be the mature one when you talk things out. If his behavior continues even after you bring the issue to his attention, he might have some toxic control issues, and it might be in your best interest to break things off., Oftentimes, a guy may try to make you jealous because he feels insecure about your feelings for him. His insecurity doesn't make the behavior acceptable, but it does make it quite normal.His attempts at making you jealous might be his way of trying to capture your attention. By "reminding" you that he's a catch, he's trying to win more of your affection.
Try to reconnect with your boyfriend to give him the reassurance he needs. Compliment him. Be appreciative when he does good things for you. Cuddle, kiss, and be intentional about giving him signs of physical affection as you feel comfortable with., In addition to dealing with your boyfriend's insecurities, you also have to manage your own. Being more confident about your self-worth will usually make it easier to stop obsessing over feelings of jealousy,ultimately leaving you with more energy to strengthen your relationship.


Show compassion to yourself. Admit it when you fall victim to jealous, and assure yourself that it's a natural feeling you don't need to be ashamed of. Only by accepting the feeling at face value can you learn to overcome it.
Take time to focus on your own interests independent of the relationship. Developing yourself as an individual can make it easier to see what you bring to the relationship, which can make it easier to accept that your boyfriend loves you.