 Choose a primary weapon that fits your playing style. If you like having mobility go for an SMG (Sub Machine Gun); if you like camping try a Sniper Rifle; if you're looking to overpower your opponent pick an LMG (Light Machine Gun) or a Shotgun; if you want a balanced weapon equip an Assault Rifle.;
, Pick an attachment that will benefit you in combat. The Grenade Launcher, as well as Masterkey, is like having an extra weapon. Scopes are great for getting long range target and overall increase your accuracy. There are plenty of scopes to choose from, so pick the one that you like best.
 It's a good idea to pick a secondary weapon that will compliment your primary weapon. For example if you are using a long range sniper rifle you might want to choose a short range pistol or the Ballistic Knife. Launchers are helpful in taking out those pesky spy planes and attack helicopters as well as blowing the opposing team to bits.
 All three of the lethal grenades have their pros and cons. Frag grenades can be bounced off of walls; Semtex grenades will stick to enemies and walls; the Tomahawk is an instant kill and can be picked up and thrown again after you use it.
 Depending on your preference you can equip a number of different tactical grenades. Willy Pete grenades will deal a small amount of damage to enemies and create a cloud of smoke; Nova Gas will create a small cloud of gas dealing damage to players in the cloud as well as hampering their vision and movement; Flash Bangs will create a bright flash of light blinding players within range; Concussion grenades will hamper the movement and blur the vision of players in range; Decoy grenades will stay on the field for a while and simulate gun fire and make it appear to enemies that there is a player on their mini-map.
 Camera Spikes and Motion Sensors both reveal the location of near-by enemies making them ideal for snipers. C4 can be detonated whenever you like. The claymore is also a good choice, it detonates when an opponent gets near it. The Tactical Insertion lets you choose where you spawn getting you back in the game quicker. The Jammer will disable enemy radar and equipment in its radius. All of these make welcome additions to any class.
 Finding a perk that fits your playing style is important. The Ghost perk is great for snipers as it allows them to remain hidden from enemy radar. Lightweight will increase your movement speed which is helpful to those who like to stay mobile. Scavenger will allow you to replenish ammo and grenades from fallen soldiers and is good if you find yourself running low on ammunition frequently. Flak Jacket will reduce the damage taken by grenades and other explosives. Hardline is a fantastic addition to any class; it reduces the number of kills required for your killstreaks by 1.
 The Scout perk is a must-have for snipers, it allows you to steady your aim for longer periods of time. Steady Aim is perfect for any dual-wield weapon and shotguns. Hardened allows you to shoot through walls. Warlord allows your primary weapon to hold two attachments(excluding Masterkey, Grenade Launcher, and Flamethrower). Sleight of Hand greatly reduces your reload speed and is another perk that goes well with any class.
 Tactical Mask makes you immune to Nova Gas. Ninja makes you move silently (good for snipers). Marathon allows you to sprint longer (good to pair with Lightweight). Second Chance gives you the ability to pull out a pistol before you die and maybe even get revived by a teammate. Hacker makes it easy to see enemy equipment, keeping you safe from claymores and other explosives.

