 To be eligible to be a security guard in New York state, you must meet several basic requirements. If you cannot achieve these, you will not be admitted to a licensing program. You must:Be at least eighteen years old.
Be a citizen or resident alien of the U.S.
Pass an FBI background check with no serious convictions or felonies.;
, Some people who are involved in security matters are exempt from having to register as a Security Guard in New York. If you fulfill one of the following requirements, you do not need to apply for the New York license:A security guard subject to registration and training from the federal government.
A volunteer security guard.
Active police officers. If you are employed by a contractual entity, you do need to complete an employee statement, but do not need to be fingerprinted.
Peace officers who are working security as part of their official duties for their primary employer. If you are moonlighting, though, you must register.
 New York does accept electronic fingerprinting, which you can do through something called L-1 Enrollment Services. Working with the state, they will help you scan your fingerprints, and give your receipts to include with your application., Courses are offered by private security companies and accredited colleges across the state. This course can be slightly different depending on where you take it, but should cover issues including the role of a security officer, legal powers and limitations, emergency preparedness, communications and public relations, access control, and ethics and conduct.The state provides a list of approved schools you can take courses from. This also includes schools who have had their approval revoked or suspended, so make sure you avoid those places.
 The application for becoming a security guard in New York is available through the Department of State’s website. You will need to provide personal information, demonstrate that you meet the requirements, and provide additional documentation as needed. This includes your certificate for the 8-hour training course.


If you have a job lined up, and your employment depends on getting the license, there is a section for your employer to fill out as well.
You can fill out the application in English, but also in Spanish, Haitian/Creole, Italian, Korean, Russian, or Chinese.Make sure to pay the required fees. There is a $36 initial application fee and a $102 fingerprinting fee.When you pay the fees, it must be in the form of mail orders, company checks, or cashier’s checks only, payable to the “NYS Department of State.” The office does not accept personal checks, credit cards, or cash., Within the first 90 days you are working as a security guard, New York requires you to complete an additional course while working. This course provides more specific details on the duties and responsibilities of a security guard, and will end with you needing to pass an exam. You can only take this course while employed because much of your work in the course is related to your regular job., Beyond the training you get early on, New York requires you to get eight hours of annual in-service training as well. This course will review basic information from your training, update you on changes and new information, and is required for annual renewal. You need to take the course within twelve months after finishing your OTJ training. Talk to your employer about making sure you keep up with this requirement, as they will probably not want to lose you just because your license expires., You must renew your license every two years, so be sure to keep that up to date. 90 days before your license expires, the state will mail you a renewal form. You must renew by the expiration date on your license. When you re-apply, include documentation from your in-service training and a $25 fee.If your registration has not been renewed for 6 months after the expiration date, you must re-apply and re-qualify for the license.
 In order to apply for an armed security guard license in New York, you must be licensed to carry a gun in New York. You can apply for a permit through the State Police Department. You will need to fill out a PPB-3 Form. This form will ask for basic personal information, along with criminal history, references, full-face photograph, and fingerprints., This is the course you need to upgrade your license to an armed security guard. The course consists of seven hours reviewing state laws on the use of force and deadly physical force (Article 35), plus 40 hours of range instruction and qualification. You must have a valid security guard registration card to take the course.Not all schools offer firearms training, so if you want to do this work at the same place as your eight-hour course, make sure they do offer firearms training.
Some prior jobs will allow you to get a waiver or exemption for firearms training. Active duty and recently retired police and peace officers may not need to take the firearms course depending on your professional experience. Check the state’s website for a full list of waivers and exemptions to see if you qualify., You will use the same application that you used for the regular security guard license. This difference this time is that, at the top, you should check the box for “Armed Security Guard,” and include documentation for your firearms training course. This can either be a copy of the certificate for the course, or documentation that shows you have a waiver or exemption., Each year, you will need eight more hours of firearms training. The course includes three hours reviewing Article 35 and five hours of range instruction and qualification.Since your armed security guard registration is good for two years, that means you will need to complete two sets of eight hour courses between renewal.
 Just like with a regular security guard license, you must renew your armed license every two years. 90 days before your license expires, the state will mail you a renewal form. You must renew by the expiration date on your license. When you re-apply, include documentation from your annual training courses and a $25 fee.The armed security guard license includes training for the regular license, so you only need to renew that one, not both.


If your registration has not been renewed for six months after the expiration date, you must re-apply and re-qualify for the license.
 The state license is only a minimal step to getting a job as a security guard. To increase your chances of getting hired, consider earning an Associates Degree, or even higher, or learning a second language. These will help you stand out when you apply for a job.Another thing that might be helpful is previous experience with law enforcement or the military. It’s probably not a good idea to join the military just so you can become a security guard later, but if you have that experience it can be a big help when job hunting.
 Most security guards work for private companies, including banks, museums, hospitals, office buildings, night clubs, and stores. The majority work for companies that specialize in security services.Look for these jobs being posted in newspapers and job search websites. In addition, you can talk to instructors and other classmates from your licensing courses to see what they know about potential open positions.
 Any job you apply for will want to see your resume, so make sure it is clean and up to date. Keep it short, and be sure to highlight the skills you have acquired that will make you a good fit for the position you want. Don’t be afraid to tailor your resume slightly depending on the job you apply for. A good resume can also help a job recruiter find positions that best fit your skills., If the company likes your resume, and thinks you might be a fit, they will bring you in for an interview. To increase your chances of doing well, make sure to prepare yourself before going. Learn a little about the company so you can specifically talk about how you can help them in the new job.Prepare yourself for tough questions that usually appear in interviews, like being able to talk about your strengths and weaknesses. Keep your answers short and to the point, and practice saying them that way for when you are asked.
When you learn about the company, make sure you learn about the company culture so you can dress appropriately. If they are a suit-and-tie company, you don’t want to show up in a polo and khakis. When in doubt, it’s always good to overdress.

