 Barnum statements, named after the circus showman P.T. Barnum, are statements that will apply to just about anybody, but which will give the impression that you know something about the subject. Using Barnum statements is like shotgunning, except you're just dealing with one person.


For example, you could say, "You're on the verge of making a big decision in your life." Most people, at any given time, are dealing with a big decision. The subject will likely be somewhat impressed that you knew that about them and may even volunteer more information.
 Much of what a cold reader does is simply repeating back what the subject has said. Do this in such a way so that it appears you already knew the answer. If you manage to do this cleverly, the subject will tend to forget that it was he or she that gave you the information.


Suppose the subject affirms that they are on the verge of making a big decision. You can simply say, "Yes, that's right," thereby claiming their answer as your own. You can even go further by saying, "Yes, that's right. It's been troubling you for a while now." The more information the subject volunteers, the more information you can claim.
 One method of fishing around for information is to pause long enough for a reaction from your subject.


For example, if you mention that a decision needs to be made with her husband, you can wait a moment to see if the person has anything to say about that. She may immediately tell you you're right or wrong, or they may be expecting you to tell them more. In the latter case, watch their physical reaction. If you see some reaction that tells you you're on the right track, take up where you left off with a statement such as, "He's worried about the decision."

, Sometimes a question will simply be off the mark and this can ruin the illusion if you don't recover quickly and gracefully.


Suppose, for example, that the person says they are not on the verge of making a big decision. There are a number of ways to handle this. One would be to say that the spirit you're communicating with must be talking about someone else that you both know. Another would be to change the time frame with a statement such as, "But you made a big decision in the past year, something of a new start." You can also subtly change the way the question is framed with a statement like, "I'm sensing something new is happening in your life or is about to happen." Twist the questioning until it makes sense to the subject.

