 The easiest way to do this is to encrypt your website. Encryption is when it protects anything that site users submit through the web. Encryption prevents eavesdropping. Encryption also replaces your site protocol "http://" with "https://" ("s" for secure).;
, A "Privacy Policy" is a policy that is a promise from a website to all the users who frequent it that their personal information will be protected.
 A Refunds page will outline to your customers about your policy towards refunds. A Refund Policy states how many days a customer has to return the products and the terms for this.
 Having a Certified Seal has some requirements. A "Certified Seal" is a seal that recognizes your website as "safe" for your users. For example, if you want a seal for your site form, you might be required to have it encrypted depending on what kind of information you require. Certification services include companies like Trust Guard.
 Some customers are nervous of doing business online, so providing a toll free number for customer queries makes good business sense. Customer testimonials are also good for building confidence in your services or product.
 Do what you say you will and where possible, try to over-deliver on your promises. Customers will begin to trust what you say. Unexpected free gifts or exceptional service will add value and foster good relations.
 A good money-back guarantee is an excellent way to show you mean what you say. Make the guarantee one of your main selling points. Make sure you honor your guarantee. Remember, your reputation is only as good as your next promise.
 If you discover a problem with the product or service, quickly contact the customer, apologize and rectify the problem immediately.
 Within 24 hours of making a sale, contact the customer to make sure the service or product is satisfactory. This shows you have their best interest at heart. Try to stay in touch in the long term. Ask the customer's permission and contact them at a later date to find out if they are still happy with the product. This will show them that you are still open for business.

