 Before you get any free apps, it is essential that you have iTunes on your computer, or the App Store app on your phone. iTunes can be downloaded for free at http://www.apple.com/itunes.


Be sure to get the correct version of iTunes for your operating system.
Once you've downloaded iTunes, find the download and double click on it to open and run the installation program.
The App Store app should come preloaded on your device. Tap to open it.;
, Open iTunes and look at the sidebar on the left to find the “iTunes Store” link. Click the link to load the store inside iTunes.


Once the store is loaded, look at the dark bar along the top of the window and click the “App Store” button.
You don't need to do this if you're browsing from the App Store app on your device.
 The most basic method is to filter all apps by price. Click or touch the search bar and type “free” into it. Hit enter and wait for the screen to load.


You will see two groupings: one for iPhone apps, and one for iPad apps. Next to each group header there's a link that reads “see all.” Click it to display every free app for the device of your choice.
This method displays huge pages of free apps, but there's no way to search within those results except by manually browsing. There's no way to organize or reorder the apps, either.
 You can choose to filter to a certain app category before looking at free apps in that category, but only the most popular free apps can be easily found using this method.


From the App Store page, click the drop-down menu at the upper right and select a category. Alternatively, you can click the triangle next to the App Store button on the black bar at the top of the screen.
Scroll partway down the splash screen that appears. You will see a sidebar on the right labeled “Top free apps.” Click the link next to the header that says “see all.”
Browse the most popular free apps on the next page. You can organize your results by name, popularity, or age. Only the top 200 most popular apps in each category are displayed. On the plus side, it's likely that these apps are all well-designed, reliable, and useful.
 This method allows you to find any app you want, but there's no way to filter free apps from paid apps.


Choose a category or start from the main page. Click any featured category to browse it. Click on any app to check its price (the price will appear on a gray button to the left of the screen that loads next).
If you haven't found what you want yet, type the category name into the search bar and hit enter. This will yield a mix of apps that contain the search term, including apps from other categories that have the search term in their names. However, the results will skew towards the appropriate category.

If you want to find a specific app, type its name into the search bar from the App Store and hit enter. If the app is available, it will appear in the search results.
 Once you've found a free app you want, be sure your device is linked to your computer and click the gray button on the description page to download the app. Sync your device to complete the process.


If you're browsing from your device, simply tap the gray button to download it directly.
You can check the apps you've downloaded by clicking the Apps category in the left sidebar of iTunes, below the Music category.
If syncing doesn't seem to work, try dragging icons from the Apps category directly onto the name of your device, displayed in the left sidebar.

