 One of the easiest ways to incorporate more spring greens into your diet is by using them in a salad. It's quick, easy and doesn't require a lot of effort.


To make salad preparation quicker, wash and dry your greens the day you bring them home from the grocery store. This will help them be ready to go once you start making dinner.
You can use any mix of spring greens to make your salad. A combination of a variety of greens is a great way to taste many different types.
Some of the darker, heartier greens - like kale and Swiss chard - can sit with a dressing longer. They're even great leftover the next day since the leaves don't get overly soggy. Spicier lettuces like arugula or dandelion greens make a uniquely flavored salad. If you have a more adventurous palate, these might be great to try in a salad.
Your spring green salad can serve as your portion of vegetables for a meal. Serve with some lean protein and a whole grain for a well-balanced meal.;
, You might think that spring greens are best served in a salad. However, some of these greens are great cooked, such as kale, arugula, and spinach. Added to your favorite casserole or baked dish, they can boost your meal's overall nutritional value.When you add spring greens to any dish, you want to cook them first. This removes the excess water and liquids which can make your meal soggy. Saute them in a pan and strain out the water.
Use cooked greens in baked casseroles like: lasagna, baked shells, macaroni and cheese, tuna noodle casserole or gratins.
You may also want to consider adding finely chopped or pureed greens to items like meatballs or meatloaf.
 Another interesting way to add spring greens to your diet is by adding them to sauces and spreads. They can bulk up the nutritional and flavor value of many different items.


Outside of herbs like basil, spring greens are also great to add to a homemade pesto. Arugula, spinach and even a spring mix blend can be pureed with nuts, olive oil, garlic and lemon juice for a spin on traditional pesto.
You may also want to consider pureeing spring greens into your favorite bean dip or hummus. They'll add a great green color and a peppery bite.
You may also consider using some of the more bitter or peppery greens in a herb sauce like chimichurri sauce. Adding something like arugula or dandelion greens can add a spicy bite to these flavorful sauces.
 You may not think that spring greens have a place at the breakfast table. However, this is a great meal to add greens to and start your day off with a serving of vegetables.


Any type of vegetable, including spring greens, can be added in with eggs. Whether you scramble them, bake them in a frittata or sandwich them in an omelet, adding a scoop of steamed greens is a great addition.
A trick for picky eaters is to puree spring greens - like spinach - into a breakfast smoothie. Mixed with yogurt and fruit, the flavor from the greens gets lost into a sweet blended breakfast.
Another way to serve eggs, especially poached eggs, is over a bed of steamed greens. You can use spinach, collard greens or kale for this dish.
 There's nothing worse than opening up a bag of beautiful spring greens to find slimy and wilted leaves. Delicate greens need to be stored properly (and eaten within a certain time period) to stay fresh.If you buy unwashed greens, gently wash them in cold water and use a salad spinner to dry them. This helps preserve them longer.
Store washed greens in a plastic bag or Tupperware container lined with dry paper towels. The towels help absorb any moisture which can cause leaves to turn bad quicker.
Store greens in the crisper drawer of your refrigerator for about 7-10 days. If you see any wilted leaves or slimy leaves, toss them out.
 If you are a picky eater, or have one in the house, making a green smoothie for a snack or breakfast is a great way to add more spring greens to your day. Smoothies hide the flavor and texture of greens well, so it's a perfect recipe to add them to.


To start, pull out your blender. Add in 1/2 cup of liquid. You can use water, milk, kefir, fruit juice or a combination.Add the liquid to the blender first to make sure your smoothie purees quickly.
Toss in 1 frozen banana or about 1/2 to 2/3 cup of your favorite frozen fruit. You can do one type of fruit or a combination of fruits.
Add in 1-2 cups of your favorite green. Spinach and kale are somewhat mild and do not impart a lot of flavor to the smoothie itself.
Blend together until your smoothie is completely pureed. If it's too thick, add in more liquid. If it's too thin, add in a few ice cubes. Serve immediately.
 Spinach is a great Spring green to toss into salads (especially since you can find it pre-washed and bagged). In addition, this naturally sweet spring green pairs well with fresh fruits. Try this fruity spin on your traditional spinach salad.In a large mixing bowl, add in 1 bag or about 8 oz of fresh baby spinach. Make sure the spinach is thoroughly washed and dried.
Gently toss the spinach with your favorite balsamic dressing or a light vinaigrette. This salad is best with a light tasting dressing, not something heavy and thick like ranch.
Sprinkle 1/2 cup sliced strawberries, 1/2 cup blueberries, 1/2 cup blue cheese and 1/2 cup raw nuts on the spinach.
Divide the salad onto two plates and serve immediately.
 If you're not a fan of typical cooked or sauteed greens, consider bumping up the flavor with melted cheese. Keep in mind that this is a high-fat, high-calorie way to serve spring greens, so it is something to enjoy now and then. Don't eat this on a regular basis though. Creamy and gooey, cheesy sauteed greens is a great side dish.Saute about 2 cups packed of your favorite greens. You can use spinach, kale, dandelion greens or even escarole. You can also use a combination of these greens.
Saute with a little olive oil, salt, pepper and garlic. Cook until greens are completely wilted down.
Add in a splash of cream and about 1/2 cup of your favorite cheese. Try goat cheese, feta cheese or even blue cheese. Stir until the cheese is melted and serve immediately.
 Prepare a fun twist on traditional pesto by swapping out the traditional basil for a Spring green like arugula. The peppery flavor of this green pairs well with the other traditional flavors of a pesto.In the bowl of a food processor, add in 1 clove of garlic and the juice of a lemon. Pulse until the garlic is finely chopped.
Add in 4 cups of arugula, 2 tablespoons of pine nuts, 1/2 cup of grated Parmesan cheese and salt and pepper to taste. Puree until the mixture starts to become a paste.
With the processor running, slowly stream in about 1/2 - 1 cup of extra virgin olive oil. Stop every few seconds to scrape down the sides of the bowl and to taste your pesto.
Keep pesto refrigerated or use immediately over cooked pasta.
 Both kale and Swiss chard are hearty and robust spring greens. They're very versatile as they're great cooked and delicious just as they are in a salad.


Both kale and swiss chard stand up well to cooking. If you want to add cooked or sauteed greens to an egg dish or dinner casserole, both of these greens will work well.
In addition, because these greens are a little heartier, they stand up well to long times in a sauce or dressing. Leftover kale salad will be great for lunch the next day.
Kale is a super green. It's high in Vitamin A, K, C, copper, potassium, iron and phosphorous. For only 8 calories per cup, this is a great nutrient dense green.Swiss chard is similar to kale in regards to its vitamin content. However, swiss chard also contains about 17% of your daily needs of Vitamin E - a natural antioxidant., If you're looking to expand your greens palate into something new, consider trying dandelion greens or watercress. Both of these are a little more unique and have a great peppery bite.


Dandelion greens are one and the same to that pesky weed you find in your back yard. The leaves of that yellow flower are peppery and a bit bitter. However, when treated properly they are very tasty.Do not eat dandelion that you find in your back yard if you treat with pesticides or chemical fertilizers.
Watercress, as the name somewhat implies, is grown in fresh spring water. It's very peppery and has an almost spicy flavor.Watercress in particular is high in Vitamin A, E, K and C in addition to calcium and B vitamins.Dandelion greens have a similar nutritional profile, but offer slightly higher amounts of iron., If you like a little spicy note to greens, but don't want something overly bitter or spicy, consider trying arugula. It's a great green that you can find anywhere (especially during the Spring).


Arugula, also known as rocket in other countries, is actually part of the cruciferous vegetable family (like broccoli and Brussels sprouts). It shares many of the same health benefits as these other vegetables.Arugula is somewhat high in nitrates. These naturally occurring form of nitrates have been shown to help lower blood pressure and reduce the amount of oxygen needed during physical activity.
Like many other greens, arugula is also high in Vitamin A, C and K. It's also ranked as one of the top 20 nutrient dense foods., Escarole is a very unique spring green. If you look at it, it doesn't seem much different than other spring greens like romaine or butter lettuce. However, this green is much heartier and does amazingly well in cooked dishes.Escarole is part of the chicory family of lettuces. It's darker leaves are just slightly bitter, but the lighter and white inner leaves are sweet and tender.
When cooked (like when added to soups), it wilts, but still remains somewhat crunchy in texture. However, it's equally great used raw in your dinner time side salad.
Escarole is also high in Vitamins A, C and K., Although common and easily found, spinach is a great spring green. It's got a great mild flavor and can be cooked or eaten raw. If you want to keep your spring greens simple, go with everyday spinach.


Fortunately, spinach can be found year round. You can purchase it canned, frozen or fresh any time of year. However, during the spring, fresh or local spinach has a sweet and mild flavor that's unique to the season.
You may see two different types of spinach. Baby spinach, which is small, tender leaves or mature or full grown spinach. The more mature spinach gets, the bigger the leaves become, the stronger the flavor and it becomes slightly less tender (but still delicious).
Spinach is famously high in iron. However, this common spring green is also high in Vitamins A, C, K and is considered one of the best sources of potassium and magnesium., Pea shoots are another type of spring green that you can easily include in your diet. Try adding raw pea shoots to salads, or toss them into a stir fry. You can also serve them steamed.Pea shoots are rich in vitamin C, folate, beta carotene, and fiber.
Check your local farmers’ market or an Asian market for pea shoots.

