 Keep your eye on stores with used clothing or ones that specifically curate vintage clothing from the ‘60s and other decades.


If you care to find perfectly authentic items from the decade, do some research into the brand and style to find out when it was made, or ask an expert on vintage clothing to help you authenticate it.
Check out garage sales, estate sales, and flea markets for other great options and potential hidden gems.
 Check sites like eBay and other online stores where individual sellers advertise their vintage clothing or personal pieces that they’ve held onto since the ‘60s.


There are also a number of online stores like ModCloth that bring very retro styles, including hippie style, into modern-day clothing.
 Tie dye your own shirt, headband, or any other clothing item or accessory using rubber bands or string to tie up white fabric and create patterns with different colored dyes.


Create all kinds of patterns with tie dye, like a spiral, stripes, polka dots, or rosettes.
 If you enjoy making your own clothes or want to learn how, you can pick up your own fabrics in earth tones and floral patterns and use them to follow sewing patterns for the items you want to make, like bellbottoms or mini skirts.


Some fabric stores may sell retro sewing patterns, or you can check out online shops or antique malls for those that sell truly vintage patterns straight from the ‘60s!, Add fringe, embroidery, patches, or beading to the hems, sleeves, and seams of nearly any piece of clothing to give it some extra hippie flair.


Make any pair of pants into bellbottoms by cutting open the seam along the outside of the calves and sewing in a triangular piece of fabric.You can also add fun wide sleeves to a top with a circle of fabric attached to the end of each existing sleeve.If you don’t want to buy clothes or modify your clothes, simply pair different textures, colors and patterns in your wardrobe that you would never ordinarily think to put together. Hippie style means anything goes, as long as you like it!

, Get ideas for what to buy and how to wear it by studying some of the women that made hippie fashion popular in the 1960s. Look up images of icons online or in books to get a sense of their styles.


Try out the look of tousled hair and big round glasses that Janis Joplin wore, the natural afro and maxi dresses of Marsha Hunt, or the shawls and flowing shirts of Stevie Nicks.
Finding a fashion icon can help you narrow down the specific type of hippie style you want to emulate, be it peasant folk singer, blues rocker, or psychedelic babe.

