 Paraphrasing is when you read and absorb a quote and then restate its main ideas in your own words. When you paraphrase, you don't have to echo the sentences in your own words exactly, but you do have present the essential information and points made by an author with new phrasing. When you paraphrase, you should slightly condense the quote to cut down on any verbiage and get to the main idea.
An accurate paraphrase should be different enough from the original material to not be plagiarism. Even if you're citing the source, if you're not citing it in quotes but your "own words" are very close to the original, that is still plagiarism.
Paraphrasing is different from a summary, which is more broad and focuses on the main points of an entire text. Paraphrasing focuses on one main idea or concept at a time.
Paraphrasing is also a great way to avoid quoting from sources too much and not expressing your own thoughts in the paper.
When you paraphrase, you gain a deeper appreciation and understanding of the passage you're quoting, so you're gaining knowledge just by paraphrasing.;
, Quoting directly from a source is important when the way the words are used is important. For example, if you were quoting Martin Luther King's "I Have a Dream Speech," it would be best to quote it directly, because the way he uses the words in the speech is particularly eloquent and poetic. But if you read something about racism in a dry textbook, then the ideas in the book are important, but not the words, and you should paraphrase them.


Paraphrasing is useful when the quote contains data, facts, or statistics. There's no need to quote a source directly just to show the importance of the data.
Quoting is useful if you're citing the words of a political figure, celebrity, or writer, and making a point about the way that language is used.
If you're close-reading a text for its use of language, then quoting is best; if you're discussing a paragraph or longer passage of a novel, then paraphrasing or summarizing is more useful.

