 You've heard it a million times, but it's true - when you're on a diet, drinking tons of water can be a lifesaver. Drinking water before, during and after meals keeps your stomach full. When you feel hunger pangs, drink a glass of water before grabbing food; it'll help prevent you from eating too much. Here are a few creative ways to drink plenty of water throughout the day:


Make ginger tea. Adding a few slices of fresh ginger to boiling water and letting the steep for a few minutes before drinking makes for a delicious beverage. Ginger aids digestion and stimulates the metabolism.Make cucumber or lemon water. Adding a flavor to your water will make it more interesting to drink and stimulate your sense of taste, which helps you stay full longer. Squeeze a lemon or float some cucumber slices in your water glass.
 Caffeine has mixed reviews when it comes to suppressing appetite. Drinking a cup of black coffee or tea works well to suppress hunger for some, but others experience big hunger pangs once the caffeine rush is gone, negating the positive effect. Try drinking a cup of coffee or black tea (without milk or sugar) and pay close attention to what happens over the next few hours. If you don't feel hungry, even when you no longer feel the effects of caffeine, it may work well as an appetite suppressant for you.
 Juicing kale, carrots, spinach, cucumbers, and other vegetables results in a vitamin-filled beverage that will keep you full for hours. The same is not true for fruit juice, though, since fruit contains a lot of sugars.
 Green tea has been used as an appetite suppressant for centuries, since it contains EGCG (epigallocatechin gallate), a nutrient that increases production of the hormone that makes you feel satisfied instead of hungry. Drinking green tea on a daily basis also helps prevent fat storage from occurring., If you pick a low-calorie chicken noodle soup, you get the added benefit of protein from the chicken, while the broth fills you up.
 Most alcoholic beverages - beer, cocktails, and so on - are loaded with calories, and since they lower your inhibitions, you're more likely to break your diet when you drink. Red wine, however, has been shown to help suppress the appetite by making you feel full. Limit yourself to one or two glasses a day.