 Bikini-area hair tends to be a little coarser than other body hair, so it might be difficult to take it off with the type of razor that comes 10 to a pack. Instead, pick out a high-quality razor designed for use on sensitive skin. Use a razor with new, sharp blades, since using a dull razor can cause chafing and ingrown hairs.A men's razor is better to shave your bikini area. They are usually sturdier and have more than one blade, unlike women's razors. They remove hair easily while taking good care of sensitive skin. (You can usually distinguish the two types by color. Men's razors are usually white. Women's razors are usually pink or pastel-colored.)
Avoid using a razor that has just one blade, unless it is a very sharp safety razor. Razors with just one blade have a tough time removing hair in the bikini area. Look for one with three or four blades so you will get a closer cut.
A brand-new razor that has never been used before will be sharper than a used one. If you have to use a lower quality disposable razor, using a brand new one every time you shave the bikini line will yield best results. You can always use the used razor for armpits and legs.;
, The type of cream or soap you use does not really matter, as long as you use something. Pick your preference: body wash, shaving cream, or even hair conditioner all work equally well.


Soaps and creams that contain fragrances can sometimes be irritating to sensitive skin. Test the product on another, less sensitive part of your body before you use it in your bikini area.
 Take a look at yourself in the mirror and determine where you want the cutoff to be. The bikini line is a little different on every woman, but in most cases you will remove any hair that would be exposed if you were wearing bikini bottoms. That includes hair on your upper thighs, around the groin and below the belly button.


For a simple shaving guideline, bring a pair of your underwear into the shower. Wear them while shaving. Anything peeking up below the seams should be removed. (Note: this will work best if your underwear has similar lines to your swimsuit bottom.)
If you want to take off even more hair, see How to Shave Your Pubic Hair.
You might also consider How to Give Yourself a Brazilian Wax if you want to go totally bare.
 If your hair is too long when you shave it, it will get tangled in the razor and could become a big mess. Prep your hair by using a pair of hair scissors to trim it back to about 1⁄4 inch (0.6 cm) or shorter. This will make it so much easier to get a close shave.


Gently pull the hair up and away from your body with one hand, then use the scissors to carefully trim it off with the other.
Be very careful not to poke or cut yourself. Trim your hair in a well-lit area before you get in the shower.
 This will soften your skin and hair, making it easier to shave it all away. Save shaving for the end of your shower or bath, after you've already shampooed your hair and done everything else you need to do.If you are not shaving in the shower, you should still prep the area by moistening it with a hot washcloth. Skipping this step could result in razor burn and a lot of discomfort.
If you have time, exfoliate the skin in the area as well. This prevents the occurrence of ingrown hairs after shaving.
 It is essential to make sure the hair and the skin underneath it are well-lubricated before you start shaving. Otherwise, razor burn will definitely be an issue. There's really no such thing as using too much lubricant, so go ahead and lather up the entire area. Keep the bottle nearby in case you need more.As you shave, keep applying more cream or body wash to make the process go more smoothly.
You may want to rinse it away every once in a while to see how much progress you have made, then reapply to keep shaving.
 Experts say that shaving in the same direction of hair growth results in less skin irritation. Use one hand to hold the skin in the area completely tight, since this helps the razor do its job effectively. With the other hand, start shaving away the hair, applying just a little pressure for a nice close shave. Keep going until you've shaved the entire area you planned to clear.Some people start shaving under the belly button, others start with the groin area. It is completely up to you; do whatever makes the job easier for you.
Some people find it more difficult to get a close shave when they shave in the direction as hair growth instead of going against the grain. If you're finding it hard to take the hair off, try going at the hair sideways. As a last resort go against the grain. There are other measures you can take to prevent skin irritation.
Do not over-shave. There is no need to go over the same spot after you have taken off the hair. If the area is hair-free, let it be so you do not risk irritating the skin.
 (If you're satisfied you got everything, don't worry about this step, but if this is your first time shaving your bikini area you might want to double check to see if you like the results). Put on your bikini bottoms and check yourself out, then get back in the shower and shave any parts you might have missed.
 Use a washcloth or a gentle body scrub to get rid of the dead skin that is now exposed. This simple step will go a long way toward preventing ingrown hairs and other irritating side effects of shaving, so don't skip it!

, For people with sensitive skin, a few extra precautions may be in order.


Many people find using some witch hazel or other skin toner helps reduce or eliminate any razor burn. Use a cotton ball or clean washcloth to dab some witch hazel or another gentle toner over the area you shaved. It will reduce inflammation and keep the area feeling fresh and cool.(Note that this will sting or burn if you have cut yourself--be careful!)
Blow-dry. Drying your bikini area thoroughly can avoid or reduce follicle irritation. Dry the area thoroughly with a hairdryer set on medium or low. If there is only a hot setting be sure to be careful to keep it a distance away from your crotch--you do not need or want to blast yourself with hot air there! If you do not have a hair dryer, (or perhaps, explain to others why you are blow-drying your crotch!) a concentration on towel-drying the bikini-bottom area will help.
 If the skin gets dry or flaky, it will feel uncomfortable and irritated. You will also increase the risk of getting unsightly bumps or ingrown hairs. Apply a moisturizer all over the area you shaved, and keep the area moisturized for at least a few days after shaving. The following soothing, natural moisturizers are great for this purpose:


Aloe vera gel
Coconut oil
Argan oil
Jojoba oil

, This can cause the skin to get irritated and inflamed, so it is best to wear your loosest underwear and a loose skirt or baggy shorts until the area feels less sensitive.

