 You don't have to do all of the steps in this method. Choose the one you like best.
 You can draw simple designs like spirals or flowers. You can even write down the words to your favorite poem, song, or book passage., You can use ribbon, rickrack, braided trim, beaded trim, feather boas, bridal lace, or even a sequin trim. Use fabric glue or hot glue to attach the trim to your lampshade, and cut the excess off.


Fabric glue and hot glue set quickly. It might be a good idea to apply the glue only an inch (2.54 centimeters) at a time.
If you have a trim with beads dangling from a ribbon, consider gluing the ribbon to the inside of the lampshade. This way, you won't see the stitching, and the dangling beads will be sticking out from underneath the lampshade.
 The glitter will reflect the light and make it seem brighter. Coat the inside of your lampshade using a white, liquid glue. Dump some glitter onto the glue and roll the lampshade around to spread the glitter. Set the lampshade right-side-up and let the glue dry. If you are worried about the glitter shedding, brush on some clear, glossy Mod Podge, or spray it using a clear, glossy, acrylic sealer.

You must use a glossy Mod Podge or acrylic sealer. If you use matte, the glitter won't sparkle.
You can use chunky glitter or fine, scrapbooking glitter. You can find both in an arts and crafts shop.
 Shake the can until you can't hear it rattle anymore. Then, spray the inside of the lamp using light, even strokes. Be sure to overlap each stroke by a little bit to prevent any gaps. If you need to apply a second layer, wait for the first one to dry first., Put a drop of hot glue on the back of the flower, and press it against the top of the lamp shade. Glue the second flower right next to the first one, so that the petals are touching. Keep gluing flowers until the entire lampshade is covered and no fabric is showing.If you are using flowers that come on a stem, pull them off the stem first. They should just pop off. If they don't, snip the flowers off as close to the base as you can using wire cutters., Choose several tatted or crocheted doilies. They can be all the same size and color, or they can be different ones. Spray the back of a doily with spray adhesive, then press it onto the lampshade. Add as many doilies as you want.

Consider overlapping the doilies by a little.

