 If you have a modern sofa, covering it can keep it clean and damage-free over the years. A great way to blend vintage and modern styles while preserving your furniture is using vintage sheets as a cover. Toss a set of vintage sheets over your couch to blend some vintage style in your otherwise modern home.Keep in mind vintage sheets may be expensive. You may not want to potentially damage them by using them as a cover. If you'd rather not damage vintage sheets, go for modern sheets with a vintage pattern.;
, Look for furniture that merges elements of both modern and vintage styles. This can be a mixing of colors, cuts, or materials to produce a piece that is both vintage and modern.For example, retro furniture was often curved while modern styles make use of materials such as leather and wood. Look for curvy chairs with wooden legs or leather seats.
If it's within your budget, you can have furniture remodeled to give it a vintage touch. You can, for example, add vintage upholstery to a modern couch.
 Many people love vintage tables in their homes. You may have inherited a vintage table from a relative or picked one up at a secondhand store. If you want to use it in your home, try pairing it with modern chairs. This will give your home a look that mixes the old and the new., Vintage desks are also a popular item for homes. Vintage desk chairs, however, can often be uncomfortable. Try pairing your vintage desk with a sleek, modern desk chair that's built for your comfort. This will give your workspace a vintage feel while also allowing you to feel comfortable., Stop by a local thrift store, antique store, or flea market. Chances are, you'll find a variety of vintage artwork. Look for works from eras like the '60's or '70's. Hanging up a few vintage paintings or wall hangings can be a great way to give your home a vintage feel without major renovations., Are you a fan of modern art? You don't have to sacrifice your love of contemporary art to give your home a vintage feel. You can try pairing modern art with vintage pieces in your home.Place your contemporary art sculptures on a vintage buffet.
Hang a modern painting above a vintage end table.
In your room with the vintage lighting, display your favorite modern art pieces.
 If it's within your budget, chandeliers can add lighting to any room. They can also add a vintage look to an otherwise contemporary setting.You can hang a chandelier in rooms like bathrooms and kitchens. In older homes, chandeliers were often hung in these locations.
 Vintage jars are a cute, popular item frequently sold at flea markets, thrift stores, and antique stores. You can use them to store items in your home, using decorations in a practical sense. Place bathroom towels or soap in a vintage bowl, for example., You may not want to add carpet to wood floors, or redo your carpeting altogether. However, try stopping by a local furniture or department store and picking up some carpet runners. You can add runners to the carpeting in your home to give your house a vintage feel.Choose runners that match with the color scheme of the room where you will display them. You want the vintage look to be integrated smoothly with your existing decorations.
 A backsplash is usually installed in a kitchen near the sink to protect the walls from harm. If you need a backsplash anyway, why not choose one with a vintage feel? A stain-resistant vintage-style wallpaper, for example, can add a vintage style to a modern home., If wallpapering is within your budget, a vintage-style wallpaper can add a vintage feel to a modern home. Choose wallpaper with a vintage feel. For example, if you're going for a retro '60's look, opt for floral patterned wallpaper.If wallpaper is a little out of your budget, or if you rent, temporary wallpaper is much cheaper and can just as easily add a vintage flare to your home.
 Rugs can give your home a great, classic look. If you want a very vintage look, spread a vintage rug in an otherwise modern room. A large vintage rug in, say, the TV room can add some vintage style to a room filled with modern conveniences.