 If you have no intention or desire to stay in touch with Dennis from accounting, don't layer on the false promises of "Getting together for a drink sometime." Aside from the fact that you might actually have to follow up on something you don't want to do, it has the tendency to seem disingenuous and fake. Just be sincere and honest, and don't feel any pressure to make plans with people you don't have any desire to make plans with.


If you feel rude making plans with some people and not others, just keep your plans quiet. No need in letting everyone know you're going to be getting together with one person on a regular basis to watch football if that'll offend some of your other coworkers.
 No epic walk-out shouting. No profanity-laden tirades. Your last day should be quiet, dignified, and brief. Even if you feel like you've been wronged in some way, it's usually a bad idea to engage in any kind of shouting match with your boss, who might have power in keeping you from getting your next job. Be a professional, even if you don't feel like it.


If you've got a legitimate beef that you need settled in words, do it in person, one-on-one, and keep it as professional as possible. Tell your boss (or whoever it is that you've got a problem with) that you'd like a word in private to talk about some things.
At some workplaces, it's common to do an exit interview, in which you'll be able to voice your frustrations free of having to worry about how it will affect your job. You're already leaving, so there's no sense in speaking softly now.
 It's not important to shower your coworkers with gifts, and it can have the effect of making some of your coworkers uncomfortable. It's unnecessary and can seem ostentatious. Again, it's a professional environment, so act like it.


If you really feel the need to bring something, a box of pastries or donuts for the floor would be a perfectly fine way of giving a little something nice back, but don't feel like you need to pass around a bunch of iPods to say goodbye. There's no need.
If your coworker is leaving and you want to wish them luck, a card would be a perfectly friendly way of doing so. Again, no need for gold watches.
 If you're leaving, don't use it as an opportunity to dump all your disappointments and frustrations at the feet of the employees who'll have to sweep them up after you leave. try to leave on a positive note and don't make it awkward for everyone who has to stay.


Likewise, it's a bad idea to brag about how much better your new job is going to be if you're leaving for greener pastures. try to remember that your coworkers still have to come back in on Monday, and you don't want to leave a toxic work environment in your wake.
 The mystery will probably create a bad impression and leave behind a lot of suspicion for your other coworkers that might not be good for everyone. If you're feeling awkward about leaving, it's something you still need to get over and make personal for everyone. Again, it doesn't need to be a big deal: just keep it short and sweet and get out the door. You'll be done soon.

