 Science teachers often offer the opportunity to order display boards with them, ensuring that displays are uniform and cheaper. If you're responsible for providing your own board, think of how large it should be in order to include all of your information. Typically, the best choice is a tri-fold cardboard display that folds out to 3 by 4 feet (.91 by 1.22 meters).


When you purchase your board, you should also acquire other materials, like a gluestick, construction paper, a pencil, markers, and a ruler.
 Create an orderly flow for your display board that your audience will be able to follow. Put the title in an obvious place, like at the board’s top and center.Consider using the top left corner for your topic introduction, the section under that for your hypothesis, and the bottom left section to discuss your research.
Use the top right corner to outline your experiment’s procedure. List your results underneath, and finally, put the section with your conclusion under the results.
 Make sure your audience will be able to read your text, especially the section headings. Using a sans serif font, like Arial, will help make your text legible from a greater distance. Try to keep font sizes uniform, using one size for headings and a slightly smaller one for discussion.Be sure to use a dark font color that’s easy to see from a distance.
You can also write everything out by hand. Draft your lettering in pencil before using a pen or marker, and use a ruler to make sure everything is straight.
 You can add a little color and personality by mounting each section on a construction paper background. After you type and print each of your board’s sections, use a gluestick to attach it to a sheet of construction paper. Then, glue each construction paper sheet to the display board.Before gluing anything, make sure you plan out each section’s position and are sure everything will fit without looking cluttered. Use rulers to make sure everything is positioned evenly.
 If you’ve been assigned to make a PowerPoint presentation instead of a display board, the same organization principles still apply. Make clearly labeled slides for each section and use large and legible fonts. Avoid including too much text on each slide, as your audience might be overwhelmed by trying to read it or just won’t read it all.


Consider including one slide for each section, like one for your hypothesis and one that outlines your research. If a slide becomes too dense, break it down by concept. For example, include one slide for the first step of your experiment and another for the next step.

