 Scientists have pinpointed more than 50 different types of smiles, and research suggests that the sincerest smile of all is the Duchenne smile – a smile that pushes up into the eyes.The reason it's more genuine is because the muscles needed to truly smile with our eyes are involuntary; they only become engaged in an authentic smile, not in a courtesy smile.Every time you smile because something makes you happy or you find it funny, every time your smile expresses how you really feel, your eyes will smile along with your lips. They'll crinkle at the corners so that your whole face looks fully engaged in the smile.


Look at pictures of yourself that were taken when you were laughing, or work yourself into a belly laugh by watching something funny and then take a selfie. Make sure you're really feeling happy when the picture is snapped.
Now compare the picture of you smiling with happiness to a picture of yourself giving the type of fake, jack o' lantern-esque smile you've probably flashed for a dozen school pictures. See the difference in the eyes?;
, Now that you've seen the difference, think about how it feels. A genuine smile that engages your eyes and mouth usually feels easy, natural and good. Contrast this to the way it feels to force a smile when someone says "cheese": after a couple seconds of holding the expression, your face muscles start to get fatigued.









Once you identify the feeling of smiling with your eyes, try to memorize it. Practice engaging your whole face when you smile. The more you do it, the easier it will become.
On the other hand, remember how it feels when you aren't smiling with your eyes. When that tell-tale forced feeling takes over your face, you'll be able to correct your smile to make it look more genuine.
 Even though it's a little tricky, you can imitate this type of smile by squinting slightly to create small pillows beneath your eyes. Look in the mirror and give it a try. If you produce crow’s feet in the corners of your eyes while attempting this, you are doing it properly. Once you master the smiling-eye technique, you will be able to use it to brighten up even very sly or faint smiles.









Each time you smile, no matter what the reason is, try to remember to squint a little. Don't overdo it, or your face will look distorted; just a bit of a squint will add the appropriate twinkle to your eye.
Try making eye contact as you squint to have a big impact on the person you're smiling at.
 Do you feel that you've mastered the classic Duchenne? Try it without your lips. Those who are truly skilled at smiling with their eyes can express happiness or mirth without moving their mouth. That's not to say your mouth should be frowning, but try holding it still while you smile with your eyes.


This type of smile is good to use when you want to express playful mystery. It's for when you don't want to give away too much by breaking into a wide grin; you simply want to project that you're satisfied with the situation.
You could also smile without using your mouth when you need to hold a pleasant expression on your face for a long time. Let's say you're in a long board meeting and you want to look like you're having a decent time without looking fake. Smiling with your eyes will make you seem approachable and positive.

