 An appointment is not required for the written test.You can find a list of locations here.
 You must already be licensed to drive in New Hampshire or another state in order to apply for a commercial driver’s license., You can fill out an online application and print it out in advance, or fill out an application at the DMV office where you are taking the test.
 You can pay by cash, check, money order, or credit card (MasterCard, Visa, American Express). Unless you are planning on taking the road test that same day, you will only need to pay the Commercial License Permit fee. The fees are:Class A, B, C – $60
Commercial License Permit - $20
Endorsements - $10 each
Cost to maintain motorcycle endorsement - $5

, You must have 20/40 vision in both eyes to pass. If you need glasses or contact lenses to pass, you will also be required to where them when driving. If you fail, you will not be allowed to take the written tests. Instead, you will be given an Eye Examination Form DSMV 61 to be completed by your eye doctor. Once the form is complete, you can return to the DMV to complete the written tests., All applicants will be required to take the General CDL Knowledge Test and at least one other test. Consult the Knowing Which License to Apply For section above to determine which tests you will need to pass. All tests are given on a computer-based, touch screen testing system, with an optional audio feature. The questions are random and will change each time you take the test.A grade of 80% is required to pass.
If you fail an exam, you must wait 10 days before retaking it.
If you pass, you will be issued a commercial driver’s permit to allow you to practice driving alongside a CDL licensed driver 25 or older, or you can try to take the road test that day, if a slot is available.
You can also schedule an appointment for a later date.
 Once you have your permit (or your CDL), you can undergo the TSA check that will allow you to apply for a hazmat endorsement. The TSA will take your fingerprints and research your background to be sure you do not represent a security threat.


You can pre-register for a TSA Clearance by contacting a Hazprints representative at 855-347-8371 or at the Hazprints website.
You can find a TSA location to have your fingerprints taken here.
The TSA will notify you of the results within 30 days.

