 Long hair starts with good hair care, and good hair care starts with using the right shampoo and conditioner. It's important to use products that increase the strength of your hair rather than causing damage. Ask your stylist to recommend professional products formulated for your hair type.


There is an increasingly popular movement to use no shampoo at all, as your body naturally regulates hair oils.;
, Many shampoos contain chemicals called sulfates that are bad for your hair. These harsh chemicals make your hair weak and brittle, causing breakage which will keep you from growing those long, beautiful locks. Use shampoos labeled as being paraben and sulfate free, and avoid shampoos with SLS (sodium laurel sulfate) listed in the ingredients., Be sure your conditioner is free of silicones, which build up in your hair and cause damage over time. Condition only the longer parts of your hair, as the oils in conditioner can block hair follicles and slow the growing process., Over-washing your hair can make it fragile and prone to breaking. Washing too much can also strip away the natural oils that your scalp produces. Most dermatologists and stylists agree that washing every day is unnecessary. Three or four times a week should be enough for most people, though some people might have to wash their hair everyday if their hair gets greasy easily., Washing in hot, steamy water damages the hair shaft, leading to hair that is brittle and prone to breakage. Cool water will help seal the cuticle (outer layer) of your hair strands, making your hair sleeker and healthier. To keep it shiny and healthy, wash your hair in the coldest water you can stand.


It is especially important to use cool water when rinsing out your conditioner. This will help lock in the moisture from the conditioner.
 Brushing, combing, and the tools used to do this play a significant part in the health of your hair. Many people over-brush or use the wrong tools. While tangles and styling are a concern, be careful not to brush and comb too often. Using appropriate methods and tools will keep your hair strong.


Brush hair only when it is needed, either to combat tangles or for styling purposes. Over-brushing and vigorous brushing can damage or pull out hair. Do not brush it when it is wet, either. Instead, comb it using a wide-toothed comb.
 Combs and brushes serve different purposes. Use them correctly. Combs are for wet hair and removing knots, as well as parting hair and distributing styling products. Brushes are for distributing hair’s natural oils, styling and using with a blow dryer.For example, using a comb to remove tangles allows you to more carefully tease the knot apart without breaking the hair. Brushes do not allow for this kind of finesse.
 Don’t use plastic brushes, as these can be harsh on your scalp and create split ends. Instead, opt for a brush with soft, natural bristles. Boar-hair brushes are particularly recommended. Stiff bristled brushes are best for very thick and curly hair, which cannot be managed with a soft bristled brush.