 Lined notebook will work best since you will not have sloped sentences and the layout will be neat. Make sure it is NEW. You do NOT want to use that wad of paper in the bottom of your bookbag that you didn't write on but you think they won't notice the wrinkles. You want a nice, clean, brand new sheet of paper.;
, You don't have to write it in calligraphy, but you don't want your pen drying out halfway either. Use either black or blue, avoid bright colors such as green, pink, or purple, as these are very juvenile and aren't formal.
 If you write small, practice writing bigger. If your letters take up two lines, shrink them a bit. They should fit comfortable on a lined sheet of paper, not overlapping or crowding the page.
 You can go two ways: Poem, or an actual note.
 you want to make sure 1) It is not too mushy. The last thing you need is for the person to gag while reading about how you have a shrine to them. But don't go embarrassingly obvious with the "Roses are red" routine. Make it your own. Comment on how pretty she is. The main things girls love to be complimented on are, eyes, smile, personality (how funny, nice, sweet, or kind she is), and hair.
 Start it with JUST her name, not "Dear So-in-So". Then write about 1) How you've noticed her (insert Main Things Girls Love to be Complimented On here). 2) How you think about her. Mostly when like "all the time" or if you want to be more creative, go with something like "every moment of the day". 3) Leave a "Tracer". (see next step)

, It should be a short phrase, no longer than fifteen-twenty words and should be very easy to remember. You may use this as a P.S. side note or as your last sentence in each note. Just BE SURE you have consistency so she will know the note is from you every time.
 Make sure you write "Your Secret Admirer" in a much neater, more elegant script than the rest of the note. After the first note is received, you may choose to sign it as S.A., but to spell it out is more formal and mature.
 There are a number of ways to do this:

, She will get it the moment she opens her locker and the surprise will be exciting.
 Be careful with this one. Your cover will be instantly blown with one glance.
 This is only applicable if you are buddies with her brother and you have access to her room. The same rule applies though; if you were the only person visiting, your cover will be blown.
 If she talks about it, she got the note. If you glance in her locker and it is gone, she got it. You always want to ASSUME she got it as long as you put it in a secure place that where she would find it.
 Your follow up notes should be different, but just as sweet. Comment on recent changes to show you care, but make sure you use your Tracer. Your notes should be anywhere from a week to two and a half weeks apart. You want her to anticipate the notes, but not forget all about them.
 After you have written at least ten or fifteen notes. Use your Tracer as a way to reveal yourself. Maybe say it during a small conversation with her or in another conversation but loud enough she can hear. Use the surprise and shock in her eyes to let HER strike up the million dollar question: Are YOU my Secret Admirer?

