 It is very important to keep your face clean when trying to prevent pimples. Washing your face removes dirt, impurities and any excess oil that has built up on the surface of your skin. Ideally, you should wash your face three a day, in the morning and noon and in the evening, using warm water and a mild facial cleanser. Use a clean dry towel to pat your face dry.


Avoid scrubbing your face with a rough washcloth, sponge or loofah. This will only irritate the skin and cause pimples to become even more inflamed. Wash cloths may also harbor bacteria, which you want to avoid putting in contact with your face.
Even though you may be tempted to wash your face more than twice a day if you're suffering from pimples, be aware that this will not necessarily help your skin. Washing your face too often can dry out the skin and cause it to become irritated.;
, After washing it is important to apply a good moisturizer to hydrate the skin and prevent it from become dry and irritated. However, if you suffer from pimples it is important that you use the right type of moisturizer for your skin type. Heavy, oily moisturizers can clog your pores and lead to further breakouts. Look for moisturizers which say "noncomedogenic" on the label -- this means that they should not cause your skin to breakout.


In addition to looking out for noncomedogenic moisturizers, you should be careful to choose a product that suits your skin type. For example, if you have very oily skin you may want to use a lighter, gel-based moisturizer, whereas if you you have dry, flaky skin, you may need a heavier, cream-based one.
Make sure you wash your hands immediately before applying moisturizer. Otherwise, any bacteria or germs on your hands may be transferred to your face when your apply your moisturizer.
 Hands come into contact with more dirt and bacteria throughout the day than any other part of the body, which is why you should avoid touching your face at all costs. In addition to spreading bacteria and risking infection, touching spots and pimples can cause them to become irritated and inflamed, thus worsening their appearance and prolonging healing time.


Popping pimples, however satisfying it may feel, is one of the worst things you can do for your skin. Popping pimples will only prolong their healing time and may even lead to infection and scarring. Acne scars can be very difficult to get rid of, so you will want to avoid this as far as possible.
It is very easy to touch your face without being aware of what you are doing. Be wary of propping your cheek or chin up with your hand when sitting at a desk or table, or of resting your face on your hand in bed at night.
 Skin exfoliators and face masks are great products which can be very beneficial for the skin, but they should only be used sparingly. Exfoliators remove dead skin cells while effectively cleansing the skin, but can be dry out and irritate the skin if used to often, especially on pimple-prone skin.


Face masks are great for cleansing impurities and calming the skin, and can turn your regular skin care routine into a spa-like experience. Yet again, they should be limited to about once a week, as they may contain harsher ingredients that are not intended for everyday use.
 Too many creams, lotions and gels can clog your pores and lead to breakouts, so make sure to apply any facial products sparingly, and no more frequently than is indicated on the packaging. The same goes for make-up, which should be applied as lightly as possible and should be thoroughly removed using a facial cleanser at the end of each day.


Heavily fragranced or chemical-laden hair products may also clog the pores if hair comes in contact with the face, so avoid using these whenever possible. Use a gentle shampoo and conditioner which won't irritate your skin in the shower.
You should also limit your skin's exposure to built-up oils and bacteria by changing your pillowcase at least once a week and by washing any make-up brushes frequently.
 Although traditional advice encouraged the exposure of pimple-prone skin to the sun, with the belief that this would dry pimples out, modern-day skin specialists say otherwise. The sun's UV rays can actually cause pimples to become even more red and inflamed than before.


For this reason, it is important to protect your skin from sunlight by wearing a protective hat and applying a sunscreen with an SPF of 30 or higher.
Be aware that some sunscreens can be oily and may clog the pores, so look for products that state "noncomedogenic" on the label.
 Although it's been proven that chocolate and other junk food don't actually cause pimples, staying away from oily, greasy foods can still have a positive effect for your skin. Pimples form when excess oil clogs up your pores, so limiting the amount of oil that you put into your body in the first place is a step in the right direction. Plus, if your body is healthy on the inside, that will be reflected on the outside.


Stay away from foods like potato chips, chocolate, pizza and fries. These foods are high in fat, sugar and starch, which is not good news for your skin or your overall health. You don't need to deprive yourself completely, just try to limit your intake a little.
Eat plenty of fresh fruit and vegetables. Their water content helps to hydrate the skin while their vitamins and minerals give your body the ammunition it needs to fight pimples. In particular, try to eat fruit and veg with a high vitamin A content (such as broccoli, spinach and carrots) as this helps to flush acne-causing proteins from the system, and with high vitamin E and C contents (oranges, tomatoes, sweet potatoes, avocados) which have antioxidant effects and help to calm the skin., Drinking water has many benefits, for the skin and for the body's overall health. It keeps the body hydrated, helping skin to look firm and plump. It flushes harmful toxins from the system, preventing them from building up and causing skin problems. In addition, water helps ensure the proper function of the skin's metabolism and allows it to regenerate itself. You should aim to drink 5 to 8 glasses of water a day to reap the benefits.


There is such a thing as drinking too much water, however, so don't feel like you have to be drinking constantly. Too much water dilutes the blood and can put your health at risk, leading to seizures in extreme cases. Stick around the 8 glass mark, and you'll be fine.You should also try to stay away from excessive alcohol consumption. Alcohol upsets your hormone balance, and an imbalance of hormones such as testosterone and oestrogen is one of the major causes of acne. In addition, alcohol causes damage to the liver, which is the main organ responsible for healthy skin, as it regulates hormones and blood sugar levels, and filters toxins.