 Select the type of bag that will fit your needs. The bag must have plenty of compartments laid out in an organized manner so that you can store different items in it without needing to bring an extra bag.


Look for a bag with accessible pockets that you can keep the things you use often readily available. These pockets might be good for storing your own personal items in, like your wallet, keys, or phone.
Some bags may have added features like insulated bottle holders, or key clips for fast access to your keys.;
, The contents of the bag will most likely be relatively heavy, so making sure the material is as light as possible may help to keep you from straining under the weight of the bag.
 In emergency situations, you will need a bag that you can get into very quickly. Again, easy-access pockets are also useful in emergency situation. Depending on what you find to be the quickest to open, you will find bags that are sealed up either by:


Velcro.
Zipper.
Magnet.
 While you may be all about bargain shopping, a diaper bag is not something you want to gamble on; you need a sturdy bag where the handles won’t tear and the material won’t rip. Dealing with a broken zipper while holding a wailing baby is not a stress you need to face.


Do a little research and determine which company, and bag, seems to have the best reviews. You may even find a diaper bag with a warranty.
Try the bag out before actually buying it to make sure that it feels good, and that the quality of the material is on par with what you are looking for.
 Choose a bag with a material that can be cleaned easily. Some bags can be washed in the washing machine and some can be easily wiped off.
 As a general rule, try to bring at least one diaper for every two hours that you will be away from home.


In addition, pack plastic diaper bags so that you can properly dispose of soiled diapers.
 Baby wipes can make cleanup easier than having to find water to wash your baby with.


Look for baby wipes that come in resealable travel packages, as the container will be made of lighter material than that of the refillable plastic boxes meant for home use.
 Some diaper bags come with this item. Diaper pads are used to set your mind at ease that you are changing your baby on a clean surface. Simply lay the diaper pad down on whatever surface you plan to change your baby on.


If you do not have a changing pad, you can also bring an extra blanket to lay down and change your baby on. You may want to bring a plastic bag to put the blanket in if the changing gets messy.
 You should consider bringing an extra container of your child’s milk formula in case he or she is extra hungry during your outing.


Breastfeeding needs include: a lightweight nursing cover, nursing pads in case your breast gets filled up with milk to avoid leakage, and lanolin cream to ease cracked and bleeding nipples.
 Accidents happen and it is important to try to avoid carrying around a messy baby. Clothes that fold up easily and should be packed include:


A onesie jumpsuit, a sleeper, a hat, and a pair of socks.
You may also want to bring an extra pair of clothes for yourself in emergency situations.
 A pacifier is optional and for those who prefer to let their baby use it. If you do bring a pacifier, pick out one that has a cover on it so that it will not get dirty inside of the bag.


A burp cloth or bib is a small cloth which is tied around your baby’s neck and used to wipe your baby’s spit up after burping. You can bring at least two of these. These cloths can also be used to wipe your baby’s face.
 Your baby may start feeling unwell on your outing. In cases like this, it is important to have a first aid kit to make your baby feel better. Items to bring include:


Gas relief drops
Non-aspirin liquid pain reliever
Calamine lotion to relieve irritated or itchy skin
Diaper rash cream to avoid discomfort
Saline drops to loosen mucus
Petroleum jelly as lubricant
Antibacterial ointment for cuts or scrapes
Bandages

, This is used to check your baby’s temperature when you suspect that he or she has fever. If your baby’s oral temperature reaches 100.4 °F (38 °C), or she has a rectal or ear temperature above 101 °F (38.3 °C), then your baby has a fever., When you are shopping or traveling, it is nice to have something to distract your child with so you can get things done. Some infant toys include:


Rattles, soft toys like stuffed animals, and colorful picture books.
 Keep this in a book or folder. The records should include information about your child’s history of check-ups, vaccines, allergies (if any), and medications.
 Do not forget to bring the things that you will need. These items may include cell phone, wallet, and keys.
 Maximize the space in your diaper bag so you don’t feel like a pack mule with a very heavy load. Organize similar items, like clothing items, into Ziploc bags to keep things together and safe from any spills.


Pack the larger and less often used items at the bottom of the bag, such as the change of clothes or nursing cover. Put items that you might need to grab quickly, such as a pacifier or bottle to soothe the baby, towards the top.
Keep smaller items in outside pockets or grouped together in smaller bags.
 A general rule of thumb is to bring everything your baby would need if you were at home for the same period of time that you’ll be out.


From there, you can add more items you think your baby will need just in case. For example, if your newborn will drink a bottle while you are out, bring what he would normally drink plus a little extra.
Check for these items before every outing and replace them quickly when they run out.
 Some moms choose to have two diaper bags—a smaller bag that is easier to carry and that holds the essentials, like diapers, wipes, and toys. The smaller diaper bag comes with them into the stores and is the bag to leave the car when running errands.


They also keep a larger bag in the car or somewhere easily accessible that has all of the other items that you might need in an emergency.
Having two diaper bags is a personal preference and can be useful for some moms, but may make things more difficult for other moms.
 As your baby grows and you learn more about his needs and habits, you’ll be able to customize your diaper bag to meet his needs by adding or removing certain items. By being prepared and having the essentials in your diaper bag, you can be ready for anything no matter where you take your newborn.

