 This galaxy jar is simple and easy to make. Because you will be painting it with glow-in-the-dark paint, you can use it again and again. Here's a list of what you will need:Mason jar
Glow-in-the-dark paint
Paint brush
Paint pallet or paper plate
Rubbing alcohol;
, It would be a good idea to do this, even if the jar looks clean. Any dust or dirt that's on the jar will prevent the paint from sticking. Be sure to scrub off any labels and glue residue.
 Soak a cotton ball with some rubbing alcohol and wipe down the jar. Be sure to get both the inside and the outside. This will get rid of any residue and oils that the soap missed.
 You can use any color of glow-in-the-dark paint, but colors such as yellow and orange might look more like stars than purple and green. Glow-in-the-dark paint usually comes in two different forms: liquid paint and puff paint. Liquid glow-in-the-dark paint is just like any acrylic paint and needs to be put in with a paintbrush. Puff paint comes in a bottle with a pointy tip. You can draw with it straight from the bottle.


You can find puff paint in the t-shirt and fabric paint section of an arts and crafts store. It may also be labeled as "3D paint" or "dimensional paint." It has a slightly raised surface when it dries.
 It will be easier to dip your paintbrush into a little puddle of paint than into a bottle of paint. Do not pour out too much paint at one time. Most acrylic paints dry quickly. If you pour out too much paint, it may dry up before you finish using it.


If you are using puff paint, you don't need to do this, because you can apply the paint straight from the bottle.
 You can paint inside the jar or outside the jar. Painting on the outside will be easier, but the paint will be more likely to get scratched off. Painting on the inside will be harder, but the paint will last longer.


If you are using puff paint, simply take the cap off, and start making little dots all over the jar.
 This will make your jar resemble the night sky even more. Look up some of your favorite constellations, and try to copy the pattern onto the jar. Orion, the Big Dipper, and the Little Dipper are popular ones.
 Most paints should dry within two hours, but some paints (such as puff paints) may take longer. Read the label for more specific drying times. Once the paint is dry, you can put the lid back on. This is not necessary, since there is nothing inside the jar that can fall out.


The sunlight will also activate the glowing particles in the paint.
 If the jar does not glow, you might need to leave it under a bright light for a little longer. Most glow-in-the-dark paints need to sit under a bright light for at least two hours.