 Manual and electric staplers have a release button, usually located at the rear of the staple gun. Sometimes it is easily identified as a gripped area covered in rubber. It is often at the end of the handle.


Medium and heavy wire staple guns generally load from the top, while most fine wire staplers are bottom load.
You’ll want to make sure that the stapler is locked. If it's an electric staple gun, make sure that it is unplugged. This is the easiest way to insure that you're safe while using a staple gun.
 Squeeze the release button until the slide pops out or drops down and the spot for staples is visible.This should allow you to remove the pusher rod from the stapler.


If there are any staples remaining in the stapler, throw them away.
Take this opportunity to clear your stapler of any dust or debris.
 Make sure the staple gun is being held upside down to easily load the staples. Insert the staples upside down into the slide.They should go in with the flat side of the staple being loaded first, and the sharp edges of the staple sticking up.


Make sure that the staples you are using are the right size. If they are too big or too small they can jam the staple gun.
 They should fit snugly, but do not force additional staples into the slide if there is no room. All staples should be straight and consistent with each other.Your staples should slide easily back and forth along the staple rail. No staples should be sticking up or leaning to one side.
Mistakes are usually made in this step, when people try to load the staples facing the wrong way.
 Push the slide holding the staples back into place. Listen for a click to indicate it is in place and secure.Be careful not to place your finger beneath the staple dispenser as you close it, or you may accidentally injure yourself.
If your staple gun is electric, don’t plug it back in until you’ve completely closed it.
 Making sure that no one is is standing near you, place several pieces of paper between the magazine and the stapler base. Then slowly squeeze the trigger under the handle of the staple gun to make sure the staples come out properly. If it jams or does not work, release the slide again to double check the staples and make any necessary adjustments.


A manual staple gun takes a lot more pressure to activate than does an electric staple gun, so make sure that you account for that when you test it.
If you squeeze the trigger too quickly the staple gun may move out of place.

