 Exercise has both psychological and physical benefits. It helps improve your mood, reduce anxiety, and helps boost your confidence. It also can improve other health problems, such as high blood pressure, diabetes, and arthritis. A single exercise session may help your depression for hours, and exercising regularly may significantly reduce depressive episodes over time. You and your doctor can define a fitness plan that will help manage your depression. Some ways to make sure you get enough exercise are:


Try to get at least 2 ½ hours of moderate-intensity exercises each week total, such as brisk walking, stretching, jogging, or swimming. Also try to get 1 ¼ hours of high-intensity work outs each week, such as spinning, intense strength training, or sports.
Listen to music, an audio book, or a podcast to keep yourself interested and motivated while exercising if you find it hard to commit. Also find a workout buddy to help keep you going. Mix up your workouts and try fun exercises like Zumba.
Avoid exercising three to four hours before bedtime. This late night burst of energy can change and interrupt your sleep patterns, which can worsen your anxiety., Sleep deprivation increases the production of stress hormones, which cause depression and anxiety. Depression is linked with insomnia, which means adequate sleep every night can help ease depression. To get linked up with your sleep cycle, create a sleep schedule that promotes better sleep at night.


Don't lay in bed too long if you can't sleep. Get up and move around for a few minutes, then get back into bed. Perform a relaxing task such as reading or listening to music. You can also do relaxing activities, such as a warm bath or meditation.
Make sure your bed covers are comfortable and your mattress supports your body. Also try to have just enough blankets, so you can stay warm when you need to. Adjust the temperature in your room to a cool temperature that will help induce sleep.
Don't perform activities, such as watching TV, using electronic devices, doing work, eating, or exercising, before bed. Also avoid products with caffeine, nicotine, alcohol, and sugar in the four to six hours leading up to bedtime. These can become stimulants to promote wakefulness. Eating before bed also increases the risk of obesity, which can start or worsen the symptoms of depression.
The light emitted by a TV or electronic device can slow down the production of melatonin, which helps you sleep., Stressful situations can often lead to depression, anxiety, and various other issues and conditions. Achieving relaxation after a stressful event becomes more difficult as you age. To avoid stress, practice meditation, do calming exercises such as yoga and tai chi, and make time for fun activities. Other ways to reduce stress are:Slow, calming breathing in a quiet place
Putting your energy into thinking about positive things in your life
Shifting your priorities in your daily routine to eliminate unneeded tasks
Surround yourself with humor, which research shows can be an effective way to cope with everyday stress
Listening to relaxing music or watching your favorite TV show or movie

, Alcohol and drugs can trigger symptoms of depression, which worsen as you continue to take them. Over the long term, this will make your depression harder to treat. Dependence on alcohol has been linked to an increase in anxiety.Limit your daily intake of alcohol to the recommended one drink per day for women, two for men. Avoid drugs all together.
Consult your doctor or therapist if you need help with alcohol or substance use.
 If you have trouble understanding your moods or behaviors, seek out the help of a psychiatrist, psychologist, counselor, or other mental health provider. They can help you with psychotherapy, which helps you learn how to take control of your life and respond to intense and frustrating situations with healthy coping skills, especially if you suffer from anxiety and depression. You can ask your doctor for a referral or ask your loved ones for a recommendation.


Your doctor may also refer you to a support group, which is another form of psychotherapy.