 If you know how to flirt with a guy without even saying anything, he will be turned on -- fast. If you know how to work your body, you don't even have to say hello to make a guy feel hot and heavy. A few small things you do with your body can make a big difference. Here are a few ways to flirt through your body language:


Hold the guy's gaze -- but not for too long. Look at the guy, lock eyes for just long enough for him to see how sexy you are, and then look away. This will show that you're not afraid to look at him, but that you're also too coy to stare.
Keep your body open. Don't fold your arms over your chest or cross your legs. Your body should be saying, "Hey, what's up?"
If you're wearing something with a zipper or a necklace, fiddle with the area near your cleavage to get his attention.
Find ways to brush up against the guy. If you're already talking, lightly graze his knee, brush up against his hand, or place a hand on his forearm when you're laughing. Do it for just long enough that he wants more. Don't linger.
Occasionally lick your lips. If he's watching you from across the room, take the time to apply your lip balm.;
, Once you've hooked a guy with your body language and he wants to get to know you, you need to get him even more excited by your words. To say something flirty, you just have to be fun, show that you know how to laugh and tease, and make the guy even more turned on even if you're not saying anything life-shattering. Here's how to do it:


Keep it light. Remember to be fun and playful, and the guy will want you even more. Flirting isn't about being serious, but about showing you're interested and having fun.
Maintain eye contact while you talk. Make the guy feel important. Occasionally break eye contact to look at your feet or blush, and the guy will think you're demure and will be even more attracted to you.
Speak in a soft voice. You don't have to whisper, but you should talk in a lower voice so you sound sexy and make the guy lean in and get closer to you.
Tease the guy. Show that you're comfortable playing around and he'll want to tease you back. Showing that you don't take yourself too seriously will make the guy think you're great in the bedroom.
 Any guy will be turned on if you're able to flirt by acting confident, independent, sexy, and bold. Once the guy has a better sense of who you are from the way you're acting, he'll be absolutely hooked. Here's how to turn a guy on by your actions:


Be confident. Guys are turned on by confident women. If you can act confident when you talk to the guy or share things about yourself, he'll think that you'll be able to take that confidence to the bedroom.
Be independent. Guys are turned on by women who don't need them. Let the guy know about all of the things you love to do by yourself, and tell him about your busy weekend. Guys are not turned on by clingy girls who have nothing better to do than to hang out with them.
Be sexy. You don't have to be trashy to show a little leg or cleavage. Show some skin and don't be afraid to make some raunchy jokes or to make a dirty innuendo if the mood feels right. The guy will be even more excited by your sexiness.
Be bold. Guys are turned on by bold women, whether they're being bold over a cup of coffee or in the middle of a make-out session. Be bold by doing something unexpected, like wearing something hot and outrageous, or getting down on the dance floor in the middle of a wild jam.

