 Even if your ingrown toe treatment is successful, your toe may remain sore for a few days. To reduce pain, soak the affected foot in hot water. The water should be warm, but not so hot that it's painful. Soak your toe for up to 15 to 20 minutes, up to four times each day. Use only clean water and a clean, sterile tub or bowl to soak your foot.








Some sources claim that adding Epsom Salts to hot baths can help ease pain more than just hot water. This is not yet definitively proven, but it is by no means unsafe to use Epsom Salts., Since preventing infection is a major concern with ingrown toenails, it's a good idea to apply antiseptic creams and ointments to the affected nail semi-frequently to halt the growth of any bacteria. Purchase an antiseptic cream at a local drug store and apply it according to package instructions. If you notice any adverse reactions, stop using the cream and talk to a doctor.








If you had your ingrown toe treated at a doctor's office, ask your doctor to recommend an antibacterial cream.
 One great way to prevent infection in an ingrown toe is simply to keep any sort of infectious material out of the wound entirely. After applying antiseptic, try covering the affected toe with loose gauze or a bandage. This will keep the toe clean and clear of any bacteria.








For long-term use, be sure to remove the bandage, clean the wound, and re-apply a new bandage daily.
 If your ingrown toenail is giving you pain or discomfort after treating it with a home remedy, you don't simply have to grin and bear it. Try using an appropriate dosage of an over-the-counter containing Acetaminophen or Ibuprofen (like Motrin, Advil, Tylenol). These painkillers provide effective short-term relief and should make a sore toe much more bearable. Make sure to only take the dosages recommended on the label, and talk to your doctor if you're on any existing medications before taking over-the-counter painkillers.








Keep in mind that cheap generic painkillers work just as well as more expensive name-brand equivalents.