 This is a great time to have a chat with one of your friends or your boyfriend or girlfriend.


Because you’re home alone, you won’t have to worry about other people listening in on your conversation.
If you can’t call or text a friend, spend some time writing a long letter or email to someone you haven’t spoken to in a while.;
, When you’re home alone, you have full control over the remote and can watch whatever you’d like.


Try watching a new TV show or YouTube channel. Because you’re alone, you can flip channels and change videos, and no one will get annoyed.
 Turn on your music player and speakers and listen to your favorite music.


Because you’re alone no one will judge you for your taste in music or ask you to turn down a song.
Take the time to listen to an entire album all the way through.
Dance a little, if you want.
 Play on whatever console you have, whether it’s a PC, Wii, Playstation, or XBox 360.


You could also download and play games on your smart phone, if you don’t have a gaming console.
Being home alone is also a good time to play interactive online games with a headset.
 Play some online games, surf your favorite websites, and check all your social media. The internet is a great space to have fun alone.


Let yourself get lost in one train of thought. Spend time really researching something you’ve been interested in for a while but can’t seem to find the time to read about.
 Just let yourself loose. Do all those moves you love to do but would never do while somebody else was watching.


Dancing is a lot of fun and also good exercise.
Look up videos of different popular dances online, and try to learn one.
 It can almost be a form of meditation


Feel free to paint, draw a picture, sketch, make a comic strip, sculpt, or come up with your own expressive outlet.
 You can sing as loudly as you want to all your favorite tunes.


Don’t worry about whether or not you have a good voice. Simply let yourself have fun singing to your music.
 This is a great time to experiment with hairstyles or outfits you’re not sure if you’d want to wear in public.


Put your hair up in a crazy new style, straighten it, or curl it.
Wear your make up differently, and try new colors.
Layer clothing items you wouldn’t normally wear together.

