 There is no cure for silicosis. Your doctor will use the different diagnostic tests to figure out the amount of damage to your lungs. The severity of the condition influences the treatment.You may need oxygen to help you breath if you have a severe case.
You may be given medication to help decrease phlegm or relax your air tubes.
Stay away from silica, smoke, allergens, and pollution.
In severe cases, you may need a lung transplant.
 A lung infection can be very serious and difficult to treat when you have damaged lungs. Anyone with silicosis should get vaccinated every year to help prevent flu and pneumonia. Every ten years, get a tetanus booster that includes protection against pertussis (whooping cough)., Silicosis occurs when you inhale silica or quartz dust for an extended period of time. This generally happens because of your occupation. Silica dust should be controlled in the workplace so as not to put the workers at risk.Many occupations are unable to control the silica dust. If this is the case, you should wear protective gear like masks or hoods that filter the air you breath.
Choose to use abrasives and materials that do not contain silica. They will be safer to inhale.
If you work in this environment, you should have chest x-rays often to detect any early signs of silicosis. The earlier you detect it, the more likely you are to treat and manage it.
Stop smoking, especially if you have a high-risk occupation.
 There are different types of silicosis. Each type refers to the degree of severity. Knowing which type of silicosis you have helps your doctor know which treatment is best and to what degree your lungs are damaged.Acute silicosis occurs after intense, concentrated exposure. This can cause shortness of breath, a bluish tint to the skin, fever, and severe cough.
Chronic silicosis is the most common and occurs due to long-term exposure. It takes decades to develop and is usually diagnosed after age 40.
Simple silicosis is the first stage of chronic silicosis. You may experience no symptoms and no decrease in lung function. It may be hard to diagnose because it may present like emphysema or bronchitis.
Complicated silicosis is a more advanced stage of chronic silicosis. You may experience weight loss and fatigue at this stage.
Accelerated silicosis happens in under 10 years of exposure due to large amounts of inhaled silica dust. Symptoms progress faster in this stage.

