 You want to make sure you choose quality meat when selecting organic meats. When choosing beef, look for physical indications the beef is high quality.Higher quality beef will have brown edges. It will also have visible fat that is yellow-colored.
Beef can come in a variety of colors, from mahogany to deep brown. Color is not necessarily an indication of freshness.
When the meat is labeled in terms of fat percentages, look for beef that is 90% lean.
Quality beef will not have an unusual smell. It should smell like you would expect meat to smell and should not give off a rancid or unpleasant odor., If you're buying poultry, like chicken or turkey, look for indicators the meat is high quality. Keep in mind that poultry cannot be grass-fed because this is not what they like to eat. Look for poultry that is labeled as organic and free range. Once you've found a brand of poultry with all the right labels, identify markers of quality.Poultry should be plump in appearance. The skin should be free of any cuts and bruises.
Packages should be free of cuts and tears, as this keeps poultry fresh. You should also only buy poultry from a store that stocks meat daily.
Frozen poultry should be completely frozen through. There should be no ice crystals on the packaging or the poultry.
 Most seafood will not be labeled as organic. Instead, choose wild-caught seafood that is labeled as “certified sustainable.” These are the greenest options available when choosing seafood.Check the seafood for quality and freshness as well.


Whole fish should have bright pink eyes and gills. Avoid fish that has a graying or dusty appearance. Fillets should be somewhat translucent in appearance with no brown edges.
Shellfish such as oysters should have completely closed shells with no signs of outside damage. Shellfish sold without the shell in place, such as shrimp, should be firm with a slight odor and a bright appearance. Fresher fish will lack a strong, fishy odor.
 You can also find other types of organic meats, such as pork and lamb. Lamb may be grass-fed also, but pigs do not eat grass so you will not be able to get grass-fed pork. When selecting meat, make sure the meat is prepared carefully. In addition to being organic, look for general signs of quality.While color varies depending on the type of meat, color should generally be fairly uniform.
The texture should be fairly tight and uniform. Loose or broken fibers can be an indication of poor quality meat.
The meat should be cut properly. Cuts of meat should be roughly the same size and shape and there should be no uneven edges.

