 To keep bulbs that are in full flower from toppling over, select pots, tubs or urns that weigh several pounds each when empty.


Depending on the bulb size, pots can be from 10 inches to 16 inches in diameter for two bulbs in each pot. Two bulbs of 2 inches diameter each can go together in a 10 inches pot, with the necks of the bulbs placed 2 inches apart. Bulbs can be planted singly too, but then the pot size should be so as to hold the bulb snugly and its bottom made heavy with some extra gravel and sand.
Place some gravels at the bottom of the pot to make a layer of 1 - 2 inches thickness to cover the holes for water drainage and aeration. Cover it with a 1 - 2 inches thick layer of coarse sand.
Site the container where it will receive sun for all, or, most of the day.;
, The mix should be made up of one part clean builders sand, one part garden soil and one part well-rotted compost. Once this mix is prepared, add a little bone dust and wood ash (if available) in the quantity of one fistful of each to a mix for a 10 inches pot.


Plant the bulb up to its neck in the potting compost, being careful not to damage the roots.  Press the soil down firmly to set the bulb securely in place after planting and also to avoid air pockets around the bulbs.
Water well, gently soaking the soil and settling it around the bulb.
 The bulbs will develop roots as the tops sprout and occasionally flower stalks will develop in the fall. Mid spring is when amaryllis bloom is in full swing. If you like, take pots indoors in the spring, where light and temperatures are less intense; this often extends the blooming period.
 After the flower bulbs have emerged, an application of a balanced fertilizer at intervals of 10 - 15 days is helpful, depending on the growth and size of the plant. A liquid or dry fertilizer can be applied and either inorganic or organic types are satisfactory for this plant. Be sure to read the label carefully so that you apply the correct amount of that particular fertilizer. Once the flowers start blooming, no fertilizer should be applied.
 This won't hurt your plants. When blooming is finished trim off the flower stems. The foliage is evergreen in warm climates and will continue to grow. Water as needed to keep moist through the growing cycle, typically once a week.

