 It can be frustrating and scary to lie awake at night worrying. Maybe your concern is that your house will catch fire. Or maybe you are worried about a devastating earthquake. Your first step in dealing with these fears is to acknowledge them.Think about the symptoms of your anxiety. Does it disrupt your sleep in physical ways? For example, does your heart race?
Even if your major problem is a worrying mind that won't quit, that can still really affect your quality of life. Acknowledging your fears means that you are one step closer to being able to successfully cope with those fears.
Try saying it out loud. For example, "I worry that my house will burn down and it is keeping me from sleeping. I need to find a way to deal with this issue."
You may need to consider professional help in facing these fears.;
, It can be helpful to look for patterns to help you figure out when your fears are at their worst. Try writing down instances when the fears are particularly intense. Keeping a journal can help you figure out if there are any instances that seem to trigger your fears.Make a habit of writing in your journal each morning or evening. Make a note of the things you did that day and rate your anxiety level.
Maybe you will notice patterns. For example, you might realize that every night you watch the news, there is a report of a natural disaster somewhere. This could cause your anxiety to spike.
If you find a pattern like this, you could take steps to avoid those triggers. Perhaps you could avoid watching the evening news.
 Talk therapy can be an incredibly effective way to deal with anxieties. A mental health professional can help you address your fears. In therapy, you can also work to find ways to cope with those fears.Maybe there is a definitive reason you are scared of fire. For example, if you were in a house fire as a child, you will obviously still have traumatic memories.
A counselor can help you find ways to acknowledge those fears. If the root cause is less clear, the counselor can help you explore your past and present to try to find reasons for your anxiety.
If you can find an explanation for your fear, it can be easier to find a solution that will work for you.
Ask your regular doctor to recommend a reputable therapist. You can also ask close friends or family for recommendations.
 Once you address your fear, you can look for ways to put your mind at ease. You might be able to sleep better if you know you have taken steps to ensure your safety. For example, you could create a fire safety plan.Hold regular fire drills. Make sure that each member of your family knows the best way to exit your home in the case of a fire.
Have the wiring in your home checked regularly by a professional. This will help ease worries about electrical fires.
If you are worried about a natural disaster, make a plan for that. For example, you could make an earthquake preparedness kit.
Prepare for a major earthquake by having a store of batteries, bottled water, and food.
When you feel yourself worrying, you can comfort yourself by knowing that you have taking all possible steps to prepare in case of the worst.
 Sometimes your mind just needs a break from worrying. If you find yourself having anxiety, ask yourself, "Is this something I can control?" If the answer is no, try to refocus your energy.For example, many people worry about a terror attack. This is a real fear. However, it is not one that many people have control over.
If you find yourself worrying about terrorists, take a break from the news. It's okay to go television-free for a few days.
Taking a break from the cause of your anxiety can reset your brain and allow you to relax and get some rest.
Try focusing your nervous energy on something you can control. Have you been meaning to clean out the garage? Spend your time doing that instead of worrying.

