 One person at the table will take the three dice and roll them. They will want to get as many 1s as possible, as this is Round 1.


For each 1 that he/she roll, they get one point unless they roll three 1s, which would be a 21 (the highest amount of points possible). This is called a "bunco", hence the name of the game. When a player gets a bunco, they should yell "Bunco!" Mark a hash mark on the player’s card that got the bunco.
If the player rolls three of a kind, but they're not 1s, he/she gets five points, but not a bunco.
 When he/she doesn’t get the number, the dice is passed to the left. For example, in the first round, if a player rolls the dice and gets a 3, 4, and 6, he/she must pass the dice to the next player because none of those dice were 1s.The dice must also be passed as soon as a player scores 21 points. This could either be achieved by getting a bunco or rolling the dice so that at least one of the die is the number needed and adding that to the existing score.
 When a team from the head table gets 21 points or more, the round is over. That team must yell out “game!” The scorekeeper at the head table rings the bell to signify the end of the round. The team at each table with the most points is the winner of that round for each individual table.


Players can finish up the roll that they started when the bell was rung.
If there is a tie between teams at a table, one person from each team must roll one die. The person who rolls the highest number wins for his/her team.
 Losing teams (those with fewer points) write an L on their cards. Shift teams accordingly.


The winning team at the head table stays at the head table. The losing team at the head table goes down to the middle table.
The winning team at the middle table moves up to the head table. The losing team moves down to the losing table.
The winning team at the losing table moves up to the middle table. The losing team stays at the losing table.
 You do not have to do this, but it makes the game more lively. Once each team has moved to the appropriate table, switch partners so that you make up a whole new team.
 Move to round two (the new number that the teams must hope to roll is 2.) There are six rounds in Bunco. Playing all the way to round 6 completes one hand of the game.
 You should keep score by a team (you and the person you're facing) and individually (how many buncos you've gotten).
 After all of the rounds are over, each player should count up the number of buncos they have, as well as how many wins and losses. You can either play that the person with the most buncos wins, or the person with the most buncos and ‘wins’ wins. Award prizes accordingly.