 Since swallowing air is a big part of eating, try smaller portions to limit the intake of air and reduce the impact of creating gas. By taking your times and chewing your food thoroughly, you will digest it quicker and it will pass through your body much easier.Cut food into smaller pieces.
Chew your food for about twenty to thirty bites with your mouth closed.
Try keeping the amount of food on your utensil to a minimum. Don’t scoop it off your plate right into your mouth as if you were eating directly out of a bowl.
Between bites of food, set your utensil down on the table. This will slow your roll.
Stay relaxed and have a peaceful mind while you eat. Food is something to be enjoyed.
 Physical activity is believed to aid the movement of gas through the digestive tract. Regular exercise, such as tightening your abdominal muscles, can help with digestion and, therefore, with easing the effects of gas, bloating, and flatulence.According the the President's Council on Fitness, Americans need 150 minutes of moderate aerobic exercise each week, or about 30 minutes five days a week. You should also try and get two to three days of weight/resistance training in as well every week.After eating, take a walk for ten to fifteen minutes to relieve bloating. Or, you could take a jog, stretch, or other types of vigorous exercises to move gas through the digestive tract. The faster the stomach empties, the faster the gas moves into the small intestine. A brisk walk will be more stimulating than a slow one, so try to keep a good pace.
Staying upright and moving around, despite discomfort, is better than hitting the couch after a meal. Lying down allows gas to collect in your stomach and leads to bloating.
Studies have shown that weak stomach muscles are a factor in bloating. Muscles in the stomach help move food and gas through the body. Strengthening stomach muscles or walking helps reduce gas and flatulence.
If you are not interested in weight training, then try yoga to aid in the digestion of food and the reduction of gas. Yoga is a great stress reliever. Minimizing stress can reduce many of the painful symptoms associated with bloating, gas, and flatulence.
 Never try to hold gas in. It is a painful process and there is nowhere for the gas to go but out. There are many ways to treat excess flatulence, but simple natural remedies are not only good for you, but they will help fight flatulence.Peppermint tea eases gas pain because it contains the essential oil called menthol. Menthol creates an antispasmodic effect on the smooth muscle of the digestive tract. By soothing this muscle, as well as nerves and stress, a cup of peppermint tea will keep things moving along smoothly.
Ginger contains gingerols and Shogaol  which relaxes the intestinal tract and prevents the formation of excess gas. Drink a cup of ginger root  tea before a meal to help with digestion.
Caraway is known to help relieve excess gas by pushing it through the digestive tract. Eat a few caraway crackers or seeds if you feel bloated or gassy.
A cup of chamomile tea will relax your digestive tract as an anti-inflammatory to help the movement of gas through the body.
Pumpkin reduces the gasses produced by high fiber foods. Eat about one cup of pumpkin with your meal to fight off gas and flatulence.
Drink a cup of warm lemon water to stimulate the production of hydrochloric acid (HCL), which helps break down food. The water also helps by flushing out your entire system. Drink a cup for breakfast to feel refreshed all day long.

