 Many deaf or hard of hearing children do better in smaller classes, where they can receive individual attention when they need it. When comparing schools, look at the class sizes. A size of around twenty is usually considered manageable while larger classes may be more difficult.Some hard of hearing children are easily distracted by noise or by commotion. They may not be able to hear the teacher over other noises in the classroom. Larger classes may prove to be more difficult for them to pay attention in.
 If you know parents who send their child to a school that you are considering, you might ask them how they like the school.They may be able to tell you about things that were not mentioned during your visit. You can ask:

How does your child like their teachers?
How does the school accommodate your child’s needs?
Is bullying a problem there?
How well do the teachers and administration work with you?

, Some people may find it difficult to locate a nearby school. In this case, you should compare how far away each school is and how long it will take you to get there.

If it is a day school, consider whether or not a bus is available to pick up your child. If not, factor in how long it will take you to drop your child off every morning. Does this fit in with your work schedule or commute?
If you are planning on sending your child to residential school, you will need to consider whether they can come home on the weekends. If the school is too far away, they may need to stay over the weekend. Check with the school to see if they allow it. Some residential schools will not allow children to stay over the weekend.
 As your child grows older, they’ll grow new skills and ways of communication. This may change the type of school that is best for them. It is ok to send your child to a different school in a few years. Always consider the needs of the child first.For example, a child who could not speak well in kindergarten may develop strong speaking skills by third or fourth grade. This may allow them to move from a special education class to a mainstream class.
Alternatively, a child who did well in mainstream classes as a child may want to move to a school for the deaf as they get older, as they may feel excluded in mainstream classes.

