 Georgia has reciprocity with Florida, which means that if you have a license in Florida, then you can transfer it to Georgia with fewer requirements. If your license is from any other state, then you will have to go through the full licensing process. If you have a Florida license and you wish to obtain a Georgia license, then you will need to:Make sure your Florida license is in good standing. It cannot be expired.
Pass the exam for the type of license you want to obtain in Georgia.
Meet all of the prelicensing and educational requirements that were required to obtain your license in Florida.
Submit a Georgia Crime Information Report (GCIC) along with your application.;
, To apply for a real estate license in Georgia, you must be at least 18 years of age, have a high school diploma or GED, be able to successfully pass a background check, and be able to prove that you are a lawful resident of the United States.Documents that can be used to verify "lawful presence" include a drivers license, a U.S. passport, a US military ID, a US Permanent Resident Card or Alien Registration Receipt Card, a U.S. Certificate of Citizenship, or a U.S. Certificate of Naturalization., Georgia offers three different educational options for prospective real estate salespersons:Successfully complete a 75-hour Salesperson Prelicense Course.
Successfully complete 10 quarter hours or 6 semester hours of coursework in real estate or real property, agency, or contract law from U.S. or Canadian accredited college, university, or law school. Official transcripts must be provided to the testing agency AMP for approval.
Provide proof of completion of at least 75 hours of prelicense coursework in another U.S. state or Canadian province. Proof must be submitted that this coursework was approved by the real estate regulatory agency of that state or province.
 Most prospective Realtors in Georgia opt to complete the 75-hour Salesperson Prelicense course from an approved school before taking the exam. These courses are offered both online and in classrooms. Classroom courses are offered on a variety of schedules. The Georgia Real Estate Commission (GREC) maintains a list of approved schools on its website.The course you need to obtain an entry-level real estate license is called the Real Estate Salesperson Pre License course.
Different learners have different needs; be sure to choose a course option (online vs. classroom) that works best for your schedule and learning style.
Not all real estate schools offer the same level of service. When choosing a class, don't look only at the cost; also consider the services (live help, tech support, practice tests) that the school provides before making your choice.
Keep in mind that some classes are all text and others use animation in their presentations. Consider what you would prefer before signing up.
 Within 60 days of taking your exam, you must obtain a certified criminal history (CGIC) report, which includes information about any criminal history you may have, including arrests, judgments, sentences, and so forth. CGIC reports can be obtained at most sheriff's offices and police stations in Georgia.If you have prior criminal convictions or disciplinary actions from any licensing or regulatory agency, you will need to complete and submit a Background Clearance Application and supporting documentation that verifies each incident, along with a detailed written explanation of the circumstances surrounding the event, any restitution you may still owe, etc., Be sure to pay attention, take notes, and read your textbook carefully. You must receive at least a passing score on the school's final exam to receive a completion certificate. Different schools have different score and retake requirements, so be sure you are well-prepared for the test before you begin., If you are diligent and pay attention, your Prelicense course should sufficiently prepare you to take the exam; however, many people require additional study help to pass. Check your favorite online bookstore for Georgia Real Estate Exam study guides, flash cards, and practice exams that can give you additional support.
 When you successfully complete your course, your real estate school will automatically send a notification to AMP (Applied Measurement Professionals, Inc.), the company that administers real estate exams in Georgia. Once this is done, you will be able to register for the exam.


If you completed your education requirements with university coursework or in another state, you will first have to send an application to AMP by mail along with documentation of your coursework, and then await approval before proceeding.
 If you took your pre-exam course at an approved school in Georgia and are paying with a credit card, you can register online at www. goamp.com, or schedule by phone by calling AMP at (800) 345-6559. The test is administered by appointment at AMP test centers, and the current exam fee is $115.


Exams can usually be scheduled as few as two business days out from the day you call.
If you took alternative coursework, or cannot pay with a credit card, you must first submit an application, your examination fee in the form of cashier's check or money order, and necessary supporting documentation by mail. Wait 7-10 business days for processing, and the call AMP at (800) 345-6559 to confirm your application and set up a test appointment.
 You will need two forms of identification, one must be government issued and include your name, signature, and photograph. The second piece of ID must display your name and signature (i.e. a signed credit card). If the name on your registration differs from that shown on your ID, you must bring proof of your name change.
 The Georgia Real Estate Salesperson Examination is a 4-hour, 152-question multiple-choice exam. The test is divided into two parts, each of which is pass or fail. The first part is the real estate salesperson national exam. You must correctly answer at least 75 out of the 100 questions presented to pass. The second part is the state-specific salesperson exam. You must correctly answer at least 39 out of 52 questions to pass.You will receive a score report immediately after taking the exam.
 If you passed one part of the exam but failed the other, you can just retake the failed portion, as long as both are completed with a 12-month period. You cannot schedule your makeup exam on test day, but must re-register through the AMP website or phone line as you did when you set up the initial test.
 In order to activate your real estate license, you will need a signed statement verifying that you will be working under the guidance of a licensed broker. This broker can be independent, or a member of a large real estate firm. The broker’s job is to mentor you as a salesperson, and she will bear responsibility for any mistakes that you make. In exchange, you pay the broker either a monthly fee or a set part of your commission. You can begin looking for a broker to sponsor you at any time during the licensing process. Be sure to interview with a number of different brokers before making a selection, as different brokers have different fee schedules.Most real estate brokerages are always looking for new salespersons. Begin by calling brokerages in your area (think about which signs you typically see up at homes you’d be interested in selling,) and go from there.
 You are eligible to receive your license in the same day that you pass your examination. The license fee is $170 in the first 90 days after your exam, and goes up to $340 days if you obtain it between 90 days and 12 months. After 12 months, you must retake your exam. To obtain your license, simply present the following items to AMP:A valid photo ID and an unsigned Certificate of Accuracy with attached photograph (this is provided by AMP when you pass the exam).
A signed Sponsoring Broker Statement Form .
A non-refundable license fee of either $170 or $340. This can be paid with Visa, Mastercard, or debit card, or a cashier's check or money order, payable to the Georgia Real Estate Commission.
Your CGIC Criminal History Report that is less than 60 days old.

