 This prank is a good one for the office. Simply use rubber bands large enough to wrap around the person's office phone, then completely wrap the phone in rubber bands. When they go to use the phone, they'll have to unwrap it first.Remember that you're taking a chance anytime you pull a prank at the office. You're cutting down on productivity, and your boss may not be okay with that. Make sure you are willing to accept the consequences before you pull an office prank.
 One way to prank coworkers is to grow gardens in keyboards and switch them out for the working keyboards. When your coworkers come in, you'll definitely get a laugh.Start with an old, broken keyboard. Add water, soil, and chia or grass seeds. Enclose it in a clear plastic bag (loosely) to create a greenhouse, and set it in a sunny spot.
Check on the soil every day to make sure it stays moist. Let it grow for about a week.
Set the garden keyboard on the desk, and hide the person's regular keyboard.
It is NOT a good idea to do this prank on a working office keyboard. That is destruction of company property, and you could easily be fired for that. Even if you're not using company property, consider your office atmosphere and the temperament of your boss before pulling this prank.
 Buy a box of glazed donuts. On top of them, spread or pipe mayonnaise to look like frosting. Your unsuspecting coworkers will get a mouthful of mayonnaise when they're expecting sweet frosting.This prank could backfire if someone has a food allergy or is vegan or vegetarian. Just be sure you take that into consideration before attempting it.
 One way to prank coworkers is to take a screenshot of their computer screens. Then, you replace their background with that screenshot. Once you hide the icons, it will look like their regular screen, but they won't be able to click on anything.Start by hitting "Print Screen" on their keyboard. Paste it into a program like Paint. Save it as an image.
Next, replace the background image with your image. You can usually do this step by right-clicking on the screen and hitting "personalize" or "preferences" on the menu.
Hide the icons. The easiest way to hide the icons is to right-click on the desktop, then move to "View." Next, uncheck the box for "Show Desktop Icons." Check this box again when you want them to reappear.Once again, this prank will cut down on productivity, so make sure you're okay with the consequences if your boss isn't happy.

