 As with humans, dogs can fall ill during the colder months, especially when cold or as a result of winter conditions. Respiratory infections in damp climates, frostbite, and consumption of toxic substances are some of the principal concerns.
 This will help to guard against respiratory infections, such as kennel cough (the human equivalent of a cold). If your dog gets a respiratory infection, seek veterinary attention immediately. Be aware that if you have several dogs all sharing the same air space, such as in a communal kennel, then illnesses are more likely to spread., Check the ear tips and tail tips in particular. If they look and feel cold, appear white, red or gray, and/or are dry and hard, then frostbite may have occurred.If you suspect frostbite, wrap your dog's extremities in blankets or towels to warm them gradually and see the vet immediately., Anti-freeze tastes unusually sweet to dogs and they will lick it if they can access it. It only takes four teaspoons worth to kill a dog under 10 pounds.If your dog does ingest antifreeze, see a vet immediately, as treatment needs to be given within hours to save your dog's life.
Another toxic problem during winter is rat bait, used in greater amounts due to everyone living in close proximity over winter. Keep all toxic items well out of the reach of dogs and other pets and clean up any spills immediately.
 Your dog's arthritis and osteoarthritis can be exacerbated by cold weather. Talk to your vet about medication, treatment options, and ways to keep your arthritic dog fit and warm through winter.
 Don't try to take your dog on the same length walks as during warmer weather. A shorter walk can still accomplish enough exercise and relief breaks without causing your dog (and you) to become too cold.


Even if you are indoors, keep exercising. Play indoor games with your dog, such as fetch, tug-of-war, hiding toys, and if it's possible to let them run around inside, then do so. Run them up and down the stairs for agility practice. Keep in mind that if your dog has some joint or hip problems they may not be able to run, so just let them walk up and down the stairs.
 Slipping on ice can lead to strains and sprains, so never encourage your dog to play on ice, especially games such as fetch or frisbee.


Keep dogs away from icy ponds or bodies of water. The ice may look firm, but if the dog falls through he could drown. Unfortunately, people trying to rescue their dogs also drown, so sad as it is never be tempted to try to rescue your dog.
 If something happens, such as a snowstorm, the sudden appearance of an ice plow, or if your dog rushes out onto an ice lake and falls in, you won't be able to help or retrieve your bolting or falling dog. Make sure you take a charged up cellphone with you in case you or your dog has a problem, so that you can call for help.

