 Traveling can be fun, exciting, and relaxing, but it can also be stressful. You may worry about only knowing a few people, not knowing the customs, or not knowing your way around.One way to make traveling less stressful and better for your mental health before you even leave home is get as much information about your destination as you can.


Research the location online or check out travel guides from your local library.
Learn what you can about the weather, terrain, people, language, and accommodations.
Use an itinerary to help you avoid the stress of not knowing when and where you're supposed to be.;
, Traveling with someone you trust can have a lot of benefits. Companions can help alleviate the stress caused by the uncertainty of travel by reassuring you and helping you manage your mental health. If possible, try to travel with someone who is supportive, rather than someone who already stresses you.


If you’re comfortable enough with your travel mate, let them know that you’re trying to mind your mental health while you’re traveling.
If you're traveling with someone who generally stresses you, then make sure you're doing everything you can to manage your stress in other ways.
 This means being aware of what you’re thinking, sensing, and feeling at each moment. It means being fully present in the moment. While you're traveling, make sure you're paying attention to subtle changes in your mood. Doing this can help alert you to potential mental health issues that are arising.Ask yourself several times a day, “How am I feeling right now? What emotions am I experiencing? How does my body feel?”
Be particularly mindful during times of high stress or when there are unexpected events or changes in your travel plans. For example, you might pay extra attention to how your feeling if your flight is delayed.
 Physical activity is an excellent way to maintain your physical health, manage your stress, and mind your mental health. This is true whether you’re at home, traveling for business, or on vacation. It can help relieve tension, energize you, and improve your mood.While you are traveling, make time each day to get some physical activity.


Take a five-minute walk each day after lunch to explore your new surroundings.
If your accommodations have a fitness facility, take advantage of it and start your day with a brief workout.
 Having a variety of ways to relax can greatly reduce the stress of traveling. Being able to calm yourself when you start getting angry, lonely, anxious, or over-excited will help you maintain good mental health while on your trip. You’ll be better equipped to handle unexpected changes and situations in your travel plans.Try deep-breathing to help calm you. Practice slowly inhaling through your nose, holding it for a few moments, then slowly letting it out through your mouth.
Practice visualizing yourself someplace peaceful doing something relaxing and calming.
 It’s not uncommon for people who are traveling to feel isolated and a little stressed because of the unfamiliar setting. This can be especially true for people traveling abroad or for people traveling for a long period of time. It can cause you to feel depressed or anxious. It can also lead to a relapse of pre-existing mental health issues.You can overcome this and mind your mental health by staying connected with friends and family at home.


Make use of technology and social media. Video chat with loved ones to share your experiences with them. Ask them to post pictures and videos of things going on at home so you don't feel left out.
Let someone at home know the details about any changes in your travel plans as soon as you make them. This keeps you safe and helps your stress less — and the stress levels of your loved ones.
 Journaling is a great way to document your travels and preserve your memories. It’s also a way to document, monitor, and work through any emotional or mental concerns you might have while on your trip. Take some time each day to write an entry in your journal.


Write about your experiences and activities while you’re traveling. Make note of both positive and negative events.
Include information about your mood, stress levels, and mental health. For example, you might write, “I was really stressed when my connecting flight was delayed. It made me feel anxious.”

, When you’re traveling it can be easy to eat foods that look and taste good, but lack nutritional value, as you sample the local cuisine. Make sure you’re balancing this by also eating foods that are good for you. Choose foods like vegetables, fruits, lean protein, and whole grains that can help you stay focused, give you energy, boost your mood, and support your brain health.Avoid processed foods and those high in refined sugar like those sold in most transportation and travel vending machines.
Make sure you are eating plenty of protein and whole grains. For example, you might select grilled chicken on whole wheat flatbread for lunch.
Drink plenty of water. If necessary, take or buy bottled water to make sure that you’re staying hydrated.

