 As the title “Festival of Lights” suggests, the most exalted Hanukkah tradition is the ritual lighting of a new candle for each day of the celebration. The menorah itself will be your most important decoration, and should assume the central position on the table so that it commands the most attention. Let a different member of the family light one of its eight candles every night.Ordinarily, the menorah is placed in front of a window or in sight of the front door so that it can be seen from outside.Start your own tradition of using a menorah that’s a family heirloom.;
, Oil also has an important history with Hanukkah, as it was used to keep the candles lit and purify the temple in Jerusalem after it was reclaimed. Carry on tradition by placing small bowls or basins of olive oil at either end of the table. This way, you can purify and invite blessings into your own home.


For a more modern touch, you can set up scent diffusers to incorporate oil into your Hanukkah decorations while also filling the room with pleasant fragrances.
Make sure the oils you use are permissible under kosher laws., The dreidel is as much a symbol of Hanukkah as the menorah. In historical times, these simple spinning toys were made by Jewish children, who used them to amuse themselves during holiday festivities. Include a dreidel with each place setting on the table so everyone can have a little fun once dinner has concluded.Many dreidels are inscribed with words, numbers or symbols, allowing you to use them to play games for special prizes.Bring the beloved toy to your table in the form of dreidel-shaped napkin rings or candle holders.
 The six-pointed symbol represents the Jewish people and their beliefs. As one of the key images of the Jewish faith, it can often be found in the foreground of major celebrations. Proudly show off the Star of David on your dinnerware, clothing or in standalone decorations.You can also craft your own Star of David decorations by creatively arranging different materials.The Star of David serves as a visual reminder of the covenant that exists between God and the Israelites.
 Prepare a few standard Hanukkah dishes like latkes (fried potato pancakes) and doughnuts as part of the meal. Fried foods are in keeping with the holiday’s oil motif and call to mind the single jar of oil that miraculously lit the Jewish temple for eight full days. This is one of everyone’s favorite parts of the celebration!Take a look at recipes for favorites like latkes and sufganiyot.
Have a special dessert like rugelach ready to cap off a delicious meal., Another Hanukkah custom is to surprise loved ones with gifts to show generosity and appreciation. The gifts are usually simple and small enough to fit at each of the table’s place settings. Though it’s not a hard and fast rule of celebrating Hanukkah, exchanging gifts is a good way to get in the giving spirit.One time-honored Hanukkah gift is gelt, or chocolate coins wrapped in shiny metallic foil.Nowadays, families can give clothing, jewelry or even gift cards.

