 While early stage patients might remember that they need to eat, middle and late stage patients will not. In fact, middle and late stage patients may insist that they’re not hungry or that they already ate.


When dinner comes around, politely and calmly remind the person that they need to eat. Say something like, “Margaret, I made one of your favorite meals, would you like to join me?”
If you can't be present for meals, set an alarm to go off at dinner time. Make sure to put a note on the alarm reminding the person to eat when it goes off. Also, post notes on the refrigerator, microwave, and anywhere else relevant to the meal.
You may need to bring middle and late stage patients to the dinner stable, or if they can't move, you may need to bring the food to them.
Set an alarm to go off at meal time. It will remind you and them of meal time.;
, Depending on the condition of the person, you may also need to sit with them. This is because they might get side-tracked and may never finish. At the same time, you’ll be able to spend quality time with the person and help stimulate their brain.


Eat at the same time as the person.
If you don’t eat with them, use the time to talk to them or to clean up the area where they’re eating.
Invite the person to join you and your family for meals, if the person is a friend or relative., Depending on the stage of their disease, you'll have to physically help the person eat. Ultimately, meals will become a team effort.


You'll have to provide middle stage patients with some physical help. For instance, you may need to grab silverware for them, help them cut or lift food, and serve them.
Late stage patients will need substantial physical help. This will likely include you holding a spoon and feeding them one bite at a time.
Some late stage patients may not be able to eat solids at all, and will rely heavily on feeding tubes., In addition to the challenges from Alzheimer's itself, other health issues can cause a loss of interest in food or difficulty eating. Try to identify possible factors and talk to the patient's doctor about finding a solution:Many medications can cause a decrease in appetite.
Constipation and other digestive problems can lower interest in eating, as can serious conditions such as heart disease, diabetes, and depression.
Dental problems can make eating painful. Check for tooth pain, mouth sores, and poorly fitting dentures.
 You'll have to prepare food for people in almost all stages of the disease. This is because they'll largely be unable to navigate the complexities of organizing and cooking a meal. In addition, there are cooking-related dangers that pose risks to Alzheimer's patients.


If the person is in the earliest stages of the disease and lives on their own, prepare the food and deliver it to them with everything they’ll need to eat. Label a full meal such as pre-cut fish, mashed potatoes, and peas. If possible, deliver the food to the person while it is still warm so they don’t need to worry about heating it.
People in the middle or later stages of the disease should not prepare food for themselves., A simple trick to make meal time easier for Alzheimer’s patients is to cook foods that they like. By cooking their favorite foods, you’ll motivate them without coercing them to eat. It’ll save you and them a lot of energy.


Offer a varied menu so they don’t eat the same thing all the time. Even though the person has Alzheimer’s, they’ll likely remember if you serve them their favorite meal every night.
Try accompanying food you know they need to eat, like fresh vegetables, with food they love, like fried chicken.
Be flexible and open to preparing foods you might not normally prepare., People in the middle or late stages of Alzheimer's often have trouble swallowing. Serve soft, easy to chew foods, or cut the food into small pieces.


Avoid potential choking hazards, such as raw carrots and nuts.
Some late stage patients may need their food pureed, or they may need tube feeding., If the person with Alzheimer's has trouble swallowing, don't leave them alone at meal times. Ask them to sit up straight while they eat, and keep their head slightly forward, not tilted back.Check the person's mouth at the end of the meal to make sure there is no unswallowed food they could choke on.

Learn how to do the Heimlich maneuver in case the patient chokes.
 By establishing a meal schedule, you'll create order and stability for you and the patient. A meal schedule will ground you and give the patient a sense of predictability and routine.


Serve meals at the same time every day.
Build in enough time so the person has plenty of time to eat. For instance, instead of reserving half an hour, reserve an hour for meal time.
Plan meals ahead of time. Early stage patients might take comfort in knowing what they will eat in the future.
Post the meal plan and schedule somewhere the patient can view it. Early and middle stage patients will appreciate this. Remember, though, make sure to put a clock next to the schedule., One of the biggest threats to an orderly meal time for Alzheimer's patients are distractions. By removing distractions, you'll help keep the patient focused and make the experience easier for both of you.


Turn off the TV or radio.
Put pets outside or in another room.
Ask children and others who may live in the home to be quiet.
Put your cellphone on vibrate., By removing unneeded items from the dining table, you'll help create an environment that is as streamlined as possible. As a result, your meal time will be more smooth and less complicated.


Only place utensils the person will use, such as a fork or spoon. If you are cutting the patient's food for them, do not provide them with a knife.
Remove decorative pieces, such as flowers, from the table.
Avoid placing large dishes of food on the table, especially if the person is a middle or late stage patient., The dishes and place settings you choose are an integral part in making meal time easier for Alzheimer's patients. In the end, you need to pick dishes and place settings that will create order and make it easier for both of you.


Consider picking solid white dishes, so the patient will be able to distinguish their food from the plate.
Think about using disposable or plastic dishes. Ceramic dishes may present a safety hazard, as the patient might break them.
Avoid picking plates that are too large.
Stay away from patterned dishes, place settings, or table clothes, as these might confuse the patient., Serving food can be one of the trickiest things with Alzheimer's patients. By serving food, you'll remove the possibility that they hurt themselves, spoil food, or make a mess.


Serve the food away from the table.
Provide enough food for them to eat, but not too much so they will waste it.
Make sure the food is an appropriate temperature when you serve it. Depending on the food, it should be between 120 and 140 degrees Fahrenheit (49 to 60 degrees Celsius). Drinks should never be served hotter than 120 degrees (49 degrees Celsius)., If you want to take the Alzheimer’s patient out to dinner focus on taking them to restaurants they are very familiar with. By taking them to places they’re familiar with, you’ll put them at ease and make the dining experience much more enjoyable for everyone.


If the person has a favorite restaurant they’ve frequented since they were a child, go there. They’ll have good memories associated with it. Remember, though, they may get confused and think they’re visiting the restaurant with different people and at a different point in their life.
Avoid fast-paced restaurants that are very busy. This will likely upset the Alzheimer’s patient and make meal time uncomfortable.
Let restaurant staff know that the person has Alzheimer's.
Some middle or late stage patients should not be taken out. In fact, late stage patients may be bed bound or confined to a care center or hospital., Depending on the person’s condition, you may have to disconnect certain appliances in their kitchen. This is important, as the Alzheimer’s patient may inadvertently hurt themselves or someone else when trying to prepare a meal.


If the person’s condition merits, you should disable their oven. They may try to prepare something when no one else is around. This could result in a fire or a gas leak.
Remove blenders and electric knives.
Also remove unnecessary knives and other utensils they may hurt themselves with.
Some mid and all late stage patients should be restricted from cooking., Another way of safeguarding the person and making meal time easier is to remove all unneeded food as well as chemicals from the kitchen area.


Take all cleaning supplies out of the kitchen.
Remove food that is old or expired.
Put latches on any cabinets with possibly dangerous chemicals or other products., As a caretaker for an Alzheimer’s patient, you need to make sure that the person has a medical alert bracelet that lists their condition and any allergies they have. This is important, as you may not always be around and the person won’t always remember their conditions and allergies.


List their condition as an Alzheimer’s patient.
Include any allergies such as those to peanuts, shellfish, or lactose.
Detail other conditions such as diabetes or metabolic disorders or diseases., There may come a time when you will be unable to care for and feed an Alzheimer's patient and have to enlist help to do so. For most people, this comes at the later stages of the disease when the patient's cognitive abilities and mobility become severely limited.


Think about hiring a nurse or full-time aid if you don't have the time or ability to get the person to eat.
Consider moving the patient to a care center if you are unable to get the person to eat and are concerned for the overall well-being.