 The Federal Trade Commission (FTC) created this web site, IdentityTheft.gov, as a “one-stop resource” for identity theft victims. This is a secure, government sponsored web site that will allow you to report a suspected identity theft, or gather resources to help prevent identity theft in the future., If you are using this site because you believe that you have been the victim of an identity theft, you will want to submit a report. You can begin the report by clicking on "Get Started" in the center of the screen.There is also an option to proceed with the entire process in Spanish, if you prefer. You can select this option in the top right corner of the screen.
 On the next screen, you will be provided with five choices.Consider the options and select the one that most applies to your current situation.



I want to report identity theft. This will be your selection if you believe that someone has already used your identity for purchases, for unauthorized credit uses, to open unauthorized accounts, or some other similar activity.

Someone else filed a tax return using my information. Especially in the early few months of the year, people need to be concerned about fraud schemes that involve intercepting other people's tax return information. In 2013, over five million cases of tax return fraud were estimated to have occurred.If you believe this may have happened to you, make this selection.

My information was exposed in a data breach. According to the Identity Theft Resource Center, an estimated 86 million credit card data entries were compromised in 2014.If you are concerned about the security of your credit information through a retail store, this is your choice.

Someone got my personal information or my wallet, and I’m worried about identity theft. Most people are very careful about their personal information in their purse or wallet, but if yours was stolen or temporarily missing -- even if nothing appears to be taken -- you may want to report the concern here.
Something else.
 Whichever option you choose will lead to further specific questions. Try to answer all the questions as accurately as possible. The information you provide will be collected into a theft affidavit.You will be asked such questions as:


Your personal identification
Credit card accounts and numbers
Identification of the identity thief (if you know)
Complete all of the information required as thoroughly and honestly as possible. Your case will be a lot stronger if you can provide specific details.
 Review all of the information you provided. Make sure that it is correct, as much as you know. You will be shown a summary of your complaint, containing all the information you have provided. Verify that it is complete and accurate. At the end, click the "Finalize" button., After you verify and finalize the information in your complaint, you will have the opportunity to open an account. This will give you a reference number that you can use to come back to the site and check on the progress. If you choose not to create an account, you can submit your complaint without opening an account., Make a note of the reference number you are provided at the end of the process. You will need this to make any changes or updates to your affidavit, or to contact someone at the FTC regarding your identity theft.
 Print out a copy of your form after it is submitted to the FTC. You will see a screen at the end of the process that gives you the option to print. You can also save it to your computer for future reference. Keeping this record is important in case you need to follow up on the case. It may also be helpful in your further communications with your credit agency or insurance company., If you are uncomfortable using an online form to submit your theft information, you can contact the FTC by telephone. You can reach a customer service representative at 1-877-438-4338.At the end of your call, ask the representative for your reference number. The representative will record and submit your affidavit for you. You may have a copy of it emailed to you.
 Instead of using the online prompt system, you can go directly to the FTC Identity Theft Affidavit Form. The form is available at https://www.consumer.ftc.gov/articles/pdf-0094-identity-theft-affidavit.pdf. Complete it as much as possible, keep a copy as a record, and take it with you when you report to the police.
 Using your reference number (if you created an account), you will be able to return to IdentityTheft.gov whenever you wish. Doing this will provide you with:


A personal recovery plan to track your progress.
Get prefilled letters and forms. If you need letters or affidavit forms, for your credit card company or your insurance company, the IdentityTheft.gov site will provide you with completed forms that already contain the information you have provided.
You can return and update your affidavit, if you ever learn new information that may be helpful.