 Your values are the beliefs and principles that drive your life and your decisions. When you have a firm grasp on your personal values, you are less likely to stray from them. Discover what your values are so that you can stand by them—and your partner.


Spend some time thinking about the key characteristics that are most important to you. How would a friend describe you? What issues are you most willing to stand up for? What aspects of life make you feel really satisfied?Answering a few questions like these can help you uncover your personal values. Examples of values might include honesty, compassion, forgiveness, and family.
 Faithfulness can mean many things—from not becoming physically intimate with someone other than your partner to prioritizing other people or things over your partner. You can lessen your chances of straying physically, emotionally, or mentally by figuring out what you want.One way to figure out what you want is to review your past relationships. What was missing in these relationships? Why did they end?
Now, think about how you love your partners (e.g. clingy, trusting, idolizing, etc.). Now, think about the kind of partner you desire (e.g. emotionally stable, wealthy, family-oriented).
 If you’re in a relationship with someone, the two of you must work together to keep infidelity away. Arrange for a time to sit down and talk with your beloved about what’s considered ‘unfaithful’ in your book.


You might say, “Since we have decide to be exclusive, I want to make sure all our cards are on the table. I think it will save us problems later if we can clarify our non-negotiables when it comes to infidelity. What does the word ‘unfaithful’ mean to you in a relationship?”
Both of you should share your views and come to an agreement about what classifies as cheating or infidelity in your relationship. After this discussion, you both can feel secure in knowing that your partner knows which behaviors you find unacceptable.Keep in mind that if your disagreements are significant, then you may not be able to rebuild your relationship.

