 According to The Times, to make this dress will cost you about US$1500 to US$2000 if you use the right meat (Matambre). (Although according to Grub Street New York, it is claimed that Lady Gaga herself used only cheap cuts worth up to $100. If so, that's likely to be a lot harder to work with but more affordable.) If you use meat-colored fabric, it will set you back a lot less but you'll need to spend the time dying it to appear like meat.;
, Google for images of Lady Gaga in the meat dress (there are no copyright free versions as yet). Or use the one shown above (no, Lady Gaga is not original). Choose a paper dress pattern that looks reasonably close to this style.
 The meat cuts should come from around the thigh and the back of the leg.
 Have a friend measure you. Use the suitable dress pattern for the template pieces of the dress. It's probably a good idea to either say goodbye to this template or cut double template pieces because it's going to get soaked in blood.


Another alternative is to go to the butcher's and have them do a fitting. Not many butchers are doing this though! You'll find most butchers think this is a crazy idea (which it is).
 Use sharp scissors and a knife.
 Use butcher's twine and a strong, large needle. Or use meat glue. Have a friend help and both of you should wear gloves. This is messy, stinky work. Have air fresheners emitting sweet smells in your workspace to overcome the odor.
 That is, if your friend didn't glue it into place as you stood there patiently. Add a long blond frizzy wig, lots of bright lipstick, and a pair of funny glasses. Wear fishnet stockings and chunky silver jewelry.
 Add twine to keep it in place. Or forgo this really gross aspect and just wear blood colored boots or high heels.
 Don't be surprised at the amount of people who stand away from you and make comments like "Oooh, disgusting!". This is fleeting fame; it will soon stink.
 Find fabric that looks like meat or dye or photo print fabric to look like meat. Follow the style of the dress worn by Lady Gaga, only use fabric. While this probably requires a bit more effort, it has the advantage of not being meat. So you won't stink, freeze, or pay too much for it.
