 Tank tops, shorts, boots, belts, guns, gloves and other things Lara has.;
, A small, leather backpack should always be on your back when out on adventures. It should have the things Lara has like, a small medical pack, a torch, night flares, a drink (Lucozade or water), a snack (something small but filling that can be put in a container) and other things like your artifacts and relics.
 Make sure you get plenty of exercise and good food. An exercise plan should be made to keep you fit and well. Keep a good workout plan with stretching, muscle building exercises, low intense cardio and high intense cardio. Make sure to put away a lot of time to exercise. Only eat when you are hungry or you could put on too much weight. Include plenty of protein in your diet and if your really committed cut out all junk foods. Follow the food pyramid.
 This will keep you fit, add to your exercise, keep you ready for anything and will help you get a great body.
 Always be out looking for an adventure. But be smart about what you are doing. Don't swim in shark infested waters unless you are trained in how to handle sharks. Don't go trough dangerous places until you know where you are and don't get caught up with dangerous people like Lara really does. Live life with a little danger, but don't risk it all.
 Make sure you have high stamina and strong legs to run with. Getting to ultimate fitness takes two to three years of training! So don't push yourself too hard when starting.
 Do crunches, push-ups, pulls-ups, chin-ups and weightlifting to get toned. Arm muscle is important for fighting and climbing. Abs are good for climbing too. Females don't get more muscle than men but that doesn't mean you can't get muscle.
 Have your standard outfit. Then your winter outfit, your water outfit, your deep-sea outfit, your stealth outfit and other outfits that you will need on your adventures. All of your outfits should come with boots and your backpack. Sometimes clothes are hard to find. Internet is a good choice of browsing. Amazon, eBay and other websites are good to get your costumes. Also you can get leather off the internet to make your gun belt or bag.
 This will help you escape and catch someone as well as getting around places quickly. Parkour is an art. Its difficult to learn and is dangerous too so always be careful and don't push yourself too hard.
 Benches, walls, things that might get in your way.
 Never show fear even in scary places. If you every feel scared, a good way to get rid of it is to take a deep breath and think of where you are and change it around a bit in your mind to make it a place you want to be. It could be as simple as making the room brighter. If you scream at the sight of a spider web than being adventurous Lara Croft is certainly not for you.
 If you can't afford classes get a friend who knows martial art to teach you. Martial arts is more than just a style of fighting, it's a discipline as well. Its almost a form of meditation. Never make fun of it.
 One of the most important things is smarts. You can't get stuck in front of a rock with old writing on it, not knowing what to do. Reading, learning, listening all builds up intelligent an wisdom. Lara knows many languages and for her adventures she knows an extreme amount of history and geography. She is also clever. If your stuck on anything in your adventures, remember to think outside the box.
 Lara's bio says She is fluent in a dozen languages. But around five languages will do. Maybe more. Learn a few old languages like Latin, Celtic, Egyptian etc. if you can.
 One of Lara's defining traits is her English heritage. Try not to sound too stereotypical and make sure to get the right variant of English. England has many different accents depending on where you're born. Lara is an aristocrat so she has received pronunciation or informally called posh. Avoid saying things like "cor blimey" or "governor" as it's an obvious stereotype. Don't refer to yourself as British; only Americans refer to English people as British. The term is incorrect since British involves Scotland, Wales, England and several smaller islands. The term also annoys most English people and will give you away as fake.

