 Find the description of your state court system. Generally, this description will be located on the website for your state’s highest court or the court’s administrative offices. Generally, you will choose the county in which the potential ward lives. Guardianship determinations are generally heard in:


The family court
The probate court
The court of general jurisdiction
Mental health courts

, Most states have developed sets of pre-prepared forms. You will find these forms on the website for your local court and/or the state’s highest court. Some states provide fillable forms, others provide forms that can be printed and filled out, and still others provide interactive programs that provide your documents for you. These forms will have instructions for completion. Frequently, your local self-help center can also assist you with filling them out. In general, you will likely need:A petition to determine capacity.
A petition for appointment of a guardian
A show cause order.
Some states may also require other documents, such as a financial affidavit, criminal background check, etc.
 Once the appropriate forms have been completed, you will need to sign them and make copies.


Any forms that have a notary block on them will need to be signed in front of a notary.
Banks will sometimes provide free notary service to their customers.
There are companies that provide notary services for a fee.
The courthouse will normally have a notary available for a fee.
Make enough copies of all documents so that the clerk can have the original, you can have a copy, and the ward and the ward’s parents, if applicable, can have a copy.
 Give the original set of documents to the clerk of the court that will hear your case. A filing fee (varies by state) will be charged unless you apply and qualify for a waiver.


You can ask the clerk to stamp your copies with the filing date.
The clerk will also assist you in getting the judge’s signature on the show cause order and setting a hearing date.
You may be required to appear in front of the judge at this time, so dress appropriately.
 Ask the clerk to assist with the show cause order when you file your documents. You need to make a copy of the signed show cause order for your records. Then, attach the original of that document to the copy of the remaining documents for the ward and parents, who have the right to object to the guardianship. In many states, the ward or parents must receive these documents at least 10 days prior to the hearing date listed on the show cause order. Read your state’s civil procedural rules to determine the length of time you have to get the documents served and the acceptable methods of service. These generally include the following methods (note that none of them generally include you delivering them):You can pay the sheriff’s office to serve them.
You can pay a private process server to serve them.
You can arrange for a friend or relative (not involved in the case and over 18) to serve them in a way set out in the civil procedural rules. Be aware this person will need to complete a Proof or Return of Service and may be required to testify about the method of service.
 Be sure you understand them. If you have any questions about them, it is worth paying an attorney for assistance or instruction. These rules will tell you:What evidence is admissible in your jurisdiction
How to admit that evidence in your jurisdiction
The different types of witness testimony
How to question witnesses in different situations

, The initial hearing is the day the judge will decide whether to continue with the appointment. You want to present yourself in the best way.On the day of your hearing, be sure you are dressed cleanly and respectfully. If you can wear a suit, do so. If not, clean clothes that would be suitable for the office are acceptable. If you can only wear jeans, be sure they are clean and in good repair. Do not wear shorts, flip flops, tank tops, miniskirts, or sagging pants.
Arrive early.
Speak only to the judge, not to the opposing party or their attorney.
Address the judge with respect, calling him or her “Your Honor” or “Judge”.
Stand when speaking.
The judge will likely appoint professionals to evaluate the potential ward to determine capacity. States vary on the requirements, but generally three (3) professional opinions are required. Some states allow the potential ward to name at least one qualified evaluator.
 Provide or offer to provide any needed transportation or other assistance attending the evaluations. Some states require the guardian also undergo certain evaluations or trainings to ensure they understand and are capable of performing their duties.


Attend the second hearing. Once the evaluations, investigations, and trainings are complete, the court will hold another hearing to review the results of each. At that point, the court will generally determine whether the potential ward requires a guardian and whether you qualify to be that guardian.
 If you are appointed as the guardian, the court will monitor your performance.</ref>

https://www.baltimorecountymd.gov/Agencies/circuit/guardianship/reportforms.html</ref>

You must usually provide annual accountings to the court detailing how you have cared for the ward and the ward’s assets, as applicable.
In some states, you are also required to requalify as a guardian periodically. This usually entails submitting to a new background check and undergoing updated training.

