 Vegetable rolls are exactly what the name suggests — rolls made entirely of vegetables. Some sushi restaurants will even skip the rice and wrap the rolls in paper-thin slices of cucumber or zucchini. Vegetable rolls are low-fat, low-carb, low-sodium, and absolutely brimming with vitamins, minerals, and good nutrients.Make sure that your vegetable rolls don’t have any added oils or cream cheese.
 Frying your sushi instantly makes your meal unhealthy. If you’re looking for crunch in your sushi roll, opt for those with naturally crunchy vegetables like cucumbers and bamboo shoots., Sushi is prepared over vinegared, white rice, whereas sashimi is bare slices of raw fish. Sashimi is a no-carbohydrate, protein-packed way of enjoying Japanese cuisine. You’ll see the term rolls also, which isn’t another name for sushi or sashimi. Instead, rolls are a combination of sashimi and sushi wrapped in dried seaweed. Of the three, sashimi is the lowest in carbohydrates, but all are good options., Wasabi is the green, spicy paste that accompanies your sushi. Wasabi is actually a type of radish and it’s loaded with antioxidants. Be careful, though, and eat your wasabi sparingly. A small amount packs a big punch.You might also be offered pickled ginger with your sushi, which is another excellent flavor enhancer that is chock-full of vitamins and minerals such as Manganese, Niacin, Potassium, Zinc, Pyridoxine, and Iron.
Ginger is also a natural tummy soother.
 Avocado is a perfect filler in many types of sushi. It’s creamy, mild, and packs a heart-healthy bunch of fats. Unfortunately, too much avocado does mean too much fat and the calories add up quickly. If you’re watching your fat or caloric intake, limit the avocado in your sushi., Classic sushi is almost always the healthiest sushi, as it contains rice, fish, and vegetables. Fancier, more modern sushi, on the other hand, might have high-fat or high-calorie ingredients, such as duck, cream cheese, and even sugar.Classic sushi is usually rolled on the inside and typically contains one ingredient. Fancy, modern, or fusion sushi usually has multiple ingredients and the rice typically faces outward.Some classic sushi examples are tuna rolls, cucumber rolls, eel and cucumber rolls, and pickle rolls.
Some fusion or fancy sushi examples are California rolls, spicy scallop rolls, tempura rolls, or crunchy tuna avocado rolls.
If everyone at the table orders a different type of roll, you can all share and sample one of each kind. This is a great way to try a variety of rolls without over-indulging in any one type.

