 Happiness research has found that happiness comes 90 % from within and only 10% by external things (partner, money, career). Organize your life wisely, be centered by inner happiness and health. Find exercises that make you happy and healthy.
 Happy people have positive goals and positive tasks. Proactive people are 15% more satisfied with their lives compared to more passive people. Happiness researcher Ed Diener explains, “happy people set goals for themselves again and again.”

, Regular physical activity keeps the body healthy and makes the spirit happy. Daily walks raise the level of happiness 12%.
 Those who regularly do good things for others are 24% happier than those who only live for themselves. John A. Schindler wrote, “live as a giving person. Those who give are happier than those who only take.”

, Scientific research shows that relaxed people think more positively and are happier. Where that point of balance between rest and activity lies, must be decided for oneself. Everyone needs to experiment a little to find this correct balance.
 Those who think positively double their chance to realize happiness.
 Scientific research states, „ every hour of television lowers the general quality of life by 5%“. The way to positive TV viewing consists of: a) choose your programs carefully. Avoid negative films. b) Find the correct amount of TV. Children should watch a maximum of one hour per day of television. c) After watching TV, one should practice some form of spiritual exercise (such as yoga, meditation, walking, reading, contemplating the meaning of life).
 Build on your positive circle of friends.
 Those who put little elements of joy in their lives can raise their overall happiness by 20%.
 Those with a good sense of humor raise their positivity by 33%. We should foster our sense of humor and learn to not take things so seriously. We should learn to laugh at ourselves. Those who are able to do so, can live lighter and brighter. It is good to see cheerful films, read funny books, and to visit joyful people.
 Happy people believe in themselves. They believe in their goals, their wisdom and their power. They see themselves as winners. They believe they will prevail in the long term.
 "My positive thought is ... (forward with optimism!)"

