 This can really annoy them, so it's best to wait until they are done with their slumber. You know how it feels when you are woken up for a no good reason, so keep this in mind. It is ok to give them a gentle pat however when they are asleep but no more than that. Avoid, as far as possible,;
, Whether this is by buying it some toys or playing with your cat often, this will keep your cat healthy and build a friendship.


Playing with your cat will build friendship. A cat will be more inclined to be around you if you give it some attention and love.
 A hungry cat may not be the friendliest of cats. Consider buying treats or feeding it something they don't get often, such as tuna or fish, to reward your cat for good behavior, or for just being a great companion.
 This can be tricky, considering some cats are very picky. Learn the spots they like rubbed or brushed, and spots that say "Back off!"

, Felines can be solitary animals at times also. Allow them peace and quiet every once in a while too. If you allow them their space, they may not go hide alone as often.
 This will make sure they are in good condition and keep them healthy.
 Your cat may not like you after this. If they did something wrong, just keep in mind that cats still want to be loved so only say a firm "No".


Consider training your cat so it won't do bad actions. This will prevent you from getting angry and end up yelling at your cat. Cats can be trained to come when called, mostly...and do some tricks. Cats can get bored in training sessions quickly so stop as soon as your cat seems to be looking disinterested in the session.
If they did something really bad, try not to lose your temper. As said above, just say a firm "No."

, Don't hit it or hurt it in other ways. Most cats will attack back if you do this. Don't make them angry, and if they hiss or growl, stay away. They may have done this because you are yelling/hurting them. Know how to calm your cat down.


Leave them alone if your cat shows signs of attacking you.
If your cat is angry, put out the food and let your cat get to it itself. Don't force the cat to play when it's playtime either. Put out the toys and let it see them and play with them itself.

