 A good agent will help you organize your real estate search and make the process easier and more understandable for you.


Get referrals from friends and family members and interview several agents before you settle on one.
Explain to your agent what you are looking for and why you are moving. He or she will probably take the lead on getting your search organized, with your help.;
, You cannot begin a real estate search without knowing how much you want to spend.


Examine how much you are currently spending on your rent or mortgage and decide if you can pay more or need to pay less.
Settle on a comfortable range to get your search started. For example, if you are renting you might want to find a place for $700 to $750 per month. If you are buying, you might determine you have a budget of $250,000 to $300,000.
 These are the things you cannot live without, for example a garage or a parking space, a certain number of bedrooms or a finished basement.


Consider location. Some people are willing to consider several different neighborhoods. If you know you want to stay in a particular school district or close to public transportation, add location to your non-negotiable list.
 These are the things you would like to have in your next home, but could probably live without if you found a great property without them. For example, a pool, a formal dining room, hardwood floors, etc.



Consider whether you want a condominium, a new home in a development or an older fixer upper. If you are flexible, tell your agent you are willing to look at all sorts of properties.
 Some people prefer a handwritten list on a legal pad, others will create lists on spreadsheets or with apps on their mobile phones.


Take advantage of digital and mobile technology. Sites such as Zillow.com, Trulia.com and Realtor.com offer websites and mobile applications that can help you organize your real estate search by location, budget and items on your wish list.
Use any tools your agent provides. Some agents have worksheets where you can rate the things that are very important, somewhat important or not important.
, Your agent will give you a tour of the homes and answer any questions you have.


Take notes and snap photos. This will help you remember what each house looked like and felt like.
Check out the properties online before you see them in person. This can give you an idea of what you will be looking at.
Find out if your agent's website helps you organize your property search. Many sites will allow you to "save" properties that interest you in your own personal file or account.
 This will help you compare different properties before you make a decision.
 Put all of your information in there, including your lists, real estate fliers and materials provided by your agent.

