 After putting on the breastfeeding nipple shield, the next step is to position your infant properly. Proper positioning and latching is as important as placing the nipple shield on correctly.


If your infant is not positioned properly, the sucking mechanism may not be enough for your infant to get milk and will require more force from your infant to suck, which consequently makes your infant tired and hungry.
If your infant is too far or too low or too high from your nipples, your nipples may get sore because they will be forced to stretch while your child has to suck harder.
 By doing this, your infant will be at a level where he is not too low or too high for your breasts. This position is also more likely to be comfortable for you because you will not have to carry your infant high up on your arms.Remember to bring your infant towards you as you place your infant’s head near your breast. Do not move towards your infant as this will cause excess strain on you. Remain in an upright position.
 Once you are positioned stomach to stomach and you are sitting in an upright position, make sure that your infant’s hip, shoulder, and ear are aligned.This will help your baby to swallow more easily.


Check that your infant’s nose is opposite your breastfeeding nipple. This position will allow for easier latching.
 Next is guiding the infant to your breasts. Once your infant’s nose is aligned with your breastfeeding nipple, you should form your right hand (if using the left nipple, or left hand if using the right nipple) into a C shape that fits snuggly into the side of your breast.


By holding the breast in a C shape, you will not be interfering with the already positioned head and body of your infant. Also, by using a C shape to grasp your breast, you will not be touching the nipple and disrupting the nipple shield.
 While you are in the C grasp position, you can now move the nipple closer to your infant’s nose or upper lip. Do not move it towards the center of your baby’s mouth.


Moving the nipple directly into the center of your baby’s mouth does not ensure that his mouth will open. Rubbing the nipple against your infant’s top lip will make your infant more likely to open his mouth.
Once the infant has opened his mouth, place the nipple inside it ensuring that the lower areola is also included.
 Once properly latched in place, the next step is to check the infant’s “latch” to the breastfeeding shield. Your infant’s mouth should not be close to the edge of the nipple but should be taking in as much of the breastfeeding nipple shield as possible. This will ensure that your infant will be able to suck as much breast milk as he can.


The infant will stop feeding on his own when there is no more breast milk or when he is full.
 Using a nipple shield takes longer than breastfeeding without one because the infant will need to forcefully suck more than necessary because the nipple shield is a bit tougher than your natural nipple.


After feeding, ensure that the breasts are adequately drained of milk as well to avoid breast engorgement by manually pressing the breasts. If there is still milk, a breast pump might be required to manually drain the breasts of milk.

