 Is it teen fiction? Romance? Or perhaps horror? Whatever it is, choose something you know that you can write about with passion, vivid interest and an obvious skill. Making your story fascinating is absolutely vital for getting noticed.;
, Don't write a story about drying paint. Find something that will have your readership riveted.
 Extend your vocabulary, your phrasing and your descriptiveness beyond the ordinary. If you find this difficult, it means you need to read a lot more, and more widely too.
 What are their stories about? Werewolves? Fanfictions? Or maybe some poetry? Try writing in a similar vein, without copying, of course. You will need your own plot, your own twists and your own characters––be inspired by, not wed to, someone else's works.
 Contrary to the old saying, a lot of people actually do judge books by their covers, and the cover is definitely the first thing people will see. Make it look professional with eye-catching pictures and fonts, and make sure the title stands out. Study covers of books you own to see what good covers look like. Along with the cover, something readers will first see is your description, so make the description detailed and interesting. Again, you can study the blurbs on published books you own as a model.
 Make it sound interesting to read - because many people just ignore all the requests.
 It's against the Policy and no one wants that. Simply go with the flow and eventually, some reader will stumble across your page.
 If you feel you're a really good writer and you absolutely adore fame, you can categorize your story under "Watty Awards ___", since everyone likes reading the Watty Awards entries.
 Try being the exact opposite and you'll gain lots of followers and readers - remember, treat other people the way you want to be treated.


Equally, don't make deals with people to vote on each other's stories so that you can gain fame.
 Comment on those clubs and interact with other Wattpadders. Create your own discussions that people can join. That can really help you get noticed.
 In addition, keep them updated as to when your next update will be, since most readers doesn't have the patience you expect and some of them might stop reading your story because they think you stopped updating it. The update deadline also pushes you to ensure you meet it.
 Fame on Wattpad doesn't occur in one night. Let your works slowly achieve the number of reads/votes you desire, even if it takes a long time. Remember, there are millions of writers/readers out there!

, Ask them for "A read for a read?" Give them a friendly compliment on about their profile. At the end of the day, trading reads isn't the best way to get 'famous.' Occasionally the person your trading with may go and read the rest of your story out of interest, but most of the time the reads you get from read trading are meaningless. Remember, you want readers, not reads.
 Get yourself out there. You cannot expect to become famous (though, in rare cases you can) and write a book without commenting, voting and becoming a part of the Wattpad community. Talk about movies or books or sometimes randomly message people.
 You'd be surprised at how easy it is to gain followers just by commenting and engaging in conversations with people! Make yourself known to others.

