 NRR is the standard rating system across all hearing protection devices. Under NRR, hearing devices are classified by their potential to limit decibels (dB) in professional and occupational environments. NRRs are determined by both the American National Standards (ANSI) and the Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA). Understanding this rating system will allow you better understand the noise you are exposed to as well as the type of protection you will need.The NRR should be easily readable on the back of the box your hearing protection was purchased in.
In order to determine the decibel level you are exposed to, subtract the NRR from the decibels in your environment. For example, if you are at a rock concert with a noise exposure of 100 dB and you are wearing earplugs with an NRR rating of 27 dB, you will be exposed to 73 dB.A general rule is that the higher the NRR the better the protection will be.;
, Deciding on and selecting hearing protection will often come down to the user’s choice. Understanding the job you will be doing, what the source of the noise is, and how long you will need to protect your hearing will give you the information you need to choose a type of protection.For example, if you a using a loud drill or jackhammer for hours you might prefer earplugs. However, if you are going to be exposed to noise intermittently, you might prefer earmuffs as they are easier to remove and put back into place.
 Your employer should be able to provide you with the necessary information about the type of noise you will be exposed to and how long you will be exposed to it. If it is not your employer’s policy to provide you with hearing protection ask them for recommendations of where to purchase the appropriate protection.


Regulatory bodies such as OSHA often state that employers must provide employees with safe tools and equipment, and also warn employees of hazardous materials or environments.Ask your employer to provide you with information regarding safe noise level exposures, or consult online resources, like OSHA.You can also look up hearing protection devices online. Many manufacturers have extensive informational resources that can help you choose the right protection for your job., Hearing specialists, also known as audiologists, can provide you with useful information regarding what preventative measures can be taken to preserve your hearing. See a specialist especially if you already have hearing impairment conditions as exposure to high volumes of noise can still damage your ears.


Ask your doctor for recommendations on hearing specialists.

