 Pairing your maroon pants with a maroon blazer in a similar shade creates the effect of wearing a suit. Look for a jacket in a similar material to your pants for the most cohesive look.If you’re feeling adventurous, pair your pants with a suit jacket in the same color palette, but not the exact same color, for example lavender or light blue., Since maroon is a bold color, it really pops against a neutral palette. Choose complementary pieces of clothing in camel, cream, black, grey and navy to add some sophistication to your look. Layering makes your look appear more interesting, too.You could pair your maroon pants with a cream color top and a camel pea coat, for example. Another option would be a white blouse with a navy cardigan and nude heels.
 Adding accessories dresses up your maroon pants and makes them look more elegant. You can add bracelets, belts, necklaces and earrings in gold, silver or jewel tones to make your pants look more polished.For example, pair your maroon pants with a cream colored blouse and a turquoise necklace or jewel-tone scarf.
Pair your maroon pants with gold bangles and metallic strappy sandals.
 To make your maroon pants look more formal, pair them with more business-like attire on top. An oxford dress shirt in a pale blue, white or with French cuffs can make your maroon pants office-ready. Choosing more formal fabrics like silk and lace in a non-button-up can elevate your pants as well.


A lace peplum top or a silk blouse in pale yellow could provide a sophisticated twist.
 A slightly cropped pant can look more formal than full-length pants, which often are cut like jeans. Choose a maroon pant that is cropped just above the ankle. Avoid pants that are cropped higher at capri length, as these can make your legs look shorter and are no longer in fashion., Many pairs of maroon pants are in casual fabrics like denim and cotton. To wear maroon pants in a more formal setting, seek out styles that are made of finer materials, such as leather or silk. These make your outfit look more expensive and sophisticated.


Pair maroon leather pants with a crepe blouse in tan or grey, for example.
A black sweater and black suede boots would also dress up maroon leather pants.

