 If your spouse got married to evade U.S. immigration law, he is guilty of marriage fraud and can be deported.Call the hotline at 1-866-347-2423 to report suspected marriage fraud.If you're reporting someone else's marriage, you can remain anonymous if you don't want the couple to know.
If your spouse has committed marriage fraud, he is subject to deportation under U.S. immigration law.Although you can make your report anonymously, you should identify yourself and state clearly that you were a victim to the scam who fell in love and thought his intentions were pure.Expect ICE officials to be skeptical, since people claim to be innocent victims often when they really just became upset or bitter about the state of the relationship after the honeymoon ended.Also keep in mind that you previously went on record about the legitimacy of the marriage to get your spouse into the country in the first place, so you should expect some questions about that.;
, If you remain in the marital home after you've discovered the fraud, ICE might consider you complicit in the fraud.


You also should make sure you are safe, as well as any personal or sensitive information or documents. If your spouse lied to you about his reasons for marriage, he could be lying about anything else., Citizenship and Immigration Services directly. You can call USCIS at 1-800-375-5283 to report the fraudulent conduct.


You also may wish to schedule an appointment with a USCIS official to discuss the matter in person.Report your suspicion and explain that you were an innocent victim in this scam., If USCIS or ICE want to interview you or ask for any additional documentation, it's important that you provide any and all information you think might be of assistance.
 Even though you may see yourself as a victim in this situation, ICE might find you criminally liable for the fraud as well.


Marriage fraud is a felony. If you are convicted, you could face up to five years in prison and a fine of up to $250,000.