 Chords are when you play more than one note at once, creating a harmonic sound. To play a chord, you use your left hand to hold down strings at different frets simultaneously. Learning to play chords is easy; you will be supplied with the string number, fret number, and the specific finger required to recreate each sound.
 Major chords are formed by three or notes played simultaneously, with the distance between the first and second notes being two whole steps apart. Major chords are associated with cheery or happy music.To play a C Major chord, place your ring finger on the 4th string on the third fret.






To play an F Major chord, put your index finger on the 2nd string of the first fret, and your ring finger on the first string of the second fret.
To play a G Major chord, place your index finger on the 3rd string of the second fret, your middle finger on the 4th string of the second fret, and your ring finger on the 2nd string of the third fret.
To play an A Major chord, put your index finger on the 3rd string of the first fret, and your middle finger on the 1st string of the second fret.
To play a D Major chord, place your middle finger on the 1st string of the second fret, your ring finger on the 2nd string of the second fret, and your pinky finger on the 3rd string of the second fret.
To play an E Major chord, put your index finger on the 4th string of the first fret, your middle finger on the 1st string of the second fret, and your pinky finger on the 3rd string of the fourth fret.
 Minor chords are three or more concurrently played notes, with the distance from the first and second notes being three half-steps. Minor chords are considered sad or gloomy sounding compared to major chords.


To play an A Minor chord, place your middle finger on the 1st string of the second fret.
To play an E Minor chord, put your index finger on the 4th string of the second fret, and your ring finger on the 3rd string of the fourth fret.
To play a D Minor chord, place your index finger on the 2nd string of the first fret, your middle finger on the 1st string of the second fret, and your ring finger on the 3rd string of the second fret.
To play an F# or Gb Minor chord, put your index finger on the 3rd string of the first fret, your middle finger on the 1st string of the second fret, and your ring finger on the 2nd string of the second fret.
To play a B Minor chord, bar the 2nd, 3rd, and 4th strings with your index finger by holding them all down simultaneously on the second fret, and hold the 1st string down on the fourth fret with your ring finger.