 Many people who want to dress like dancers have a specific style in mind that often correlates to lithe and effortless ballerinas. Research different looks to decide on options that you like and might work for you.Make sure to look at hairstyles in addition to clothing and accessories.
Search for looks by looking at images of dancers online. You can also search social media sites like Instagram, Pinterest, and Facebook for style inspiration.Read fashion magazines or trade publications for dancers to inspire your look.
Save images that you like to help remind you of the looking you aspire to achieve.;
, When you’ve had a chance to compile some research on potential dancer looks for yourself, look for common items and fabrics that dancers like and how dancers put them together. Some common pieces and fabrics dancers wear are:


Leotards as tops
Flouncy skirts in tulle
Ballerina flats and/or points
Delicate earrings or necklaces
Cropped or thin cotton sweaters
Dressy, tailored sweats.Silky shirts
Leg warmers.Boots, skinny jeans, and leather jackets for a “city” look., Dancers often stick to a fairly simple color palette of pale pinks, blacks, navies, and whites. Some jazz up their simple style with one colorful item. Think about the color palette you want to wear to help you look more like a dancer.Consider your skin tone when figuring out your palette. For example, black generally works on most people while pale pink may make someone with very light skin look washed out.
Ask your friends to help you figure out which colors best suit you.
 Before you rush out purchase a new wardrobe, look in your closet and dresser to see if you have any dance-inspired pieces. You can use these as a basis for putting together your look.


Look for filmy tops, bouncy skirts, skinny pants, and flat shoes.Figure out what you can pair together to create outfits.
Make a list of items you need and want to put together your desired looks. Include pieces that you can pair several other items to change up your look without breaking the bank.
 Keep your eyes open for clothing and accessories that can complement your dancer-inspired look. You may want to carry the list of things you want and need to put together your desired looks.Get your clothes at stores specifically for dancers or find stores that have clothes that dancers might wear. For example, stores like Anthropologie or Free People often have pieces of clothing and accessories that look dancer-inspired.
Avoid breaking the bank. Buy yourself a couple of key pieces, like a leotard top and flouncy skirt, and add more as you are able.
Try and buy the best quality clothing you can afford. This can help ensure that your dancer-inspired pieces last for a long time.
 Some hairstyles like ballerina buns are associated with ballet dancers. But you may not have long hair or don’t like the buns look on you. Experiment with different hairstyles you find in your research and see what works best for you.


Try buns, chignons, twists, braids, and curls if you had long or medium-length hair.If your hair is short, you may want to wear a delicate headband that keeps your hair off of your face.
 Before you hit the streets to show off your dancer’s style, look at how the dancers in your research photos look. They keep their looks fairly simple and may highlight one feature. Remember this and keep your look as simple as possible to avoid seeming like you’re trying too hard.
 Choose which article of clothing or accessory you want to feature and build your look around that. This can help you keep your look simple, chic, and very dancer-like.Figure out if you want to feature a dancer-inspired bottom or top. Place this on your bed or hang it so that you can see which other pieces of clothing will help create your desired look.
 Build your outfit by adding pieces to your featured article. Remember that you want to keep the focus on the main item of clothing, so select simple pieces.


Construct your outfit according to the weather. For example, in winter you may need a cardigan, scarf, and leotard top to keep yourself warm.
Layer tops and bottoms if you like. For example, put a colorful pair of legwarmers with skinny jeans and simple shoes.Make sure you have top and bottom pieces that match. For example, if you are wearing a flouncy skirt, top it with a leotard top. Add a cardigan or cropped sweater if it’s cool outside or you like the look., Putting on accessories can help give your dancer’s look some extra polish. You can wear jewelry, shoes, and carry handbags to help complete your look.


Wear simple and delicate pieces of jewelry. Try studs, thin necklaces, or tiny bracelets.Ballet flats are a universal way to make your feet look like a dancer’s. Many companies make ballet flats and some companies that construct ballet flats make models for the commercial market.Carry a big handbag so it looks like you’re off to dance class. You can choose a model in a natural fabric such as cotton or linen or even something like leather.
 One of the final parts of putting together your dancer’s look is applying some makeup to your face. Keep it simple and natural so that you appear as if you’re glowing from inside.


Just like your outfit, focus on one feature of your face. Make your eyes look large, innocent and doll-like by applying a few coats of mascara. Either skip the eye shadow or use a neutral color. You could also leave your face bare and wear a beautiful red lipstick. The goal is to not overdo it and look innocent.Take care of your skin. Most dancers appear or actually have flawless, translucent skin.
 Having the right hairstyle can complete your dancer’s look. Match one of the styles that you tried with what pieces of clothing and jewelry you’re wearing.


Match your hairstyle to your outfit. For example, if you’re clothing is sleek and close to your body, consider wearing your hair loose in curls. If your look is flouncy, you might want to do a ballerina bun.
 Dancers are known for their poise, grace, and elegance. Carry yourself with these characteristics in mind to reinforce to others that you are a dancer.


Avoid stomping when you walk. You want to look like you are floating effortless down the street or through the halls.
Use gentle and delicate gestures. Avoid making abrupt or jerky movements.
Speak in a soft voice. This may help you seem more delicate like a dancer.

