 Make sure that your hair is clean and has been properly conditioned. If you shampooed, ensure that all of the shampoo is washed out of you hair before applying conditioner. Rinse your hair with cool water before stepping out of the shower. A cool rinse ensures that your hair follicle is closed tightly and minimizes hair loss., Use a wide tooth comb to detangle your hair before drying. Begin at the ends of your strands and work your way up to your scalp. Do not tug too hard on any tangles in your hair., Before blow drying your hair you should apply a heat protecting spray. Hold the spray bottle about a foot from your head and spritz your wet hair. Make sure to cover the entire surface area.Heat protection spray can be found in the haircare aisle of most general and beauty stores.
Select a heat protection spray that can be used on wet and dry hair.
 Avoid using a round brush to dry your hair if you intend to straighten your hair. Trade your round brush for a paddle brush. This will guide the hair into a straighter position., Set the straight hair with the cool setting on your hair drying. Heat is helpful when you are styling hair. The cool setting on the hair dryer helps to keep that style for hours., Before you apply more heat to your hair with the hair straightener, spritz the strands with the heat protection spray. Make sure that you select a spray that you can use for both wet and dry hair., Section off your hair into at least three different sections on each side and the back. Decide which section you would like to work with first and clip the other sections of hair out of the way.
 Work the straightener through the strands of hair. Set your straightener to a medium heat setting. Move slowly through the hair but do not stop and hold the straightener on the hair. This will damage or burn the hair.Using a low setting will require you to drag the straightener through your hair multiple times, which can damage the hair.
 Use a hairspray or blitz the hair again with the cool setting on the hair dryer to set the hairstyle.

