 You will need to start by gaining the cat’s trust, as this will make approaching the cat much easier. You can gain the stray cat’s trust by leaving out a bowl of dry cat food where they can see it. The stray cat is likely hungry and will be more inclined to approach your area if you present it with food.Place the dry cat food in a bowl close to the cat or in the area where the cat is hanging out. You may also leave out a bowl of fresh water for the cat to drink. Then, step away and wait quietly for the cat to approach and eat from the bowl. Let the cat continue eating and drinking without approaching it.
If you are not worried about approaching the stray cat right away, you may continue to leave food and water out for the cat every day until the cat seems comfortable staying in the same area.;
, Do this while the cat is eating from the food bowl. Talk quietly to the cat as you move towards it slowly. You may say, “Good kitty” under your breath or simply, “Hi there, kitty.” Talking to the cat in low tones will show it you are non-threatening and friendly.If the cat appears spooked by your presence, take a few steps back and wait. Once the cat appears less freaked out by you, you should take a few steps forward and continue talking quietly. Over time, the cat should realize you are not a threat and be more comfortable with your presence.
 Do not try to force the cat to come to you or attempt to grab the cat as this will just scare it more. Instead, allow the cat to approach you. Squat down a few feet away from it and continue to speak softly to it. The cat should come to you and rub your leg or sit near you but just out of reach. These are signs it does not view you as a threat.Avoid trying to reach out and pet the cat or stroke the cat. This may spook it and cause it to run away. Be patient and allow the cat to approach you.
 If you have confirmed the cat is a stray and it appears okay with you approaching it or it approaches you, you may be able to lure it to a safe place. You should try to lure the animal into your car by placing food on the seat and leaving the door open. If the cat does go into your car, you should close the door and go get help.You can also try luring the cat into a container, such as a cardboard box or a plastic bin. You can leave food in the box or bin and see if the cat will enter it willingly. Once the cat is in the box or bin, you can then call for help.
 If you are able to transport the cat in your car, you should take it to the nearest animal shelter. The shelter may then be able to help you find the cat’s owner, if it has one. You should also check the cat for any identification, such as a collar or a tag. You may be able to find the owner through the information on the cat’s collar.You should make sure the shelter scans the cat for a microchip. If the cat has a microchip, scanning it will make it easier to identify the cat’s owner.
You can help the shelter find the cat’s owner by posting a “found” ad in your local newspaper or online. You can also put up “found cat” posters in your neighborhood with an image of the cat.
You may decide to keep the cat if the owner is not found through the shelter. If so, you should notify animal control that you have the cat and then take the cat to the vet for a check up. The vet will confirm the cat does not have any diseases or illnesses.

