 These events pop-up throughout the country in large and small cities allowing vendors to rent a space to sell their product. If you want to sell your own product directly to the people, consider finding local fairs and shows near you, or go on the road with your jewelry. You will be charged an initial fee to have a spot at the show, but after that, the money you earn from your jewelry sales are yours.


This is also a great way to advertise your jewelry. Make business cards that let people know how they can contact you about your jewelry. Leave them out for people to take as they admire your pieces.
 Etsy is a great website for creative entrepreneurs who want to sell their homemade products online. You can post pictures of your jewelry for people to view and buy. It is a convenient way to sell your goods when you do not have your own website or store and you are trying to get started as an entrepreneur., As the economy fluctuates, so will jewelry sales. Although jewelry sells at even the worst of economic times, jewelry is seen as a luxury item and sales will definitely take a hit if the economy is struggling.Try to make the best use of your time regardless of the number of sales you do. You can use slower months when sales are down as an opportunity to design and make jewelry repairs.
 If you want to have your own store, be sure to learn all areas of the business, not just design and creation. You may want to just focus on jewelry design, but if you open your own store, you will have to know much more to become successful.Consider taking courses in business administration, merchandising, and entrepreneurship to help you start your business and become successful.
 There are many aspiring jewelry designers out there with no formal education for graphic or jewelry design. Regardless of where you stand with your knowledge on jewelry design, if you have the passion, you can become a designer. Whether that means working for yourself, or for another person, you can make it happen with passion, hard work, practice, and networking.It may take several years to find yourself in your dream position. Do not give up if things take a little longer to start happening for you than you expected.
Remember that learning a new skill takes a lot of practice. You may not have a natural knack for jewelry design at first, but with practice, you will improve your skills.
 Designing and creating jewelry can be hard on the body. You will spend many hours leaned over, shaping gems, and focusing your eyes on innate details. After a while, your body may start to ache, your hands may tense up, and your eyes can feel strained.


As you create, take time each hour to walk around, stretch out, and relax your eyes to prevent injury.
Always wear protective eye goggles when working with tools to cut and make jewelry.

