 To make a DNA model out of clay, you will need to first purchase your clay of choice. A polymer clay in at least six colors will do the trick, in addition to any tools you may want to use to shape the clay (such as a plastic knife or rolling pin).


If you plan on exhibiting your model of DNA when you finish, prepare a base for it to sit on. This might be a small wooden board with a dowel running through the center for the DNA strand to be attached to.






You will need to bake the polymer clay when you finish shaping it, so make sure you have a working oven available too.






You may choose to use a flexible wire to give added support to your DNA model.





;
, Choose one of your polymer clay colors, and roll it out into pieces about one foot long and ½ an inch thick. These will form the sides of the strand of DNA, so make sure they are sturdy enough that other pieces can be attached without them falling apart.


To add extra support to your structure, you can wrap the clay around two long pieces of flexible wire.






You can freely alter the size of your DNA model strand to meet your personal preferences. To create a smaller DNA model, simply reduce the size of these double helix strands.
 The double helix strands of DNA are made up of two groups: sugars and phosphates. Use another one of your polymer clay colors to make the phosphate pieces on the double helix.


Roll out the color you’ve chosen for the phosphate group until it is flat. Cut strips of the clay ½ inch wide and ½ inch long.






Starting at the bottom of one of the long double helix strands, wrap a piece of the flat phosphate clay around the strand.






Make sure that it is pressed flat into the helix strand, so that it won’t fall off.
Leave half an inch of empty space on the strand, and then add another piece of the flat phosphate clay. The open area of the double helix represents the sugar groups.






Continue alternating the clay between the sugar and phosphate ½ an inch apart, until you’ve covered both of the double helix strands.
 There are four nitrogenous bases that make up a strand of DNA: cytosine, guanine, adenine, and thymine. They make up the “ladder” steps between the two double helix strands. Choose one color of polymer clay to represent each of these four bases.


Roll each color of clay into pieces ½ an inch long, and about ¼ of an inch thick. Use a knife to cut the edges of these, to give them a smooth finish.






Count how many sugar groups you have created on your double helix strand. This is the number of pairs of nitrogenous bases you will need to create.






Pair off your colors into the correct groups. Cytosine and guanine must always be paired together (in either order), and thymine and adenine must always be paired together (in either order).






If you want to give more support to your nitrogenous bases pairs, cut pieces of flexible wire to be just over 1 inch (2.5 cm) long, and use these in the centers of your clay.






Combine the pairs of colors by pinching the edges of two strands of your ½ inch pieces of clay together. Once the colors are attached in the center, gently roll the piece to create one smooth, continuous piece of clay.
 Once you’ve made all of your 1 inch (2.5 cm) sections of nitrogenous bases, you must stick them to your double helix.


Start at the first sugar group on your double helix. Use another small piece of clay the same color as the sugar group, around the size of a pea.
Attach one of the nitrogenous bases to the sugar group using the small piece of colored clay. Pinch the pieces together, and smooth the edges by rolling it between your fingers.
It may be easiest to attach all the nitrogenous base pieces on one side only to one strand of the double helix. Then, when you have all of the 1 inch (2.5 cm) sections sticking out from one side of the double helix, attach the other strand to the opposite side.
Make sure all the pieces are securely attached. If you inserted wire into the centers of your nitrogenous base groups, you can use stick the ends of the wire into the double helix strands to attach it better.
 To give your DNA model the classic spiral shape, hold your double helix at both ends and then twist them counter-clockwise.
 Follow the baking instructions on the polymer clay package, and then bake your model to set its shape.


If you have wax paper, set your model on this to make sure it doesn’t stick to your pan.
Always allow time for the model to cool after removing it from the oven to avoid burning yourself.
 Once the model has been baked and cooled, show off your hard work! Hang it with fishing wire from a mobile or your ceiling, or use a wooden base to attach it to.

