 If you notice your child calling people names or teasing others, address the behavior right away. Let your child know why it’s not acceptable. Then help them find some alternate ways to behave.Say something like, “You probably didn’t know this, but it’s not okay to call people names, even if some of your friends do it. It makes other people feel bad about themselves. Let’s think of some other ways you can tell people you’re mad at them.”

, Kids who are bullied are more likely to become bullies themselves, often in an attempt at self-defense. If your child tells you that someone is picking on them, help them put a stop to it. Let the appropriate school authorities know what’s going on, and work with your child to come up with some strategies for staying safe.Keep in mind that siblings may bully each other as well. What may seem like sibling rivalry may actually be bullying, so pay attention to your child’s interactions with their siblings.
 Know who your child’s friends are, and keep an eye on their activities. Discourage your child from spending time with kids who bully others. If you don’t like your child’s friend group, get them involved in some new activities where they can make better friends.Be careful about forbidding your child from spending time with certain people. That might just make them like those friends even more. Instead, express your concerns by saying something like, “I’m not sure if I like Ben. He doesn’t seem to care about other people’s feelings much. Is he the kind of person you want to be like?”

, If your child’s teacher or another parent tells you that your child has been bullying others, take the accusation seriously. Sit down with your child and ask them if there’s any truth to the story. Let them know that bullying is unacceptable, and help them come up with a plan for changing their behavior.Look at the reasons behind your child’s behavior, not just the behavior itself.
For instance, if your child is bullying others because they’ve been spending time with other bullies, help them get out of that social environment and into a healthier one.
Try to find out if your child is struggling at school and/or at home. This may be driving them to act out in unhealthy ways.
 If you have trouble with your own bullying behavior, or your child already shows signs of bullying, get help as soon as possible. Early treatment could minimize your child's chance of become a bully and experiencing the negative outcomes associated with these behaviors.See a child or adolescent therapist in your area for professional help.
If you are struggling to overcome your own bullying behavior, it might be practical to see a family therapist.

