 Anytime you meet someone new (or even when you greet someone you have met before), it is a positive and bubbly gesture to shake hands. Make you sure are giving a nice firm and confident handshake. Be sure to make eye contact while you do so!


Practice your handshake at home with friends to be sure you use the right amount of pressure and maintain steady eye contact.
Repeating the person's name as you shake his or her hand is also a good strategy to seem bubbly. For example, when you meet someone new, say their name back to them once or twice before you introduce yourself, such as by saying, "Hi Brian. I'm Shirley. It's nice to meet you Brian!";
, Chat up your waiter or barista. Say hello to people on the street! Compliment people on the train. Converse with people in the coffee shop or in your class. Remember that you are an important player in the world. Interact with others as much as possible, and let your bright personality shine.When you feel at a loss for things to say, think of a compliment.
Tell someone you like their sweater, then as a follow up, ask them where they bought it.
Tell someone they have a nice voice.
 Being bubbly means you can talk to anyone and always have something to talk about. Find ways to talk to the people around you. Whether this means people at school, at work, or just people you run into out in the world, try to have a few interesting pieces of small talk ready to go.Practice a few funny stories from your life.
Listen to podcasts (such as This American Life) to hear interesting conversation points.
Ask questions! Let the other people do the talking for you.
If you find yourself at a party, try to talk to every person there for at least a little bit.
 To cultivate a bubbly and charismatic personality, you must come off as passionate and interesting. One way to accomplish both of these things is to regularly try something new! When you seek out new experiences you stoke your passion for life, and at the same time, you generate lots of interesting things to talk about.Learn a new language.
Take a trip.
Try a new restaurant.
Study a martial art.
 Your bubbly personality is sure to attract the attention of others. Work on developing a lot of diverse friendships! Whenever you feel a connection with someone, invite them to get lunch or coffee.


You may also consider joining some activities in order to meet some new people.
Try signing up for a class, a sports team, or a craft circle.
 A bright smile is one of the most important aspects of a bubbly personality. Studies have shown that even if you are feeling down, forcing yourself to smile can improve your mood! Practice wearing a smile throughout the day. You will exude bubbliness, attract friends, and improve your mood in the process., The type of humor that you use can also make you seem more bubbly. Try to stick to silly humor, such as knock-knock jokes and puns, rather than using sarcastic, dark, or deadpan humor.


Try looking up a few silly jokes to tell to people you encounter throughout the day.

