 Wash your face using warm water and your favorite face wash. Rinse the soap off your face and gently pat your skin dry using a soft, clean towel.
 Place a bag of chamomile tea in a cup and fill it with ¼ cup (56.25 milliliters} of boiling water. To get the most out of the tea, cover the cup with a small plate and let it brew for five to ten minutes.You will need strong, chamomile tea for this recipe. Allow the tea to cool before adding it to the rest of the ingredients.
 Measure out some old fashioned oats and pulse them a few times in a blender until they become finely ground. You will need enough ground oats to fill a ½ cup (40 grams). The oats will act as a cleanser and moisturizer while gently exfoliating your skin., You will need ½ cup of the ground, old fashioned oats, 1 teaspoon of baking soda, and 1 tablespoon of raw honey. Mix all of the ingredients in a bowl until you get a paste.


For a more exfoliating mask, add 2 tablespoons of white sugar.
 The mixture you have made will be a little too dry to use as a mask, so you will need to moisten it by adding some chamomile tea. Start by pouring in two tablespoons and mixing with a spoon. If the mixture is still too dry, add in a little bit more tea. Keep doing this until you get the thickness that you like. The paste should be smooth enough so that you can spread it easily onto your face, but not watery and runny.
 Dampen your face with some warm water. Because this mask can get messy, you will need to protect yourself by pulling your hair back and away from your face, and by draping a towel over the front of your shirt. You can also use this mask in the bath or shower, which will make cleaning up even easier.
 Apply the face mask onto your face using your fingers or a damp washcloth. Be sure to avoid the sensitive areas around your eyes and mouth. Leave the mask on your face for about five minutes.
 Splash your face with warm water and gently massage it to get the mask off. If there is still any honey residue on your skin, you may clean it off with some of your favorite face wash.
 The moisturizer will help your skin look and feel soft while the toner will help condition your skin and tighten the pores.

