 The first step in requesting movies and television on Netflix is logging in to your existing Netflix account. If you do not have a Netflix subscription, you can sign up for a month-long free trial., Once you log in to your Netflix account, scroll down to the bottom of your account homepage. At the bottom you will see a link that reads, “Help Center.” Click on this link., After you are redirected to the Help Center, scroll down to the bottom of the page. You will see a section titled, “Quick Links.” These links include an option to request new television shows or movies from Netflix., This will take you to a form where you can enter your requests. Netflix allows you to suggest up to three TV shows or movies at a time. Enter your suggestions into the box and click on the blue box titled “Submit Suggestion.”, After you submit your initial three suggestions, you will be taken to a page where Netflix thanks you for your feedback. There you will find a blue link titled, “Suggest More Titles.” Click on the link and suggest additional titles., Requesting the same title multiple times will not encourage Netflix to add your requests to their service. They track requests from individual members, and consider multiple requests for the same title as a single request., You can also request shows on many devices using the Netflix app. Select the menu in the upper left corner of the screen. Tap or click "Go To Help Center" at the bottom of the list that pops up. This will will open up the Help Center in a web browser, where you can follow the directions listed above., Once you make your request using the form, there is nothing more for you to do. Keep an eye on recently added titles and keep your fingers crossed! It's important to keep in mind that not all titles you request will make it to Netflix., You can subscribe to Netflix by visiting the website at www.netflix.com. You can create an account through most Internet-ready devices. However, you might find it easier to create the account on a computer., When you visit the Netflix homepage, you will see a red box that reads, “Join free for a month.” Click on the red box. This will begin the subscription process. Keep in mind that you can cancel your membership at any point during the free trial., The first step in setting up your free month trial is choosing a Netflix plan. Click on the red “See the Plans” box. There are three plans to choose from - basic, standard, and premium. Click on the red box of the plan that is right for you. Scroll down to the bottom of the page and click the red box that reads, “Continue.”The basic plan costs $7.99 and allows you to watch Netflix on only one screen at a time.
The standard plan costs $9.99 and allows you to watch on two screens at a time.
The premium plan costs $11.99, allows you to watch up to 4 screens at the same time, and includes Ultra HD.
 The second step in setting up your free Netflix trial is creating an account. Enter your email address and a password for your new account into the boxes. Then click the red box that reads, “Continue.”, You will get one free month of Netflix. In order to get the free trial, you will need to enter your PayPal, credit, or debit card and billing information. After your free trial expires, you will be charged for the plan you chose during the registration process. You will not be charged for the free trial.Netflix will email you three days before your free trial ends to remind you that you will be charged.
You can cancel your Netflix subscription at any time.
 Once you provide your payment and billing information, you can begin your free Netflix trial. To give Netflix a better idea of what devices you will be using, check the boxes next to the devices listed on the next page. You will then be asked to rate a sample selection of shows and movies, which will help Netflix provide you with personalized suggestions.