 Who are you trying to sell to? What audience do you want to target? As you design a line of cards, remember that you want designs and messages that appeal to those audiences.Find your niche. Think about how you will differentiate yourself from other cards out there. Your niche is part of your larger brand. If you specialize in a certain type of message (funny, cute, crude), you may find it difficult to branch out as your name becomes associated with that style.Decide what kind of cards you want to produce. You can either create pre-produced cards that people buy as is, or you can design custom-made cards for specific clients. This latter kind can produce more guaranteed money (given you already have a customer locked in instead of hoping someone will buy your work), but you also lose some creative control, as you must produce what the client wants.
 Good places to keep track of new greeting cards include card stores, craft fairs where people selling cards, and companies that sell online. Reviewing submission guidelines and requests from major publishers (like those linked from the GCA) are another good way to find out what sorts of cards people are looking for and looking at.


This research can help you define your niche. You will notice the groups that companies usually market to (which means they are most likely to buy cards), and may even notice underserved markets that you could break into.
 Give sample cards to family and friends to get feedback, especially if they are in your target market. Don't necessarily tell them what kind of reaction you are looking for, let that come naturally. If it is something different than what you hoped for or expected, you know that you will need to modify your work.
 The materials you use to produce your cards will be variable depending on the type of cards you are creating. You can find a variety of materials for making cards in craft stores, including thick cardstock and delicate rice papers.The kind of paper you needs will depend on the type and number of cards you intend to produce. Higher material costs likely mean higher prices, so keep that in mind as you study different kinds of cardstock.


You can use additional materials like ribbons or buttons to create more elaborate cards, but this is only a good idea for custom-made cards. If you plan on mass producing, stick to card designs that can be printed, and don't require additional materials.
Don't forget to include envelopes with your cards. You can buy them at most card stores, or make your own.. Most important is to make sure that your card will fit in the envelope. Depending on the theme or style or your cards, envelopes are another opportunity for creative design, so don't be afraid to add an extra design.Learn some basic graphic design programs. Even if your artistic talents are not digital, being able to manipulate your work in a program like Photoshop can give you more design flexibility. Since you will be mass-producing your work, you will need also digital files in addition to the original pieces.
If you intend to mass-produce, you will want a higher quality printer. Some designers will license their designs to a manufacturer in order to get higher quality prints, or use a shop such as Kinkos or Staples.
 People need to know you are selling cards in order to buy them. For this kind of startup, the internet and face-to-face selling will be crucial to getting going.



Create a website to sell your cards online. Offer samples or prototypes to customers so that they can see the cards up close before committing to larger orders.
Using an online store like Etsy or eBay, which can also help arrange for payment. Make sure you are familiar with the kind of users that populate these sites, and whether or not they fit into your target audience.

Advertising using social media can be a good, cheap way to get some early advertising through friends and other acquaintances.
Go directly to card stores. Get your cards into pre-existing stores by selling directly to the stores. You can help your prospects here by offering additional sweeteners, such as providing a display fixture, free shipping, or even buying out their "dead stock" (which can open up space for your cards to go on display)., Talk to an attorney or accountant about setting up and structuring your company. There are a lot of financial and legal considerations that go into a new business, and you don't want to get in trouble because you missed something important.


Local government, including states, counties, and towns, have additional licensing requirements for new businesses. Make sure you contact local governments to learn those requirements, and to make sure you have all proper forms.
Make sure you are paying the proper taxes. Apply to the IRS for a tax identification number, which you will use on the many tax-filing forms your new business will need.
Purchase financial software. The hardest part of your new business will be keeping track of your financial information. A program like Quickbooks or Peachtree can be more effective than using pen and paper to track expenses and cash flow.