 Have a hardware store cut you two pieces of an inch (1.5mm) aircraft cable, each at least twenty feet long. Buy at least six (6) 1/16 inch (1.5mm) cable clamps while you're there, along with four (4) ½ inch (1.27cm) by 10 inch (25cm) lag bolts and two shorter lag bolts not less than 6 inches (15cm) long. Two pieces of one inch (2.5cm) round or square aluminum tubing, at least 4 feet (1.2 meters) long, are necessary also. If you don't have an assortment of hardware at home, buy two ¼-20 x 2" (6.35mm x 5cm) bolts and Mylock nuts, or two ¼x2" (6.35mm x 5cm) hitch (or clevis) pins with hitch pin clips.;
, Three clamps for each loop are recommended for safety, but for reasons explained below, this overkill should not be necessary.
 Through each of these holes, insert a bolt with locknut, or a clevis pin with a hitch pin clip.
 Leave only about ½ inch (1.27cm) sticking out of the ground. The poles go over the heads of the bolts, and they keep the base of the poles from shifting position.


It is quickest to use a ratcheting socket wrench for this operation.
 The distance, assuming 20-foot (6 meter) cables and 4-foot (1.2 meter) poles, would be about 9 feet (2.7 meters) from point C.
 Holding the pole upright, slide the loop so that the cable between points A and C is very tight. Screw the nuts back on tight.
 Have a friend hold the pole plumb and upright if possible while locating point B, otherwise use stones or some other means to make sure the pole is (close to) perfectly upright when the anchoring cable is tight.
,, If it does, adjust the taut-line hitch at point D. Practically speaking, there will be some stretch in the rope and fabric which will necessitate performing this step three or more times until everything is tight. If there is no more "take-up" room on the side with the taut-line hitch, loosen it; undo the two half-hitches at point C; and re-tie them closer to the hammock. Then you will have more room for adjustments. Ideally you will be only an inch or two above the ground when the setup is complete, meaning only a slight impact if something breaks or a lag bolt pops out of the ground.
 Otherwise you'll be chasing it across the desert, then finally extracting it from a cactus or mesquite bush.



Note: There is no need to remove the cable clamps when you break camp. The bolts or clevis pins may also be left in the poles; so the only thing necessary to do is remove the lag bolts and pack everything up.







