 Whole-grain bagels will retain some of the fiber from the grains themselves, and boost the bagel’s health benefits to your body. Whole-grain bagels will also fill you up more quickly, and provide your body with more substantial nourishment, allowing you to stay full for longer.You can find whole-grain bagels at your local grocery store. If the store also has a health-foods section, look for bagels there also. The health section may contain multiple varieties of whole-grain bagels.
Even allegedly healthy “everything” bagels are made with refined wheat flour, and does not carry the health benefits of whole-grain bagels.;
, In order to decrease the amount of carbohydrates and fiber-less calories that you’re taking in when you eat an entire bagel, instead eat a mini-sized bagel. Mini bagels are sold at most grocery stores, and come in bags which contain 12 individual mini bagels, each about three inches diameter. If your grocery store has a variety of types of bagel, purchase the whole-grain option.Alternately, only eat half of a bagel for your breakfast or lunch. Due to their high carb content, bagels are surprisingly filling, so you likely will not be hungry for the second half after polishing off the first.
If you cut the bagel in half and put one half away before you start eating the second, you’ll be less tempted to eat the entire bagel.
 Since bagels lack fiber and provide little nourishment to your body (other than copious amounts of carbohydrates), why not skip the bagel altogether and choose a similar but healthier option. Whole-grain English muffins or whole-wheat bread can be topped with any of the spreads or ingredients that you would put on your bagel.The fiber present in these bagel substitutes will decrease the speed at which your body digests them, and so allow your body to use the bagel as fuel for a longer period of time. This will result in fewer of the bagel’s calories being converted into sugar, and eventually into body fat.
When selecting a whole-grain English muffin or whole-wheat bread at your local grocery store, look for options that contain at least 5 grams of fiber per serving.

