 Yeast and other fungi are normally all other a dog's skin, however, when the populations of this fungi expand, usually due to a lack of immune response from the dog, then an infection can take hold. If your dog is itching a lot or has spots of discoloration, crusty or flaky skin, or redness, it may be caused by a yeast infection on its skin.One reason dogs often get yeast infections is because they are on immunosuppressive drugs for other health conditions. If your dog's immune system is being suppressed for other health reasons, then a yeast infection can more easily take hold.;
, There are types of skin fungal infections other than yeast infections, including Candidiasis, which are rare in dogs but can take hold if your dog has a preexisting injury. If your dog is being treated for an injury, be on the lookout for infection and discuss any infection with your veterinarian.Treatment for this type of infection is similar to that of a yeast infection but the originating injury just needs to be taken into consideration as well.
 Discuss the symptoms your dog is experiencing with a veterinarian in order to decide whether your dog needs to be seen. If your dog's symptoms are very serious, such as open sores due to itching and scratching, then is probably should be seen quickly, before the infection advances further. If the symptoms seem less serious, then you can probably wait to see if they clear up or discuss the issue with your veterinarian during your dog's next appointment.When the dog is assessed by a veterinarian he or she will ask you about the symptoms, will look at any areas of irritation, and may take a culture in order to give a specific diagnosis and treatment.
 Your veterinarian may prescribe a variety of treatments, depending on the seriousness, location, and type of infection. These treatments could include a medicated shampoo, a topical medication, or a variety of anti-fungal medications that are taken orally.For some yeast infections, your dog will be prescribed an anti-fungal shampoo. This will be especially effective for dogs that have yeast infections associated with an overproduction of oil on the skin.
Yeast infections in the ears or in just a few areas on the body will typically be treated with a topical medicine that kills the fungus. Your dog may need to wear a cone during this type of treatment, as it should not be allowed to like off the medicine.
Oral treatments are prescribed for more serious and chronic infections that will need long-term treatment. Many oral treatments for fungal infections require months of taking the medicine to clear up the infection.

