 These could be signs of a serious or worsening condition that should be properly assessed by a medical professional. While a fever is a natural response, your child should still be seen by a medical professional if they display symptoms such as:Abdominal pain, back pain, or pain with urination
Lethargy
Excessive fussiness or unusual drowsiness
Severe cough, wheezing, or trouble breathing
Sore throat that is severe or lasts longer than three days
Ear pain
Stiff neck or severe headaches
Vomiting
Diarrhea that is frequent, has blood, or lasts more than a few days
Seizure

, The child could only have a mild fever in terms of temperature, but if they are acting lethargic or aren't as responsive, this calls for a visit to the doctor for closer examination., If you suspect your child is dehydrated, call the pediatrician right away. Moderate to severe dehydration can have significant consequences, so be on the lookout for:Excessive sleepiness, fussiness, or tiredness
Dry/sticky mouth
Thirst
Decreased urination
Dry skin
Sunken fontanelle (soft spot) in babies
In infants, no wet diapers for three hours

, A weakened immune system in conjunction with a fever can lead to additional complications. In this case, the treatment plan may differ and will likely be tailored to your child’s individual needs.Check with your child’s doctor prior to giving your child any new medications.
 While fevers will often run a smooth course, there are certainly times when it is best to contact a doctor:


Call your child’s doctor right away if a child less than two years old has a fever lasting more than one day or if a child age two or older has a fever lasting more than three days. They may encourage you to come in for an exam.
Call the pediatrician immediately if your child's temperature is too high. Specifically, see a doctor right away if you measure a rectal temperature of 100.4°F (38.0°C) or above in a child younger than three months old or if the fever rises above 104°F (40°C) for a child of any age., These medications can have side effects and their administration should be based on the child’s age, weight, and overall health.Your doctor should provide information on giving these medications at your child's routine check-ups. In that case, you can follow the instructions.
 Nursing hotlines can be extremely helpful if you are seeking advice on a particular medical concern. If so, carry this number with you and call if you have a question about your child’s health or about how to best care for their fever.