 The real information is often much more exciting and fascinating and you'll only get to know this upon learning about it for yourself through reading, research, and watching good science shows about dinosaurs. If you're up for the challenge, follow the next steps!;
, Do this at a regular pace rather than overwhelming yourself. If you compare some of the older books on dinosaurs with newer ones, you will notice big changes in the knowledge about dinosaurs in just the last few decades, so be sure to get the most up-to-date books that you can find.
 Namely, go beyond the usual well-known dinosaurs such as the T-Rex, Triceratops, and the Stegosaurus. Don't try to learn all of the names though; there are way too many for that!

, A new dinosaur is found every two weeks, so there won't be huge gaps between new bits of information. It can fun trying to piece together the new information and being the first in your class to know about new dinosaur finds.
 Visit the ones that you enjoy on a frequent basis and read up on dinosaur lore. Remember dinosaurs never met cavemen, mammoths, Saber-tooth Tigers or any prehistoric mega mammals.
 It's a lot easier to remember the name of an obscure animal if you've spent a few hours trying to render it well. Try to keep your drawings as up to date as possible - some dinosaurs are proven to have feathers and at least a few scientists have discovered what color they were! The more you practice, the better your Dino-drawings will look.
 Often you will see life size replicas of dinosaurs. In addition, there will be great information displays and you can probably pick up the latest books and information sheets on dinosaurs from their shops. Museum websites are also another good resource for dinosaur information that is kept up-to-date.
 Sometimes there is an IMAX film or good documentaries on TV about dinosaurs. Ask for a DVD on dinosaurs for your birthday.
 It is possible to buy authentic fossils from rock shops or museum gift shops. A good example would be Spinosaurus teeth, which are almost always in stock. Just watch out for scammers.

