 Before anything else, make sure that you're a High Priest with a base level of 99, or higher, and a job level 50 or higher. If not, the quest for Arch Bishop won't be available until you reach the requirement level.;
, After meeting the level requirement, you can now proceed to Prontera Sanctuary, which can be found in Prontera City. You can use Kafra Service to teleport there. Prontera Sanctuary is in the upper right of the city, the same place where you took your Priesthood quest.


Kafra employees can be found in any city. You can spot them by checking your mini map at the upper-right corner of the screen. Simply approach the icon that resembles a bag or treasure chest, indicating the Kafra employee's location.
Click on the Kafra to open a small window, showing you the services they offer.
Choose “Use Teleport Service.”
A list of locations will be available for you; choose the destination you wish to teleport to, in this case, Prontera City.
If you have saved a warp to Prontera, you may use that as well.
 Once you're inside Prontera Sanctuary, walk down the hallway until you find a mature-looking man with blond hair and wearing a beret. Talk to him and he will tell you about Odin and how a priest can become more better in serving him. Tell him that you're interested and wish to join the Holy Pilgrimage, only then he will tell you about a priest in Umbala.


Look for the priest in Umbala to continue your quest.
 In order for you to get in Umbala Village, you have to use the Kafra Service again. From Prontera's Kafra Teleport Service, teleport to Morroc. From Morroc, use the service again to teleport in Comodo. From Comodo, use the service once more and then choose Umbala.


Once you're in the Village, travel northeast from the Kafra employee then follow the path until you have reached the upper center of the village. There you will find Priest Dayan standing next to a Utah boy.
 Click on the priest and talk to him until a small window appears where you can type in your response. Type in “I'm here for the Holy Pilgrimage” (without a period at the end, no quotation marks too).


Dayan will explain to you about the tree of life, Yggdrasil, and tell you to enter the tree to pray.
 After talking to Priest Dayan, head north until you reach the red mark found on your mini map. This is where you can find the entrance to Yggdrasil, but before you enter the tree, make sure you have Holy Water with you.


If you don’t have any Holy Water with you, you can create one by using your Aqua Benedicta skill. This skill, however, requires you to stand on a water, and you should have at least one empty bottle in your inventory. Empty bottles can be obtained by killing a monster named Poring outside Prontera City.
 Once you have Holy Water in your inventory, enter Yggdrasil. Travel to east until you encounter the first fork and take the pathway that leads to north.


At the second fork, take the path that leads to south. Keep on walking until you reach the end of the branch.
 As soon as you reach the end of the pathway, a dialogue will automatically appear on your screen.


For the first question, select “Meditation” to proceed.
For the next question, you will be asked to confess your sin; you can type in anything you want at this point.
Keep on right-clicking “Next” until the dialogue is over, and then you will be automatically teleported out from Yggdrasil.
 Once teleported, you will be standing right in front of Priest Dayan. Talk to him, and he will explain to you your next objective.


You will need to travel to Hugel and look for a nun named Vinue.
 To see Sister Vinue, we have to travel to Hugel first.


From Umbala, use the Kafra service to return to Prontera and then use the same service there to teleport to Izlude.
Once you reach in Izlude, head south then follow the path until you reach the airship port. There will be a female NPC wearing a pink gown standing there.
Talk to her to get in the airship to travel to Hugel.
 After reaching Hugel, go south from the airship port to find the church. Inside you will find Vinue, a nun NPC, by the seats. Disturb her prayer to have her talk to you.


Once options appear, choose “Ask about her dream,” and she will tell you the details about a Valkyrie.
On the second set of options, choose “Investigate,” and she will tell you to approach the boatman to bring you to Odin's Temple.
 The boatman can be found outside the church. Just simply walk east until you find the small port.
 Once you reach the island, enter any of the portals found at the eastern part of the map. You will then be teleported to the next field where you can find an illusion of Valkyrie. As soon as you enter the field, check your mini map. You will notice that there's a mark blinking to the northeast.


Head northeast to find an NPC. Be careful when traveling in this map as there are many monsters. Use your Teleport skill whenever you can to avoid being mobbed. Once you reach the NPC, click on her to talk and then choose “Touch” to be teleported to a room.
The Valkyrie will explain to you about collecting the pieces of a broken pipe, but before that, you have to summon a Mercenary Valkyrie that will be provided to you. Check your inventory by pressing Alt + E on your keyboard and then double-click on the summoning scroll to call forth the Mercenary.
 The location of the broken pipes can be seen on your mini-map as blinking marks. Be careful when approaching the pieces as there will be monsters around it.


Once you reach the location, kill the Undead Valkyrie, and they will drop the pieces you need.
After you have gathered all the pieces, another mark will appear on your mini map. This Valkyrie will have your pipe fixed.
 After combining the pieces, the Valkyrie will ask you to climb the hill to meet the Final Valkyrie. Head to the center of the map and climb the hill until you find a black demon named Frus. Ignore him and move on until you reach the top of the hill where the Valkyrie is waiting for you.


Click the Valkyrie, and he will thank you for your hard work. Your job class will be changed to Arch Bishop, and you will be rewarded with a Headgear and a Green Apple Ring.

