 Children in wheelchairs often are segregated from other children, or may be singled out when they would rather just be treated like all the other children. As the parent or caretaker of a child in a wheelchair, it's part of your responsibility to stick up for them and their needs.Explain that just because the child may not be able to do things the same way able-bodied children can, that doesn't mean the child is incapable of doing those things alongside those children.
For example, you might say "Olivia would like to play in the sand with the other children rather than having a separate sand table. Do you think you could move them together so she could talk and play with them?"
Since every child in a wheelchair is different, and has different needs and abilities, a program that worked for one child may not work for this one. Both in education and in extra-curricular activities, encourage an individualized approach that takes the specific child into consideration.
Be ready to correct people who approach the child based on stereotypes or misunderstandings they have about disabled children. Insist that the child be included in the same kinds of activities that able-bodied children enjoy, rather than being segregated into events exclusively for children with "special needs." It is important to make your child feel as though they can do anything that an able-bodied child can do. This attitude will be invaluable to them as they go through life.
For example, suppose you're with a child in a wheelchair at a swimming class, and one of the instructors tells you that there's a different class with only handicapped children that she should take instead. You can say "I appreciate your concern, but there's no reason Bobby can't participate in the regular class. He only needs help getting in and out of the pool, and I'm here for that."

, Where possible, give the child choices when it comes to engaging in activities or pursuing interests, rather than simply taking them somewhere or giving them something to do. You can help a child in a wheelchair thrive by giving them some measure of control over their life.For example, you may give the child choices of three different toys to play with inside in the afternoon.
You also may want to give the child a choice of after-school activities. Give them a chance to explore their own interests by asking them questions and finding activities locally that they can do.
There are many non-profit organizations that provide grants and other financial assistance to children in wheelchairs who want to pursue particular activities, such as swimming or horseback riding, that might be too expensive otherwise. Check your local community center or public library to find resources, or do an internet search. You can also look into the Wheelchair Sports Federation to find out about different kinds of wheelchair sports that your child could get involved in., Often, when people see a child in a wheelchair, they want to help by doing things for them. A child in a wheelchair is perfectly capable of participating in activities in their own way and at their own pace.This also means teaching other children that they should let the child do things on their own rather than giving them too much help. People often assume that people in wheelchairs need help when they don’t and are not sure how much help to offer. Teach the child to ask for help when they need it, and tell others not to help unless the child in a wheelchair specifically asks. It will be very useful for your child to know how to ask for help when they need it and how to let others know when they don’t need help.
For example, if you hear another child offering to do something for the child in a wheelchair, you might say "Did Olivia ask you for help?" If the child says no, you can say "I appreciate that you want to help, but you have to let Olivia try to do it on her own. She knows now that she can ask you for help if she needs it."
Encourage the child to do as much as they can, recognizing that sometimes partial participation is appropriate. For example, the child may not be able to dress herself completely, but can hold her arms over her head and then pull the shirt or sweater down.
 A child in a wheelchair will thrive in an educational environment where they can move around with the same ease as able-bodied children. Since you understand the child's needs, you are well-positioned to work with the child's teacher, or with school administrators, to ensure the child gets the most they can out of every learning experience.Keep in close contact with the child's teachers, and let them know that if they have any questions or concerns they should talk to you directly.
Arrange to tour the classroom and other facilities the child will use during the school year so you can make suggestions for enhanced accessibility.
For example, you might recommend the teacher make the aisles between all the desks wider, not just the aisle next to the handicapped desk, so the child in a wheelchair can move to other parts of the room and work with other students.
 Depending on the child's specific disability and motor-skills development, the child may need special tools so they can participate in an activity designed for able-bodied children.For example, if the child has difficulty gripping things, you might want to put tape around crayons and markers so they are easier for the child to grasp and hold.
Even if the child has limited motor skills, you still want to make sure the things you provide for the child are age appropriate. For example, a child who has difficulty gripping crayons or markers shouldn't be given baby crayons. Rather, you adapt the regular crayons so that child can use them.
You might want to install edges on tables where the child is working or playing, or use a lid or a cookie sheet to keep loose items contained so they don't get scattered out of the child's reach.
If you're unsure how to adapt a particular activity, ask the child. Older children typically are able to help you brainstorm ideas that would enable them to participate.

