 A very important basic concept in chemistry is knowing which units to use and how to convert between different units. Know the standard units for temperature (Kelvin), mass (kilogram), length (meter), amount of substance (mole), time (second), and electric current (ampere).If you are given a temperature in degrees Celsius, you need to be able to convert to Kelvin: °C + 273 = °K.
Converting between metric units is also a necessary skill.
 Being able to write a proper chemical equation requires you not only to know the naming conventions, but also how to determine products given reactants. Writing chemical formulas is an essential skill for the JEE.Practice with many different types of examples to really master the concept.
 Stoichiometry is a concept that deals with determining the number of products and reactants in an equation. The mole is an essential component to stoichiometry and reaction. Balancing equations, limiting reagents, and percent yield are the three main aspects of stoichiometry.Balancing an equation makes sure that the laws of conservation are conserved.
In any reaction, there will be one reagent that is used up faster than the others. This is the limiting reagent and is important for chemical calculations.
No reaction is 100% efficient. The percent yield is the amount of product actually made compared to the theoretical yield.
 While there are aspects of chemistry where memorization won’t help, knowing the functional groups is not one of them. Being able to recognize a functional group instantly is crucial to your success on this exam.Make flashcards or practice writing them out every day.
 Memorizing organic chemistry reactions will not help you master this chemistry exam. A better way to approach these questions is to ask yourself which specific bonds are broken, and which specific bonds are formed.Knowing what happens makes it easier to determine how or why the reaction progressed.
 Isomerism means that each molecule is composed of the same elements, but they are arranged differently within the molecule. There are two types of isomerism: structural and stereo.Structural isomerism is when the molecular formula is identical but the structural formulas are different between molecules.
Stereoisomerism is when the molecules have identical structural formulas but different spatial arrangements.
 Know the sections of the periodic table that corresponds to S, P, D, and F elements. Have a working knowledge of the various trends in the physical properties and chemical properties of elements, along the periods and down the groups: transition metals, lanthanides, alkali metals, nonmetals, noble gases, etc.Focus your efforts on the co-ordination compounds and d-block elements.

