 Did you know that the majority of Muslim Americans are "middle class and mostly mainstream?" Islam, like the Christian and Judaic traditions, is very rich and broad. If you are affiliated with a religion, think about your experiences of being stereotyped as a result of the media attention given to fanatics of the faith. This might help you understand what it is like for the great majority of Muslims.;
, With 1.57 billion Muslims in the world,it's only natural that there will be vastly differing interpretations of Islam. Did you know, for example, that there are two main streams of the Islamic faith, Sunni and Shiite, which are quite different from each other? By gaining an understanding of this basic distinction, you will have already made great progress!


Note that the difference between the Sunni and Shiite traditions plays a very big role in the national politics of Islamic countries and in international relations as well. Understanding Islam better will not only help you relate to individual Muslims, but will also give you greater insight into the ways of our modern world.
 Do you know what Ramadan is? Check it out!


Ramadan is the ninth month of the Islamic calendar, and is observed by Muslims worldwide as a month of fasting to commemorate the first revelation of the Quran to Muhammad according to Islamic belief, Education and open curiosity are the keys to a greater understanding and acceptance of religious and cultural differences.


Some prominent and interesting figures you might want to look at are the American-born Hamza Yusuf and Muhammad Asad, an Austrian of Jewish decent who later became a co-founder of Pakistan and its ambassador to the UN.
Spend some time on contemporary Islamic websites and blogs that look at Islam from a variety of angles. Because online blogging is a very contemporary form of expression, you might find fresh perspectives and interesting, up-to-date discussions in this venue.
For perspectives from younger people, have a look at http://www.youtube.com/user/ummahfilms.
 The more you begin to understand perspectives and experiences other than your own, the more you can contribute to global tolerance and harmony.


One great way to understand international politics from a modern Islamic perspective is to consult the English-language Al Jazeera network.
 When you encounter someone in traditional Islamic attire, always keep in mind that underneath it all is a human being just like you. Focus on our commonality as humans to get past appearances. And remember, too, that people of the Islamic faith come in all sizes, shapes, and fashion trends!

, Most people love to share the experiences, beliefs, and customs of their faith without trying to "convert" you. Think about what you love and how much you enjoy talking about it. This is a great way to form healthy relationship with someone who has a different cultural background than you.
 This could be in the form of food, clothing, or deep thoughts on the nature of religion and society. Whatever the case, share, learn, and partake with generosity.
 Try to socialize with Muslim people in school, college, work etc. They may be the most friendly people you've ever met! And, not all Muslims are those fanatic types!

