 This article tries to give an overview about the suspected pharmacological function of inhibitory drugs of the central nervous system in humans. The central nervous system of humans is composed anatomically of the brain and the spinal cord. These two anatomical structures of the nervous system are continuous with each other through the foramen magnum that is an opening in the bones of the skull through which the brain stem passes through and becomes the spinal cord. This part of the nervous system is the target of inhibitory pharmacological drugs that are used to treat psychiatric as well as psychological disorders such as episodes of anxiety and of panic attacks. the normal physiological inhibitory neurotransmitter that is used to treat such psychological conditions is an atypical form of one amino acid that is called gamma-amino-butyric-acid or shortly GABA. This is the normal physiological compound in the body of humans that mediates the physiological inhibition of the function of the central nervous system.;
, Pharmacological drugs that are used to treat anxiety disorders and panic attacks have identical function to this neurotransmitter (GABA). This means that these drugs have inhibitory function on the transmission of sensory stimuli along the anatomical pathways of the central nervous system. the net result of the effect of these drugs is the induction of sedative effect on the person that administers these drugs. most inhibitory drugs of the central nervous system are pharmacological analogues of GABA that are agonists to its physiological function.
 The presumed function of these agonist drugs is through their binding to the natural cellular receptors of GABA within the neurons of the central nervous system that are located either in the spinal cord or within the brain tissue. The manner of pharmacological function of these agonist drugs is possible through several postulated mechanisms. One of them is their effect on the K+ ion channels in the sensory neurons that are responsible for the transmission of the arousing signal. By blocking the K+ ion channel the transmission of the stimulatory electric signal along the neurons of the nervous system is blocked. This is just one of several possible mechanisms for this blocking of the transmission of stimulatory signals along the neurons of the central nervous system.
 The other possible pharmacological effect of this blocking can be performed through the blocking of Cl- ion channels in the cellular membrane of the sensory neurons of the central nervous system.
, Its entry into the neurons can initiate an action potential within these neurons that can in turn lead to the propagation of sensory stimulatory signals into the central nervous system along its sensory neurons. By blocking the inflow of the Cl- ions into the neuronal cells the initiation of action potential in these cells is blocked and terminated. the clinical manifestations of this pharmacological effect of this type of drugs is the induction of sedative situation in the affected persons that administer these drugs.
 Also other clinical symptoms can include the tendency to initiate a state of sleeplessness due to the depression of the stimulatory cells of this nervous system. This is especially true of the sensory neurons of that are located at various sites along the spinal cord and in the brain. The activation of the autonomic nervous system at its sympathetic part can also induce anxiety states that are similar to those that are observed in the case of activation of the central nervous system. the mechanism of stimulation in both of these systems similar. However it uses different types of signaling molecules or neurotransmitters. also the role of each of these two nervous systems is different in mediating the sensory and motor functions of the various parts of the body.
 The central nervous system is mainly concerned with the brain and spinal cord functions such as mental cognition and memory processing. the autonomic nervous system on the other hand is concerned with the functions of the internal organs of the body that are usually under involuntary form of independent function. The types of neurotransmitters in these two different nervous systems are also different organic compounds. These organic compounds are epinephrine and norepinephrine in the case of the autonomic nervous system. they are both stimulators of the function of this part of the nervous system.
 Inhibitors of the function of this nervous system are usually synthetic pharmacological drugs that are produced in the pharmaceutical industry. The main neurotransmitter of the central nervous system is the GABA molecule or Gamma-Amino-Butyric-Acid. This only known neurotransmitter of the central nervous system is inhibitory in its pharmacological effect on the neurons of this nervous system. excitatory neurotransmitters of this part of the nervous system include synthetic compounds such as amphetamines and the naturally occurring glycine compound which is a typical amino acid that is one of the building blocks of most proteins in the body.

