 If the victim is not buried, and has vital signs (i.e. is breathing and has a heart beat), then proceed to give basic first aid. Remember to treat the person as if they have a spinal injury, to be safe.For severe bleeding, apply pressure to the wounded area. Apply a tourniquet proximal to the injury, i.e. closer to the body, by tightly tying a belt or strip of cloth above the area.
Only splint a broken extremity if you have to move the victim for their, or your, safety. Otherwise, keep the person still and calm until help arrives. Speak in a soothing voice and calmly tell them to keep still and that everything is okay.
Provide basic first aid by cleaning and covering wounds, if possible.
 In the event of a broken arm or leg or injured joint, try to apply a splint to minimize pain and further injury and make safe travel easier. Follow these basic guidelines for splinting an injured limb:Locate a strong, straight object to use as a splint. It can be a log, branch, rolled up towel, or anything else at your disposal. If using something from nature that may splinter, wrap it in extra clothing.
Gently wrap the injured limb in padding, such as extra clothes.
Apply the splint so it overlaps the joints above and below the injury. For instance, if the lower leg is injured, the splint should overlap both the knee and the ankle. Place the splint on the uninjured side of the limb (i.e. not over the injury), if possible.
Secure the splint with ties or tape above and below the joints. Do not tie something directly over the injury, and try not to tape directly on the victim’s skin.
Move the injured limb as little as possible.
If the person expresses pain, numbness, or tingling in the extremity after splinting, remove the splint and try again. Impeding blood flow with a splint can cause long-term damage to the limb.
 If the victim is unharmed enough to walk, assist them in leaving the area. Keep them as warm as possible by insulating them and using heating packs, removing wet clothes and replacing them, and giving them warm fluids to drink. Take them to the nearest hospital.


If help is on the way, stay where you are. They will be able to reach you quickly and will do a comprehensive exam on the victim to ensure they have no serious injuries you cannot see. Only evacuate if you are unable to contact emergency services.
If you need to move to a safer location, help the injured person walk by supporting their weight on the side of their injury.
If the person must be dragged to safety, pull them by both ankles with equal tension to keep their spine straight. Use your body weight to pull them to avoid hurting yourself.If they have leg injuries, lift their arms over their heads and pull them from below their elbows.

