 Just be yourself when you want to interact with your crush. You don't want to build your relationship off of lies and pretending to be someone you're not, so let your personality shine through. Sometimes, when you stuck about things to talk about, ask your crush about themselves or give them a compliment. You can say something like, "What sports do you like to play?" or "You did really good on your presentation today."


The easiest subjects to talk about with your crush are things you have in common, like classes, places you've traveled, or favorite restaurants. Talking about things you have in common will lighten the mood and help you relax.
 Touching anybody is a sign of closeness. So, a subtle way to express to your crush that you like them is to break the touch barrier. Light touches are the best way to go to get your message across without coming off too strong.


For example, if you’re talking with your crush or passing by them, you can give them a light touch on the upper arm. If you’re sitting next to your crush, you can casually let your feet or knees touch every once and smile to show your feelings.
Just a little bit physical attention will let your crush know that you like them. Touching you crush lightly just once or twice during a conversation is sufficient enough to let your crush know how you're feeling.
 It can sometimes be hard to verbalize your feelings to someone you like, so writing a love letter is an easy way to express how you feel without having to do it in person. Just like in the previous method, begin your letter by stating your inspiration for writing the letter.


For instance, you can begin with, "I've really enjoyed getting to know you better over these past couple of months..." or "I just wanted to let you know that over this past year, you have become one of my best friends...”
In our day and age of technology, typing out a text message or Facebook message is easy. Writing a letter by hand is more sincere and requires a bit more effort. Because of the added effort, your gesture is that much more appealing to your crush.
 You letter can start off casual, and you can write about a few inside jokes that the two of you have together or fun times that you've experienced together. From there, you can dive right in, and explain the reason for the letter, telling your crush you have feelings for them. You can say something like, "I just wanted to tell you that I like you, and I really like hanging out with you."


Keep it short and sweet. You don't want to go too much into how much you like your crush or why, before you have your answer as to how they feel about you.
 Pick a place that's stress-free where it would be appropriate to talk alone, make eye contact, and simply tell your crush how you feel. You can make some small talk, but after a while jump right in and tell them how you feel. You can give a compliment or two while your telling your crush how you feel. For example, "I really like you. Nobody makes me laugh like you do."


After you tell your crush how you feel, give them time to react and process what you've said. Don't immediate ask them how they feel or what they think.
You don't want to come off too intense. Give your crush some time to react and respond, and try not to put the pressure on them.
 Once you say how you feel, your crush will either say that they share your feelings, or want to just stay friends. If your crush shares your feelings don't be afraid to your excitement. It's okay to be silly and giddy after you and your crush tell each other how you feel. If your crush just wants to be friends, be mature and say something like, "Okay, I just wanted to let you know." It will hurt, but you always want to leave a good impression. Although you will be upset, try to act like it wasn't a big deal, and wait until you have some privacy to be sad about it.


Once you know your crush likes you back, you can ask your crush on a casual date by offering to go see a movie together, or catch a baseball game. This will offer up some time for the both of you to get to know each other better.
If your crush doesn't share your feelings, at least you had the confidence to take a chance. There are plenty of other opportunities to find someone right for you.

