 You must meet certain academic requirements to win a soccer scholarship. Once you are in college, you will need to continue to meet these requirements to maintain the scholarship.The grade point average requirements for a soccer scholarship depend on the school. For example, an Ivy League school will have higher score requirements than most other schools.
Even as a star recruit, if you do not meet the academic standards set by the school you will not be eligible for a scholarship.
 Now that you have a list of schools that you are interested in being recruited by, you will need to make sure that you are a strong applicant to the school. Like all college applicants, potential student athletes are required to meet the standards that the school has set for their admitted students. These will most likely include a threshold for your grade point average, your scores on standardized tests, strong recommendation letters, and application essays.


Most universities include this information on their websites. Look for admitted student profiles and statistics about the academic scores of their most recent students. A guidance counselor at your high school can also help you find this information.
 If your grades or standardized test scores do not meet the eligibility requirements for a soccer scholarship, you need to raise your grade point average. A tutor can help you target areas that you struggle with and give one on one support.


A writing tutor can help you to strengthen your application essays and personal statements.
If you are struggling in a particular class or subject, ask your teacher for additional help.
 Social media has changed the way that high school students are accepted to college and how athletes are recruited. Keep your social media profiles private but be aware that you may be found through your friend’s profiles.Never post content on your social media that can be interpreted as discriminatory. As a college athlete, you will represent your university. Universities do not want to recruit young athletes who could jeopardize the school’s reputation. This can disqualify you as a recruitment candidate.
 During the recruiting process, you will be evaluated as a person and not just as an athlete. Coaches want to know that you are able to fit in on a team and that you follow the law.


Do not drink alcohol underage. Never post pictures or content on your social media profiles that suggest that you are drinking alcohol underage.
Do not use any illegal drugs. Beyond risking criminal conviction, you may be drug tested before a college will finalize your soccer scholarship.

