 If you shiver, look down or act nervous, it would make them happy because they wanted this reaction. But if you just stand up straight, with your head held high and a fearless mind, they'll know that you are tougher than they expected.;
, Every time they bully you, don't look at them, like a dog is barking for no reason. Try to listen to music, talk to somebody or even simply walk away. This will drive them insane, because they want your respect. If you show them that you don't have much respect for them and don't consider them important, they'll stop being desperate. Give them one word answers if they ever try to bully you. This would make them look more like an attention seeker and this shows you are busy. This means, say something short and sweet which would end the conversation. Like, "Okay", "Thanks", or, "Gotta go".
 If you do this, they'll be more upset.
 This will stop the conversation. They may say, "You're so not welcome". Then just give a huge grin and repeat, "Thanks", again.
 Okay, this is tough, especially when they disrespect you, but just try harder. And the worse the insult, the harder you try to laugh.
 Since they are busy bullying, next time you get A+, smile at them and ask theirs. This will make them very upset.
 They may bully you because for them, you are a nerd or it could even be that they are jealous of you because you look perfect. But never care. Stay the way you are unless otherwise their point may be useful for you. Try taking their insults to improve yourself (if you feel you are a nerd). For example: If they comment on your hair, say, "Thanks. I wish you looked at me yesterday, it was even more messier", and go for hair straightening, go shopping for trendy outfits.
, This is hard, because they make you jealous every time. But, just show them that you are very happy, have a lot of friends, you never find anything in them to be jealous of.
 You can do this by talking to their best friends, flirting with their crush, making a great impression in front of teachers, winning competitions, etc.
