 Change the position that you sit in throughout the day. Stand up once or twice every hour to get a drink, get fresh air, or do tasks standing up, giving your back muscles time to relax. This can keep you from becoming stiff or tense. Take frequent short breaks rather than fewer longer ones, as this is better for your back., In general, the best way to prevent and recover from back pain is to stay active. If your back hurts, but you are able to go about your daily activities, resist the urge to stay in bed or on the couch. Maintain mobility, keep the muscles in use, and, if need be, take over the counter pain medication. Long-term rest will actually set you back, weakening your back muscles and making it harder to resume your normal tasks.Be sure to include physical activity in your routine, as well. One of the biggest things you can do to prevent back pain is to keep your back and its muscles strong through regular exercise. Most governments recommend getting at least 150 minutes of moderate exercise per week, spread throughout the week, along with strength training twice a week. Some exercises will specifically strengthen your back, specifically swimming, walking, and stretches that target your core muscles., Believe it or not, many back problems start with the feet and our shoes, because they affect the way that we walk. They are like the “foundation” of a building, our body. Bad shoes, like high-heels, can cause or exacerbate lower back pain, for example. Make sure that your shoes give your feet and back ample support, particularly if your job requires you to be on your feet for much of the day. Wear shoes that have rigid heels and mid-soles, like sneakers. Insoles and shoe inserts are also helpful., Sleep will always help in the healing process. It is the same for your back issues, particularly if you use a supportive mattress. Some clinical data suggests that a medium-firm mattress – not a hard mattress – provides more back relief. Find a mattress that supports the natural curves of your spine, as well. This should help you also to avoid soreness in the morning.Another suggestion is to put a pillow under your knees. Raising your knees slightly eases pressure on your back while you sleep, in fact it as much as halves it.