 The easiest way to present yourself as an educated person is to, in fact, be educated. Knowledge truly is power in this instance, so try to know at least a little bit about may different topics, if you can. It may take some time to develop your knowledge, and you may not be proficient in everything. Some ways to educate yourself include:


Learning a foreign language, or select words in other languages. Try learning how to say “please,” “thank-you,” and “you're welcome” in several different languages. They are easy to slip into conversation.
Keep up on news and current events. Follow your favorite news station, paper, or online news aggregate site. Knowing what is currently going on in the world will help you to appear “worldly” and knowledgeable.
Research areas of interest. If you'd like to be perceived as intelligent or educated to a particular group of people, research what is of interest to that group. Better yet would be to research areas that you are interested in.
 A misconception of being educated is that an educated person “knows everything” when in reality, educated individuals are always questioning and always learning. In your effort to be perceived as more intelligent, try not to build a false image of yourself or pretend to be something you are not. You will be viewed as more intelligent if you ask questions and are interested in learning new things.


If someone asks you a question that you do not know the answer to, it is perfectly acceptable to say, “I don't know, but I would be really interested to find out what the answer is, that's a great question!”If someone else is speaking, you can always add, “That's fascinating! I have to admit I haven't had a great deal of experience with that, can you tell me more about...”

, You do not always have to be the one speaking in order to be viewed as educated. It can be conveyed in how you act, as well. Make an effort to listen attentively. This will help you to completely understand what the other person is saying before offering your view or asking questions to further the conversation. A good rule, especially in a conversation with multiple people is to be listening twice as often as you are speaking.


A great way to convey your attention (and according to one study, your intelligence) is to make eye contact with the speaker. When offering your view, always leave it open for further intellectual discussion with phrases such as, "Correct me if I'm wrong, but..." or "Do you agree?"
When asking questions, try and use words or phrases that show your knowledge of the topic. If someone is speaking about a school or university and you'd like to know if they went there, ask "Is that your alma mater?" or "Did you attend their graduate program for your masters or your doctorate?"

, Remembering your manners will show respect for others and give you the appearance of being socially educated in the proper ways of conversation. Acting courteous to others will also illustrate the confidence you have in yourself and help you show that to others. Exhibiting confidence through your personality, style, and charisma, is viewed as the trait of a smarter individual.Being courteous includes:


Greeting others politely, with a smile.
Taking the care to be prompt and on time.
Not interrupting others while they are speaking.
Saying "hello," "please," "thank you," "sorry," and "excuse me."

, Try and keep a divide between your emotional reactions, especially strong, negative ones, and your conversation. It is good to be excited and passionate in what you are talking about as it is viewed as an important factor in appearing smart.Getting easily angry, exhibiting outbursts, or becoming combative; however, are not regarded as qualities of the educated individual. Staying in a positive, calm demeanor, shows that you are above having simple arguments and instead prefer intellectual discussion.

