 Being intimately familiar with the ins and outs of your chosen football league is the first step to winning at fantasy football. The more games you watch, the more information you’ll have to work with in your fantasy football league.

Learn to watch with an eye for player performance. Take note of players that got lots of yards in the games, who are able to consistently generate points due to great performance instead of dumb luck, and you’ll see which players have the potential to bring in the most fantasy football points in the long run.
Stay moderately sober while watching. DraftKings will automate the scoring for you, but you’ll actually need to understand what you’re watching if you want to grab information that’ll help you win at fantasy football.;
, There’s a DraftKings rule set for the NFL (draftkings.com/help/nfl) and there’s a rule set for the CFB (draftkings.com/help/cfb). Study them so that you know which specific player actions will translate to points on the DraftKings app. This will also help you pick players that will haul in the most points for your DraftKings lineups, especially since teams that win the NFL don’t necessarily translate to winning DraftKings contests.

A distinct scoring system for defensive plays is the biggest difference between the NFL and the CFB in the scoring system for DraftKings. DraftKings awards points for defensive actions in the NFL, such as blocked punts and preventing the attacking team from scoring any points at all. On the other hand, DraftKings will only dole out points for offensive actions in the CFB, such as passing touchdowns or rushing/receiving/passing yards.
Note that you get 3 bonus points whenever a player on your lineup passes 300 yards, receiving 100-plus yards, and rushing 100-plus yards. This is one reason to invest any surplus salary on elite players who manage to consistently reach these yards throughout their games.
 One of the biggest mistakes you can make in fantasy football is to form a lineup based not on their in-game performance but on your personal preferences. If you want a fantasy lineup that will actually win, then you need to set aside both your fan favorites and despised rivals. Pick players that will perform best given the circumstances at any given game week., Your objective is not to pick a lineup that will win the league but a lineup that will bring in the most points. Winning at fantasy football involves picking a lineup that will accrue the most points in any given game, with individual performance determining the points that will pop up on your DraftKings app., Fantasy points per game (FPPG) and opponent rank versus position (OPRK) are good reference points for drafting your initial lineup. From here on out though, you need to do research on the players you are considering for your fantasy lineup. A quick Google search will lead you to various articles and opinion pieces on that particular player; offering even more insight on his potential performance in future games., This will give you enough time to modify your team should something unforeseen happen to your lineup, like injuries or transfers. This will also help prevent you from submitting an early lineup and then totally forgetting about it until after the game is over. Submitting your lineup around an hour or even half an hour before the games will also serve to hype you up so that you play close attention to the performance of your picks. DraftKings will close lineups five minutes before the game is scheduled to begin. Finalizing your lineup about an hour or half an hour before the game starts is doable if you’ve done your research beforehand to confidently lock-in your lineup before the time limit is up.
You will also have the option to make late swaps in mid-afternoon games and beyond. This will help you fill out positions that were emptied out due to the player not being able to play for one reason or another. Late swaps also let you balance risk to either recover from unexpectedly weak performances or switch to safer picks if your lineup has performed much better than you anticipated., When you finalize your lineup, you absolutely must watch your players as they play their respective games. Compare their in-game performance to the stats on the DraftKings app, and you’ll be able to better determine if you’ll pick that player up in future games or if you’ll drop him for another, better-performing player.

Be especially mindful of fatigue and injuries accrued during games. An injured player or one that has already been through multiple games will doubtlessly perform less optimally than when they are in tip-top condition.
Again, note how consistently they perform in their matches. A player that accrues points through consistent yards or tackles is a more valuable than a player who scores a lucky touchdown only once and then does little else throughout the game.
 Sleepers are players that perform surprisingly well despite being ranked low and ignored by most fantasy football managers. If you successfully pick a sleeper that nobody else picked up, then you stand to gain more points than your competitors.

This step involves an absurd amount of research, gut instinct and a dash of luck. If you commit the time and the effort though, you’ll eventually start picking up patterns in player performance (and even player attitude) that may indicate their sleeper status.
 The free contests cost nothing to enter and are the perfect training grounds for you to test out your lineups without having to worry about losing money or losing face., Remember that fantasy football is a game not just of the mind but of the heart. Have fun picking out your fantasy lineup on the DraftKings app, and you’ll find it a lot easier to skim through all the stats and numbers to pick that lineup that’ll bring you victory on game-day!