 Sand both sides with 180-grit sandpaper, working with the grain of the plywood 3 to 4 times in each section of the surface, front and back. Repeat the process with 200 or 220-grit sandpaper.


Sweep away the dust with a brush. Wipe the surface thoroughly with a tack cloth.
Apply your spray adhesive to the front surface of the plywood. Adhere the 2-inch (5-cm) foam to the surface. Follow the adhesive package directions on application and drying time to make sure you have optimal adhesion.
Your foam is not likely to cover the entire surface right out of the package. You may need to glue pieces side by side, either vertically or horizontally, in order to cover the entire area.
 Plug it in and then place it flush with the edge of the plywood before turning it on. Work around the perimeter slowly, making a headboard with a clean, professional shape.
 Batting is a material used to stuff quilts, pillows and comforters. Trim the batting so there are 6 inches (15 cm) of extra batting on each side.
 Lay on your back below the plywood. Ask a friend to hold down the batting to prevent wrinkling as you begin to affix it to the back side of your headboard.
 Pull the batting tight over the edge of the headboard and then staple it to the back side. Repeat this process every inch (2.54 cm) until you have stapled around the entire back edge of the plywood.


When you staple the corners, create a fold of batting on either side of the corner and pull down. This is similar to how you would wrap the end of a present. Pull taught and affix with 3 to 4 staples. Trim off any excess batting.
 Lay it evenly, so that there is an excess of 2 to 4 inches (5 to 10 cm) all the way around the back of the plywood. If you need to stitch more than 1 piece of faux leather together, you can do this by hand or with an upholstery needle on a sewing machine.
 Move around the sides of the fabric, leaving the corners for later. Pull the fabric taught, but not so tight that the fabric starts to buckle.


Return to the corners when you have done the sides. Pull 1 side of the fabric at the corner and staple it down on the edge of either side of the corner. Fold the fabric at the corner and pull it taught. Staple it at a 90 degree angle. You should have a corner with 1 clean fold over it. Repeat at each corner.
If you have rounded corners, you will need to create hospital corners. Staple until you get to the curve. Pinch the leather in the center of the curve and pull it down. Staple it in place. Pinch and pull down the leather in a clean line at either end of the curve. Staple around the curve 4 to 5 times.
 Screw a flush mount hanger to the back side of your headboard. Screw the other end to the wall, preferably to a stud and lift it into place.

