 Before you begin cooking, make sure that you have the following ingredients: 1 cup butter, 2 cups granulated sugar, 2 eggs, 1 teaspoon vanilla extract, 5 cups all-purpose flour, 1 ½ teaspoons baking powder, 1 teaspoon baking soda, ½ teaspoon salt, ¼ cup 2% milk.This recipe should make about eight dozen cookies.
Make sure that the butter is room temperature.
 Turn on the oven and set it to 350 degrees Fahrenheit (177 degrees Celsius). If the oven is too hot or too cold, you will not get the crispy texture you desire., In a large bowl, mix the butter and sugar until light and fluffy. Once the butter is creamed, mix in the eggs one at a time, followed by the vanilla. This should only take a few minutes with a stand mixer or handheld mixer.Make sure that the butter is softened but not melted.
 In small bowl, combine the flour, baking powder, baking soda, and salt. Once they are thoroughly mixed, add a little of it to the butter mix. Alternate adding the flour mix and the milk until fully incorporated.Remember to mix slowly at first and speed up as the dough constitutes.
 Leave the dough in the mixing bowl and cover it with a cloth or plastic wrap. Place it in the refrigerator for 15 to 30 minutes, or until it is easily malleable. The dough should be relatively dense., Remove the dough from the refrigerator and place it on a floured surface. Using a rolling pin, roll out the dough to a 1/8th inch thickness. Use cookie cutters to cut out the shapes you want.Getting the right thickness when you roll out the dough will help you get a crispier cookie.
 Grease a baking sheet or cover it in parchment paper. Then place the cut out cookies about two inches apart on the sheets.If the cookies are too close together, they will melt to each other. Plus the edges might not get crispy.
 Place the cookies in the oven for about 10 minutes or until the edges are light brown.Cooking time may vary depending on taste and oven.
 Once baked, remove the cookies from the oven and leave them on the sheets to cool. This will ensure that they get nice and crispy.Once they have cooled, you can also ice the sugar cookies. Waiting until the cookies are cool with ensure that your icing does not melt and run.

