 Dogs have different temperaments and different energy levels. When you’re just starting out with dancing, pick a song or selection of music, that is compatible with your dog’s energy level and enthusiasm. Start by picking music that lasts only 1 to 2 minutes.For example, if you have a very high-energy dog, you may need to pick music that has a fast beat. Whereas, if you have a low-energy dog, you may need to pick music that has a slower beat.
 Once you’ve selected the appropriate music, figure out what specific tricks and moves you want to perform with the music. If this is your first time creating a dance routine with your dog, keep it simple. Once you’ve selected the move, and the order you want to perform the moves, break the whole routine down into smaller, more manageable chunks.Each chunk, or section, of the routine should include only a small number of tricks. If it’s a difficult trick, you may want to break that into a chunk of its own.
 If you’re planning a routine for competition, or you want to add a little drama to a routine for other purposes, start your routine with a pause and not movements. The purpose of the pause is to provide the audience with a split-second picture of you and your dog together., For routines in competitions, you’ll have a limited amount of space to perform, but you will need to use as much of it as possible. When travelling across the dance floor, you should move in all possible directions — forwards, backwards, sideways, diagonally, in circles, and angles., Parts of your routine should include movements where you stand still and your dog moves on his own. These parts offer a great opportunity to showcase your dog and his abilities.If you’re planning a routine for competitive purposes, check the rules to make sure such movements are allowed. Some organizations require the human to continue moving throughout the routine.
The opposite of this step should be avoided, where a part of your routine requires the dog to stay still and the human to be the only one moving. Your dog should always be the centre of attention.
 Every routine should end with you and your dog at ‘centre stage’ or the centre of the dance floor. If you’re preparing a routine for competition, you should also make sure you end your routine facing the judges. If your routine is simply for an audience, then you should end your routine facing the main portion of that audience.Once the music has ended, step forward and bow to the judges or the audience. Pause for a moment and then move

, Once you have your routine broken down into small pieces, practice each individual section with your dogs. In order not to overwhelm your dog, practice each section in the order they’re to be performed. Once your dog has mastered one section, move onto the next section, until you’ve practiced the whole routine.Even though you may move on from one section to another, you’ll want to keep practicing all the previous sections with your dog periodically.
At this stage of development, you’ll probably want to practice without the music.
Try to practice a part of the routine at least once a day.

