 Use a vacuum that employs a HEPA filter or another small-pore, multi-layered vacuum bag designed to help trap allergens. Vacuums with motorized heads are also recommended, as they are better at capturing the dust that the vacuum agitates. Be sure to get into every nook and cranny in your room each time you vacuum.Vacuum any carpeted areas in your home twice a week, making sure to slowly vacuum the entire surface. If someone who is not asthmatic is able to do so for you, have them do so when you are not around. If you must do the vacuuming yourself, wear a face mask while you do so.
If you have the option, get rid of the carpeting and have hardwood floors in your bedroom.;
, Ideally, use a damp microfiber cloth to dust every hard horizontal surface in the room. The dampness of the cloth helps you capture particles, as opposed to simply agitating them back into the air.Don't forget hidden and hard to reach spots. For instance, if you keep items on shelves, remove them to dust behind them — and dust the item itself, too.
 Carpeting, especially wall-to-wall carpeting, should be removed from any room in which an asthmatic person sleeps. In fact, you may want to remove wall-to-wall carpeting from your entire home, as carpeting is a haven for the allergens that can trigger your asthma. Replace with wood, vinyl, or tile flooring, and mop the floor weekly.Wash any small rugs once a week in hot water.
 Any window coverings you use in your bedroom should be easy to remove and wash. Simple coverings that do not need to be dry cleaned are ideal. Wash in hot water.Remove blinds from your bedroom, as they are especially proficient at catching and collecting dust.
Avoid coverings with heavy material or deep folds, such as Venetian blinds.
 Remove anything upholstered — such as furniture or pillows — from your bedroom. Further, do not use your bedroom for storage. Boxes of knickknacks and stacks of books often collect particles that can trigger your asthma. Even picture frames and houseplants are best kept in another room.Do not leave piles of clothes around your room.
If there is a closet in your bedroom, use it only for clothing. Always dust and vacuum the closet whenever cleaning the bedroom.
Never hang clothes in your bedroom or closet before they are fully dry.
 Anything hung on the wall of your bedroom risks gathering dust and other potential triggers. This includes things like frames, wreaths, tapestries, and even posters. Structural adornments such as shelves are particularly problematic, as they are effectively dust collectors. In short, the less on your walls, the better., Not only may your pet be a source of asthma triggers, they may also carry triggers into your bedroom. Pet dander also provides ample food for dust mites. Put their bed outside your room and never allow them on your bed.Brush and groom your pets outdoors and wash them weekly.

