


Keep your stove and oven clean, especially watching for grease accumulation.
Check stove vent hoods, clean the filter regularly, and make sure that if it is equipped with an exterior vent, insects or birds do not build nests or otherwise impede the air flow through it.
Check the power cords for your appliances. Look for missing grounding prongs on the plugs and damaged insulation, and replace or repair them if defects are found.
Keep the lint trap and outside vent clean in your clothes dryer. Some dryers have internal ductwork which may become clogged and require servicing, so if the dryer is operating poorly, have it checked. Lint or other material collecting near the heat coils in clothes dryers is extremely dangerous. Stay nearby while using the dryer. Have a smoke alarm and fire extinguisher nearby. If you must leave the area for a minute, turn off the dryer. After all, you are not going to be away long, and you can immediately turn the dryer on when you return.



Keep flammable materials (curtains, the couch) a safe distance (usually 3 feet) from portable heaters.
Set heaters where they are not in the traffic flow of the room.
As a rule, extension cords are not recommended with space heaters. Small, low wattage heaters may be an exception, but check the manufacturer's recommendations prior to using an extension cord with one. Be safe, just don't use extension cords.
Use space heaters only on solid, firm surfaces. They should never be placed on tables, chairs or other places where they may tip over. Replace old space heaters with ones that will automatically turn off if tipped over.
Do not drape fabric over lamps to dim them. Either buy a lower wattage bulb, or turn the lamp off.
 An overheated cord is like an out-of-control electric heater.



Inspect the fire box (hearth) for cracks, damaged sheet metal (for inserts) and other hazards.
Use glass fire doors or a wire mesh spark screen to prevent embers from popping out of the fireplace.
Burn dry, seasoned wood to prevent creosote buildup in the chimney. Note that some woods, like cedar, pop excessively when burned, and should not be used in an open fireplace.
Remove ash and unscorched wood only when there are no embers or sparks in the fire box. Place ash in a metal (not a plastic bucket) and place outside away from any buildings.
Have your chimney inspected and cleaned at least once a year.



Keep gasoline, paint thinners, and other highly flammable liquids or materials in UL approved containers and out of the house.
Do not store any flammable liquid in a garage or utility room with that has a pilot light equipped appliance in use in it. Be safe, keep these items outdoors, or in a separate outbuilding.
 Often, foot traffic, moving furniture, and other hazards damage these cords, causing a potential for a fire. Holiday decorations are often lit for weeks with these cords, and if you are using them, use a high quality cord with a sufficient rating for the intended purpose.

