 Doing this allows you to set your body’s clock and create discipline. Humans are creatures of habit, so getting up and going to sleep at the same times each day normalizes your routine. Additionally, this habit improves the quality of sleep over time, so you’ll wake feeling more rested and alert.Depending on your age, you'll need to get between six and ten hours of sleep each night. Ask your doctor how much sleep you should be getting to fully rejuvenate your mind and body.
Stop hitting snooze. Each time you do, you'll be interfering with your body's natural sleep cycle and making it more difficult to wake up.;
, Don’t get right out of bed and start an assignment. Instead, give your brain time to wake up. Take a shower, go for a walk, or do yoga. Whatever you want to do to get your blood flowing, and make you feel more awake and alert once you start on your assignments., Set repeating alarms on your cell phone, and change subjects or take breaks at the same times each day. Again, this will get you in the habit of staying on task. If there’s a subject you’re not very fond of, reminding yourself that you only need to study or work on an assignment in that subject for a specific length of time can make you feel more positive about getting through your tasks., You can organize these in whatever way works for you. For instance, create a list of assignments you need to complete each day or for each subject. You can write these down or add them in a calendar, Word document, or other form of digital file. Whatever form of to do list you choose, make sure to periodically review the items, and mark off those you’ve completed., Exercise releases endorphins, boosts energy, and helps you concentrate. Even if it’s something as simple as taking the dog for a walk in the morning or standing up and doing some stretches, exercise can help you stay on task and get your work done. You should do a few stretches or at least walk around a bit during every break.


If you're sitting for long periods of time, you need to stand up to allow blood to flow through your body and improve energy.
Move your shoulders forward and back to remove tension that can build up there.
Stretch hands and arms to avoid a repetitive motion injury, especially if you've been typing for several hours.

