 Slip a hair tie onto your wrist. Gather your hair into a high ponytail. Hold your hair with the hand that has the hair tie around it. Use your free hand to pull the hair tie off, and wrap it 2 to 3 times around your ponytail.









Use a brush or comb to get your ponytail as smooth as possible.
Choose a hair tie that matches your hair color.
 Take a thin section from the ponytail, close to the hair tie. Wrap it around the base of the ponytail to hide the hair tie. Secure the strand with a bobby pin.








Choose a bobby pin that matches your hair color.
 Pull a strand of hair from the top-right corner of your ponytail, right next to the hair tie. The strand should be no thicker than your finger.








You can start from the left side if you'd prefer, but you'll need to reverse everything in this method.
 Divide the strand into three thinner strands. Cross the left strand over the middle one. Next, cross the right strand over the new middle strand.Stop.
 Take a thin strand of hair from the top-left side of your ponytail, right under the elastic. Bring it tightly across the front of your ponytail, and add it to the left strand of the braid.Your left strand show now be thicker.









Unlike the regular laced braid, you want to pull this strand tighter. This will help create a spiral effect.
 Make sure that you are pulling the entire stand over. Don't let any hairs from that thin strand escape. This technique is similar to French braiding.
 Add a thin section of hair from the left side of your ponytail to the left strand each time you cross it. Do not add any hair to the right strand. Each time you add the thin strand to your braid, pull it a little tighter. This will cause the braid to move across your ponytail., Once the lace braid reaches the left side of your ponytail, stop. Braid the three strands as normal without adding any thin strands to it. After 4 to 5 crossovers, stop.
 Hold the braid in one hand. Pass it under your ponytail. Grab hold of it with your other hand. You should now be back where you started, a few inches down.
 Lace braid the three strands, until they reach the left side of your ponytail. Normal braid the three strands 4 to 5 times, then pass them under your ponytail. Keep doing this until you reach the end.
 Choose a hair tie that matches your hair color. Wrap it around the bottom of your ponytail, including the braid an ponytail itself.








You can conceal the elastic by wrapping a strand of hair around it. Secure the strand of hair with a bobby pin that matches your hair color.

