 More sugar will result in more alcohol as long as the yeast can process it all. If you want a weaker batch (less alcohol) you can use less sugar. As a general guide, each packet of yeast will have directions that indicate how much sugar can be used.If making two batches, be sure to use twice as much yeast (two packets).
 Mix the sugar into a pot of warm water to dissolve it. You can use tap water or bottled water. The water should be about 90 °F (32 °C). Use roughly 13 to 17 kilograms (29 to 37 lb) of sugar., When all of the sugar has been dissolved, carefully pour the sugar and water solution into the plastic bucket or glass carboy that you are using as a fermentation vessel. For a 7.5 gallon (28 L) vessel, pour 1.5 to 2 gallons (5.7 to 7.6 L) of solution. This sugar will be broken down by the yeast to produce alcohol.It is not necessary to sterilize the sucrose solution before fermenting, but if desired this can be done by boiling the sucrose solution for fifteen to twenty minutes. Take into account that some of the water will evaporate, so add a little more water before boiling.
 Open the yeast packet and dump the yeast into the sugar water solution. If using a plastic bucket, stir to get an even mixture. Use a sanitized, dry funnel to help prevent a mess when adding the yeast to the narrow opening of a carboy.Use one packet of yeast. More yeast can speed up the process, but it will not lead to a better yield of alcohol.
Do not put the yeast into the sugar water until it has cooled. If the water is too hot it will kill the yeast.
 In the first days of fermentation, the yeast will expend most of its energy multiplying itself. Since this process requires oxygen, leave the lid off for the first 24 hours. If you cut off oxygen to the yeast immediately, the fermentation process will take much longer and may proceed sluggishly., If using a plastic bucket, tightly push the lid onto the bucket so that an airtight seal is formed. This may be somewhat difficult, and may require some leverage. An air tight seal is necessary for proper fermentation.Fermentation is an anaerobic (lacking oxygen) process.
 If you haven’t already, push the airlock into the lid if using a plastic bucket. If using a carboy, now is the time to push the airlock through a drilled rubber stopper and fit the stopper snugly in the mouth of the carboy. Add clean water or vodka to the inside of the airlock so that carbon dioxide can be released from the fermenting solution while air is kept out. The drop in available oxygen will cause the yeast to stop multiplying and start producing ethanol and carbon dioxide., Keep the ambient temperature 70 to 80 °F (21 to 27 °C). This temperature will promote optimum performance from the yeast. It should take about two to ten days for the yeast to produce alcohol. The time required will vary depending on the type of yeast used, and on how much sugar was added. It will take longer to completely ferment more sucrose., The airlock will bubble a lot during active fermentation. The bubbling will slow as fermentation slows, and stop completely when all or most of the sucrose has been fermented. If you are unsure, leave the batch for another day or two. Once the fermentation is over, it is time to purify the alcohol.

