 If you have just heard of One Direction, find out about the band's past. A fan knows a little of the band's history, but a Directioner knows all. It's important to know some basic facts, as well as some little known facts too! Here are ten interesting facts about One Direction and the members:


Louis Tomlinson is the oldest member of the band, being born on December 24th, 1991. Liam Payne is the 2nd and his birthday is on August 29th, 1993. Niall Horan was born on September 13th, 1993. Harry Styles is the youngest member of One Direction, and February 1st, 1994 is his birthday.
Harry Edward Styles, Liam James Payne, Niall James Horan and Louis William Tomlinson are their full names.
Louis is a Capricorn, Harry is an Aquarius, Niall and Liam are Virgos.
One Direction was created in 8:22 p.m., on July 23rd, 2010 via The X-Factor. Harry, Niall, Zayn, Louis and Liam auditioned for the show in 2010 as single artists. Unfortunately, they got eliminated during boot camp, but Simon Cowell still kept them in the show as a group. They came to finish in 3rd place on the show.
Liam Payne auditioned before for the X-Factor in 2008, when he was 14. Simon Cowell told him to re-audition two years later. Liam also has one kidney, so he doesn't drink alcohol. However, on August 7th, 2012, Liam tweeted that an ultrasound gave positive results on his kidney that wasn't functioning properly and it's fixed.
As of March 25th 2015, Zayn is not a member of the band but his reasons are understandable and hopefully you'll support him despite this. He has, however, started a solo career in 2016, best known for his debut single "Pillowtalk".
As of August 2016, Liam is dating Cheryl Cole and Louis, Niall, Harry are not dating anyone at the moment.
Louis has a son named Freddie Reign Tomlinson, born January 21, 2016. Freddie's mother is a LA-based stylist named Briana Jungwirth.
The members auditioned as solo artists for The X-Factor with these songs: Niall Horan- So Sick, Liam Payne- Cry Me a River, Louis Tomlinson- Hey There Delilah, Zayn Malik- Let Me Love You, Harry Styles- Isn't She Lovely.
All the band members have sisters, except for Niall, who has an older brother named Greg.
In just five years,One Direction has received five BRIT Awards—winning their first with "What Makes You Beautiful" for Best British Single at the 2012 BRIT Awards, three NME awards, two Kids' Choice Awards, and four MTV Video Music Awards, among other awards. One Direction won all nineteen awards they were nominated for at the Teen Choice Awards. One Direction also won two American Music Awards out of their two nominations for Favorite Pop/Rock Album and Favorite Pop/Rock Band/Duo/Group, respectively.
There are many more facts about One Direction, and these are just a few. Look them up on Google if you're interested in becoming a true Directioner. There's a facts video included in the bottom for more facts. There are also links listed below with more facts.
It's important to know facts, catch phrases that the boys said, quotes, and songs about the boys. There's a links and quotes section below to help you;
, Niall, Zayn, Liam, Harry and Louis are more than just talented singers. They are five down to earth boys with great personalities. A true Directioner knows all of the boys like they know their best friend.


As a Directioner, it's okay to have a favorite member(s) of the band, Directionaters are so called "fans" who support one direction. Directioners appreciate all members of One Direction

, Buying their music will support One Direction and lead them all the way to the top of the charts. Buy their albums "Up All Night, Take Me Home, Midnight Memories, Four, Made In The A.M, Mind Of Mine" from anywhere. Download their songs. Do whatever it takes to lead them to the top, and you'll be a Directioner. Please do not download pirated copies off of the internet. True Directioners wouldn't do that as it affects the boy's careers. Here's a list of their songs from their albums.


A.M. Act My Age Another World
Back For You Best Song Ever Better Than Words Change My Mind Change Your Ticket Clouds C'mon C'mon Diana Don't Forget Where You Belong Drag Me Down End of the Day Everything About You Fireproof Fool's Gold Girl Almighty Gotta Be You Happily Heart Attack Hey Angel History Home Illusion Infinity Irresistible I Should Have Kissed You I Want I Want to Write You a Song If I Could Fly I Wish I Would Kiss You Last First Kiss Little Black Dress Little Things Little White Lies Live While We're Young Long Way Down Love You Goodbye Loved You First Magic Midnight Memories Moments More Than This Never Enough Night Changes No Control Nobody Compares Olivia Once In A Lifetime One Thing One Way Or Another (Teenage Kicks)
Over Again Perfect Ready to Run Right Now Rock Me She's Not Afraid Something Great Spaces Stand Up Steal My Girl Stockholm Syndrome Story of My Life Strong Summer Love Taken Tell Me A Lie Temporary Fix Through The Dark Truly, Madly, Deeply Up All Night Walking in the Wind What a Feeling What Makes You Beautiful Where Do Broken Hearts Go? Wolves You & I 18 Zayn's solo album (Mind Of Mine): Pillowtalk

, Many people claim that they are "Directioners" but they only know What Makes You Beautiful. A true Directioner knows all One Direction songs. A list of song was mentioned in the step above.
 Watch their music videos. It will give them views, thus making them more known worldwide. One Direction has 14 made music videos so far. Other One Direction related videos are available on YouTube also.


Best Song Ever
Drag Me Down
Gotta Be You
History
Little Things
Live While We're Young
Midnight Memories
Night Changes
One Thing
Perfect
Pillowtalk
Story Of My Life
What Makes You Beautiful
You & I
Steal My Girl
One Way Or Another(Teenage Kicks)
Kiss You

, As a Directioner, it's important to connect with your favorite band. That way you'll know when they're going on tour, releasing a new album, or even coming to a city near you!


Like One Direction on Facebook! They only have one official Facebook account and that's listed below. Any other pages claiming to be One Direction is fake. However, there are fan pages on Facebook, and if you like them, they could update you with information.
Follow One Direction, Zayn, Niall, Liam, Harry, Louis, and people associated with them on Twitter. Official Twitters are listed below in the Links section
Subscribe to One Direction's official Vevo account on YouTube for videos related to One Direction.
Visit the official One Direction website (listed below in the links section) for updates.
Purchase teen magazines such as J-14, Popstar, Bop, etc. They feature interviews, but beware, not all information will be true.
Create and follow fan accounts on social media.
 If you have a little extra money, show your dedication to the band by purchasing their merchandise. If you are a little low on cash, this step can be skipped.


One Direction's first studio album "Up All Night" is available for purchase at most music and department stores. The band also wrote a book called "One Direction: Dare to Dream: Life as One Direction". DVDs of their incredible journey are also available.
Buy magazines, posters, and pictures of the boys.
Purchase One Direction apparels such as t-shirts, hoodies, hats and more. They're available on the official One Direction store and Delia's. Wear them to show you support One Direction.
Purchase One Direction school supplies available at Target.
Purchase other One Direction merchandise such as mugs, key chains, etc from the One Direction store.
 It's every Directioner's dream to meet One Direction. Every Directioner deserved to meet the boys since they're extremely dedicated. Here's a list on how you could meet them.


One Direction has upcoming tours. Find out if the band is visiting your area (or a nearby area). Remember, tickets sell out fast, so know ahead of time when tickets go on sale.
If the band isn't coming to a nearby area, tweet about it. Who knows, maybe they'll notice a trend on Twitter and add concerts near your area!
Try to visit them at Meet and Greets or signing. Search online ahead of time for meet and greets near you and see how you can obtain a wristband.
Do not show up at any of the members house. There's a huge difference between a creepy stalker and a Directioner.
Don't give up! You never know, you might run into one of the member(s) at a movie theater or park. Unfortunately, it's true that not all Directioners won't get to meet One Direction, but it's important to keep believing!

, Don't hate on any members and people associated with One Direction. You can hate but keep it to yourself and put it somewhere the boys or their girlfriends/ other people can't see as it will effect them and make the sad (fake fans).



Twitters. The official Twitter accounts of One Direction are listed here.

One Direction
Niall Horan
Zayn Malik
Louis Tomlinson
Liam Payne
Harry Styles



Facebook. The only official Facebook page is One Direction Music. However, there are other Facebook pages that will give you information on One Direction, but it is administrated by fans.
One Direction website The Official One Direction Website".
The official One Direction store.
YouTube Channel.

Other One Direction Related Links"

One Direction Fanfictions
Fansite



