 There should only be two or three goals, as any more than that would be unrealistic to really focus on for achievement, and any less would not be enough for accurate well-rounded assessment of student learning. To increase accountability and productivity of work, be sure the students know that a mid-semester assessment of these goals will occur, just to see how things are going. At that time the goals may be altered slightly if they turned out to be less realistic than they seemed.;
, Remember, the contents of the portfolio have already been graded to assess the GLO and SLO requirements of the students, so including them for the purpose of further assessment of learning outcomes is unnecessary.


The beginning of their portfolio should consist of a table of contents, dividing it into the separate grades. At the beginning of each section for the different grades, the goals for that semester should be presented.
 It is recommended to take at least half an hour to forty-five minutes every three to four weeks to complete this. At this time you can also photocopy any necessary documents to save onto the computer or flash drive, to be added into the electronic portfolio.
 Any unreasonable goals can be tweaked at this point and altered to better suit the students' abilities if necessary. The point of the portfolio is to set each student up for success, not failure. Leaving unreachable goals as they are because the student was overexcited about what they wanted to achieve, or suggested the goal(s) in an attempt to impress the teacher is unacceptable and defeats the purpose of the portfolio, which is to increase motivation to try through pride and proof of personal improvement. By altering any goals that were over (or under) shot, students are also taught that this happens in real life as well and changing goals to make them more reachable is acceptable and likely necessary.
 They must include whether any alterations were made to their goals and why; what, if they would, change about their previous goals and think about when setting their goals for the next year; for after the first grade the portfolio is started in (whether it be nine or ten, depending on the school system) what improvements they have noticed in their personal writing, achievements they have accomplished that they didn't feel they previously could, and what they would like to do differently next time. Self-reflection on the entire process allows the student to entire higher level thinking of analysis, synthesis, and evaluation of personal progress. One rubric, the same for all grades and all English classes, will be given to the students at the beginning of the semester so that students are aware of what is expected of them.


This self-reflection will be the only thing graded for the portfolio. It will be a student-given grade out of five (five being that they achieved their goals with flying colours, and one being that they didn't even try). This way the student can't possibly get a grade of zero, which again would defeat the purpose of the portfolio as a means of motivation. The teacher also presents a grade for the student, out of five, and the two are averaged together for the student's overall grade for this portfolio assignment. By averaging the two grades to make one grade, the student will not feel as if the teacher's grade is more important than their own. As a total, the portfolio will only be worth 10% of the student's overall grade. Of course, any grade given must be justified and completely obscure grades (if the student were to award themselves a 5/5 on a portfolio that clearly deserves a 3, or a student gives themselves a too modest grade of 2 or 3 out of 5 when they deserve higher) will be discussed between the student and the teacher and potentially changed to become a more accurate assessment of the student's abilities to set and reach goals, assess themselves on past work and evaluation of how to alter future work.
 Based on the student's self assessment and accomplishment of past goals, the teacher and the student will decide if they should advance that goal, create new goals if previous goals were mastered, or continue with the same goals if results were not satisfactory. This teaches the students how to make goals, assess the quality and probability of them, alter them to make them more achievable, and then create new goals built and based off previous ones. This is a valuable life skill that has outside-of-the-classroom application.

