 Just realize that this is it - the real thing. Trust your teachers – if they think you’re ready, you are. Give every kick, every punch, every form 110% focus, and trust that you’ll do fine.


Don't be lulled into a false sense of security, however. No, they aren’t just trying to scare you - it’s going to be difficult! But it’s so worth it!





;
,, It sounds crazy, but it will really help with making kicks and punches snap. If you have more than one uniform and you get a choice, try to wear the one with the least amount of patches or decorations, or the newest one.Some studios will include the cost of a new uniform in the testing fee.
 What did you gain from Taekwondo? What about life can you relate it to? How has it helped you in other aspects of life, and how do you think it will help you in the future? Also, you may or may not be asked to read your essay aloud to the judges, although this is sometimes just for the audience’s sake.
 Don't eat lunch right before the test if it's in the afternoon.
 There's nothing more annoying than having hair in your face and not being able to brush it back, or messing up something because you can't see.
 The only thing more annoying than having hair in your face is acing all the physical tests and then messing up on the exam.
 If you go through forms one last time, just do the basic motions, don't put any power behind them.
, When you get the chance to rest and breathe for a while, try not to gasp for breath. Even if it feels like you’re not getting enough air at first, keep breathing slowly and deeply.
, Since you were supposed to practice your demo break before, the judges won’t be impressed by an attempt at something over-ambitious.
 Sometimes in class (especially on weekdays), most people have a tendency to think "I don't want to be all sore at school/work tomorrow, so I shouldn't do 100% tonight.", or "Headache tonight - think I'll back off on the yells." It seems like an obvious thing, but make sure you constantly remind yourself not to back off on anything - if there's ever a time for maximum power/yell/snap/focus, it's now.
 Sometimes the judges will save the hardest part for last, or ask you questions on form meanings after a sparring match to see if you can still focus.
 Even if you don't officially know if you passed or not, the worst is over, and the likelihood is that you did great! Eat a big dinner at a restaurant with family and friends, go out to brunch the next morning, whatever - but do something fun! You've definitely earned it!

