 You will have a much clearer idea of things you are going to do in your house if you've experienced the real thing for yourself. Make sure to take note of the costumes and ways the actors scare you (jumping out, standing exactly still and staring etc.);
, It doesn't have to be big (you'll see how to make the most of a small space later). Whether it is in a hall or at your house, you must decide on this before planning, since the whole point of the London Dungeons is having different rooms to go into.
 At the London Dungeons they start with an entrance corridor with exhibits, then there's a mirror maze (there will be more on this later), then the plague, the judge, the torture chamber, the boat ride (not the easiest thing to accomplish), Sweeney Todd, jack the ripper and much more.
 This script should also explain what the room looks like, from lighting to sound effects to mangled bodies on the table. You can change this later, so don't worry about being too realistic.
 Ask the ones who are really good at acting to play the big parts with the scripts (the judge, the torture woman, the woman who has the plague etc.) And ask the ones who are not such good actors to play the non speaking parts (all the way through the dungeons there are people jumping out at you, staring at you, following you etc.)

, Believe me, you won't get anywhere without lists. Try to figure out which props you can make rather than buying (coffins etc.) This will save money.
 I would suggest getting them online a few months before Halloween, since everything is so expensive when it's closer to the actual date.
 This will help you when you come to put your house together. You don't have to be a great drawer. Just rough drawings will do.
 Cut up a load of bin bags. Tape them over the rails so that they make a black wall. These walls could then be moved around to create a maze. It also had a really cool affect with strobe lights since the walls reflected the light and made it really disorientating.
 Have them jump out at passers by to really scare them. Also, if you've ever been in the Asylum at Thorpe Park, you'll know how scary it is when people it good make-up and costumes just stand very still and occasionally reach out and touch you.
 If there is going to be contact, make it light strokes of the face like in the Asylum, and warn your visitors before hand that they may get touched.
 It will be much scarier if it's a surprise.

