 Hypertension can be "silent", which means the cat shows no symptoms.


However, the higher the blood pressure the greater the risk of a sudden deterioration in the cat's health, as a result of a stroke or blindness.
Hence the importance of regular monitoring at your vet clinic, in order to detect hypertension before it causes problems.;
, Suspicious signs of hypertension are if the cat walks as if drunk - staggering from side to side, as if not in charge of his legs.


Also, watch the cat's eyes to see if they are tracking from side to side - this is known as "nystagmus". This is a sign of a stroke, of which the number one cause is hypertension.
Depending on the damage caused by the stroke, other symptoms include permanently tilting the head to one side, and an inability to co-ordinate or control the limbs.
 Another suspicious sign is if your cat suddenly starts bumping into things, and doesn’t react if you flick a finger near her eye. Sudden blindness is associated with hypertension.


Another hint is if the pupils are large and dilated, and do not close down to slits even in bright light. This is because the detached retina is not registering the bright light.
 The pupil is the dark slit contained by the colored iris. A cat has a slit-shaped iris which is very narrow in bright light, and wide, round, and dilated in low light conditions such as at night.


A blind cat, (such as one with detached retinas) does not receive messages from the retina to change pupil shape. The pupil remains as a wide, circular, and dark, no matter how bright the light is.
Look carefully through the wide pupil. Sometimes, even with the naked eye, it is possible to see folds of something semi-transparent, draped across the back of the lens.
This is the retina which has bulged forward because of the pressure of fluid between the retina and the eyeball. When detached it drifts around like a net-curtain in the breeze, and may settle against the back of the lens.
 Your veterinarian will use an instrument called an ophthalmoscope, which is a bright light with magnification, to examine the eye in more detail. Retinal detachment is often found hand-in-hand with small bleeds, or hemorrhages, at the back of the eye.


Hemorrhages are a useful way of monitoring the progress of a cat with hypertension. This is because sometimes blood pressure rises and falls in cycles. Thus, it is possible that at some times of the day the pressure is normal, and at others is high. This causes problems when physically measuring blood pressure because you can get misleading normal readings.
However, a useful check is if the blood pressure reading is normal, but the clinician spots signs of fresh hemorrhage at the back of the eye. This means the cat may not be as stable as the measurement suggest, and more frequent check-ups, weekly or fortnightly, are recommended.
 The hearts of cats with hypertension are usually working very hard - beating at a racing, bounding pace. To check this, place your fingertips just behind the cat's elbow, resting them against the chest wall.


The pounding of a diseased heart is often easier to feel than a normal heart. Some hearts that are working extra hard really bound hard against the chest wall and almost seem to leap out to tap your fingers.
This is contrasted with a normal heart where it can take a great deal of concentration to detect the heart beat with fingertips.
 A normal heart rate is around 120-140 beats per minute. This rises in response to stress (such as a trip to the vet clinic!).


The heart rate is interpreted in view of the circumstances, hence 180 beats per minutes is acceptable in a stressful situation, but over 200 beats per minute is too fast.
Likewise, if the cat is asleep at home with a heart rate of 180, this is likely to be significant.
 The gold standard for diagnosing hypertension in cats is to measure their blood pressure. This is done the same way that a doctor checks your blood pressure - with an inflatable cuff placed around the arm (or leg, in the cat's case).


The principle behind measuring blood pressure is putting a known amount of pressure into an inflatable cuff, and listening until the pulse sounds stop. A bit like putting your foot on a hosepipe, once the pressure of your foot exceeds the force pushing water through the pipe, the water flow stops.
In this case, the pressure is the inflated cuff, and the force is blood in an artery. The pressure applied to the cuff when the pulse stops, is equal to the blood pressure.
 To measure blood pressure the veterinarian, or vet tech, decides which pulse to use. Cats have good pulse points in their wrists, just below the main stop pad.


There is often a good pulse at the base of the tail on the lower surface. However, fur interferes with the sensor picking up the pulse and so a small amount of fur is clipped over the area, and water-soluble acoustic gel applied to the skin.
With the cat gently held on the owner's lap, an inflatable cuff is placed around the cat's upper arm, above or below the elbow.
 The clinician places the sensor pad over the pulse point and applies gentle pressure until the sensor rests firmly against the skin.


He moves the sensor around until he can clearly hear the "whoosh whoosh" of blood through the artery. The cuff is slowly inflated, and a note made of the pressure required to silence the pulse.
This is repeated several times to obtain an average reading.
 Normal blood pressure in a cat is below 130 mmHg. However, in the stress of a clinic situation up to 180mmHg is acceptable if the cat has no symptoms.


If the cat has symptoms (such as evidence of a retinal hemorrhage) then the blood pressure should be measured again about 7 days later.
The clinician uses his judgment as to whether treatment is required, if blood pressure lies between 180 – 220mmHg. However, if the blood pressure is over 220mg Hg treatment is definitely in the cat's best interest, because this places her at a high risk of complications such as a stroke.
 Any cat aged 8 years or older should have her blood pressure measured at least once a year. A cat aged 15 years or over, but in good health, should have her pressure checked at least twice a year.


A cat diagnosed with a problem that is associated with hypertension, such as renal disease or hyperthyroidism (over-active thyroid glands) should have their blood pressure monitored regularly, at 3-6 month intervals, even if they appear completely normal.
A cat diagnosed with hypertension and started on treatment should have her pressure checked every 7-14 days until she is stable. This is marked by her blood pressure coming down within normal levels and staying there.
Once stabilized, she should have a check 4 weeks after initial stabilization, and if that pressure is normal, then routine checks every 3 months.
 Blood pressure tends to rise with age because the blood vessels become less elastic, which means they are harder to stretch.


It takes more force to push blood through narrow vessels, and to maintain circulation the heart pushes harder, thus increasing blood pressure, to force blood through the vessels.
 Diseases such as kidney failure and over-active thyroid glands make a cat more likely to develop high blood pressure.


There are also some extremely rare conditions, such as hyperadrenocorticism, also known as "Cushing's disease" that are associated with hypertension in cats. In humans, diabetes mellitus is associated with high blood pressure, but the link is not as strong in cats.
 When blood is forced through delicate tissue at high pressure, it can damage it.


This commonly happens in the eye, where the high pressure causes fluid to seep between the retina (the light sensitive layer) and the back of the eye. This is called "retinal detachment" and causes blindness.
Also, damage to blood vessels in the brain can lead to strokes which can have a long-term detrimental effect on the cat's ability to walk and move, and can in some cases be fatal.
High blood pressure through the kidney causes inflammation and further damage, and deterioration in the life expectancy of the organ.
 High blood pressure is strongly linked to underlying disease conditions. An important part of controlling hypertension is to stabilize the primary condition (i.e. kidney disease, or thyroid glands).


For renal disease this involves prescription diets that give the kidney less work to do, phosphate binders to decrease phosphate absorption from the blood, and ACE inhibitors to increase blood flow through the kidney.
Cats with hyperthyroidism can be treated with a low-iodine diet, or corrective medications containing methimazole, radioactive iodine therapy, or surgery to remove the overactive glands.
 If, despite treatment of predisposing factors, blood pressure remains high then medication may be needed. The most widely used anti-hypertensive drug is a human medication, amlodipine. This is because there is no licensed veterinary anti-hypertensive.


Amlodipine is a calcium channel blocker, which means it stops the influx of calcium into heart muscle cells and vascular smooth muscle. This causes the arteriole walls in particular to relax, which decreases the resistance to blood flow.
The dose is 0.625 to 1.25 mg per cat every 24 hours. Unfortunately, this medication is only available as a 5 mg tablet, thus for a cat the dose is about an eighth to a quarter of a tablet once daily.