 The first step to inviting someone to your church is to identify individuals who would be open to attending services but do not currently go. This will most likely be someone you know who is a practicing Christian who attends services at another church, or someone who still identifies as a Christian but has stopped attending services. The easiest people to approach with an invitation will probably be:


family members
friends
coworkers or classmates
neighbors, Before you actually approach someone about attending church, you may want to consider when would be an ideal occasion. Having a firm date in mind will make it easier to invite someone. Instead of a general open invitation, you can name a specific date and ask if that person is free to join you.


Many non-churchgoers prefer to attend church services on a Sunday morning. Weekdays may be difficult, whereas Sundays are often a leisure day for most people who work Monday through Friday.If it's near Christmas time, an Advent or Christmas mass would be an ideal occasion. If it's near Easter, consider a Lent or Easter mass. Religious holidays like Christmas make non-churchgoers more open to attending services., As a practicing Christian, you know that prayer can be an important way to ask for guidance or to request a certain outcome of events. Inviting someone to church should be no exception. As you pray, ask for God's help identifying the right people, as well as the appropriate time to ask - ideally when that person is most open to worship (which only God would know). You should also pray for inspiration and eloquence, so that you can best serve your faith and your community by offering the best invitation you're capable of.You can pray independently for guidance and inspiration, or ask your priest/pastor for his prayers to help you on your mission.
 Once you've identified someone who would be open to attending church and chosen a specific date, you can offer a polite invitation to come with you to church. You should be courteous and respectful, even if the person declines your invitation. It may just be the wrong time, and that individual may be open to joining you in the future if you show a little patience. Remember that you are an ambassador for your faith and your community, and with that role comes great responsibility.


Ask politely and work sequentially to turn a potential "no" into a confident "yes."
Begin by offering the person you'd like to invite some small personal gift, like a plate of home-made cookies.
Try to establish a stronger friendship/relationship with that individual. Invite that person to social gatherings at your house, and ask her permission to pray for her and her family.
Ask politely if it would be okay to invite that individual's kids to a church function. Tell her you think it would be a great way to meet other kids in the area and have a safe, fun time.
Ask politely and respectfully if that individual would be open to attending church with you some time. If she says yes, invite her for the date you've chosen. If she says no, be respectful of her decision and try to remain a close and loyal friend., If the individual you've asked agrees to attend church with you, then you've obviously approached the right person at the right time. Go with her to church services and introduce her to as many people as you can after mass to make her feel welcome. If the individual says no, that's okay too. You still have an obligation as a person of faith to show that individual love, kindness, and respect.Collect your thoughts before you respond to a "no." Put yourself in the other person's shoes. Perhaps it's just not the right time for that individual, or perhaps she's had negative experiences at church in the past. Either way, it is not a reflection on you or your abilities.
Try to keep your emotions in check. Don't get upset if a person rejects your offer. Remember that you have an obligation to be an ambassador of Christian values, and that includes being kind to others without any strings attached.Extend an open invitation, even if the person says no. You can say something respectful and inviting, such as "That's okay, I respect your decision. Just know that if you ever change your mind, my invitation always stands."

