 Get a pair of safety glasses and earplugs for each person who will be setting off fireworks. These can be found at any hardware store and some drug stores. Improperly used fireworks frequently cause eye damage and hearing loss--nearly 40% of fireworks-related injuries occur to the head area., Don’t wear loose clothing such as long skirts, jackets, or scarves, which can all catch fire easily. But do try to wear snugly fitting long sleeves and pants to protect from potential burns., Shop only at public fireworks stands licensed to sell fireworks. Legal fireworks will have a manufacturer’s label including safety instructions.If you’re unsure whether a roadside fireworks dealer is selling legally, ask an employee to see their license to sell fireworks in the state.


Illegal fireworks are typically named M-80s, M-100s, or quarter sticks. They resemble a cardboard coin tube with a fuse in the middle, and are usually red, brown, or silver.Never buy fireworks from a friend, or someone placing a public advertisement. Even if the items appear professionally made, they could be illegal or on poor condition.
 Until you’re ready to use them, keep your fireworks in a cool and dry place where children can’t get to them.Hot temperatures or damp air can damage the fireworks and make it more likely that they will malfunction.


Try putting away your fireworks in a cardboard box, above or in a high cabinet, or on a top shelf.
 Always have a supply of water nearby in case refuse, vegetation, or clothing catch fire. If you can’t find a safe area near a water hose, fill up several buckets of water and bring them with you to the site. To be extra safe, have a fire extinguisher nearby as well., Forbid young children to handle any kind of fireworks. Even sparklers are known to cause severe burns.Ensure that children, and any other spectators, stand far back (at least 50 feet (15.2 m)) from the area where you’ll be lighting the fireworks.


A 2005 study found that more than half of all fireworks injuries to children under 5 years of age were caused by sparklers., Being short of sleep, or under the influence of alcohol or other drugs can affect your judgment and coordination--two things you really need when setting off fireworks. The night before you plan to use fireworks, be sure to get as much sleep as you usually need to function properly. And before using fireworks, be sure to stay away from alcohol or any substances that tend to slow you down or make you feel tired.
 Do an internet search to learn about what types of fireworks, if any, are legal in your state, province, or country. If you can’t buy a certain class of fireworks in your state or province, it is most likely illegal to use that class of fireworks in your state or province.

