 Talk to the manager and other boarders to see if there are any chores that you can do.


Mucking stalls is a classic, and it will build your muscles and stamina for riding!
Find out if anyone would like his or her horse groomed either spur of the moment or on a regular basis. If you know a show is going on, be sure to be available for grooming.
Learn how to braid manes and tails too. Folks headed for shows will pay as high as sixty dollars for a well-braided mane.
Allow other people to ride or take a lesson on your horse. Some people like to ride but do not want to own a horse themselves and will gladly give you several bucks for an hour or two on yours.;
,


Maybe someone is going to be out of town, is sick, or has other duties that make caring for their horse a difficulty. Offer to horse sit. You will be able to do their chores and get some experience with a horse other than your own.
If you can get a position helping a trainer, take it if at all possible. Not only will you be able to work with different horses, warming them up, cooling them down, taking their tack off most likely, you will be able to watch the trainer train and give lessons. She may also teach you a few things so you can be more helpful.
Another job you can get is working with someone else’s horse. Possibly exercising them or doing some groundwork.



Maybe that chaotic tack room needs organizing. Learn to clean tack; saddles and bridles need to be cleaned and oiled regularly.
You may get a regular job. In the spring, when the turnout blankets are taken off, they will need to be scrubbed down before they are stored for the winter.
 These jobs may include babysitting, pet-sitting, pulling weeds, walking their dog walking, shoveling snow, or wash their car(s).


Do dog-sitting/dog-walking. If you like dogs, introduce yourself to some neighbors with dogs and let them know that you'd be happy to dog-sit or dog-walk for them.
Babysitting is a great way to earn money fast while having fun, too. Make sure to have fun with the kids so you will be asked to babysit more than once.
Doing odd jobs around the house might get you some money, depending on your parent's philosophy about payment for house help. Here are some odd jobs you could do: washing up, dusting, watering plants, vacuuming, polishing wood furniture, cooking, picking up anything off the floor, or wiping down the mantle piece.
 You could either walk around with a small cart with plastic cups and a bottle of lemonade/refreshments and a tin for money or you could walk around the streets or around the park saying "Hi would you like some lemonade?" Depending on the size of your cups, you can set your own prices.


Set up a table next to a park. Under the table, store lemonade refreshments and extra plastic cups.
 If they know you have the goal of getting a horse or making enough to save up for the horse, they might be more generous., If you like to bake, try some recipes for horse treats (there are lots on the internet) or invent your own. Find a few that your horse likes and start making them and offer a set amount for a fair price, try to beat the feed store if you can.


You can have some fun with this one! Find old horse treat containers and make new inventive labels with reminders to buy more when the treats are gone.
Leave out a few boxes of horse cookies; maybe you will find a new customer.
 If you have room for a garden full of fruit or veggies, sell produce. For example, grow watermelon and set out a stand and sign by the street. The best part is, you don't even have to be out there with the stand the whole time! Just set out a money box for people to put theirs in (honor system).
 Have a sale of all that extra tack too-small riding clothes you do not/cannot use anymore.


See if other horsey friends would like to sell their stuff too for a small commission.
 If you do not have time for a full on sale, you can sell your stuff through the internet, in the classifieds, or at a friend's garage sale.
 Make things such as jewelry, bookmarks, pin cushions, saddle pads, soap, bubble bath, and animal treats. Sell these items at car booths. Another idea would be to buy some grooming kits, and decorate the brushes with a waterproof pen. You could sell all the stuff in the list above on your own web store or perhaps buy a market stall.
 Horse wise, that means no new tack unless you need it. When you do, try to get it second hand or on sale.
 Do you need that candy bar? Those sneakers? Think about how the money could go toward your horse instead.
 Put it in safe box or jar. It'll really add up!

, If possible, ask your parents to put it in the bank to earn interest (the bank adds money to your account in exchange for using your money).