 This build focuses on keeping Uther in the back-end of the team formation. This not only keeps him safe for Hardened Focus to keep his cooldowns low, but it also gives him more room to better position himself for a well-aimed Holy Radiance. Hardened focus coupled with Holy Shock also gives Uther a surprising amount of sustained damage, although Shrink Ray is the better pick against enemy heroes that dive too deep into your team’s formation. Cleanse should only be picked if the enemy team has a lot of deadly disables (e.g., Murky’s Octo-Grab, Butcher’s Hamstring, Rehgar’s Earthquake, Rehgar’s Earthbind Totem, etc.). Bulwark is ideal only if your tank or assassin needs more time to set up; otherwise, Storm Shield is the better pick to help your entire team better cope with burst abilities.


Talent Build: Reach > Boundless Conviction > Wave of Light OR Cleanse > Divine Shield > Holy Shock OR Shrink Ray > Hardened Focus > Storm Shield OR Bulwark of Light

, If the rear-line healer is all about hanging back, then the sustain healer is all about joining the thick of battle to support allies for extended periods of time. All the talents in this build revolve around keeping Uther’s mana topped up, which in turn make it easier for him to keep using his abilities over a longer period of time. This build, however, works best when Uther is able to hit stuff to regain mana with Hammer of the Lighbringer and maintaining heals with Blessed Champion. This puts Uther at greater risk, though Divine Shield, Redemption, and Storm Shield can help mitigate that risk by giving Uther added survivability should he be focused down.


Talent Build: Conjurer’s Pursuit > Hammer of the Lightbringer > Wave of Light > Divine Shield > Blessed Champion > Benediction > Redemption OR Storm Shield

, Uther has a decent health pool along with his two main heals recovering a large part of his health. This gives you the option of building Uther so that he can better survive walking up to the front lines, which in turn will give your teammates the time they need to get into position and unload on the enemy team. Spell Shield works against ability-reliant heroes (e.g., Jaina, Kael’thas, Kerrigan, etc.) while Shrink Ray works especially well against auto-attack assassins (e.g., Illidan, Raynor, Tychus, etc.).


Talent Build: Block > Amplified Healing > Holy Fire > Divine Shield > Spell Shield OR Shrink Ray > Imposing Presence > Redemption

, Uther has a surprisingly effective means of keeping his enemies stunned and slowed down if built properly. If executed properly, Uther can thus be built to not only heal his teammates but to pin down isolate enemies and make them easier targets for your team to focus down. This build revolves largely around Hammer of Justice, meaning that Uther will have to engage his targets in close range. He won’t have the added benefit of survivability talents this time around, so you’ll have to carefully balance risk and reward in order to pin down enemy heroes without getting suckered in by the enemy team.


Talent Build: Fist of Justice > Hammer of the Lightbringer > Burden of Guilt > Divine Storm > Shrink Ray > Benediction > Divine Hurricane

