 The most basic way to search for someone is to type their name into the search. You'll find this a lot easier if the person you are searching for has a unique name. Facebook will try to put more useful matches at the top of the list.This search field can be found at the top of the website, or at the top of the Facebook app.
 If you know someone's email address or phone number, you can enter it into the Facebook Search field to see if it pulls up the person's page. They'll need to have that contact information set as "Public" in order for this search to work.
 If you want to find some new like-minded friends, use this search to find people with shared interests.


For example, to find fellow SpongeBob fans, type "People who like SpongeBob" into the Facebook Search field. The results will include everyone that has listed "SpongeBob Squarepants" as an interest. People that you're currently friends with will be listed first, followed by people you share mutual friends with, followed by everyone else.
You can type "people who like what I like" to see a list of matches based on all of your likes. You'll need to click the "People" tab after making this search.
 If you know the person's name but can't find them through a search, you can try guessing their profile URL. Many people use their real names or email user names as their profile URL. Common formats include:


www.facebook.com/firstname.lastname
www.facebook.com/firstnamelastname
www.facebook.com/emailname
Try adding numbers to the end of the address if the name is common.
 This process is a little more tedious than others, but sometimes just browsing through your friend's friends can help you find who you're looking for.


Open your friend's profile page and tap or click the "Friends" button. This will display all of that person's Facebook friends.
Browse through the list or use the Search field at the top of the friends list to look for someone specific.
You can switch filters along the top of the list to see friends in the same city, friends that went to the same high school, and people you may know.

