 Ambitious goals can still be realistic. The key to keeping goals realistic is to make sure they are clear and that you allow yourself enough time to get them accomplished.Goals need a plan of action in order to be possible. Don't make a goal without also making a plan for accomplishing it.
Use short-term milestones to mark your progress and keep motivation up.
 If you’re always thinking about the problems, you won’t have any time to think about the solutions to those problems. It can be difficult sometimes to come up with the solution to a problem, but once you do, take steps to implement it. This will help you feel that you’re making positive steps forward.If you can’t figure out a solution, talk to a coworker whom you trust, or ask your supervisor for guidance.
 Many business environments run on strict deadlines. This can be great for making sure things get done. However, if deadlines are particularly tight, you need to accept that quality may suffer.If quality is of the utmost importance, let your supervisor or the client know that pushing back the deadline would allow for higher quality work. They may be flexible.
If you’re always working toward a deadline, learn how to combat your own tendencies toward procrastination.
 Remember that the job is not your entire life. Neither is your role in the business the thing upon which the entire company rests. Take some time to zoom out and think about the other things in your life that are important. Think about all of the other people who make the business work, even when you’re not there.Think about your family, your friends, and your hobbies. This is likely not the first job you’ve ever had, and it may not be the last. Keep things in perspective.
The company was most likely doing fine before you were hired, and it would survive tomorrow without you, too. It’s good to take your work seriously, but don’t let the stakes seem higher than they are.
 This can be tough if your workplace is particularly stressful. However, people who thrive in stressful environments often are able to survive because they are able to see the humor in a situation and not take things too seriously.If you have funny or charming coworkers, let yourself be amused by them. Don’t get bogged down with frustration because they seem to be a little less efficient.
Remember that you’re doing your best, and that mistakes can be funny sometimes. Don’t beat yourself up over a goofy typo or when you accidentally hit “Reply All.”

