 This may include former supervisors, co-workers, or subordinates as appropriate.


Potential employers do not want personal references, such as from friends or family.
If you are a recent graduate with little related professional experience in your field, recommendation letters from former professors and academic advisors will carry more weight than letters from former supervisors or co-workers in jobs you may have held that are unrelated to the position you seek.
 Make sure your reference has the name, title and full address of the individual to whom the letter of reference will be directed. You may also want to provide your letter writer with a work sample or portfolio, if necessary.


Give your reference a description of the job for which you interviewed so that he or she can tailor the recommendation letter to address the qualifications and expertise necessary for the position.
If a hard copy of a letter of recommendation will be submitted rather than an electronic version, provide your reference with a pre-addressed, pre-stamped envelope as a courtesy and to expedite the mailing of your letter of recommendation.
 If the hiring manager for the job for which you are applying will be calling your references rather than requesting a recommendation letter, then give your reference a heads up to expect such a call, including the name of the person who will be calling.


If you've already interviewed for the position, let your references know what kinds of questions were asked of you, so they might know what to expect from the call.
 Even if you're just starting to think about applying for a new job, you'll know ahead of time this will be a necessary step in the hiring process. Make contact as soon as possible and get back in touch when you have firm dates.
 Thank your recommender for giving you a good reference with a lunch date or small gift. Keeping them abreast of your successes also ensures that you've got a good business contact in your field, someone who has a stake in your success.

