 For many in today’s world of communication, CB radio seems like an outdated method of contact. CB radio still has many benefits depending on how you use the device. For desolate environments, like mountains or deserts, CB radio can be the most effective device to contact people.The radio signal is short wave, so you can only contact those in a 40 to 100 mile radius, depending on the device/antenna you have.
You should probably have a contact you are planning to communicate with using the CB radio.
Another use for CB radio is for safety contacts. If you are going on a long road trip through desolate areas, CB radio can be a vital tool to connect with the police.;
, You can purchase a CB radio from stores like Walmart, other general supplies stores, or online. Consider what you need the radio for to help decide what price you want to spend. If you are using the radio for fun between friends, don’t spend more than $50. If you are setting up a radio communications system for work, spend a little extra for a reliable machine., The most common place to mount a CB radio is in your car. It is important to mount the radio in a location that won’t impinge your safety while driving. A common place to place your radio is underneath the driver’s seat. This ensures that you won’t mess with the radio while driving.Some CB radios come with mounting hardware that will require you to modify your vehicle. Only the larger, older models require you to do this type of installation.
Smaller CBs don’t require any serious installation and can work in the dashboard. Check the mounting instructions before purchasing the CB radio.
 You can get large antennas for a wider range in service, but will require more time to install. There are small profile antennas that are only 2 feet, like the Walcott, which can even be used on motorcycles. The best place to mount your antenna is on the center of your roof.Depending on what antenna you have, you might have to drill holes into your vehicle. Check the installation requirements of the antenna before purchasing it.
If you want an easier installation process, you can invest in a magnetic antenna.