

If it is Spring, and the horse is shedding, first use the shedding blade and sweep it along the horse's body in the direction of the horse's hair. You will have to stop and clean the hair off of it every few seconds. Do not use this brush on the head and legs and go lightly over the bony areas. Only use this brush in the Spring.



 

;
, Move it in small circles, removing any loose hair and dirt next to the skin. It also massages the horse's muscles. Push harder over the major muscles such as the hind quarters. Go softer over the bony areas such as the spine. NEVER use a curry comb on a horses legs, unless they have mud or dirt crusted on. On the horse's head don't use this brush at all.
 Move it in the direction of the hair in long strokes ending with a flick of the brush. This removes dust and hair that the rubber curry comb brought to the surface. Again,go gently on the bony areas. You may use this brush gently if needed on the legs. Do not use this brush on the head, as it will be too harsh.
 Go with the hair in long strokes. Use the soft brush all over the horse's body and face. This grabs all the dirt and hair that the stiff brush could not.
 To do this, you pick up the horse's hoof and pick the dirt, manure and stones from the sides of the frog. Do not do this if you are inexperienced at it! If you are experienced you probably know what to do. If you are not, get help from an experienced horse person several times until you know what to do.
 Start at the bottom of the hair and slowly work up to the top. You may have to use mane and tail detangler. When doing the horse's tail do not stand directly behind the horse, as the horse cannot see you. Take the tail and pull it to the side. Stand on either side of the horse's rump as you work.
 But, just to make sure, stand back and look at the horse from all angles. If there is any swelling in the legs or where the saddle and bridle would be, do not ride. If there is a major cut on your horse or a cut on the horse's legs or where the saddle and bridle would be, do not ride either. If there is only a minor cut or swelling somewhere else on the horse, you can still ride, and treat the cut or swelling later.
 If it is frayed or severely damaged, do not use it and ride after the horse has new tack.


Put the saddle pad on. Make sure the pad is in the right direction. Put it on the horse's back, covering the horse's withers completely. Then slide it back so that the front of the pad is half on the withers, half on the back. You do this to make sure the hair on the horse's back is flat so the saddle and pad are not rubbing against the horse's skin, causing a sore.






Gently set the saddle on the horse's back. You then, if you are using an English saddle, fasten the Velcro strap on the pad onto the keepers on the saddle on both sides. Then put the keepers through the strap on the bottom on both sides. If you are using a western saddle , just put the saddle on.






Put the girth on. You do this by fastening it to the keepers on one side.Then you go on the other side, grab the girth and fasten it to the keepers on the other side. It should be tight enough so that you can snugly fit two fingers in between the girth and the horse. Then make sure the saddle has not shifted. If you are using western tack you may just need to cinch it up.







Put on the bridle. Do this by first, putting the reins over the horse's head, so that after you take the halter off, the horse can't run off. Then remove the halter. Stand on the left side of the horse. Hold the top piece of the bridle in your right hand. Put your right hand, holding the bridle in between the horse's ears, so that the bridle dangles over the horse's face. Then with your left hand, Insert your thumb into the corner of the horse's mouth, so that the horse opens it's mouth. Use the same hand to move the bit into the horse's mouth, while pulling up with your right hand. Then put the top of the bridle up over the horse's ears, where it rests behind the horse's ears. Then situate the bridle so that it's comfy for the horse. If the bridle is not already fitted to your horse, have an experienced horse person adjust it. Don't for get to buckle up the nose band and throat latch.The first times you do this, I would strongly recommend you ask for help. Depending how tall the horse is and how short you are, you may want to have a stool or mounting block for this.
 Lead the horse around for a few minuets so that the horse will release the air that it has held in, expending it's tummy. Then tighten girth so that you can just barely fit one or two fingers between the girth and the horse. You should check the girth throughout your ride and adjust it accordingly. Now mount up and ride!

