 The title is your chance to capture the audience from what may be just a quick glance. Take advantage of this and make it as eye-catching as you can.;
, Make sure you include all the relevant key words and search terms that relate closely to your business service or product, however do not overstuff your advert with keywords and duplicate data. Refer to our Blog ‘Create unique content and increase exposure of your classified advert’ for the best advice on how to do this.
 Make sure the websites you use offer at least Facebook and Twitter notification tabs and make sure you use them every time.
 Do not spam your advert. If your old advert is still running, make sure you delete it before adding your new one. You may come across some cheap upgrade options to do this automatically for you. This is often well worth the money.
 If you are selling a product or providing a business service locally, post in your surrounding cities or boroughs. People will always look at their local businesses and services first before venturing further afield.
 These can include links to your homepage or specific services you offer. Why not create a unique advert for every service or product you offer with links to the relevant pages within your website?

, Everyone knows it’s all about Facebook, Twitter, Pinterest, Stumbleupon, Google+ and so on. The social media list is never ending! Make sure you add all the relevant links to your social media pages and if you’re not members of these sites, you must join today! In this modern digital age, this is a VITAL way to get your business services, brands and products noticed.
 People will want to contact you easily and it's a good way to keep track of the response of your advertising campaign without your emails getting mixed up with your usual inbox. Classified websites always strive to eliminate scams, spammers and time wasters, however you will always get some who manage to filter through the system. With this in mind, make sure you do not use personal emails, phone numbers, addresses or other personal contact details within your ads.

