 When gardening location is everything. Make sure your plot of land receives the correct amount of sun, provides enough space and good soil for growth and the elevation allots proper drainage. Face your garden to the east, as morning sun provides the best, cool light perfect for growing plants.
Soil should be loose and dark in color, not red and clay-like or sandy. Loose soil means there is plenty or aeration, making it easy for roots to grow, while the dark color indicates nutritious soil.;
, Do not dig or remove your plants from the pot until you have decided exactly where you want to place each one. Not only will this save time and energy, but it will help lessen transplant shock.


Since plants are not meant to be removed and replanted, transplant shock is inevitable. The plant may not root well, leading to unsuccessful growing. However, if the root ball, the mass of soil surrounding the plant’s roots, is disturbed as little as possible, the plant is more likely to take to its new environment.
 The hole should be the same depth as the root ball, though twice as wide. The extra width gives the plant’s roots space to grow.


Place the plant in the hole to make sure the plant’s will rest in the ground at the same level as it was in its original pot.
Remove any rocks from the hole and break up chunks of soil so the plant has a loose and clean space.
 This will fertilize the roots and provoke healthy plant growth.


Add about 1 to 3 inches of compost for planting flowers or vegetables.
Next, create a 2 to 3 inch barrier of soil between the compost and roots. This layer will keep the compost from stealing nitrogen from the roots, but will still be close enough to filter nutrients into the soil. , This will prepare the roots to better integrate with the soil. Hold the plant upside down. Hit the bottom of the plant with a flat hand and slightly massage the root ball, gently squeezing and slightly pulling apart. You are creating small pockets for the roots to spread out and grow. However, it is very important that you do not to damage the roots or remove too much dirt from the cluster.


If the plant doesn’t come loose, it is root bound. Score the edges of the pot with a dull instrument and loosen with your finger. Spread out the roots of root-bound plants when you plant them in the ground.
 Use the soil you have already removed to completely fill the hole.


Make sure your plant sits in in the ground at the same height as it did in its original pot. Plants too low in the ground will flood, while plants to high may not root properly.
 Keep the stem of the plant free of the mulch, so that air can circulate. Water and fertilize as directed by the plant’s instructions.Mulch is important for healthy plant growth, reducing the amount of surface evaporation for the soil, moderating the plants temperature and protecting the roots from weeds and other hindrances. 