 Work out in advance what rides you wish to ride and what attractions you wish to see. If you plan on going during the peak season then extra planning should go into your day to reduce the amount of time you spend queuing.;
, Based on your intended stay, pre-purchase the tickets you have decided on. If you plan to purchase ‘Early Entry’ tickets and a Q4U device, then you should do so well in advance of your visit. Having pre purchased tickets will allow you to use the Express Gate at the theme park’s entrance and avoid a possible long wait in the queue. You can pre purchase tickets at no extra cost online. You have to purchase them in Australian dollars. You can use your credit card.
 This will give you time to make sure you don’t leave anything behind on the day. Checklist should include suitable footwear, clothing, camera, hat, sunscreen and any other items you consider necessary.
 Dreamworld is a big theme park so plan on doing a fair amount of walking if you want to get the most out of your visit. Getting a good night’s sleep before your visit will put you in a better physical and mental state to fully enjoy the experience.
 To avoid a last minute rush and panic make sure you give yourself plenty of time to get ready. If you are going to the park for the first time, allow plenty of time to catch the right bus, or if you plan to drive, give yourself plenty of time to navigate to the theme park. Being rushed and in a hurry will result in you getting flustered and will not get your visit off on the right track. Giving yourself time in the morning will allow you to double check your luggage you intend taking to the park.
 If you want to squeeze the maximum value out of your day, consider pre purchasing an ‘Early Entry’ pass. For just ten dollars more per ticket you will be able to enter the park one hour earlier than usual visitors. During peak periods this may be well worth it as you can grab a few rides before the masses arrive.
 One way to avoid queuing is to pre purchase a Q4U device. Having a Q4U means you can reserve a place in the queue, then go and do something else and return at the time your Q4U has reserved and jump straight onto the ride. The cost of a Q4U is about $30 extra for a family of four and can be used on eight bookable rides.
 If you plan on spending the full day at the park and even into the evening don’t be in a hurry to follow the crowds. Most visitors depart the park around three to three thirty pm so after this time wait times are considerably less.
 Despite being very safe, Dreamworld is a big theme park covering a large area. In the bustling crowds and excitement of the day it is very easy for kids to race off to the next attraction or ride. Lay down the ground rules if you are travelling with children and have a ‘lost plan’ in the event that somebody gets lost. This could be to simply make your way to a certain place or ride to meet up again.
 Many of the food outlets can become just as crowded as the rides during busy days.
 And wear a hat in direct sunlight.
 If there is a show that you’d really like to see then get to the location about fifteen minutes before the show starts. Especially on peak days. This will secure the best views.
, Are you high enough? Many of the more frightening rides have height restrictions, so to avoid ‘on the day’ disappointment when a child learns they cannot ride the ride they want to ride, check in advance as to what rides have height restrictions and what they are and whether your child will be affected. If a child is not the required height then they don’t get on the ride. It’s a simple as that.
 If you plan to combine your visit to Dreamworld with a visit to the adjacent Whitewater World park then consider purchasing a ‘World Pass’. A World Pass will enable you to travel freely between the two theme parks through an interconnected central gate. Although Dreamworld prohibits bringing food into the park, it is ok to do so at Whitewater World. This means that if you have a World Pass, you can bring your lunch etc, eat it in Whitewater World then visit Dreamworld.
 Imagine ten thousand vehicles trying to leave anywhere at the same time and you’ll get the picture. Alternatively, Surfside buses run a regular service and the quickest service to Coomera train station and the Gold Coast.
 Put your trash in the bins provided.
, Dreamworld is open every day except Xmas day and Anzac day morning (April 25th).

