 Unlike event planners, who charge clients for expenses plus fees to cover their profit margin, event promoters often rely on attendance and ticket sales to recuperate expenses and earn pay for all of their effort.So make sure people attend your event! Depending on your operating budget, do as much as possible to get the word out. Methods include:The internet, especially through social media
Advertising in print (newspapers, magazines, etc.)
Flyers and posters
Radio and television ads

, Aim your advertising efforts at the appropriate audience. Don’t waste precious time and funds by, say, promoting a country-and-western act on a radio station that primarily plays R&B! At the same time, don’t limit yourself to the obvious. Know which demographics overlap so you can spread the word across the widest possible spectrum of interrelated interests, even through forums that, at first glance, seem to have little in common with the event itself. For example:Say you are promoting a concert featuring all-female punk bands. Use obvious methods to advertise it, like radio ads on stations that play punk music and flyers and posters at bars and venues that host punk shows, as well as record stores. In addition to that, though, think outside the box. Drop off flyers at tattoo parlors and vintage clothing stores. Blanket local colleges and skate parks with the same. Advertise through magazines and websites dedicated to feminism.
 Seize every opportunity to make contacts. Whether you meet someone on a professional basis or in passing, think of them as an extra mouth that could potentially get the word out. Always have business cards handy to pass along, and ask for their contact information in return. Keep your initial meeting light and friendly with a simple hello and introduction to avoid coming on too strongly. Then follow up with a more detailed email of how you hope to foster a working relationship later on.Say you promote sports events, like boxing. Although a bar owner or bartender may have little if anything to do with the world of boxing, they can be a valuable asset in terms of advertising if the bar in question happens to be a sports bar!

, Promoting events is a risky business, and events may fail due to any number of reasons, some of which may have been preventable with better planning, while others, like the weather, are beyond your control. Should you face setbacks and disasters, be professional, regardless of the circumstances. Earn the trust and respect of talent, vendors, and other business contacts so they remain willing and excited to work with you in the future.Your own success depends on them, so present yourself as someone who is not only competent and driven, but responsible enough to accept blame when it is due.


For example, say that, as a concert promoter, you have hired a sound-system technician who turns out to be utterly inept at their job. Even though handling the sound system was not your specific job, hiring a competent technician was. Assure the talent, venue, and anyone else involved with the show that you will certainly never hire the same technician again, but stop short of dumping all the blame on that person. Doing so may create the impression that you are more worried about appearing faultless than actually getting the job done.

