 There is a good chance that there will still be some head gasket material remaining on your cylinder head. The head gasket creates a seal between the head and engine block (also sometimes referred to as the “top” end and “bottom” ends). Scrape off any remnants of the gasket using a plastic scraper. Be extremely careful not to scratch or damage the “mating surface” of the cylinder head where the gasket material can be found. Any scratch or damage can cause leaks that will lead to gasket failure once the engine is assembled again.Do not use a metal scraper or any tools that could feasibly damage the mating surface of the cylinder head.
Make sure to get all of the previous gasket material off of the head to allow for a proper seal when reinstalling.
 With the gasket material gone, place the cylinder head in the first tub. If you are using liquid parts cleaner, pour the parts cleaner into the tub with the cylinder head so you can use it as you clean. If you are using a spray cleaner, you will not need to fill the tub.Be careful when moving the cylinder head around. There are studs and vacuum line nozzles that will likely be sticking out your cylinder head that can be damaged if banged against walls or tables.
Depending on the situation, you may need help moving the cylinder heads into and out of the tubs, as they can be rather heavy.
 Use a rag and the cleaning agent of your choice to scrub every portion of the cylinder head that you can access. Pour or spray cleaner into the areas of the cylinder head that you are unable to reach. The cleaning agent will break up most carbon deposits and burnt oil, but you may need to scrub a bit in some areas.Do not use a steel tooth brush or anything else that could damage the mating surfaces of the cylinder head when scrubbing.
Take your time to ensure you clean every nook and cranny of the cylinder head.
 After you scrub your cylinder heads, fill the second tub up with warm water. Make sure the tub is tall enough to allow the cylinder head to be completely submerged in water, then fill it with enough water to completely cover the head. You may want to do the following step outdoors or in a room with a drain.Make sure the tub is large enough to allow the cylinder head to be completely submerged.
Use warm to hot water when filling the tub.
 Place the cylinder head in the water filled tub gently. The water will make its way through the areas of the cylinder head you were unable to access with your rag as well as helping to remove the cleaning agent you used in the previous step. Aluminum heads can be damaged by prolonged exposure to caustic cleaners so rinsing them off is imperative.Allow the head to sit in the water for a few minutes.
If the head isn’t completely submerged, add warm water until it is.
 After waiting a few minutes, carefully lift the head back out of the tub of water and place it on a stable counter. Use a clean rag to wipe the cylinder head down and remove as much water from it as possible. Make sure to wipe out any standing water that may collect in the nooks and crannies of the head.You will not be able to completely dry the cylinder head with a rag, but removing the majority of the water will help it to dry faster.
Do not reuse the rag with a cleaning agent on it. Make sure it is a new, clean rag.
 If you have access to a spray washer, which is a specific type of equipment designed to clean automotive parts, you can do a more effective job of cleaning the external and exposed internal areas of the cylinder head. Like cleaning it by hand, spray washers do a poor job of cleaning the internal surfaces that are hard to reach, but can dramatically reduce the labor required to clean the rest of the cylinder head.Spray washers are common in many professional garages and machine shops.
Smaller spray washers can be purchased at auto-parts stores, though the cost may be prohibitive if you do not intend to clean other parts.
 These tanks are filled with caustic cleaning agents that can reach all internal and external surfaces in the cylinder head. These tanks require significantly less labor than other cleaning options, as all you need to do is place the part in the tank and turn it on.Hot tanks are usually found in professional machine shops.
You may opt to have your cylinder heads hot tanked after cleaning them yourself to ensure your heads are as clean as possible.

