 Are you all friends with common interests? Or are you searching for people with a similar vision to perform with? Regardless, make sure that you as performers have equal say in of the creation and progress of your troupe. Troupes that involve every member in the creative process are much stronger in the long run. Not every idea will be used, but approaching each member's opinion with an open, receptive mind will make all the difference.;
, Groups of three to five girls are probably big enough in the beginning. As your organization and skill for production improves, you can consider taking on more performers. Remember, the smaller the group, the easier it is to coordinate rehearsal times, workshops and show dates.
 Your road will be easier if you have this. Remember, it is incredibly important to have similar goals in mind when sourcing performers. Are you looking to tour, or are you rooted in one area? Is forming a troupe a potential business venture, or a simply hobby? It is important to have a uniting theme that ties performers in as members of the troupe, but variety is the spice of life. Showcasing each performer's individual talent is much more important than forcing conformity.
 Are there any 'newbie' nights in your area for upcoming performers? Do you have friends/families that would let you do a private show and build up your set lists? Offering to stage kitten or help out at established shows can also be a foot in the door, though you should not presume to be asked to perform simply after selling a bit of merchandise!

, A good rule of thumb is to operate for 6 months to 1 year and see what your financial situation is like and whether you want to consider this professionally. Talk to a business mentor or a tax representative to be sure.
 Even if you are only really a hobby group, think business wise. Create a brief business plan - think about how you are going to market yourself and make yourself individual. Check out your competitors and analyze, with an objective mind, what their strengths and weaknesses are and how your group will compare.
 Most successful businesses and groups have an online presence. The more places you are online and the more searchable you are the better success you will have at being hired. Facebook, Twitter and Instagram are all excellent. As far as creating a website, there are several free website builders with easy templates to help you get started. Make sure you create an email address specifically for your group to protect both your privacy and your inbox capacity!

, While on the subject of websites and emails, there is very little point getting online if you don't have photos or images to showcase your group. You only need a small budget and a little bit of imagination to get some great photos. Get a friend that is camera savvy and can take a good snap or offer TFP for emerging amateur photographers. Local photography forums may offer a step in the right direction. If you're inclined, you might only need to scout some good locations or invest some lighting and a backdrop to get a few good photos.
 What sort of image do you want to have? This might evolve and change over the years, but in your initial stages what kind of look do you want? It comes back to your ideas about what burlesque is and what style you want to perform. Classic? Neo? You can get great costumes by perusing a local costume store, vintage or second hand stores, or online. Or if you have an act prepared, try getting some staged shots of it. Most importantly make sure the photos represent your group in a concise, creative way.
 It's likely you will all have your own ideas for acts and costumes so keep that very collaborative. That aside, work out your own strengths and weaknesses. Find someone that has time to deal with everyday emails/Facebook inquiries. You may find local artists willing and able to help create promotional material as well. Keeping each member of the troupe engaged in the building of a recognizable identity is important, so make sure everyone has a voice!

, Build alliances with other performers. It's unlikely you will be able to run a show from start to finish with fewer than five members. Keep in mind, each act is typically 3-5 minutes long. Add comedians, MCs, dancers, actors, musicians to your friend list on Facebook. Keep a track of performers in your local area. Check out their shows and introduce yourself. Always keep a business card handy! You never know what may come of a chance run in.
 There's no need to stress. Keeping a light, positive attitude will ensure that everyone enjoys each step of the process. You may not be a Dita Von Teese, Immodesty Blaize or Kitten De Ville overnight, but keep in mind, neither were they! If you ever begin to feel as though the stress of producing shows and organizing other performers is too great, then solo performance may be the route for you. But overall make sure you behave professionally, explore the history of this incredible art form and have fun!

