 This includes items such as leopard hair, guyliner, and the finger-gun-pointed-to-head pose in Myspace pictures. Try to avoid doing any of these.;
,



General fashion: Plaid shirts, or flannels look good on either gender and in virtually any color. Plain-colored skinny jeans (black, grey and white) will always be considered scene. Band shirts are still as popular as ever. Piercings, like skinny jeans, are one of those perpetually scene attributes.

Guys: Boys, you have it fairly easy in this aspect. Buy lots and lots of V-necks; they're simple yet stylish and can be bought almost anywhere. As far as shoes go, Vans, Converse, Combat boots (Doc Martens) and sometimes even flip-flops are common scene footwear.

Girls: Make leggings—preferably full-length ones—your best friend. Pick out some black, white, neon, Zebra, striped and torn/tattered leggings. These look great worn underneath miniskirts, shorts or skinny jeans with holes. Combat boots are also worn by scene girls as well as scene guys. Single-colored flats or slip-ons still add that classic scene touch. As far as shirts are concerned, just about anything goes. Try taking a crew-neck band tee and cutting it into a tank, one-shoulder or tube top.

Accessories: Long, fringed scarves have made their place alongside bandannas as the preferred neckwear for scene kids; in that same way, Ray-bans without lenses have recently claimed their place next to large, bug-eye-like sunglasses. Pyramid stud belts are still popular amongst the scene crowd (particularly white ones), but some scenesters have ditched those for plain, white belts with a cartoon character belt buckle. Sex bracelets are fine, but don't wear so many that your arm is completely covered.
 Make it fit your budget, lifestyle, and personality. For example, if you want all of your hair bleached white-blonde but can't afford to get it redone every few weeks (or simply don't have the time), then that color probably isn't the one for you.


Multi-colored hair is still fairly popular, but one color, usually black, bleach or blue is the preference.
The popularity of large, teased hair has waned in the last year or so in favor of more sleek and classy hairstyles, but is still a major player in the scene. Many new-age scene girls have long, straight or crimped hair, while the guys basically have the same hair as before except for that the over-the-eye look just isn't cool anymore.
 If you're reading this, then you probably already have a device with an Internet connection--a good start. Facebook is pretty much mandatory. Start with only adding people you know on Facebook, then start adding other scene kids. Buzznet and Stickam are also fairly scene-popular social networking sites while Tumblr is gaining popularity. Myspace isn't quite the "scene haven" that it once was, so it's not required (or suggested) that you be extremely active on this site; in fact, many scene kids have gone so far as to delete their Myspace accounts altogether, though it is never too harmful to still have one.


Upload some decent photos. When choosing a picture to put on your page, pick one that's a flattering shot of you. This means no awkward "scene poses" or hair in your face. It is somewhat popular, to have photo effects that look vintage.

