 This is the most common form. Symptoms of this type of ARVC include irregular heartbeats and low blood pressure. The signs associated with low blood pressure include sudden weakness, fainting, and reluctance or inability to exercise. Unfortunately one of the symptoms is also sudden death.Stay alert for changes from the norm. For example, if the dog becomes lethargic and can't keep up on walks, you should seek a vet check for the dog.;
, This is less common and occurs when the heart muscle becomes fatigued. With this form of ARVC the wall of the heart thins and is a weaker pump. Dogs with this form of the disease often have coughs, exercise intolerance, and rapid shallow breathing.


Basically, the signs are those of congestive heart failure. These include a moist cough that is worse at night, a swollen belly, a weak pulse with a fast heart rate, breathing difficulties, fainting, and collapse.
 Asymptomatic is the form that means the dog is only affected mildly and shows no outward sign there is a problem. It might be that the dog only skips an occasional heartbeat and this has no overall effect on the dog's circulation or health.


The symptoms of this form are hard to spot and it is not straightforward for your vet to diagnose. To an owner, their dog is likely to appear totally fit and well.
The dog may have the occasional skipped heartbeat but this is not enough to cause the dog to faint.
 Because the risk to boxers is so high, it's important to know about the condition. ARVC affects the muscular wall of the heart, and interferes with the conduction of the electrical impulses which generate each heart beat. The exact mechanism by which this occurs is unclear but experts believe it may be linked to the movement of calcium between cells in the heart muscle.Experts believe this condition is genetic, and passed down from parent to pup by an autosomal recessive gene. This means that not all individuals who have the gene are clinically affected but may be silent carriers capable of passing the fault down to the next generation.
 This is very important if you are considering breeding a boxer dog, even if it shows no signs of ARVC. However, the genetic test for ARVC is not infallible. A negative test is not a guarantee that the dog is free of ARVC, while a positive test confirms the diagnosis.The genetic blood test does have its uses, because it helps to rule out dogs that should definitely not go forward for breeding, but unfortunately some affected dogs may slip through the net.
Two genetic mutations have been detected to date. However, it seems likely that additional contributing mutations will be found in the future, which accounts for the limitations of the blood test as it stands.This testing is not usually used on dogs that are not going to be bred. The test can tell you if the dog has the genetic mutations associated with ARVC but even a positive test doesn't mean that a dog will develop actual ARVC. In addition, the test does not tell a dog owner whether if the dog does develop ARVE if the condition will be mild or will include severe symptoms., The vet will take a history to understand when symptoms develop. For example, is the fainting linked to exercise? The vet will then check the dog over to troubleshoot for any problem that could indicate a health problem.


The vet then hones the physical exam in on the cardiovascular system and uses a stethoscope to listen to the heartbeat, check the heart rhythm, and measure the heart rate.
The vet listens for any murmurs and sounds that could indicate heart failure, such as fluid in the lungs, as well as listening to the dog's pulse.
 You will need to pay for additional testing, so be sure that you approve tests before they are done. If the vet detects an erratic heart rate, given that the patient is a Boxer, he or she will probably prioritize the next test as an ECG or a Holter test. If the dog has a history of fainting during exercise but its heart sounds normal in the clinic then the next step is to fit the dog with a Holter harness.


A Holter harness is a 24-hour ECG recorder designed for dogs. It records a heart trace for a full day, so if the abnormal event is erratic or triggered by a specific event, such as exercise, the Holter will record it. This gives the best chance of detecting asymptomatic or silent ARVC in Boxer dogs.If there is an obvious heart arrhythmia (irregular heartbeat) the vet may want to run other tests, such as a heart ultrasound exam and chest x-ray. While these tests don't specifically diagnose ARVC, they give information about what state the heart is in and if it has become enlarged and the heart wall thinned. This can influence the veterinarian's decision about what medications to start the dog on.
 Once the condition is diagnosed, there are treatments that can support the heart and slow up deterioration. Treatment takes the form of anti-arrythmogenic drugs, which help to regulate the heartbeat. In addition, if the heart has become fatigued then diuretics and drugs to help the heart to pump more strongly may be prescribed.


Also avoid extreme exercise with your dog, which could strain the dog's heart and push them over the edge. Also, a diagnosis enables your vet to avoid certain medications which can worsen the symptoms of ARVC.
There is some research that suggests giving fish oil can reduce the risk of an irregular heartbeat in boxers with ARVC.Treatment with medication can be costly. This is not only because of the cost of the medications themselves but because of the expense of regular monitoring to ensure that the correct dose is prescribed.

