 Use clippers to buzz your hair tightly to your head. This makes areas of baldness less obvious and is a good option if you’re balding near the crown of your head or around your hairline. This is a very wearable style if you’re nervous about shaving your head completely.You can do one short length all over or you can ask your barber to go a little tighter on the sides.
Most people who buzz their hair like to start out with a number 2 blade with a guard on their clippers. You can then go shorter (a lower number blade) to your taste.This cut works great for round and oval face shapes or those with long faces.;
, Follow George Clooney’s lead and embrace the classic Caesar haircut, which is shorter on the sides and longer on top. This style is best for a thinning top and receding hairline, as the short bangs are styled forward. Bring photos to a professional stylish to execute this cut properly.This cut is great for any face that is longer than it is wide, but particularly oval and heart face shapes., Use shaving cream and a new razor to shave your head completely against the grain using warm water. This will hide any hair loss, by removing your hair completely. It is also is the most low maintenance hairstyle possible.All face shapes look great with fully shaved head.
 Then, create a part on top to naturally hide some hairline recession. The effect is one of a very deep part, rather than balding. This style is best if you have lots of hair on top, but have a receding hairline.This cut is great for square and rectangular faces, much like Roger Sterling’s., The greater the difference between the longest and shortest hairs on your head, the more noticeable any areas of baldness or thinning will be. Avoid longer hairstyles, instead opting for short styles that deemphasize bald spots., If your hair has just begun to thin, use texturizing spray or volumizing powder to give the illusion of thicker strands. These products separate your hair less, helping to hide areas of thinner growth. Texturizing and volumizing products should be applied per the manufacturer’s directions on dry hair.Most texturizing sprays are applied much like hairspray, a fine, dry mist you can work through your hair evenly or concentrate in areas you want more texture.Apply volumizing powder to your roots and work through for oil absorption and lift., Many regular shampoos can clog your hair follicles if used too frequently. To keep your hair follicles clear in order to allow new growth, switch to a cleansing conditioner, such as Biolage. This will cleanse your hair while keeping healthy, natural scalp oils.Use the conditioner much as you would a shampoo. Work a dime-sized amount into your hair then rinse as normal. Additional conditioner is not required., Trying to camouflage your bald spot by combing your hair over it simply never works. It draws more attention to your baldness, isn’t convincing, and doesn’t look attractive. Avoid any creative combing to cover thin areas. Ultimately, this will be more attention grabbing than baldness, which is at least natural., Alcohol-based styling products remove moisture from your hair and can leave your already thinning strands prone to breakage. Opt for moisturizing products when possible to keep the hair you do have strong and in good condition., Parting your hair against the way it prefers to grow creates volume and an illusion of fullness. If your hair naturally likes to lay against your scalp to the left, for example, try parting to the right for some face-framing lift. This technique will make your hair appear thicker., Attract attention to your face rather than your head by growing some classic facial hair. Stick to timeless styles, such as mustaches and goatees in shorter lengths, for a trim and polished look. Avoid very long facial hair, such as a long beard, as this can emphasize the lack of hair elsewhere., Some accessories simply look better with a bald head. Accentuate your newfound baldness with a bold pair of earrings or a printed scarf. You may find that you can sport more adventurous accessories near your face now that you don’t have to style your hair.Statement necklaces and large, colorful earrings can make a bald head look stylish and chic.
Bold eyeglasses or an interesting necktie are also great options.
 Let the sweat glands on your head breathe by foregoing hats. While it’s tempting to cover up your baldness, wearing a hat all the time can clog your hair follicles and keep new hair from growing. An occasional winter hat to stay warm is all you need.