 Clothes, toys, books, and any furniture that will return to the room should be set aside indoors. Whatever furniture is left should be set aside to be sold or donated. Plan to get rid of it as soon as possible to avoid creating clutter in the garage or workroom. Thoroughly vacuum the room afterward.


If you have no way to transport furniture donations yourself, consider asking a family friend to drop by the next day to help move it out, or renting a truck to haul it away.






If you plan to sell off any furniture, post advertisements for it in the evening after the redecorating is done. That way, people will be able to take it away as soon as possible without disrupting the redecoration process.
Don't forget to take down window coverings if you plan to replace them. It will make the job of painting the room simpler.
 There are a number of basic options for painting a room. The most common method is to open up a can of paint, pour some into the tray, and begin rolling it onto the walls. Aside from the standard practice of painting every wall the same color, one wall can be painted a darker shade than the other three to add depth, or edges and molding can be painted a different color to help make the walls pop. There are other options for painting a room as well; just remember that the more complicated the process, the longer it will take. Generally speaking, a simple approach is best. Remember to open any windows in the room in order to keep it ventilated, and remember to strip off borders with tape to ensure clean lines. Let the paint dry afterwards.
 If you began work in the morning, the paint should be dry enough to continue working before the evening arrives. Once the time is right, make any room accessory changes you have planned. This is the time to install new curtains, drapes, or mini blinds, as well as light fixture shades, ceiling hooks, door handles, and anything else that will go behind the rest of the decorations.
 Generally speaking, a bed is the centerpiece of any bedroom, so start with that. Move the mattress around and decide on a place for it, then bring in the frame and box spring and put it all together. Bring in the rest of the furniture one piece at a time and build up the room's layout gradually. Drawers and bookshelves should remain empty at this stage so that they can be moved easily as the room begins to fill out. This is also the time to place closet organizers and new hangers in the closet, if you purchased any. Beanbags may be comfortable and relaxing to lay or sit on so it may be a good furniture for your room.
 Start with the walls and door. Any pictures, mirrors, cork-boards, or other elements that will be attached to them should be put up now. Help each other hold up items side by side to see how they will look together before hanging them. Use a level to ensure that every element is hanging evenly. Once the walls and door have been decorated, add hanging elements and items that will sit on top of shelves or other furniture. Again, work together and spend plenty of time trying different arrangements until everything looks just right.You may want to buy some silhouette stickers to paste on your wall.
 Return drawers to dressers, and then return clothes to their drawers. (Take time to fold and organize them first.) Put shoes, dresses, and occasional-wear clothes in the closet.Organize your clothes by season then by color. Return books and other shelf items to their shelves, and return toys to their drawers, boxes, or chests. Stereos, TVs, and other electronic equipment should next. Finally, make the bed and add any other accent items, such as throw pillows, that go on top of everything else.
 If a yard sale is in order, have it planned for the next morning as well. With all the extra items out of the house or safely in storage, your redecoration will finally be complete. The longer you wait before taking this final step, the more your donations and yard sale items will start to resemble just another pile of junk.

