 This is more important than you may think, as it is a detailed list of things that happen in each scene. A paragraph per scene is probably good. This will help with writing the screenplay, as you will know exactly what happens.;
, Use the proper format if you want. Google that, and you will get results for how to format your screenplay.
 This may seem tedious, but it will help. Basically, this is a comic strip version of the screenplay. It shows camera angles and camera movements.
 For the crew, you will need a Producer, a Director, a Cinematographer, and an audiographer. The audiographer is in charge of voice recordings, and the sound aspect. The Cinematographer is in charge of the camera guy, and if you want to have a photo shoot for a movie poster, the Cinematographer is in charge of the photographer. audiographer would also be in charge of the original score, if you have one.
 Take your time on this step, as it is very important. When Stanley Kubrick directed The Shining, he did over a hundred takes for each scene. It was supposed to be a seventeen week shoot, but it stretched out to almost a full year. Also, his film Eyes Wide Shut, the shooting lasted over four hundred days. You don't have to be this extreme, but make sure you are careful. Once you get a take that is really good, get about a dozen more that are just as good.
 This is the step after filming, but before editing. What you want to do here is get photos taken for movie posters, or DVD covers. Also, do some voice recordings if you are doing voice overs. Again, be very careful with this step.
 Select the very best versions of each scene, and string them all together, so that it works. However, the best version of scene 1 may not go with the best version of scene 2, so use your judgment. Make sure that the transitions are how you want them. Also, edit voices.
 Spread the news around, and get a word of mouth campaign going.
 Burn the movie onto DVDs. Sell them. Ask some local movie theaters if they will show it. Get profits from that.

