 It is a metal tool that is used to secure the rubber band around the scrotum.;
, Don’t use household office supplies for banding. The bands should be thick enough and tight enough to lead to castration within a few weeks.


Store your castration bands in the refrigerator until they are ready for use. This will keep the rubber from breaking down. Always check the rubber ring for elasticity/ breakage before applying it, simply put it on the tool and squeeze the handles to stretch the rubber ring. It should not break/ rip and be free of any cracks.
 You will need some antiseptic spray in case of infection. Take your goat kid to the veterinarian at the first sign of an infection.
 They reach sexual maturity at this time and can begin impregnating your doe (female goats). An uncastrated male goat is called a “buck.”


Make sure both testes have descended before you band your goat. You can have short-scrotum goats if a testis is pushed into the belly cavity.
 Banding is painful to the goat, so administering anti-inflammatories can reduce discomfort. To reduce pain further, you can administer lidocaine to numb the area during the banding period.,,, Set the kid in your helpers lap, so that his belly is up and his front hooves are restrained.
 Squeeze the elastrator handles to expand the band.
 Move the handle of the elastrator closer to the base of the scrotum.
 If you are right handed, put the tool aside for a minute, with your left hand hold the scrotum and feel if both testicles are inside. If not, don't let go, still holding with your left hand, reach with your right hand to the goats belly close to the scrotum, they tend to hold the testicles in sometimes, find them under the skin and push towards the scrotum "catching" them with your left hand. Once you can feel both testicles inside you can put the rubber ring on. Still holding the testicles with your left hand, squeeze the tools handles, pushing scrotum through the open rubber ring, carefully place it where you want it to be, close slightly so that they don't escape again, and with left hands fingers help push down the rubber ring from the first two metal ring expanders and then remove it completely. Check for proper placement again. Leave them loose, putting the ring a bit closer to the body. Otherwise it will be very painful for the animal and you will have to redo it. Also, make sure that the nipples are outside of the band., Keep it sterilized to avoid infection.
 Don’t wait until the constriction starts to take place. If a nipple is inside the rubber band or a testis is pushed up, you should replace the band correctly. , Spray with antiseptic if the area looks too inflamed. Administer pain relief beforehand, since this will be painful for the goat.
 The scrotum will start to shrivel. If the scrotum is hanging off by a thin thread of tissue, you can surgically remove it with a scalpel and apply antiseptic.

