 Waxing is generally a safe practice, but any time you rip hair from your skin there are a few things that can go wrong. These issues can happen at a salon as well, but most professional waxers take measures to avoid them. Here's what to look out for:


First of all, waxing (as well as all other types of hair removal) puts you at risk for getting ingrown hairs, which are hairs that grow back into the skin. This results in a bump that can become irritated and painful. Using the right waxing technique and aftercare can help prevent ingrown hairs.You're also at risk of burning yourself with hot wax. However, testing your wax in a less sensitive area, like the back of your hand, before applying it to your nether regions will help you avoid getting a burn.
Some people who wax, especially the first time, get folliculitis, which is an inflammation of the hair follicle. This is usually clears up on its own within a week, and its less likely to occur if you use the right aftercare.
Consider getting salon experience first. That way you'll get a sense of how the procedure is done and how to best avoid an unpleasant outcome. Look for a unisex salon with lots of great reviews by men who got a Brazilian there. If after trying a salon you decide you can handle the process yourself, read on.;
, You can buy wax online, from a professional waxing salon, or at the drugstore. Since you're waxing your most sensitive skin, it's very important to get the right kind of wax. Make sure it's specifically meant to be used in a Brazilian wax. Do not use regular leg wax or body wax!


Your kit should come with a pot of wax to be heated (either in the microwave or using a wax warmer), waxing strips, waxing sticks, and finishing oil.
Some people like to make their own wax using a mixture of honey, sugar and other ingredients. If you go this route, be sure to test it on another part of your body to make sure it takes off the hair cleanly without getting stuck to your skin.
 The bathroom is the best spot, since it's easier to clean wax off of tile than carpeting or wood. However, you're definitely going to need room to stretch out and move around, so if you're bathroom is on the smaller side, use a different room.


Lay out a plastic tarp, some old newspaper, or another covering to protect your floor.
Have some paper towels and oil handy for cleanup. Mineral oil, olive oil, or any other type of oil will immediately take wax off of most surfaces (including your skin).
 You want to trim your hair to just under 1⁄2 inch (1.3 cm) long. Any hair that is shorter than 1⁄4 inch (0.6 cm) is going to be very difficult to remove, and could result in pulled skin and a lot of pain. The same goes for hair longer than 1⁄2 inch (1.3 cm). Use a scissors to trim your hair to an even length wherever you plan to wax.
 This helps prep your skin to release the hairs more easily by opening up your pores a bit. Time your shower so that your skin is still warm and supple when you begin waxing.


Exfoliate your skin while you're in the shower. Taking off the dead skin cells will give you a cleaner wax. Carefully scrub the entire area you plan to wax using a loofah or some body scrub.
Dry yourself off completely when you're finished. Your skin must be dry before you start waxing.
Don't put on lotion or oil after your shower.
If you want, you can sprinkle on a little baby powder. This helps to keep the wax from adhering to the skin.
 Read the instructions that came with your waxing kit carefully, and heat up the wax until all of it is melted and runny. Stir it up with one of the waxing sticks. Once it's melted, test it by putting a small dab on the back of your hand. If the wax feels too hot, wait for it to cool down a bit before starting. If it's difficult to spread, you'll need to heat it up a bit more.


Throughout the waxing process, you might need to pause to reheat the wax, especially if this is your first time waxing - you don't want to rush things! If you don't want to bother running to the microwave every 10 minutes, consider buying a wax warmer to keep it from cooling off.
 This is the hair that's easiest to remove. Once you experience how it feels to take it off you can decide whether you want to proceed to the parts that are more difficult to reach. Lift the penis up towards you to begin removing hair on the shaft of the penis, then turn it on the side and remove the hair there and the other side of the penis as well.
 Do not apply a pool of wax all at once - that will result in a tangled mess. Dip a waxing stick in your tub of wax and apply a patch - less than 1 inch (2.5 cm) square - to an area of hair. Removing just a little at a time is the best way to manage the discomfort and ensure that you don't end up hurting yourself.


Apply with wax in the direction of your hair growth. It grows in all different directions down there, so be careful to examine each patch of hair before apply the wax.
Use the stick to apply the wax in one smooth stroke, like you're spreading cheese on a cracker. Don't rub it in or move the stick from side to side.
Switch out the waxing sticks frequently. This helps keep things sanitary and prevent infection.
 This is very important: do not pull in the same direction as the hair growth. The hair will not come out cleanly unless you pull against the growth. Here's what you need to do to get a clean pull:


After you lay down the strip, pat it lightly so it adheres to the wax.
Use one hand to hold your skin in place near where you placed the strip. This is especially important if you're waxing looser skin.
Grasp the waxing strip between your thumb and forefinger.
Pull the strip back in a smooth, quick motion. Don't try to do it slowly!

, Use two fingers to stretch a patch of skin so that you won't pull it too much when you wax. Use this method to continue applying wax in very small patches and keep waxing it off until the scrotum is completely hair-free.
 If you have hair growth behind your scrotum and back toward your anus, you may need to get flexible to reach everything that needs to get waxed. Move your legs into a comfortable position so that you can access the area between them. Keep waxing in small patches until you're satisfied with the amount of hair you've removed.
 There are likely a few stray hairs that you missed. You can either go back and get them with a little more wax or use a tweezers to remove them one by one.
 Rub the oil that came with your waxing kit (or another oil made for use on skin) to remove those bits of wax that are still stuck to your body. Gently massaging the dried wax with oil should loosen it right away. Then hop back in the shower and rinse yourself off with warm water.


Once all the wax is off, you can use a mild body wash to wash the area.
Don't use bar soap, which can leave a film that leads to ingrown hairs., A natural moisturizer (nothing loaded with chemicals) will help soothe your skin, which may be red and irritated after your wax. Use a natural body lotion or a bit of coconut oil to treat the area. This will help prevent infection and ingrown hairs.


If your skin feels inflamed even after moisturizing, apply a cool compress to help the inflammation go down.
 Your skin needs room to breathe and heal, and constricting it under tight clothing won't help. If you have time, spend a few hours wearing nothing but your bathrobe around the house. For the next few days, wear boxers instead of briefs, and stay of skinny jeans until the waxed area is no longer red.
 Your tender skin will be susceptible to getting infected, so it's best to wait until it's no longer red and inflamed before having sex.
 The sensitive, pale skin you just waxed could easily burn when exposed to the sun or a tanning bed. It's probably best to avoid tanning this area altogether, but if you're planning to tan, wait several days after waxing to give your skin time to heal.
 If you end up with an ingrown hair or another inflamed spot that grows increasingly irritated, you may need to have it looked into by a doctor.

