 Working out with friends adds a social element that can prevent boredom, because your workout gives you the opportunity to spend time with someone you like. If you have a competitive streak, choose someone who will challenge you.Working out with a friend also can bust you out of a rut because it will mean that someone else is counting on you to show up. Make a commitment to someone else and you won't want to let them down.
Competition can keep you motivated to win, and you don't have to work out with someone in person to compete with them. There are a number of fitness apps that allow you and a friend to train on your own schedules and still compete with each other in terms of distance, speed, number of repetitions, weight lifted, or other factors.
 If you're having significant difficulties getting to the gym, or find that you're only going through the motions during your workout, your body may be trying to tell you something.If you've been doing the same routine for a longer period of time, you muscles may be strained by performing the same repetitive motions. Over time, doing the same exercises day in and day out can do more harm than good.
Take a moment to connect with your body, perhaps through meditation. Identify any areas of soreness or stiffness, or problems that seem to be developing.
Once you've found any weaknesses, think back to what particular motion is causing that soreness or stiffness. Then you know where you need to change up your routine, or if maybe it's time to take a longer break and allow your body to recover.
 Having a goal to work towards may also help to maintain your motivation to exercise. You do not need to set large goals for yourself. In fact, setting smaller goals might make you feel more motivated because it will be easier to accomplish them.

Try setting a goal to do 50 squats, swim 30 laps, or run a mile 15 seconds faster than your last timed mile.
 It's a bit of a mind trick, but if you train yourself to focus on positive aspects of your fitness routine, you can prevent boredom. Visualize yourself meeting a specific goal, or reaching a particular point.For example, if you are a runner and have signed up for a local race, you might visualize yourself crossing the finish line or getting a personal-best time.
If your goal is weight loss, you might visualize yourself wearing a new outfit at a party or social event, or finally fitting into those skinny jeans that have been hanging in your closet for months.
 If you're the type of person who gets excited about the prospect of wearing new clothes or using a new piece of equipment, new workout gear can help prevent boredom.Make sure you stay within your budget, and do this incrementally. You don't need to go out and get a whole new exercise wardrobe every few months just to stave off boredom.
For example, you might treat yourself with a new shirt in your favorite color if you meet a goal.
If you're going to increase the intensity of your workouts by using heavier weights, you might want to get a new pair of dumbbells in a bright, fun color.

