 This method is a bit different in that you use an actual sphere, placed in front of you, as a model while you draw.


A spherical object
Sketch pad or paper
Pencil
Kneaded eraser
Blending tool, cotton ball, or tissue

, This will help you to see the highlights and shadows of the sphere.



You do not need to use a ruler for this, although you can if you would like to do so.
 This can just be an approximation, as you will measure the boundaries later.Sketch four very light, short lines in an open square shape. They should not connect with each other; rather, they should signify the four sides of the square.
The lines need to be extremely light so that they are easy to erase later when touching up your drawing.
 Lightly sketch the axes so that they just barely intersect with the boundaries you drew.You can use comparative measurement to do this, meaning that you can create the size of your boundaries and axes by comparing the size of your model sphere to your pencil. Hold your pencil vertically so that it covers the sphere from top to bottom. Hold the tip of the pencil at the top of the sphere, and place your thumb on the pencil where it hits the bottom of the sphere. Lay your pencil on your paper without moving your thumb. Compare this height to the vertical axis you drew on your paper and adjust accordingly, if you choose. Repeat the process, except now measure the width of the sphere. Compare it to the horizontal axis you drew and, again, adjust accordingly if you would like.
 These should be as close to the same in length as possible.Using your pencil, place it along the vertical axis with the tip at the top. Just like before, place your thumb at the bottom of the axis. Now, turn your pencil horizontally and compare that distance to the horizontal axis. Adjust the axes if one is longer than the other.
 Imagine that the edges of your sphere were made up of a series of planes, made up by several short, straight lines. Begin drawing the edges of your sphere this way, with a contour.Add a first series of contour lines, in the suggested shape of an octagon. These lines will just barely intersect on the ends.
Then, draw a series of smaller contour lines within the first set. This new set does not need to intersect, as they are adding to the rounded shape of the contour.
 Where the contour plane lines do not connect, draw a small curved transition line to connect them.These help add to the circular shape you are creating.



Flatten your kneaded eraser to help you do this. It will make a thin, flat edge so that you can cleanly erase the stray marks and thickness of your new circle.
 Draw an arrow from the direction of the light source, down toward the circle. This indicates where your highlight spot will be.
 This curved line will connect the transitions of the axis you drew.If your light source is in the top left, then the curved line should follow along the lower right side of the circle. Visa versa, if it is in the top right, then the curved line should be placed along the lower left side.
This curved line is the start of the core shadow.
 Now that the circle and start of the core shadow are drawn, the axes are no longer needed., The light source cannot reach this spot; therefore, it is very dark.


Keep this very dark shadow limited to the bottom of the sphere, with each edge tapering off just as it starts to creep up the sides of the sphere.
 Between the curved line you drew and the edge of the sphere, shade in all of that space to a medium darkness.Smooth the shading with a blending tool, a cotton ball, or a tissue when you are done shading the area.



As you move toward the top of the sphere, you will shade in what is called a half-tone. This is a lighter shading than what you did on the lower half of the sphere, opposite of the light source.
 As you shade toward the light source, be sure to leave a circular or oval-shaped highlight spot.


The shading all around the highlight spot needs to be very lightly done to reflect that the light source reflects off of that area.
 Using your blending tool, cotton ball, or tissue, gently rub the shading from light-to-dark to blend the tones together and smooth the appearance of your drawing.


Remember to go from light-to-dark so that no excess graphite is smudged from dark areas into lighter ones.

