 Beyond monitoring the temperature in your betta's aquarium, you will need to maintain other aspects of the water as well. Keep up with the following characteristics of the water in your betta's tank to help keep it healthy:pH level can be monitored with pH strips. These can be bought at most pet stores that sell aquariums and fish. Keep tank water neutral, with a pH of 7.
Tank water must be clean and cannot contain any chlorine. Your pet store may have dechlorination tablets available.
If possible, let your tank water sit for 24 hours before adding it to the aquarium. This allows for gases that could potentially harm your fish to be fully released.
 Regular cleaning of your betta's aquarium is a mandatory part of properly caring for your fish. How often you clean the aquarium will depend on how large your tank is.1 gallon tanks need to be cleaned every 3 days, 2.5 gallon tanks every 5 days, and 5 gallon tanks every 7 days.
Take note of the tanks temperature. You will need to match the new water to this temperature.
Scoop your fish out of the bowl and place it, along with some tank water, in a safe container.
Dump all the old water out of the tank.
Wash the tank and all decorations with warm water. Wipe the inside of the tank down with a cloth or paper towel.
Replace the decorations and refill the tank with clean, dechlorinated water.
Raise the temperature of the tank up to the temperature that the old water was.
Acclimate your fish to the bowl. Place the container with your fish in the aquarium and over the course of five minutes, add the new tank water to the container water
After your fish has acclimated, you can release it into the tank.
 In addition to keeping track of the temperature in your fishes' aquarium, you will need to watch for signs of illness. These signs of illness can inform you if anything in your betta's tank needs attention. Look for some of the following signs of common illnesses in betta fish:Fin rot will appear as damaged, frayed, or sickly looking fins and is caused by unclean water in the tank. Clean the tank and replace with clean water to help with fin rot.
Swim bladder disorder is indicated by any apparent difficulties your betta has swimming, including sinking, swimming sideways, or bobbing on the surface. This is usually caused by constipation but may also be caused by infection, parasite, or injury.
Fungal infections will appear as a fuzzy, white growth on your betta. Antibiotics, a temperature of 74 degrees Fahrenheit or 23 degrees Celsius, and adding aquarium salt can help stop this.
A disorder known as pop-eye is indicated by swollen eyes. Treat by cleaning the tank, increasing temperature to 84 degrees Fahrenheit or 28 degrees Celsius, and adding 1/8 teaspoon Epsom salt for every five gallons of water in the tank.

