 We create a body image based on societal norms and emotional experiences. Having a healthy body image means fully accepting and liking who you are despite any flaws you might perceive. Practice looking in a mirror and finding things to love about the way you look. Even if you feel you have flaws, is there something about them that makes them special and uniquely you?

It can be helpful to think about how you might feel about yourself if you hadn’t ever been told that something about you was “good” or “bad” whether by a parent, bully or magazine.
Appreciate the body you do have. How does your body serve you and enhance your life?
Poor self body image can lead to anxiety, depression and even suicidal thoughts, which is why it’s important to cultivate a love for the way you look.
 One of the main influences of a poor body image is staking your self-worth on your outer appearance. To counteract this, you need to build up your self-worth based on traits that are unrelated to your appearance or how others view you.

Spend some time thinking about some of your positive characteristics. When people compliment non-physical traits, what do they refer to? Make a list. Examples might include being a great listener, being honest, or being an effective problem-solver.
If you have a hard time thinking of your positive traits, request the assistance of a trusted friend or family member. You might say, “I have a hard time noticing my positive traits. What would you say are some of my greatest strengths?”

, If you have poor body image, you may spend more time dwelling on how your body looks versus what it can do. Your body is a miracle. When you devote your attention to its abilities, you are more likely to accept your body the way it is. Instead of being critical about your body, notice all the things it can do.For instance, your strong thighs may help you perform squats in the gym. Your bosom may offer a soft place to comfort a loved one in distress. Your wide hips may make childbirth easier. Your muscular shoulders may help propel you while swimming. There are so many reasons to celebrate your body. Discover them.
 When you are caught in a cycle of self-hatred or judgment, you may neglect your body or treat it unkindly. Building the habit of self-compassion helps you become more aware of your body’s needs. Then, you can efficiently meet those needs with loving-kindness.For example, use your mindfulness exercises to listen for hunger cues (e.g. headache, twinge in stomach, etc.). Then, make the choice to eat healthy and delicious foods that fuel your body. Eat slowly and mindfully and then stop when your body tells you it’s had enough.
Similarly, listen to your body for signs of stress or exhaustion. You may push yourself nonstop, which can lead to burnout or illness. Be mindful of physical and mental cues (e.g. headache behind eyes, low energy, repetitive negative thoughts, etc.) that you need to rest and perform self-care.
 You’ll feel greater appreciation and less judgment for your body when you dress according to your own style and preferences. Trying to keep up with society’s standards of dress will only make you resent yourself. Try out different colors, designs, fabrics, and accessories and regularly wear items that make you feel good about your body as it is.