 This is the perfect place to catch a toad.;
, Arm yourself with a bug net and a "critter carrier" about a gallon in volume.
 These are mini ecosystems for insects, so replace the logs and rocks after you check under them!

, Toads are very shy creatures and dart away when they see something moving, larger than another toad.
 Cover the toad with the net and lie the long net part to the side, and poke the toad until it hops in that pocket of netting.
,

, Dribble some distilled water into the tank so the toad can soak up some water.
 A tank size of 10 gallons (37.9 L) or more is perfect; any less than that and the toad will not have enough room.



Peat moss makes an ideal addition to the base of the tank. It's soft, comfortable and akin to what the toad is used to. Add enough for the toad to burrow into.
 Fill this up with bottled water, or water that has been treated to have it's chlorine, chlorinates and other heavy metals removed and change the water once a day. Never use distilled water as it is completely devoid of minerals and salts. Toads absorb their minerals and vitamins through their water needed for survival through pores in their skin, called Osmoregulation. Therefore it is important that you get a dish they can sit in and keep moist. Be sure not to get one that will be too deep for your toad, and preferably one with easily climbable sides for easy access, as toads are poor swimmers.



Make a small cave-like hole for the toad to crawl into. Try using pieces of sticks or bark to build the "frame" of the cave, then simply cover it gently with the soil. Clear out any dirt that may have fallen into the hole.
 On the lip, smash a hole about 3 inches (7.6 cm) wide, and 3 1⁄2 inches (8.9 cm) tall. Put this (lip down) on top of the soil so the toad has another place to hide.
 Place a screen weighted with rocks for a lid.
 If you chose to add live plants to your tank for added comfort and authenticity for your toad, then this step is extra important, as without water your plants will die. Rotting plants in close proximity to a water or food dish poses a health risk due to the formation of bacteria present to decompose the leaves of the plant, so be sure to prune the plants within your toads tank and remove any dead plants or parts of plants before they start to rot.
 You might use the bottom of a pot or a dish. Make sure whatever you use is short, to allow the toad to hop in and out of it.
 Never feed your toad dead things; it will not eat them if it is not moving. You could buy bugs at the local store or catch them yourself.


Suitable choices for food include:

Small toad feeding: 2 bugs, one small slug, or 2 pinhead crickets
Medium toad feeding: 3 bugs, 1 regular size slug, or 2 small crickets
Large toad feeding: 4 bugs, 1 larger than normal size slug, or 2 regular size crickets.


If you have a dog, an easy way to catch flies is to stalk dog poop. Take a bug net, and wait until flies land on top of the poop. Quickly and silently put the net over the flies. Once they are all at the top, bunch the net so they have room to fly around, and twist it so they can't escape.
If you feed crickets, pull off their back legs before feeding (their jumping legs) as they can damage the stomach of a toad, and toss them in the trash. If you keep crickets as feed for your toads, be sure to provide the crickets with plenty of food such as spinach, carrots, sweet potato and grapes. The vitamins and minerals that end up in the crickets belly will end up in the toads belly, therefore providing the toad with much needed supplementation. #* Meal-worms are a cheap and easily accessible food source for your toad. They can be purchased at many local pet stores and all reptile stores. Be sure to store them in a refrigerator as this will make them slow down almost to a hibernation like state, ensuring they stay alive long enough for your toads to make use of them. If left active they will continue their life cycle, eventually turning into a black beetle with a hard outer carapace that can get caught in your toads digestive system causing pain or even death.
 This is so they know it's always going to be there. They don't like the same food all the time, so use a variety of bugs.
 If the toad suddenly stops eating, it may be ill. Look up toad sicknesses online.
 The peat for burrowing, the rocks and flowerpot for hiding under.
 Toads, unfortunately, aren't intelligent enough to form a bond with their owners, and handling the toad will do nothing but cause stress for the creature. Toads are lovely to watch and read about, but taking it out of its tank for entertainment, or cuddles, will just increase the risk of the toad falling and hurting itself and being an unhappy pet..

