 Children feel good when they have clear expectations and rules. It makes things feel stable and secure for them.Keeping steady routines lets children know what to expect. Setting boundaries lets children know what time they have to go to bed each night, wake up each morning, and expectations for their behavior.
Having clear boundaries makes the world predictable for children. It reduces the amount of uncertainly in their lives.
Unclear boundaries create anxiety for children. Without boundaries, the world seems unpredictable and can make children anxious. Anxious children often struggle more in school and later as adults.
 Children can learn how to be responsible, have control, and gain the ability to choose by adhering to boundaries. These skills are essential to being successful later in life.Children learn responsibility from clear boundaries. You won’t be around to tell your children to be responsible, but clear expectations will make them learn how to be responsible for their actions and choices.
Clear boundaries also teach children about control and choice. By having boundaries that have consequences when crossed, children learn that they can control what happens to them through their own choices.
By not doing what they want immediately, but instead obeying rules, children learn delayed gratification. Delayed gratification can teach kids to plan for their goals and help them to achieve them.
Clear boundaries help kids learn to respect others. Children are very egocentric. Boundaries teach them to be less self-involved and think about how others may feel about their actions.
 Clear boundaries give children the comfort and security to explore their own freedom.Boundaries tell kids what's safe and what's not. That means they can explore what they like on the "safe" side of the line.
Children learn how to be independent from boundaries. Pushing against boundaries is frustrating, but normal. They can learn about their own values based on pushing against your rules and boundaries.
Kids learn about trust and consistency from boundaries. They can explore their own values about being trustworthy based on your rules.

