 Ten minutes of full-body cardio should be enough to warm up all the muscles you will work during the squat.
 Lay on an exercise mat with your knees bent. Lift your hips to form an inverted plank and hold for one minute.


Do repetitions after you do your hold. Lower your glutes and lift them, holding a bridge for three seconds. Then, slowly lower your hips down.
Do three sets of 10 repetitions.
Then, make the movement smaller, lowering one inch down and one inch up for one minute.
Hold another hip bridge for one minute at the end for added effect. Repeat every other day.
 Most people’s quads are much stronger, creating an imbalance and potential for injury. Your hamstrings will lift you out of your lowest squatting position.


Lay back on your exercise mat. Place a small rubber ball, called a physio ball, underneath your feet. Do a hip bridge, like you did to strengthen your glutes.
Try to stay as steady as possible in your torso, as you pull your heels in toward your butt. The ball should come slightly closer as you continue to lift your hips.
Return the ball. Repeat with three sets of 10 reps.
 Lie on your stomach and tighten your ab muscles. Lift your hands and feet to reach the four corners of your exercise mat.


Tighten your abs and glutes and lift them above the ground.
Alternate your right arm and left leg up an inch. Then, lower them slightly as you raise your left arm and right leg. Repeat this slow swimming motion for one to two minutes.
Rest for one minute, then return to the position where your arms and legs are lifted toward the corners of the mat. Do slow jumping jacks, move your arms and legs out and in for one minute.
 Even out the weight in your feet by holding dumbbells to your sides and resting one leg back on a weight bench as you do a single leg squat. Stop bending your knee when you feel a deep hip flexor stretch in your raised leg.


Repeat in two to three sets of 10 on each side., If your shoulders are too tight, you won’t be able to keep your chest up. Place a medicine ball against the wall and lean your shoulders onto it.


Roll it around to break up tight muscles before you squat., Do the butterfly stretch by sitting up with your legs bent and soles touching. Try to gather your toes in toward you and lean forward.


A low lunge with your hands on the floor inside your forward leg will also stretch your hip flexor. Hold for at least one minute before switching legs.

