 Place the butter in a skillet and set the pan on your stove over medium to medium-high heat. Allow the butter to melt and spread over the bottom of the pan.
 Place the chopped onion and minced garlic in the melted butter. Sauté for 2 to 3 minutes, or until the garlic deepens in color and the onion starts to turn translucent.


Cooking the onion and garlic ahead of time releases more of their flavors, which can give your finished sopas a deeper taste. If you're in a hurry, though, you can skip this portion of the process and add the garlic and onions to the slow cooker in their raw forms.
 Place the carrots in the bottom of the slow cooker, followed by the chicken. Spoon the onion and garlic on top.


If desired, cover the bottom and sides of the slow cooker with nonstick cooking spray or a slow cooker liner before adding your ingredients. Doing so is not strictly necessary but may make the cleanup process easier.
When using previously frozen chicken, make sure that the chicken has completely thawed before adding it to the slow cooker.
Do not add the macaroni and cabbage during this step. These two ingredients need to be added near the end of the cooking process. Adding them at the beginning would cause them to become too mushy and soggy., Combine the chicken broth, fish sauce, pepper, and salt in a separate bowl, then pour the mixture over the rest of the contents in the slow cooker.


Only add enough broth to cover the solid ingredients by 1/2 inch (1.25 cm).
Do not add the milk during this step. Like the macaroni and cabbage, it needs to be added to the slow cooker near the end of the cooking process. Adding it now would cause the milk to curdle.
 Cover the slow cooker and cook the soup base for 6 to 7 hours on low or 3 to 3-1/2 hours on high.


Do not stir the soup or otherwise open the lid while it cooks. Doing so would release some of the necessary heat trapped inside, thereby increasing the required cooking time by as much as 30 minutes.
 After the initial cooking period ends, remove the chicken and transfer it to a cutting board. Use two forks the separate the chicken meat into hearty shreds.
 Return the shredded chicken to the slow cooker. Add the macaroni, shredded cabbage, and milk to the slow cooker, as well, stirring to combine.
 Cover the slow cooker and cook the soup for another 30 minutes. Switch the heat to its “low” setting, if necessary.


Note that most pastas should cook adequately well within 30 minutes. If you're using a quick cooking pasta, it may be ready within 18 to 20 minutes. On the other hand, some whole grain pastas may require as much as 35 to 40 minutes., Turn off the slow cooker and ladle the soup into individual serving bowls. Enjoy the soup while it is still hot for the best flavor and texture.


If desired, you can serve each portion with a light garnish of chopped green onion.

