 When inspecting your cat’s nails, look for any signs of damage, infection, or other problems. Nail health is important to overall hygiene, as an infection of the nail can quickly spread to other parts of your cat’s body.


Look to see if the nails are intact.
Observe to see if their claws are jagged, have been torn, or are missing pieces.
See if there is any fungus present – you may spot green, black, or yellow growth around the claws or pads., After inspecting their nails, you may need to systemically clean them. This is especially true if you notice fungus, other growth, or any sort of damage to their nails.


Dip their feet in warm water.
Gently dislodge all dirt, fungus, or other debris on the claws.
If your cat has claw fungus, you should consult your vet. Your vet will likely advise you to continue to wash their feet in warm water. In addition, they may prescribe a topical antifungal or another cleaning agent.
 Trimming your cat’s claws is a key part of maintaining proper hygiene for indoor cats. This is important, as many indoor cats don’t have the ability to wear their claws down as they would outside. Thus, their claws may grow long and may accumulate bacteria. However, when trimming your cat’s claws, make sure to use a proper cat claw trimmer.


Position your trimmer perpendicular to the claw and along the transparent part of it.
Make sure to avoid blood vessels.
Quickly cut the transparent part of the claw.
If you’re afraid you’ll hurt your cat, trim just the tip of the claw. After you trim the tip, you can move up higher and take more of the nail off.
If your cat does not respond well to nail trimming, you may need to have your vet do it.
Clip one or two claws at a time. Trying to get a whole foot or even all your cat’s feet might be too much to expect., A cat’s quick is the portion of its claw where there is tissue and blood vessels. If you cut their quick, you’ll cause them pain and may expose them to the dangers of infection. Thus, you need to be very careful not to cut their quick.


Always cut less nail than you need.
If you cut the quick, consider using a silver nitrate applicator to stop blood loss. You’ll take the applicator and apply it to the area that is bleeding.
Regardless of whether you use silver nitrate or not, the wound should stop bleeding in 5 minutes or so.