 These type of fans are distinctive in that the body of the fan hangs a bit away from the ceiling on a pole. The pole connects at the ceiling at a canopy, which is just a small metal enclosure that covers the mounting bracket and wires for the fan. This type of ceiling fan can usually be easily removed in a few steps.;
, An easy way to make sure you have turned off the power is by keeping the fan on when you go to switch the breaker. If you have successfully turned off the correct breaker, the fan should be coming to a stop when you return. , You may want to place it a little to the side of the fan so you can easily reach around the paddles to the canopy at the ceiling.
 You may need to use a very short screwdriver to get between the housing at the ceiling and the main body of the ceiling fan. Once the canopy is unscrewed, simply lower it down so it rests on top of the fan body. Now you should be able to see how the ball at the top of the fan pole slips easily in and out of the bracket. You should also be able to see the electrical connections between the fan and the wires in the ceiling.


If you cannot get into the space between the housing and the fan body, you may want to follow method two below, as it will tell you how to take more parts off the fan apart in order to remove it.
 This is most easily done with a non-contact voltage tester, which tests for magnetic fields around wires quickly and easily.
 You may need to pull all the wires out a bit to access the wire nuts but once you have them in hand, turn them counterclockwise and they should unscrew.


Once you have detached the fan wires from the wires coming from the ceiling, be sure to put the wire nuts back onto the wires coming from the ceiling. This way, if you need to turn the power back on before you install a new fixture, your wires will be safely capped off.
 This connection might vary slightly, but should slip out relatively easily no matter the exact style. Remember to keep a good hold of the fan, as once its out of the bracket you will need to support its whole weight.
 It may be helpful to rest it on the top of your ladder momentarily, so that you can readjust your grip and get down your ladder with the fan safely. You now have removed your ceiling fan but you are not quite done!

, It should be attached with two screws the electrical box in the ceiling. It is a good idea to put the screws back in the electrical box once the bracket is removed so that they are there for the next fixture you want to attach.


Even if you are going to put up a new ceiling fan, you should still remove the mounting bracket. Every ceiling fan comes with its own mounting bracket that is made specifically for that model.

