 A presentation is the most common way to explain a complex subject like Crohn’s to a medium or large-sized group. You might deliver a presentation about Crohn’s to a class as a teacher or student, to a medical conference, or to a public audience. You could include video clips or images in your presentation if you have access to a digital projector. Programs like PowerPoint are tremendously useful for incorporating textual and visual information into your presentation.Do not mumble or rush through your presentation. Speak in a steady conversational tone.
If you tend to get nervous when explaining things to a large audience, take some deep breaths before beginning. Close your eyes and breathe in through your nose for three seconds, then out through your mouth for five seconds. Repeat three to five times, or until you feel relaxed.
Prepare notes to help guide you through your presentation. If you have a poor memory, just type your presentation, then read it to your audience directly. In either case, look out at your audience for most of the presentation, rather than down at your notes or papers.
Smile at your audience.
Keep your body language alert yet relaxed., If, as part of your explanation, you can introduce a Crohn’s disease patient to your audience, your explanation will be significantly enhanced. This will enable your audience to put a human face on the disease, and allow them to hear a firsthand account about what it’s like to live with Crohn’s disease from day to day. Leave time at the end of your explanation to allow listeners to ask questions of your guest with Crohn’s disease.Before introducing your guest speaker, you could explain, "This guest speaker is here to tell you more about what it's actually like to live with Crohn's. Please give them a warm round of applause."

, One great way to explain Crohn’s to others (or to assist you in your explanation) is to show a documentary film. There are many documentaries about Crohn’s available online, and you may be able to find additional films at your local public library.For example, the documentary “Crohn’s End,” directed by Reid Kimball can help others hear what it’s like to live with the illness day-to-day and get ideas about how to receive treatment if they themselves suffer from Crohn’s.
You could explain to others, "These films will give you an inside look at how Crohn's disease works and affects people."

, Some people will be able to best understand Crohn’s disease by reading text. One way to explain Crohn’s disease to others is to provide them with books, articles, or pamphlets about Crohn’s disease. Reading these books, articles, and pamphlets will give them a better understanding of how the disease works.For instance, you could offer them a pamphlet like “Living With Crohn’s Disease,” published by the Crohn’s & Colitis Foundation of America You could download and print or email this and similar pamphlets directly from the foundation’s website.
You could also point them toward an article like Liam Lonergan’s 2015 piece “What It's Actually Like to Live with Crohn's Disease,” available online.
You might offer them a book like “The Crohn's Disease and Ulcerative Colitis Fact Book.” This and similar books may be available through your public library.
When offering literature to others to explain Crohn's disease, you might say, "This literature can offer an in-depth look at Crohn's disease. Look it over for more information."

, If you have a marker board, take advantage of it by writing key words and phrases on it, along with simple definitions if necessary. For instance, you might be able to write a heading like “Symptoms” on the board, then underline it. Beneath the heading, list the symptoms of Crohn’s.Make your words large and bold on the board. If you are in a large space, ensure that people in the back row can read your handwriting.
When you fill up the board with vocabulary or interesting facts that help people understand Crohn’s disease, erase the portion of the board that you wrote first to allow you to use more space.
Don’t write everything you say on the board. Instead, use the board to list important vocabulary and key points.
Stop talking when writing on the board. Otherwise, it will be harder for people to hear you.
People who learn best or primarily via textual inputs will benefit from your use of a board.
 When explaining the location of the large intestine, small intestine, and other body parts, it helps to have a visual. A diagram of the intestines will prove useful when explaining Crohn’s disease to others.You can get diagrams from medical supply stores or online.
If you’re incorporating a diagram into a digital slideshow, you can easily obtain an appropriate image online.
People who learn best or primarily from visual means will be well-served by your use of diagrams to explain Crohn’s.

