 Place one end of a tape measure on the floor and bring the other end up to the top of the dog’s head. This will tell you how tall your dog is when standing upright. You’ll need this information when looking at strollers, as larger dogs will need larger strollers.Make sure that you


Most dog strollers have covers to protect against weather and sun. Knowing your dog’s height ensures your dog will have enough room to stand up and turn around inside the stroller, even when the cover is down.
Allow ample room for growth if your dog is still a puppy. You can anticipate your dog’s adult size by researching standard height and weight measurements for your dog’s breed.;
, Think of where you and your dog will go when using the stroller. Will you only use the stroller for neighborhood walks or will you take it to places such as shopping malls or on hiking trails? The intended use of the stroller will influence the type of stroller you’ll need to buy.Also consider how often your dog will walk on their own. Will you be pushing the dog the entire time you’re on a walk, or will the dog be walking on its own for much of the time?
Collapsible dog strollers offer the most portability but tend to cost more than inflexible models.Obtain measurements of these folding models to determine if the stroller will fit in your vehicle when fully collapsed.
 The dog stroller you purchase must be adequate for the locations you plan to use the stroller, whether rural or urban. For example, you may be able to find online descriptions of hiking trails that you plan to take or rural roads you plan to walk along.This helps determine the best type of stroller tires and construction for you and your dog.


Decide if you will use your stroller on long hikes in the woods or only on concrete sidewalks. If you’ll primarily be jogging on roads and sidewalks, you may decide to purchase a lightweight, three-wheeled jogging pet stroller.If you’re going to take your dog stroller on longer hikes, access printed maps to evaluate the steepness and difficulty of trails.
 Individuals or families with multiple dogs may need to buy a larger stroller, in order for it to comfortably fit both dogs. If you’re going to hike, walk, or jog with two or more dogs in the stroller, make sure that the dogs will have enough room to comfortably stand up and turn around when the stroller’s cover is shut.This should be relatively easy if you have multiple small dogs, but larger dogs may not fit together in a dog stroller.
If you have dogs of different sizes—for example, one large and one small dog—you can bring a stroller for the smaller dog, so it can rest while the larger dog continues to hike or run.
 If you are planning to take the stroller on longer hikes through rougher terrain, you’ll need to purchase a sturdy model which may have helpful features, such as a rainproof exterior. Conversely, if you’ll primarily be taking your dog on short walks or using the stroller indoors (at the vet’s office or mall), you can select a model with fewer features.Look for a stroller with all-terrain, knobby tires and a reinforced undercarriage if you plan on using the stroller on uneven surfaces such as dirt, sand, or snow.
Purchase a stroller with standard, bicycle-type tires if you only plan on using it on pavement.
 A top cover can be zipped or buttoned shut in order to keep your dog inside. This feature will be useful in rain or other inclement weather, and can also come in handy if you want to contain your dog inside the stroller: for example, when at a family picnic.Closing the top and front cover will also ensure that your dog won’t jump out while the stroller is in motion.
 The ability to carry supplies like water and food is handy for long hikes, jogs, or walks. If you purchase a dog stroller that does not come equipped with storage space, or that has a limited capacity, you’ll likely be left carrying pet accessories in your hands. A good pet carrier will have cargo space like pockets or sleeves on the back or sides of the stroller.When using the stroller, you’ll likely be carrying:


Water and a water dish for your dog.
A leash and/or dog harness.
Waste bags to pick up after your dog.
 Visit websites such as Amazon.com to learn what other buyers think of the model you may be purchasing. There are also multiple online blogs and websites dedicated to reviewing and promoting dog strollers; a quick Google search will reveal multiple dog-stroller blogs.Consider asking other local buyers if you can test drive their strollers. For example, place an ad in CraigsList.org to find local a dog-stroller owner. Then, bring your dog with you, and meet at a dog park to try the stroller. Make sure your dog fits in the stroller and, if the stroller’s owner allows, take your dog for a brief walk while it’s in the stroller.
 Ask what model they recommend for your dog’s breed, weight, and height. (These size recommendations may also be listed on the company’s website). Although you’ll have already done similar research yourself, it will still be helpful to have your dog-stroller evaluations confirmed or modified by the manufacturer.


This step is especially valuable if you plan to purchase a stroller online. Since some of the best dog stroller deals are online, you won’t be able to test the stroller until you purchase one.
 Ensure that you can return the stroller if it isn’t the correct size for your dog. Once you’ve confirmed the warranty and made your decision, you should purchase the dog stroller from a manufacturer who will pay for return shipping if the stroller isn’t right for your dog.


A generous return or exchange policy is a good sign that the manufacturer provides a quality product.
 Before you purchase a dog stroller, check with your veterinarian and make sure that that dog stroller will not cause any health problems or concerns for your dog. Describe to the vet the locations where you plan to take your dog in the stroller, how much room the dog will have inside the stroller, and how long your dog will be in the stroller during a typical hike, jog, or walk.


It’s likely that your vet will support your decision to purchase a dog stroller. They may advocate dog strollers as an effective way to transport a dog that is sick, recovering from surgery, or in a cast.