 The first step to becoming a Pro gamer is playing video games. To become a Pro Gamer you have to be good. Pick a game that you will compete in professionally. You must be passionate about it.


Shooter and first person shooter video games are amongst the oldest types of games. These games involve shooting at targets and are often war themed in nature. First person shooters involve the player navigating an environment from a first person perspective. You'll often be required to shoot and kill your enemies. Examples of shooter and first person shooter games include Halo, Doom, and Wolfenstein. If you enjoy action, you may want to consider a shooter game.Adventure games usually involve the player going on a variety of quests to obtain information to aid with an overarching mission. Adventure games do not always involve a specific enemy or boss. They may involve navigating a story, and the game may be a matter of revealing plot points and secrets. If you enjoy fantasy and storytelling, consider an adventure game. Adventure games include Myst, Indiana Jones, and Syberia.Role-playing games involve taking on a specific character and performing quests. Dungeons and Dragons is a type of pen and paper role-playing game, but there are many role-playing games to be found online. These games are often longterm and you remain the same character throughout gameplay. If you're looking for a game that involves strategy and interacting with others, consider a role playing game.There are also basic types of games, like sports games, fighting games, and dance games. Games also come in hybrid forms. For example, many games with supernatural elements combine action and adventure games and may also have elements of shooter type games. It's important you choose a video game that appeals to your personal interests. Spend some time exploring a local game shop and see what you find.;
, If you want to be a professional gamer, you'll need certain materials. A good console, a mouse, controllers, and other supplies are needed in the gaming world.


Depending on the type of games you want to play, you may need some kind of a game console. You can go to a local game shop and talk to a worker there. Explain the kinds of games you're interested in playing and ask him or her to help you find the right console.
If you're playing games on a computer and using a mouse, you should invest in a wrist cushion. This will help support your wrist and lessen pain and irritation associated with gaming.You should invest in a quality controller. Even if you're primarily playing games online, many controllers can be plugged into a PC or laptop and allow you to better maneuver your character.Get a good track pad if you're using a mouse. You need a high quality track pad with a hard, low friction surface. This allows you to better move your mouse while playing.As a lot of gaming is community based, get a microphone you can hook up to your computer or game system. This way, you can talk to other players online., Gaming is an entire subculture with different slang, rules, and customs. Before jumping into the world of gaming, spend some time studying the culture.


When entering the gaming realm, try to learn from everyone. Keep in mind everyone playing the same video game as you has something to teach you. Be respectful of other players and, if you're playing a role playing game, follow the lead of others while you're still learning.Read up on any game you want to play. Try to get a good grasp of the rules and best strategies. While the best way to get better at a game is by simply playing it a lot, you should spend some time familiarizing yourself with how the game works before jumping in.
Gamers have their own special language and slang. Spend some time browsing gaming forums on the internet and studying how gamers talk. Google acronyms and words you do not understand to understand their meaning.
 You do not want to play only one game or only one type of game. True gamers play a diversity of different game types and genres. If you want to be a gamer, push yourself out of your comfort zone. If you're used to playing first person shooters, try a role playing or action/adventure game. If you usually play games that involve story-telling and fantasy, try playing a sports or action game. Allow yourself to experience a variety of different types of gameplay.

