 When you move to a new place, there is some adjusting that you have to do. Give yourself some time to settle in and feel comfortable in your new home.Settling in first will give you the chance to explore your new city, and make your new home a relaxing place you can come back to. It will also ensure your place is suitable for bringing a date back to (if you want to) and that you have a comfortable place or two in mind to meet a potential date. Try the following.


Have everything moved in, and purchase all the small things to make your home complete.
Decorate how you want so that your home is a great representation of who you are.
Take time to find your new favorite local places (coffee shops, restaurants, etc.) and spend time there.;
, As you are getting settled into your new place, see if there are any social gatherings or events at your new place of living and go to them.If you are living in an apartment complex, see if there are any meet-your-neighbor events. If you have moved into a house, look for block parties or yard sales. Focus on making connections with people in the area first. You never know, you may meet someone to date, or you may meet a new friend that can introduce you to someone later on. Try the following.


Ask your leasing office for a resident events calendar.
Contact your local home owner's association to ask about community events.
Check out your local park district for community events.
 Enjoy getting to know your new city. While your settling in, it can be the perfect time to do all of the activities a tourist may do in this new city.Cities often have their own cultures, special events, or unique things to check out.Have fun exploring what your new city has to offer, you never know who you might meet while you're checking it out. Look for the following.


Cultural festivals.
Music concert series.
Sporting events.
Famous places or landmarks in the area.
 If it was for work, introduce yourself to your new co-workers. If you are attending school or college, talk to your classmates about the area. If your co-workers invite you to a happy hour, go. If classmates invite you to a study session at the student commons, check it out. You may not want to find someone to date in your workplace, but you can make some work friends (who might have single friends) and get good suggestions about places to visit.”Hi, I'm Alice. I just moved here.”
”I'm not from the area, but I have been trying to explore the city a bit. Do you have any suggestions for places I should go?”
”Where are the good spots around here for hanging out?”
”What are the must see places in this city?”

