 This is important, if you want to become a true Warrior Cats fan. There are seven series, each with six books-with the exception of the newest series, A Vision of Shadows, which only has three books because it is incomplete. You can buy the books of each series altogether in boxed sets, or buy them all together. A list of each of the seven main series follows below. You can look on the official Warriors website for a list of all of the books within the series, but the very first book in the series is Into the Wild. It will take a while if you want to read them all, so be patient. There are a lot of books.

The series:

The Prophecies Begin
The New Prophecy
Power of Three
Omen of the Stars
A Vision of Shadows
Dawn of the Clans (Prequel)

;
, These books are biographies about some of the cat's lives, uncovering details about their past. After you have read all of the main books, you don't necessarily have to read these, but they are still interesting. Here are all of them:

Yellowfang's Secret
Tallstar's Revenge
Bluestar's Prophecy
Crookedstar's Promise
Firestar's Quest
SkyClan's Destiny
Moth Flight's Vision
Bramblestar's Storm
Hawkwing's Journey

, These can help give you a better understanding of the Warriors world. They're also good to have around as reference, in case you forgot little details. These are all the books:

Secrets of the Clans
Battles of the Clans
Cats of the Clans
Enter the Clans
Code of the Clans
The Ultimate Field Guide

, Reading these are totally optional, but you may still want to, so that you can brag about how you've read every single book. There are mangas, ebooks, and novellas. The mangas are just books written in a comic book-like style, telling extra stories like Scourge's childhood, and about Tigerstar meeting a kittypet. The novellas are shorter stories about Warriors, and ebooks are books that can be downloaded to your tablet or E reader., Do you want to join a site to create your own cat, and roleplay with others? Maybe you want to write your own stories, and read other's? Before you spread the fandom online, you need to first decide what you want from a website., There are many to choose from online, so be sure to do some browsing for the perfect one.

When you join an RP, you need to create a Warrior Cats OC, or original character. We have many articles on that topic on wikiHow, as well as how to roleplay as a Warrior.
 The most popular one by far is Fanfiction.net, but there are others.

You can do more than just read other's stories. Don't be afraid to write your own fanfic, you might find that you love the hobby, and that other people love your writing.
Remember to always give credit to Erin Hunter for writing the original stories.
You can also use your roleplay OC for your stories and ideas. Just don't use anyone else's cats without their permission.

