 Introverts tend to be quieter people than extroverts. They often enjoy spending time with people, but would prefer the company of a close friend or two over a crowd of new people (don't compare it with shyness). Some of the differences between extroverts and introverts are likely because introverts’ brains process information differently than extroverts’ do.Despite common misconceptions, introverts do not “hate people,” and they’re not always shy. The following are some common introverted traits:Seeks out solitude.Introverts generally do just fine on their own. In many cases, they prefer to be alone, at least for most of the time. It isn’t that they’re afraid of other people; it’s just that they don’t feel as strong a need to be around others.Prefers less stimulation. This refers most often to social stimulation, but it can also refer to physical stimulation. For example, introverts actually produce more saliva in response to tasting something acidic than extroverts! Noise, crowds, and bright lights (i.e., your typical nightclub) are not things introverts commonly enjoy.Enjoys the company of a few people or quiet conversations.Introverts may enjoy socializing, but they usually find even pleasant social interactions make them tired after a while. Introverts need to “recharge” on their own.Prefers to work alone. Introverts often do not enjoy working in groups. They would prefer to work things out on their own, or collaborate with just one or two people.Enjoys routine and making plans. Strong introverts do not respond to novelty the same way extroverts do. Introverts may have a need for routine and predictability. They may spend significant time planning or reflecting before taking any action, even small ones.;
, Extroverts like to be around other people. They are often very active, and they generally have a variety of things going on.A common myth is that extroverts can’t stand to be alone, but this isn’t true. They just experience their alone time in a different way.The following are some common extroverted traits:


Seeks out social situations. Extroverts are usually happiest when they’re around others. They experience socializing as “recharging” and may feel depleted or down if they don’t have social contact.Enjoys sensory stimulation.People who are extroverts often have a different way of processing dopamine, which makes them excited or pleased when they encounter new and stimulating experiences.May enjoy attention. Extroverts aren’t any more vain than anyone else, but they don’t usually mind it when people pay attention to them.
Feels comfortable working in groups. Extroverts may not always prefer to work in groups, but they’re generally comfortable with it and it doesn’t make them uncomfortable.Enjoys adventures, risks, and novelty.Extroverts enjoy and seek out new experiences. They may get bored easily. They may also jump into an activity or experience too quickly., Research has shown that extroversion is linked to two regions in your brain: the amygdala, which is responsible for processing your emotions, and the nucleus accumbens, which is a “reward center” that responds to stimuli with dopamine.How you respond to risks and stimuli -- a key factor in extroversion -- is at least partly dependent on your brain.


Several studies have linked dopamine function to extroversion. It appears that extroverts’ brains are more likely to respond -- and respond strongly, with chemical “rewards” -- when risks or adventures pay off.Extroverts are more likely to seek novelty and variation because of their dopamine function. One study showed that people with a specific gene that enhanced dopamine were more likely to be extroverted than people without that gene., The Myers-Briggs Personality Inventory, one of the biggest tests to use the introvert/extrovert dynamic, has to be administered by a professional.However, there are several versions of the test that are free online. They aren’t as comprehensive or professionally valid as the MBTI, but they can give you an idea of where on the introvert/extrovert continuum you usually fall.


16Personalities has a short, helpful MBTI-type test that’s free. In addition to telling you your “type,” it will help you understand some common strengths and weaknesses associated with your dominant traits., One common myth about introverted people is that they’re painfully shy. The flip side of this myth is that extroverted people are always party animals. Neither of these is always true. Shyness stems from a fear or anxiety over social interaction. Introversion stems from a lower innate need to socialize. Introverts score low on initiating socializing, but they also commonly score low on avoiding it.Research has shown that introversion and shyness have a very low correlation -- i.e., being shy doesn’t mean you don’t want to be around others, and not wanting (or needing) to be around others doesn’t mean you’re shy. Even extroverts can be shy!Shyness is a problem when you feel that it causes you anxiety or interferes with what you want to do.Support groups and self-acceptance training may help you overcome troublesome shyness.Wellesley College offers a free version of a shyness scale used in research here. The quiz calculates your shyness based on a series of questions such as:Do you feel tense when you’re around others (especially people you don’t know well)?
Do you want to go out with others?
Do you feel afraid of being embarrassed or not knowing what to say?
Do you feel more uncomfortable around members of the opposite sex?


A score of above 49 on the Wellesley scale indicates that you are very shy, a score of 34-49 indicates that you are somewhat shy, and a score below 34 indicates that you are not very shy.You can use this tool to assess whether you feel that you should work to become less shy.

