 Handguns are compact and high-impact, popular for both target and trick shooting, as well as personal and home defense purposes. Handguns might be the most controversial of all the varieties of guns, short of automatic weapons, and also some of the most regulated. Knowing a bit about the basics of handgun ownership will help you to make the most informed choice., All handgun-buyers must submit to a background check before being permitted to buy a handgun. The same information will be provided as when you purchase any FFL firearm, but there will also likely be a waiting period and a more thorough background check completed into your record.
 Handguns come in a wide variety of calibers, just as rifles do, and are measured in the same way. The caliber of the gun refers to the diameter of the barrel and the corresponding ammunition that will be used. Depending on why you want to purchase a handgun and what you intent to use it for, the caliber of the handgun is an important consideration.


.40 caliber and 9mm pistols are extremely common in law enforcement and as conceal and carry weapons. For many gun-owners, guns with a lower caliber than this are ineffective for use in home defense..38-.44 caliber pistols and above are typically used for home defense purposes. The recoil and the power of these guns is quite large, making it somewhat excessive for those interested in guns for conceal and carry or sport purposes.
 Both kinds of handguns are iconic pistols in Hollywood. Cowboy shooter like Dirty Harry or a semi-auto like James Bond? Whether you want to spin the chamber or rack the slide, you can get a reliable gun.


Semi-auto pistols are magazine-loaded, the chamber fed by pre-loaded magazines that hold between 9 and 12 shots. To fire semi-automatic pistols, the slide on top of the gun needs to be pulled back to advance a bullet into the chamber and depress the hammer.
Revolvers hold between 5 and 9 shells and advance by rotating in a clockwise motion, advancing through the chambers. To remove the spent shells, the revolving chamber is rotated to the side and the shells are emptied manually. The hammer is likewise pulled back manually on a revolver.
 Handguns need to be matched to your body style and your strength a lot more than most other varieties of gun. It's important to hold a gun first and make sure it feels comfortable in your hands before making a purchase. Ideally, you should be able to fire the weapon a few times to make an informed choice. For this reason, gun ranges are typically the best places to try out guns in a safe and supervised environment.


Gun stores
Gun shows
Shooting ranges
Antique or exchange stores
Military surplus stores

, If you're buying a pistol because you want to carry it on your person, research the regulations in your area and receive the necessary training to make it legal.

