 Gowns with long sleeves have seen a major comeback, and you might have Kate Middleton to thank for that. For a winter wedding, long sleeves are appropriate while being stunningly chic. When you make appointments at bridal shops, make sure to tell them that you are interested in gowns with sleeves, and they can pull those styles aside for you.Gowns with sleeves are certainly less common, and you’ll make a major statement by choosing to cover up. Embrace the unique opportunities that come with a winter wedding!;
, Airy, lightweight dresses are gorgeous, but a winter wedding calls for a more substantial dress. Luckily, many beautiful fabrics fall into this category. Not only will heavier dresses keep you warm while you’re outdoors, they’ll look much more seasonally appropriate than the thinner gowns.Satin and velvet are both beautiful, heavier fabrics for winter gowns. If you love a fabric like tulle, lace, or chiffon, it can always be layered a heavier fabric., Sometimes you fall in love with a gown and can’t imagine getting married in anything else. If you happen to adore a wedding dress that is lightweight and potentially not as warm, don’t fret! Ask the specialist at the bridal store or a bridal alterations specialist if they can add a satin lining to the dress you’ve picked. This will keep you warm and allow you to rock the dress you feel best in.Keep in mind that this is a more elaborate alteration, which naturally means a bit more time and money for the alterationist. The exact timeframe and cost will depend on the complexity and style of your gown, so leave some wiggle room in your dress budget and don't wait until the last minute.
 Big, full skirts were practically made for winter wonderland weddings. Not only do these dresses look dramatic and sophisticated, the full skirts will help keep your legs warm. You’ll look like a princess (or a queen) on your big day, and your ball gown will insulate you from the winter weather.Tell the bridal shop that you're looking for ballgown or a-line silhouettes.You can find these types of gowns in anything from chiffon to ruched satin.
 Winter is a sparkly season. From Christmas lights to the New Year’s Eve Ball to the icicles hanging from roofs, twinkly lights are everywhere. Why not include a bit of this sparkle on your dress? Look for gowns with crystal beading or other embellishments to embrace the winter wonderland vibe.You can opt for a gown that’s beaded from top to bottom, or one with just some extra bling around the bodice. Any sparkle is good sparkle!
If you don't have any bling on the dress, don't hesitate to add some to your look with jewelry!

, With a winter gown, you can take some bold risks that summer brides couldn’t pull off. Incorporating gold and silver into your gown is an eye-catching way to make a statement. Look for dresses with gold and silver threading and embroidery. The detailing will make your gown look glamorous, while bringing in the depth and richness of a winter wedding.If you really want to embrace this idea, call ahead to bridal shops and explain you're looking for a dress with these metallic details. They can pull out dresses with patterns and embroidery that fit the bill.
You can also add a metallic touch to a gown by adding a sash.
 When you hear the phrase “flower crown,” you probably picture the bright, colorful flower crowns worn by spring and summer brides. However, winter brides can wear their own version of the popular accessory. Instead of colorful flowers, look for (or craft) a rich evergreen crown. Then, you can add whatever flowers you are using for the rest of the festivities.You want your winter wedding flower crown to look more like a Christmas wreath than a spring bouquet.
Choose a crown with more greenery than flowers. The deeper the green, the better. More muted flowers work beautifully in the winter, as well as metallic detailing.
 Velvet is a cozy yet glamorous winter staple. Whether you’re wearing sky high heels or ballet flats, velvet footwear is a perfect accessory for a winter wedding. Add a fun pop of color by getting a pair of velvet kicks in your wedding color – after all, they’ll be hidden underneath your dress for most of the day.This might be a no-brainer, but make sure to break in your velvet shoes before the big day!

, You probably don’t want to pop your puffy winter coat over your beautiful wedding dress. For your winter wedding, it’s a great idea to invest in some appropriate outwear. A faux fur stole is a great option, as well as a cashmere shawl in your wedding color. This will look sophisticated and glamorous in pictures, and you’ll be warm. Win, win!You can shop for faux fur stoles online, or check out your local department stores. The bridal shop where you purchased your dress might be able to point you in the right direction.
Bring a swatch of your wedding colors to a department store if you're searching for a cashmere wrap or shawl. This will ensure your colors don't clash on the big day.
 You may not be planning to be outside much on your wedding day, but you’ll likely get at least a few photos outside. Keep your hands warm (and reduce the risk of blue hands ruining your photos) by investing in a nice pair of gloves. You can easily find these online, and you can order them to match your wedding dress or accessories. You can even find an ultra glamorous pair with beading or silk ribbons!, Winter weddings are unique, and winter brides should embrace that! Warm gloves and wraps are great, but why not just bundle up with your new spouse in a blanket? Throwing a thick blanket over you and your honey’s shoulders will make for an adorable photo op, and it’ll keep you warm until you’re inside on the dancefloor.

