 Get your parent's help. You can team up with family and friends as business parents. You can make your own products and sell them. Talk to your parents about how to start a business.
 Are you a math whiz? Help little children learn how to multiply.
 Beyond babysitting yourself on a case-by-case basis, consider starting a small babysitting business. You could get a couple of your friends involved who also want to make some money. Distribute flyers around your neighborhood, local cafes, and community center. Ask your parents to post fliers at their work place, too. ]


Before beginning your babysitting business, it would be a good idea for you (and any friends who will be working with you) to get your CPR certification.This will also be attractive to people who are looking for a sitter.
Once you have babysat for a client, ask them to serve as a reference for future employers and to recommend you to their friends.
You could also set up a website. You can create a free website through wix.com or weebly.com. These sites also have many templates that you use to create your own website. Include the link to your website on your fliers and ask past clients to contribute testimonials. You can include some information about yourself and your company on your website, as well as post your hourly rates.
 If babysitting isn’t for you, consider starting a pet sitting business. You can distribute fliers to advertise your services and go door to door in your neighborhood.
 If you have an older sibling who can drive, you might ask him or her to go into business with you or transport you around the neighborhood for a percentage of your profits. If you want to keep all your profits or don’t have access to a vehicle, you could use a wagon to carry your supplies around your neighborhood.


You could take this one step further by offering a detailing service to customers. Instead of just washing cars, offer to wax or vacuum the interior, also. This service will require a few extra items, such as a shop vacuum and wax, but you earn a lot more by offering “upgrade” services like these. Chances are, if someone is paying you to wash their car, they wouldn’t mind paying an extra $10 to $20 dollars for a more thorough cleaning.
Talk to your customers about washing their cars on a bi-weekly or monthly basis. Be sure to be friendly and do a thorough wash for your customers. If you do, they will be more likely to hire you again and tell other neighbors about your car wash service.
 While the idea of a lemonade stand might seem rather outdated, if you are smart about when and where you sell refreshments, you can make some good pocket money. This old classic is still effective, especially if you sell cookies or other snacks as well. Do it on a hot day in a park or other place where there's a lot of people.

