 January and late spring are both good times to start a challenge. In January, people often make a New Year’s resolution to trim down; in late spring, people are preparing for swimsuit season and will feel more motivated.;
, You will need to review the rules of the contest and the guidelines for how the diet works.
 To persuade people to join in your contest, consider these ideas for recruiting:


Add an announcement to your workplace newsletter.
Post flyers in the break room, in the gym or in the cafeteria.
Spread the word via word-of-mouth.
Send group emails giving people the opportunity to sign up for the challenge.
Post an announcement on your corporate intranet.
Use social media to advertise the opportunity. You can even create your own Facebook page for the event.
 Also, choose a designated support person who is not participating in the contest to perform the weigh-ins and record the results.
 Use the fees that you collect to purchase weekly, monthly, or end-of-contest prizes. Alternatively, you can pool the cash and present a cash prize to the winner of the contest.
 Make sure to cover these important topics:


The dates of the contest
Whether people are losing weight as individuals or whether they will participate on teams
The composition of teams, including the number of members and the designated team leaders
Location of the weigh-in
Registration fees and prize information
How weight loss will be scored (scoring based on the percentage of body weight lost rather than on the number of pounds lost makes the contest more fair)
Attendance requirements for weigh-ins and any weekly meeting that you plan to have

, You will offer emotional support to one another as well as teaching one another new weight loss strategies.


Use coffee breaks or lunch hours to get with participants. Discuss what has and hasn’t worked during your weight loss journeys.
Join to walk or to exercise. Sign up for a walk-a-thon for charity or sign up for a 5K or 10K race.
Work out a deal with a local fitness facility to set up group exercise programs and to provide instructors and personal trainers.
Attend health lectures or programs as a group.
Hold healthy potluck dinners to share recipes or meet at restaurants that offer healthy food choices.
 A competitive spirit will help to keep people motivated throughout the challenge.


Give prizes or recognition for the most hours exercised each week, the number of steps walked or the number of miles people have walked, run or biked.
Set up a spinning class or walk on treadmills to see who can go the farthest in 90 minutes.
See who can do the most pushups or sit-ups or who can jump rope for the longest time.
Have a contest to see who can climb the stairwell to the top of your office building in the shortest amount of time.
Compete on a fitness course, in a relay race, in a tug-of-war or in a swimming competition.
 Put together a ceremony to hand out awards to teams and to individuals. Make sure that any prizes are fitness-oriented so you preserve the spirit of the contest.


Create a trophy for the winner or for the winning team.
Give away small items of fitness gear or a large item like a treadmill or elliptical trainer.
Give away a cash prize or a gift certificate to a sporting goods store.
Give away a trip to a health spa or a membership at a local fitness center.
Award 10 sessions with a personal trainer.

