 Even if you enjoy the kiss your sweetheart stole from you, it can still be a good idea to back out of it and give yourself a chance to breathe. Doing so ensures that whatever reaction you have will be an honest one, rather than one caused by getting swept up in the moment.


Don’t be afraid of “ruining the moment” by pulling away from a kiss. If you maintain physical closeness while preventing your partner from kissing you again, the action may actually increase feelings of desire in both of you.On the other hand, breaking physical contact completely would give you a better chance to evaluate your thoughts and feelings, which can be important if you aren’t yet certain about your feelings regarding the stolen kiss. This is ultimately more important than the risk of ruining this one particular moment.
 Depending on the circumstances, this may only take a few moments or it may take a few hours to days. It’s important to not rush yourself. Honestly ask yourself how you feel about the kiss—i.e. whether you enjoyed it or not—and determine if you feel that it was acceptable behavior for your relationship.


If you already have a fairly intimate relationship, it may not take much time to process your thoughts. Your gut may instinctively know that you do or don’t like the kiss.
If your relationship is still somewhat new, you may need more time to think things through. Let your partner know that in a calm yet straightforward manner: “Wow, I wasn’t expecting that. Can you give me some time to figure out how that makes me feel? My mind is spinning right now.”

, Regardless of whether your reaction is favorable or unfavorable, it’s probably a good idea to give your sweetheart a verbal response to the kiss. Use your best judgment to determine if this response should be brief or lengthy.


If you liked the kiss and figured that out quickly, brief confirmation is probably all you’ll need to give: “That was amazing!”
If you took a little longer to work out or feelings or if you don’t feel comfortable with stolen/surprise kisses, sit down with your partner after the moment has passed and clearly explain both how you feel and why you feel that way to avoid future misunderstandings.
 If your response to your sweetheart’s kiss is a favorable one, you might consider planting a kiss of your own to underscore your spoken feelings on the matter—but it isn’t necessary, of course, so don’t feel obligated to do so.


This kiss might be equal in kind—a peck on the lips for a peck on lips—or it may be even more passionate. Respond according to your own feelings and those of your partner.
 Regardless of whether you enjoyed the kiss or not, this might be a good time to set boundaries for your relationship. If stolen kisses are completely out of the question, be honest about that. If certain types of stolen kisses or certain circumstances are out of the question, be clear about that, too.


For instance, you may enjoy the occasional stolen kiss if it’s only a quick peck on the lips in private, but that doesn’t mean you have to feel equally comfortable with something more intense (e.g., a French kiss) when you don’t have warning, nor does it mean you need to be okay with the surprise kiss when you’re in front of your family or out in public.

