 The cover for the battery is on the underside of the camera.

Put a coin into the slot in the battery cover and turn it anti-clockwise (a British 5-pence coin or an American quarter works fine here). If the camera has not been used for a while, it might require some effort to get undone; be careful to not let the coin slip and round the sides of the slot.


  A British 5-pence coin or American quarter is fine for removing the battery cover.


Remove the old battery, if one is present, and drop in a PX625 cell into the hole, with the + (positive) terminal facing towards you.


 Drop a PX625 cell into the hole. Note the + terminal facing upwards.


Re-fit the battery cover. You only need to tighten it just enough that it won't come loose by itself. Don't over-tighten it; you risk the coin slipping and rounding the edges of the slot, which might mean you're unable to remove it.;
,

Remove the body cap, if present, by screwing it anti-clockwise (looking from the front).


 An MTL3 with body cap removed.


Lay the camera on your lap, or on a flat surface, facing upwards, and align the thread of the lens with the thread in the lens mount. Grip the lens gently by the aperture ring or focus ring and start turning gently. Do not apply any downwards pressure; doing this can result in cross-threading the lens mount or the lens.


 Align the thread of the lens with the lens mount and start turning it gently


A few turns after the thread has bitten you can start spinning it faster. Continue turning the lens until it can turn no more, then apply a reasonable amount of force to ensure it has locked fully into place.


 Continue turning until the lens is in place; the numbers on the aperture ring will be facing the top of the camera.


If your lens has a switch with an "A" and "M" position, set this to the "A" position. This will allow you to focus and compose at the widest aperture and you'll only need to stop the lens down briefly to meter.


 The A/M switch on a Pentacon 50mm f/1.8, set to "A" as it should be.



