 Asking a girl out on a date can be frightening, but if you make a plan it might not be as scary. Think about when, where, and how you plan to ask her out. Try to work out what you want the moment to look like and spend some time visualizing a positive response.
 You want to look your best when you ask her out for the first time. If you are wearing your grubbiest shirt and haven’t showered in a couple of days, she will not have a good impression of you. But you don’t need to wear a tuxedo or get a makeover before you ask her out either. Just make sure that you are clean, wearing some flattering clothes, and that your hair and facial hair are groomed., Confidence is sexy, and one of the most confident things you can do is look her in the eyes when you ask her out. While it may feel more comfortable to look at the floor and mumble your question to her, this will not impress her. Look her straight in the eyes and hold your head up high to show her that you are confident., The way that you stand can also indicate how confident you are. If you are slumping or crossing your arms, she might interpret this as fear or nervousness. Instead, stand up tall with your arms hanging loosely at your sides. Keep your shoulders back and your chest puffed out a bit. This will show her your full height and breadth, which will be much more impressive than if you approach her in a hunched over position., There’s no need to talk to her for an hour before you ask her out. In fact, if you take too long to ask, you might lose your nerve. Instead, walk right up to her, give her a quick compliment, and then tell her that you’d like to spend some time with her.If you’d rather call her, that’s fine too, just don’t ask her out via Facebook or text message or she may think that you are too nervous to talk to her.Try saying something like, “Hi. You seem really cool! Listen, I am in a bit of a hurry, but I thought I’d see if you would be interested in going out with me sometime. Can I get your number?”

, Sometimes, despite your best efforts, a girl will say no when you try to ask her out. The occasional “No” is something that you will have to deal with when you ask a girl out on a date.If she says no, don’t get upset. Just shrug it off, and try not to act like too disappointed.


Try saying something like, “It’s cool. You just seem like a fun person to chill with so I thought I’d ask. But no worries! Have a good day!”

