 More than anything else, goth and rock kids are into music. Be seen at school listening to music on headphones as often as possible. Pop your headphones on between classes, before and after school, during lunch, and any other times you can get away with it.


Listen to goth/rock bands almost exclusively so that you can immerse yourself in the culture.
If you aren’t sure where to start, check out the bands on goth-friendly record labels like Projekt, Cleopatra, Anubis and Tess., Investigate and start listening to the current popular goth/rock bands and solo artists. Do some digging on the internet to find as many you can, including obscure ones. Ask some of your new goth/rock friends for band recommendations, which can be a good conversation starter.


Once you start learning some of the bands, check to see if any are playing concerts in your area. Attend them when they come through town.
Invite some of the other goth/rock kids to go to these shows, if you’ve made friends. If not, you could use these concerts as conversation starters by asking some of them if they plan to go to this or that show.
 Get friendly with these people. Bring up rock music or gothic art when you’re around them at school to get conversations started.


Check to see if your school has any goth/rock-friendly meetups or social groups. If so, start going to them.
You can meet a lot of like-minded goth and rock kids this way, and after discovering how much you have in common, you’ll become fast friends.
 The electric guitar is by far the most popular instrument amongst goth/rock kids and almost all of the bands in those genres play them. If you are musically inclined, learn to play. Being a guitarist will also give you another thing in common with a lot of the other goth/rock kids.


You could even consider starting your own goth/rock band. Talk with some of the other goth/rock musicians about getting something started.
Being in a goth/rock band would be the absolute epitome of what these two subcultures celebrate and represent.
 These types of books are very popular in both camps. Anne Rice and Poppy Z. Brite have written a lot of popular vampire fiction. Popular sci-fi/fantasy/horror writers are H.P. Lovecraft, Ray Bradbury, Caitlin R. Kiernan and Neil Gaiman.Other important goth/rock references: Mary Shelley’s Frankenstein, Bram Stoker’s Dracula, anything by Edgar Allen Poe, and Romantic-era poets like Percy Bysshe Shelley and Lord Byron.
 Look into the paintings of H.R. Giger (as well as his work creating the extraterrestrial for the film Alien). Check out all films made by Tim Burton (especially Edward Scissorhands, Corpse Bride, Beetlejuice and Nightmare Before Christmas), as well as the Hellraiser series created by Clive Barker. Other films of note: A Clockwork Orange, The Crow, The Hunger, the Underworld trilogy,the Matrix trilogy, The Lost Boys and Rocky Horror Picture Show.These artists and films will teach you a lot about goth/rock lifestyles and culture.
All of these films either directly influenced goth culture or were directly influenced by goth culture, making them treasure troves of information on the subject.

