 You’ll need to be at least 21 years of age to drive for Lyft. In addition, you’ll have to complete a background check and a driver’s record check.

In the past three years, you shouldn’t have more than three moving violations, such as traffic light violations. You shouldn’t have any major violations, such as reckless driving.In the last seven years, you should have no drug-related infractions or DUIs. In addition, you can’t have any driving felonies, such as a hit-and-run.
In the past seven years, you shouldn’t have committed any violent crimes, sexual offenses, thefts, property damage, felonies or drug related offenses.;
, You’ll need a valid driver’s license for your state, as well as one year of driving experience in the United States. If you recently moved and hope to drive for Lyft, you should go to the DMV and get a license.If you recently moved and got a new in-state license, you will need to prove that you have one year of driving experience. You could take a photograph of your old driver’s license before trading it in for your new in-state license., Your automotive insurance should be in-state and your name should be on the policy. In addition, you must be insured to the level of the state minimum.The name on your insurance policy has to match the vehicle you want to drive for Lyft.
 You’ll need a four door car that is in good condition.In particular, your car should have all of the safety features, no major damage and should be clean. It should meet the following specifications:It should be a 2004 or newer model.All seatbelts in good working condition.
Good tire tread depth. You should be able to fit a penny within all parts of the tread.
Four doors that are in good working order. There has to be a handle on each of the four doors that is accessible from the outside.
All lights in good working order. Signals, high beams, hazards, turn signals, brake lights, fog beams and other lights should be functioning.
Working A/C and heating.
Windows that roll up and down and in good condition.
No obstruction of the field of vision, such as cracks in the windshield.
The body of the car must be in good condition.
Working mufflers and tailpipe.
Seat adjustments work properly.
Horn works.No issues with the engine, transmission, suspension, steering or brakes of the vehicle.
 If you have all of the requirements except for a car, you can still drive for Lyft! You can drive for one of the car rental companies that have arrangements with Lyft, such as Hertz or Enterprise, for example. This can be a good way to try out the job, although you may want to own your own car for this job eventually, given the rental costs.It may cost in the range of $150-250 per week to rent a car to drive for Lyft., You need a smartphone for this job, since you will get your jobs by looking at the Lyft mobile app. In particular, you’ll need at least an iPhone 4 with an iOS 9.0+ operating system. If you use an Android device, it should be running at least a 6.0+ operating system., On your smartphone or personal computer, go to the Lyft website. You will need to enter your first and last name, email address, city and phone number. At this stage, you can also get a rough estimate of how much you could make based on your city and the number of hours you plan to drive., After creating your account, you will be asked to fill out basic information that Lyft will use to perform a background check, driver’s record check, identity check, vehicle check and make sure you meet the driver’s requirements. Lyft will contact you about the status of your application., If you pass the online application process, you will get an email from a Lyft mentor. A Lyft mentor is an experienced Lyft driver who will test your suitability for the position. You will set up a meeting with the Lyft mentor. At the meeting, you’ll have to take the mentor for a drive. At this stage, you may want to ask the mentor a few questions about their experience of driving for Lyft and try to get a few tips.The mentor will take a photograph of you, your car and license, which they will send to Lyft on your behalf., Open the App store on your smartphone. Open search and type “Lyft.” Click on “Get” to download the mobile application. Once the App is downloaded to your phone, you should see a steering wheel in the top right corner. Tap on the steering wheel to get to the driver’s side of the application., In order to get paid from Lyft, you’ll need to enter your banking information into the driver dashboard on your Lyft account. Although you can do this from a mobile phone, you may prefer to enter this information on a computer. You’ll need to enter your bank’s routing and account numbers.If you look for the routing number on a personal check, it is the 9-digit code on the lower left corner.
You’ll see the account number on the right side of the check. It is a 13-digit code.
Lyft will only transfer money to a checking account.
 Since you can make more money per hour by driving during “prime time,” you’ll want to determine when “prime time” is scheduled in your city. Typically, “prime time” is scheduled for late at night when people are coming back from the bars. The early mornings are also typically “prime time,” since many people will be using the app to get to work., The most lucrative times of year to make money in your region will vary depending on the local economy. So it helps to know when tourists begin coming to your city or town, for example, as well as when major festivals or events take place., Talk to other Lyft drivers. Join a social networking site for Lyft or Uber drivers in your area, such as a Facebook group. Ask for tips from more experienced drivers, such as how to get the most lucrative trips and the best tips., Since passengers will be rating their experience in your car, you’ll need to practice friendly, positive customer service. Lyft is known for offering a friendly, upbeat passenger experience, so you should be prepared to chat and drive. Being friendly should help not only with your tips but also with your ratings, which influence how many rides you get.