 Scorpios tend to stare too much and analyze their observations. This may not always be the habits of just Scorpios, it could be a Cancer or someone just staring, so try some other steps featured here to be certain.;
, Scorpios always observe their surroundings, pondering at little things such as a car turning or leaves blowing in the wind, they prefer to just sit back and assess the situation. For example, at social gatherings they may sit in the back corner or at dimly lighted tables, unless they are with someone or their family.
 Scorpios always will have black, brown, reds, any dark color clothing on them each day of the week. Female Scorpio usually wants to be the most aggressive and powerful person among others near her, and she may wear shoes with higher heels then other women, or something as simple as a more beautiful dress than anyone else, or does something along with that idea. Male Scorpio is similar, but will most likely not wear any bright color except white, gray, and blue, and would probably hide it if he can.
 Scorpios are fixed water signs, and mostly all of them are naturally seduced by water, but some may not venture out into deep natural water. However, you will find them most likely near or in fast or slow flowing streams, at fountains be it for drinking or decoration, at sinks, in restrooms when alone, or near the water's edge at beaches and coastlines.
 Scorpios, like their animal counter-part, hide during the day in their homes. They tend to venture out when the sun starts or has receded, if they do go outside during sunrise and the following hours between sunset, most will try to find a place that will give them as much comfort as would their home. This could be in the community park where there is shade, into air conditioned buildings, and somewhere to be alone of course, or generally anywhere that may hide themselves. Often they will be scarce when you are actually looking for them, and sometimes they seem to come out from nowhere, such as if they speak to you or just walking around.
 This could mean working as a chef and handling knives dangerously close to injury, lifting heavy objects, working heavy equipment, lifting the most weight than anyone else at gyms (not always the case), or similar examples and usually doing the alone. Scorpio are not very social unless they come across the opposite gender, and also in a very small and select group of friends.
 Try to hide your emotions, your secrets, and whatever you own just like they do, only giving out little bits of information. Most born under Scorpio will try to find out anything that interests them until it doesn't, but don't be to dead and ignore them, they will leave that situation with bitter memories and hate.

