 If contents of your package are missing, you have 21 days from the delivery date to make a claim. If a package is undelivered or delivered to the wrong address, a claim must be filed within 9 months of the shipment date.


You should also note how much your package is worth. Packages worth over $100 will need additional documentation to be filed with your claim.
Certain items that are over $100 in value may not be claimed. Check FedEx’s terms of agreement and service to ensure the contents of you package are claimable.
 If you are receiving a package that was shipped within the United States or Canada, you can go onto FedEx’s website and start a claim online. However, if you are filing a claim for shipments that originate outside of the United States and Canada, you will need to call Customer Service at 1-800-463-3339 for assistance. When filing your claim, you will need to:Enter your tracking number.
Collect receipts, bills of sale, or other proof of purchase and value.
Complete the online claims form.
Add supporting documents.
 You need to attach pictures of the damage or documents showing your purchase to claim more than $100.If you are claiming online, you can simply drag and drop documents into you online claim. Alternatively, you can mail, fax, or e-mail documents to FedEx Cargo Claims. Documentation may include:


Scan of the air waybill, FedEx Ship Manage printout, and/or FedEx Ground Pick-Up Record.
Serial numbers of the lost merchandise.
Proof of value. For example, a copy of the original invoice from the vendor/supplier, a copy of a retail invoice/receipt, a screenshot or saved file of a final confirmation screen, etc.
Pictures of the item, especially if damaged when found.
 Once your claim is submitted, a FedEx claims agent will review and process your claim. The lost item will be traced, meaning FedEx will attempt to find your lost package. Once your claim is processed, FedEx will provide you with further instructions such as:


How to recover your lost package. In most cases, the shipper will be notified that the package has been found. This might mean the shipper will need to re-ship the item.
How to receive a claims repayment. In most cases, the shipped will receive the claim repayment but you can arrange with FedEx to send the payment elsewhere.

