 One of the worst things you can do is to let potentially unwanted house guests know that you have a guest room open. Thus, you should not advertise the fact that you can host people.


Only tell close friends or family about your guest room.
Don’t invite someone to stay, or even suggest it, unless you really mean it.
Avoid bragging about or talking about your house around people you don’t want staying with you., A good way to head off an uninvited house guest is to share with them the fact that your home is not really welcoming. By letting them know that your home is often chaotic, they’ll see it as an undesirable place to stay.


Share the fact that your small children are noisy.
Talk about how your place is cluttered and needs to be cleaned.
Tell them about your aggressive dogs., If someone is coming into town who you know will try to invite themselves to your home, make yourself scarce. By not being around, you’ll make it very hard for them to settle in as a houseguest.


Tell them you are going out of town.
Let your family know you will be out of town or on vacation during the holidays.
Make plans so you will be busy when they are around.
If you must meet a person who is visiting from out of town, make sure to do so at a neutral location, like a restaurant or coffee house. Don’t invite them to your home. They may invite themselves to stay., Depending on the situation, you might have to resort to lying to a potential house guest. While lying seems like a drastic step to take, you might need to do it to avoid an awful and uninvited house guest.


Try to bend the truth instead of creating a big lie. You don't want to get caught in the middle of your own lie. For example, instead of saying one of your kids is deathly ill, say they have a very contagious cold.
Use future plans to deter them from staying. For instance, if you plan on remodeling the house in six months, tell them you're about to start now. In the end, you can always tell them you pushed it back.
Remember that the person will likely communicate with others that you know, so make sure you don't create a lie that you'll be caught in.
Before you lie, consider that telling the truth and outright refusing to host the person might be a better option., If you are willing to let someone stay in your home for a short period of time, then make sure to clearly communicate your terms for their stay with them. Do this before their stay begins.

For example, you may want to place a specific time limit on their stay, such as by saying they can stay up to two nights and must leave by 11am on the second morning of their stay.

