 A lot of inmates are prone to seasonal depression around the holidays, both because of the dark days of winter (for those in the northern hemisphere) and the sadness of the holidays. Watch yourself for any new or worsening depression symptoms, including:Persistent feelings of sadness, hopelessness, anxiety, or emptiness
Loss of interest or pleasure in favorite activities
Changes in weight, appetite, sleep habits, or sex drive
Difficulty concentrating or remembering
Irritability or restlessnessSuicidal thoughts or suicide attempts. Self-harm and suicide rates increase during the holidays in prison.Digestive changes such as constipation or diarrhea.
Lowered immune system, which may cause you to get colds more frequently.
Rashes, such as psoriasis or eczema.
Increase in adrenaline
Increase in blood sugar.
High blood pressure.
Changes in breathing, such as fast or shallow breathing.
Racing heartbeat.;
, The holidays can be a stressful time for anyone, what with the increased obligations and expectations. You may be worried about a present not arriving on time or about an upcoming visit. You may notice symptoms like:


Physical symptoms, like a headache, chest tightness, upset stomach, or fatigue
Behavior changes, like withdrawing socially, increased tobacco use, or eating more or less than normal
Mood changes, like anxiety, feeling overwhelmed or restless, irritability, or anger., Seasonal affective disorder (SAD) is common in the winter months when there is less daylight. Symptoms are similar to depression but are seasonal in nature, and disappear when the days get longer.Try to get as much sunlight as possible. This can be difficult in prison. Make sure you can get outside as often as possible to get natural light exposure. Sit near any windows for natural light.
If you can, get outside even if it is cold. You will still reap the benefits of natural light exposure.
Take a multivitamin supplement that contains vitamin D.
You might also look into getting a light therapy box, if it is allowed. This is a bright light that simulates sunlight. You need to sit in front of it for a set amount of time every day.
 Exercise is a great way to lower stress levels, boost your mood and fight depressive symptoms, and stay healthy. You may also have the benefit of being able to socialize with others during your exercise time, which can also improve your mood.If your facility has a running or walking program, join one. Challenge yourself to see how many miles you can run or walk in a year. If you don’t have an exercise club, find out how you can start one., Prison food is not always the healthiest, but do your best to eat nutritious meals. Eat your vegetables. Cut down on snacks from the commissary.Avoid caffeine, which can cause sleeping problems. Not getting a good night’s sleep can make it harder to regulate your moods and aggravate depression. Caffeine can also worsen anxiety., You may have access to a mental health care professional at your facility. See if you can talk to them to discuss how you are feeling and possibly be prescribed an antidepressant if you feel you need one.


If you can’t talk to a mental health care professional, find a trustworthy friend you can talk to about how you are feeling. You could say, “Hey, I’m feeling pretty down lately and want to vent to someone, do you mind listening?”
If your facility offers support group meetings, consider attending one. Support groups can help you feel less isolated and help you gain new ideas for coping mechanisms.You may find support in a faith community and be able to share some of your feelings with others there.
 Taking your mind off the holidays and the things you are missing may help you pass the time. Distract yourself with other activities.


Keep your mind occupied by reading, working toward an educational goal, or trying a new activity.
Go to your prison job and focus on your work.