 If you get an occasional gas pain after eating too much, you probably do not need a medical diagnosis. However, if you have frequent stomachaches or pains, talk to your healthcare provider.


Discuss herbal remedies as a treatment option. Ask your doctor if there are any herbs you should avoid, due to medications you are on or other health conditions, such as pregnancy.
 If you do not have a local resource, look online for websites that sell herbs and herbal supplements for specific ailments.
 Different herbs are especially useful for different ailments.
 This is caused by an unbalanced amount of hydrochloric acid (HCL) in your stomach and can cause pain after eating.
 Your doctor can diagnose ulcers, which are caused by bacteria in your stomach and can be inflamed by stress, spicy foods and other external factors.
 These stomach pains are often accompanied by diarrhea or constipation. Indigestion often comes with gas pains.
 This can be due to the flu, overeating, food poisoning or a more serious medical condition such as appendicitis or pregnancy.


Make sure your doctor or healthcare practitioner rules out pregnancy, appendicitis, flu or other serious conditions before you begin taking herbs to ease your stomach pain.
 There are several ways to use these herbs as a treatment. You will find that your heartburn subsides after a few weeks, and you will not need to continue treating it.


Buy some dandelion greens and chicory at any store and toss them into a salad.
Cook dandelion root and eat it or use it in place of coffee for a hot drink.
Use the flowers of a dandelion in wine or a tonic.;
, The best herbs for bitters include yellow dock, mugwort, Oregon grape, gentian and barberry. These can be found in supplements as well.



Drink herbal juices made with the whole leaves of aloe vera plants. Tea made from licorice root can also be effective in healing peptic ulcers.
Talk to your doctor if you have high blood pressure. Extended use of licorice can sometimes cause blood pressure to spike.
 Combine all of these herbs with boiling water, and drink after steeping for 5 minutes.
 Add fresh ginger to hot water, or look for powdered ginger that can be added to tea.
 It is soothing to the stomach, intestines and entire digestive tract. Drinking peppermint tea can settle an upset stomach.
 This supplement is sold in capsules and provides quick and reliable relief for gas and stomach pains.

