 Although this seems simple, it isn't a case of grabbing the pair already lying about the house; the scissors must be reserved only for your hobby to avoid blunting them. Choose scissors that are sharp and have a fine-tip. There are special versions for scrapping but provided your scissors are good quality, you will be fine with non-specialised ones. Mark them with a label "scrapping" so that you don't accidentally use them on anything else. You will want 2 pairs. A large pair of scissors for general cutting paper, cardstock, and chipboard. Then you will need a small fine point pair for trimming small items and cutting ribbons.;
, A paper trimmer is an essential part of the scrapbook artist's repertoire. You will this time and again to cut mats, backgrounds, strips and other paper embellishments in a quick, straight and easy manner. You might like to consider purchasing a small trimmer to begin with and upgrade to a larger one as you advance in scrapping. The larger trimmers clearly offer more in the way of versatility but they also cost more.
 This is a very important part of your craft, to ensure that table-tops are preserved and to prevent slips. The cutting mat also protects the blade of any cutting tool used from blunting. Another choice is a glass mat. The hard surface of the glass makes it easier to cut fine exact shapes without catching the tip of your craft blade in the softer mat.
 You have the mat, now you need the cutting implement. Cutting blades are best in the form of a knife kit that comes with varying blade types that can be changed easily and sit atop an easy-to-hold handle. If your craft store does not have this, most art stores will have one. Given the labour that your knife will be subjected to, it pays to buy a good quality cutting tool from the outset. Look for one of the newer ergonomic handled blades. They are worth the little extra.
 These are useful for setting brads on a project. The paper piercer can pierce a hole precisely where you wish to place the brad. You can also use the piercer to thread yarn, cotton or silk thread, metallic threads and even to sew through.
 When you write by hand on your project, you need to use quality markers (or writers) that will not bleed, seep through or spoil the pages in any way. The markings that you make should also last down the decades and not fade away. So, look for acid-free, durable, fast-drying acrylic tip markers. Ask your local scrapping supplier for recommendations on quality markers.
 Specialised scrapping paints enable you unleash your creativity in many ways and colours. At first, buy a few basic favourite colours that you can build on later. Get a supply of different brush sizes, sponges, and stamps to apply the paint with.
 A metallic ruler is a solid investment for a scrapper. The metal cannot be cut as you are using a cutting implement and the ruler gives a very straight edge as a guide for drawing or cutting along. A metal ruler is also useful for tearing paper. You can also find some clear acrylic rulers that have a metal edge. The best ones have "0" feature. This allows you to find the center of any edge on paper.
 Always get adhesive products that will not deteriorate over time or react poorly with other materials used for scrapping. Adhesives that you will be likely to need include glue (a glue pen is really useful) double-sided tape, foam mounting tape and pop-dots of varying sizes. Look for the special double sided tape runners made just for scrapping. They are made in holders that make it much easier to use for scrapping. These tape runners place only the adhesive on your paper leaving out the tape backing. It is worth it to invest in a good quality tape system.
 You can start with ready-made scrapbooks., but there is nothing like the feeling of creating it yourself! There are now tools that help you create your own covers and bindings from using coils to actually laminating a binding. The options are endless., There you will find a wealth of knowledge about how-to's. The store should be full of supplies and ideas. There will most likely be classes and crops. You should also be able to find an employee or Design Team member who is willing to help you with design issues or just learning what to do. Scrap-bookers love their craft and tend to want to convert others. Take advantage of their helpfulness!!