 Before you bring the dog home, or as soon as you do, you need to decide what limits you want to set for your dog. This may be not letting it on furniture, keeping it out of the dining room when you are eating, or keeping it out of certain areas. Discuss with your family or roommates what boundaries you agree to set for the dog.Make sure the limits you set are something you can follow through with and will not change your mind about. This helps develop trust and respect between you and the dog. It also helps the dog not get confused.
These must be limits you will enforce. For example, if you don't want the dog on the bed, you can't decide to give in on a cold night or because the dog looks sad. You have to be consistent with your limits.;
, You should set limits for your dog as soon as you bring it home. This establishes the rules immediately so your dog starts to learn what is expected from the beginning. This also eliminates the possibility of the dog adopting bad habits before you start setting limits.This is why it’s important to come up with your limits by the time you bring home your dog. This can help their adjustment to the new home easier.
For example, if you don't want your dog on the furniture, don't let it sit on the couch with you that first night but then refuse to let it on the couch after that. It will confuse the dog.
 If you live with others in your home, you need to make sure that everyone makes your dog aware of their limits. Consistency is the key to making your dog respect the limits in your home. Your family or roommates must respect the limits you have set for the dog.Talk to the others in your home. Make sure they are aware of what the dog is and is not allowed to do.
For example, if you don't want your dog fed from the table, then you must tell others not to give in when the dog starts whining or looks at you with pitiful eyes.
Tell others, "I do not want my dog to do certain things. This means you cannot allow the dog to do these things when I'm not around. This will confuse it. Please help me reinforce the dog's behavior."
You may need to discuss your the limits for the dog with children. Explain to them why dogs can't do everything and why they need to respect this. Tell them, "I know you love our dog, and I do, too. But the dog can't do everything. There are some things it can't do, like eat from the table. This is for the dog's well-being. Please help me by not letting the dog do these things."

