 When you first put on your brace it will feel almost like a cage for your torso. It will exert force against certain sensitive pressure points and may be slightly uncomfortable, especially for the first couple of days. This is to be expected and your doctor will make regular adjustments to the brace to ensure a better fit.Write down a few quick notes about any pressure that you experience and where it is located. You can then use these notes to talk to your doctor about any changes that need to be made.
Discomfort is not the same as outright pain. Monitor your pain levels closely and if your discomfort is connected with swelling, for example, contact your doctor immediately as this can be a sign of a more serious medical condition.;
, When you first brace you will rely on others to help strap you in and out. Watch their movements and take on a little more of the action each time. Practice placing the shell against your body or pull on a particular strap to see the degree of tension that is needed.It may be helpful to practice in front of a mirror. This will allow you to see the connections between how you move, how the brace responds, and the impact that it has on your body.
 It is important to be on the lookout for signs of pressure sores or skin breakdown when wearing a brace. This may indicate an improper fit.Check skin daily for reddened or broken skin, which may be caused by rubbing, pressure or moisture. Use a mirror to see your back and check for irritation there as well.Buy a good number of light cotton t-shirts to wear underneath your brace to protect your skin. Be sure the t-shirt fits smoothly with no wrinkles under the brace. Plan to change them often to prevent moisture from gathering against your skin. Only buy seamless shirts, as the seams can cause chafing.Avoid applying lotions as they will soften your skin and lead to more irritation. Instead, try a light application of rubbing alcohol or cornstarch., Be patient with yourself as you learn to move in your new brace. Go slowly and prepare for less flexibility in your torso area. For example, when you pick up items you will need to squat down instead of bending at the waist.


You may have a preferred sleeping position, but you may need to modify it when wearing your brace. Try on your side, on your back, etc., until you find the form that is the most comfortable.

