 You can buy a plain one that is all one color. You can also buy a fancy one with a pattern on the cover.


You can also use a 2-ring binder if you can't find a 3-ring binder.;
, Paper stains easily in the kitchen. A plastic page protector will keep your recipes clean. The smooth surface is also easy to wipe clean. They are transparent plastic sleeves, about same size as a sheet of printer paper. Most will already have holes punched in the sides for the binder rings to go through. You can find them at office supply stores, and well-stocked arts and crafts stores., You might already have some in your home. You can also find plenty of recipes online and in magazines. Lastly, you can also ask your friends and family members if they have any recipes they would like to share with you.
 This will keep everything looking consistent. If you have beautiful handwriting, you can write the recipes out by hand instead. You can also use the original recipes if you don't care about consistency.

Avoid adding page numbers if you plan on adding more recipes to the binder later.
Use page numbers if you already have all the recipes you want and don't plan on adding anymore.
If the recipe is a long one, print it out on a single page. If you have a few recipes that are short and very similar, try putting them on the same page. You can divide them into paragraphs or columns., If you cannot find any page protectors, try to order some online. You can also get the pages laminated at a photocopying shop. Once they are laminated, punch holes in them using a hole puncher., Having sections will make your recipe binder less overwhelming. They will also make your binder more organized and easier to browse. Here are some ideas for the different sections you could have in your binder:


Appetizers
Baked goods
Desserts
Drinks
Entrees
Favorites
Salads
Soups
Treats

, You can design the title page using an image or word processing program. You can also design it right onto a sheet of paper. The title page should include the name of the section in large letters. You can also include a border and a table of contents that lists all the recipes in that section., Again, if you don't have any page protectors, try to get the pages laminated. Be sure to punch holes in the sides., The tabs should match the section title pages. For example, if you have a section title page for desserts, write "Desserts" on the tab., Stagger the tabs when you stick them down onto the pages. Each tab should be positioned a little bit lower than the previous tab. That way, you will be able to see all the tabs at once when you open the binder and look down at it., You can put them in any order you want, but make sure that they are under the right sections.
 Recipe binders make great gifts, especially if they are filled with treasured family recipes that have been passed down for generations. They can also make an ideal going-away-to-college gift.
 You can arrange your binder however you think would be the most helpful for you. This section will give you a few ideas on how to do this. You don't have to use all the ideas from this section., If you have a lot of recipes, you could divide them up further between several binders. For example, you can have a binder for baked goods and another one for salads. You could even have a special one just for family recipes., This means that if you have a section for pies, you might arrange your recipes like this: apple pie, blueberry pie, pecan pie, pumpkin pie, rhubarb pie, etc., This can help make your binder look more orderly. It can also help you find recipes quicker. Here are some ideas for you:

Alphabetize the sections. For example: appetizers, beverages, cakes and cookies, desserts, pasta, poultry, salads, etc.
Arrange the sections in the order you might eat a meal. For example: breakfast, lunch, appetizers, salad, main course, dessert, etc.
 This will make finding recipes a lot easier.


Start by writing down the name of your recipe book in the top center of the page. Use a large, fancy font.
Next, write down the names of the sections in a slightly smaller font. You can still use a fancy font. The section names should be on the left side of the page.
Lastly, write down the names of the recipes in a smaller, but plain, font. Make sure that the recipes are under the right section. The recipes should also be on the left.
If your binder has page numbers, write them down on the right side. The font should be the same as the one you used for the recipe names.
 If you think you might want to keep adding to your binder, it might be a good idea to include two or three extra pages at the end of each section. This way, if you come across a recipe you like, all you have to do it print it out or write it down. If you are using stationary paper, you won't have to worry about trying to find the same design again., These sections aren't based off of any regular food group, such as soups, salads, cakes, and so forth. They are unique and include dishes from multiple food groups. Here are some examples:

Include some categories inspired by foods from different countries, such as: Chinese, French, Indian, Italian, Mexican, Thai, etc.Add a section for your favorite recipes.
Put all of the recipes you are interested in trying out in their own section.
Have a special section for holiday recipes. This will make finding all of those recipes for Thanksgiving a lot easier., Sometimes, you run out of a certain ingredient and don't have the time to run to the store. Research some common substitutions, and print them out onto a sheet of paper. Add this to the back of your binder.Some common cooking substitutions include margarine for butter and white vinegar for lemon juice.

You can also include a section for healthy substitutions, such as wheat flour for white flour, or apple sauce instead of oil/butter., This will come in handy if you are living in the UK and are working with a US recipe, and vice versa. It will also come in handy when you need to measure out liters using cups instead., You can also just use an empty page protector. This is great for those recipes you are not sure about and don't want to put the effort into printing them out just yet., You can tape it to the back of your binder. You can also keep it in its own page protector. This will allow you to keep track of what recipes you have tried and didn't like, so you can avoid using them in the future., You can leave your binder as is, or you can add some special touches to it. This section will give you some ideas. You don't have to use all of the ideas from this section, however. Use the ones you like the most., Stationary paper usually has a pretty boarder. This can make your recipes more interesting to look at.

Stationary paper also tends to come in different themes. Choose a theme you like. You can also match the theme to your binder.
If you have a special section for holiday recipes, such as Thanksgiving or Christmas, try matching the paper to the holiday. For example, use paper that has pumpkins or autumn leaves for Thanksgiving recipes, and paper that has snowflakes or Christmas trees for Christmas recipes.
 You can add step-by-step pictures to your recipes. You could also add a picture of the final dish instead. This will make the recipes more colorful. The photos will also give you an idea of what the final dish is supposed to look like in the end., You can make a plain binder more interesting by decorating a sheet of paper, and slipping it behind the clear, protective cover. Here are some ideas to get you started:

If you just want a fancy cover, use a sheet of scrapbook paper. You may have to trim it down a little in order to get it to fit.
Give your binder a title. Write the title down on some paper and slip it behind the protective sheet on the cover. You call it anything you want, such as: You Name's Cookbook.
Use an opaque fabric marker to draw designs on a fabric-covered binder. Most fabric markers come in opaque and transparent colors. Don't use a transparent fabric marker. The colors will blend right into the fabric and won't show up well.
If your binder already has a pattern on it, you could use letter stickers to give it a title.
 This can be a nice way to introduce each section. Here are some ideas"

If you have a salad section, add a picture of your favorite salad onto the title page.
If you have a section for desserts or pastries, add a picture of a fancy cake or pie.
If you have all of the recipes you want in that section, consider adding a mini table of contents. Right beneath the title, write down the names of all the recipes that are in that section. This will help remind you of what is in there.
 This will allow you to get a bit more creative, and match the design of the tab to the rest of your binder. Here's how to make one:

Cut some colored paper into a ½ by 1 inch (1.27 by 2.54 centimeter) rectangle.
Label the tab.
Cut some clear packaging tape into a 1½ by 1½ inch (3.81 centimeter) square
Place the ½ inch (1.27 centimeter) of the tape onto the side of the page protector.
Place the tab under the tape. The long side of the rectangle should flush with the edge of the page protector. It should also be centered on the tape.
Fold the tape over and press it down onto the back of the page protector.
 Using just a few items, you can make your own rustic recipe binder. Here's what you will need:2 sheets thin cardboard or illustration board
Printer paper
2 – 3 binder rings
Markers or letter stickers

, Make sure that they are the same size. These will be the front and back cover of your binder., The paper you are using should be a little bit smaller than the covers., You will need two to three holes. The top and bottom hole should be about 1 inch (2.54 centimeters) away from the top and bottom of the covers., Place the back cover down on a table in front of you, then stack the recipe pages on top of it. Place the front cover on top. Align the holes as best you can., Close the binder rings once all the pages, including the covers, are on them. You can buy binder rings from an office supply store or an arts and crafts store., Write a title using marker or letter stickers. You can also draw on a border using markers or glitter paint., Because the binder is made from paper, you will have to take extra care of it. If you are worried about it getting dirty, consider keeping it in a box or in a cupboard.