 Like most plants, calla lilies hate sitting in soggy soil, so make sure the soil in your garden (or wherever you intend to plant the calla lilies) is free-draining.


If you aren’t sure if your soil has good drainage, wait until it rains and see if the water soaks away easily.
If puddles form and don’t easily disperse, lingering for several hours, your soil drainage could be improved.;
, You can improve soil drainage by incorporating some organic matter into the soil, such as well-rotted manure or compost. This will also enrich the soil, helping the calla lilies to flower.


If you’re really doing this right, remove the soil to spade’s depth, then fork it over to another spade’s depth, incorporating plenty of manure or compost as you fluff up the soil.
Finally replace the removed soil, also incorporating plenty of, manure or compost.
Alternately, try gardening using the raised bed method.
 Calla lilies prefer to grow and flower in sunny spots, however they will tolerate some shade, at least for part of the day.However, in particularly hot climates, calla lilies will prefer to be in the shade during the intense heat of the afternoon. They will still require sunlight in the mornings though.
 Mid spring is usually a good time to start planting calla lily rhizomes. Just make sure to wait until all threat of frost has passed and the soil has had a chance to heat up a little before planting the rhizomes., Calla lilies are grown from rhizomes. These rhizomes have growing points, also known as ‘eyes’. The rhizome should be planted with these eyes facing upwards and just visible at the top of the soil. Space the rhizomes approximately 12 inches (30.5 cm) apart., After planting, give the calla lily rhizomes a good soaking with water. After this initial soaking, you should keep the soil moist but not wet.
 If you plan on growing calla lilies indoors, you can start planting in December. This will allow the calla lilies to flower earlier than usual, in late spring.
 Container-grown calla lilies will prefer a loam-based compost as this provides a good mix of the nutrients necessary for their growth. However, a decent-quality compost will also do.
 Plant the calla lilies with the eyes of the rhizome facing upwards - they should be just visible under the surface of the soil.
 Make sure the pot you use for planting the calla lily rhizomes has good drainage holes. Calla lilies will rot in soggy soil.
 The best place to keep a potted calla lily is on a bright windowsill, at a cool room temperature.
 Calla lilies need to be watered throughout the summer. Remember that the soil should be moist but not wet or soggy.
 Feed the calla lilies fortnightly during the growing period. A water-soluble fertilizer added to the watering can is ideal.


You should stop feeding ground-planted calla lilies once flowering begins, but continue to feed container-grown callas throughout the flowering period.
 Calla lilies are generally trouble-free when it comes to disease, but they can suffer from pest attacks such as aphid or whitefly. Keep an eye out for pests and spray the flowers as required with an all-purpose bug spray.
 It won’t harm the plant if flowers are cut for indoor display. Use a clean sharp knife to remove flowers at the base of the stem.


They will do best in a cool room in a vase two thirds full of water. Aim to replace the water every third day and keep it topped up.
Some people like to keep their vase in the fridge overnight to preserve the life of their flowers – but you need a big fridge for this!

, Calla lilies can cope outdoors through winter in zones 8-10.


If you are overwintering outdoors, apply a mulch of about 4 inches (10.2 cm) of straw. evergreen branches or well-rotted manure in the fall, or put them under an upturned pot or cloche.
The plant needs some dormant time after flowering, so refrain from watering and allow the plant to die back. It’s best to refrain from cutting the foliage until it has withered away.
 If you live in a colder climate, consider lifting your Calla rhizomes over the winter to give them a better chance of survival.


To do this, wait until just after the first frost. Brush off as much soil as you can without damaging the roots and then allow the rhizome to dry for a few days. You can put them on some newspaper sheets in a cool dark place such as a garden shed.
After they have dried out for a few days, put them into paper bags with a small amount of peat moss. Damp and rot are the biggest threats to overwintering rhizomes, so try to keep them dry where possible and store in a dark, dry place.
 Once flowering ends, give your potted calla lilies a feed with a potassium-rich fertilizer (one suitable for tomatoes will do).


After that, cease watering your container-grown Calla Lily and move the pot to a cool dark area once the foliage withers away. A dark corner of a garden shed is suitable.
Don’t water again for 3 months and avoid cutting the foliage until it has withered away.