 If your feelings of depersonalization are interfering with your daily life, you need to consult a medical professional. There are many types of therapy for treating depersonalization disorder. When finding a therapist, ask what type of counseling they provide and which type of counseling is right for you. Common forms of treatment for depersonalization include:Cognitive therapy- works on changing your thoughts about feeling unreal
Behavioral therapy- helps you to develop behavioral strategies to distract yourself from depersonalization symptoms
Psychodynamic therapy- aims to resolve painful feelings and experiences that stimulate a need to detach from yourself and reality
Grounding techniques- similar to those listed above, these tactics use the five senses to help you feel more connected to yourself and the world around you
If you find a certain therapist to be unhelpful, you can always go to a different one.
 This will vary according to the severity of your depersonalization. Some people attend therapy monthly, weekly, and, in severe cases, daily. Your doctor will determine how often you should go to therapy.


Skipping out on therapy sessions will prevent you from getting the help you need; attend all scheduled appointments.
If you do not have a scheduled appointment and feel like you need immediate help, call 911.
If you are suicidal, call the National Suicide Prevention Hotline: 1-800-273-TALK (1-800-273-8255)

, This will greatly aid you in communicating about your depersonalization. Write down where and when you have any attacks, and record as much detail about the attack as possible, including your thoughts at the time. If you feel comfortable, show these records to your therapist, or bring them to therapy sessions as a reference.


Be sure to take note if the symptoms of your depersonalization overlap with that of another illness. Depersonalization often accompanies serious mental illness such as schizophrenia, depression, and post-traumatic stress disorder. Tell your doctor if you are avoiding friends, family, work or activities that you once enjoyed because of your symptoms as this could indicate a larger problem or a co-morbid disorder., Though there is no medication specifically prescribed for dissociative disorders, anti-anxiety or antidepressants are commonly prescribed with varying degrees of success. Your doctor may prescribe fluoxetine, clomipramine, or clonazepam.Just remember, if you do begin to take medication, never stop taking it without consulting your doctor first.
Avoid drugs and alcohol when taking any anti-anxiety or anti-depressant medication.
Never take more medication than the prescribed instructions allot.

