 Melbourne's railway network accepts myki.;
, Most railway stations in Melbourne have at least 1 bus route going to the station - some major ones will have bus interchanges. If you're taking the bus, remember you can buy your train ticket and your bus ticket on the bus as one ticket. If you're taking the car, all stations in Melbourne have some sort of free commuter car park. But remember, most stations car park's will be full after 9 am on a weekday.
 You can buy tickets at the station from the machine (all stations have a small machine which takes coins only, and all stations will have at least 1 large machine which takes notes, coins and EFTPOS), or if you are at a premium station, you can buy from the window. You can add funds to your myki using the new ticket machine.
 All stations will have a validator. By law, you are required to have a valid ticket on board public transport, and inside valid ticket areas (generally platforms). Mykis can be validated using the green myki reader. Just hold your card over the hand symbol until you hear a beep or two beeps for concession, and get a green light. If you hear multiple beeps (3 beeps) and see a red light, please try to touch off again. If it still doesn't work, call Myki on 13 6954 (13 Myki).
 Some stations will have vending machines, and some popular stations will have a small kiosk which sells hot drinks and newspapers during peak hour. All City stations, and several large metropolitan stations will have a MX (newspaper) stand which will be filled from around 4pm.
 There will be a box with a green and a red button. Pressing the green button will provide the next train information. Press the red button only in an emergency - it will connect you with an operator.
, For your own safety, stand behind the yellow line. When the train arrives and has fully stopped, open the door. Older trains have to be opened manually by hand. However, newer trains will have a button which when pushed, will open the doors automatically.
 Watch the gap. If you have a pram or a wheelchair, stand in the front of the platform, which is marked with a yellow or white triangle. When the train arrives, the driver will place a ramp for you. Write your destination on a piece of paper and the driver will assist you in getting off the train too.
 If your are on the old trains, pull the doors open when you hear the tone. If you are on a new train, push the button flashing green when you hear the tone. Watch your step as you get off the train as they may be a gap between the platform and train. If you are on a wheelchair, the driver will come out of the drivers cab and pull out the ramp to help you off the train at the station written on the note you gave earlier.
 Just hold your Myki card over the hand symbol on the green myki reader until you hear a beep. On the screen it will display the fare deducted and the closing balance and a green light. If you hear multiple beeps and see a red light, please try to touch off again. If it still doesn't work, call Myki on 13 6954 (13 Myki).

