 For doing ballet moves, you will need a good amount of space. You will also need some sort of barre, which couches or chairs can substitute for. Clear an area either permanently or temporarily, to allow you the space to move around.


Find a place with a wood floor and if possible, a full body mirror. Regular ballet schools have barres, mirrors, and wood floors. If you have an empty room, dance there. If you have enough space in your bedroom, dance there. You can even go to a community center and borrow a room there. It's whatever place you can feel good in.
Use something in place of a barre. In ballet, most classes use barres. You can make one easily out of wood, pipes, or even a table and chairs! Learn how to make a barre yourself. If you don't want to, use the back of chair or table. Anything that supports your weight and is balanced.;
, Music is an important part of the rhythm keeping for ballet. Create a playlist of your favorite music. Any genre from pop to classical can be used to work out to, although classical is more appropriate. Picking something upbeat and motivating is key. Whatever music you can keep track of counts with, is suitable. If you are used to classical music, this might be the best kind of music to listen to.
 You can use these to inform your workout or even have them playing as you practice. If you have a remote, you can play and pause or repeat during your practice session without having to keep going over to the music player each time.


Subscribe to a channel of any ballet classes you like the most. That way, you can keep updated on new additions to help you to vary your workout over time.
 When you're just at home, you don't need to wear a tutu unless you'd dearly love to. Bring out a leotard and tights if you have a pair, but if you don't, find something comfortable like sweats and a T-shirt or anything you can stretch in and feel free in.


Wear the right type of shoes. If you have ballet slippers, great. Socks are not a substitute. Go barefoot. Never use tennis shoes or hard shoes, and don't use streetwear ballet flats. Even though they're called ballet flats, you shouldn't use them for ballet!

, Before you do anything, you must first warm up. Dancing without warming up can cause injuries. You then want to do some basic stretches, like the butterfly or straddle. If you don't, this could cause muscles to hurt or stretch too far. You can look up some videos of people warming up and stretching before ballet class and maybe try them. Never over-stretch (especially before you dance), this is not good.
 Pliés are the simplest dance move. A plié is simply bending your knees in a squat like position. Do this holding on to your barre in first position, second position and fourth position.
 A tendue is brushing your leg out and in on the floor with a pointed foot and straight leg. Tendues can go to the front, side or back. Do them from first position.
 Jetés are tendues, but bringing them about an inch or two (2.5 to 5cm) above the floor. They can also be done to the front, side, or back.
 A grand battement is a kick with a pointed toe and straight leg.


When doing them, try not to thrust into it, but make it calm and try to keep your upper body still.
 Sautés are jumps. They can be done in first, second or fifth positions. All you have to do is plié, and spring off the ground, and land in a plié.
 Look up some ballet-themed workouts or routines in video form. Watch some ballet classes on YouTube to help get some ideas to form your routine or workout, as explained above. Whatever workout or routine you choose to do at home, ensure that there is sufficient space to dance freely in, and that it is within your current ability, or it won't be enjoyable.


Remember not to get into anything too complicated while you're at home by yourself or this could create bad habits that can be hard to break (plus you can easily hurt yourself).
If you already dance, practice some dance routines that you learned in dance class.
 The main part of doing ballet at home is having fun. Always feel free and have a great time dancing your heart out. Remember, nothing is impossible if you put your mind to it.

