


If you find someone at a place you visit frequently, chances are you may have something in common. Something to talk about, perhaps.;
, Narrow and tense eye's tend to convey a negative or angry disposition, so do your best to maintain your calm. A calm demeanor will put people at ease and make them feel more comfortable speaking with you., Every so often, gaze over at her. Does she seem to be trying to make eye contact with you?

, Staring at people is not only rude, but it also makes people feel very uncomfortable.If you don't catch her eye, she may be uninterested or preoccupied. Even worse, you may be offended that you are staring.


If someone is unwilling to make eye contact with you, or seems to be avoiding it, this may be an indicator that she is not interested in speaking or meeting you.
 If the two of you make eye-contact, be sure to relax and smile. Again, an easy smile will make people feel more comfortable.
 Looking intensely at a person--even when eye contact has been established--can be rude and intimidating, even demeaning., Although this is highly subjective and is in now way a perfect science, do your best to interpret any expression she may have made. Did she return the smile? Or, did she politely nod? A smile may be an indicator of interest, while a nod just the opposite. Blinking or batting of the eyes can also be an indicator of interest.


Did she raise her eyebrows? This can be a way of saying hello or communicating further interest.Were her eyes wide open? This can be a way of communicating happiness or joy, even a feeling of ease.Did she seem to be lowering her chin, appearing to be looking up at you? This too can be a sign that she may be interested in meeting you., Don't look away until she does. This will communicate that you are interested in speaking to her.


The longer she maintains eye contact, the more likely it is that she may be interested in meeting you.
 After she breaks eye contact with you, continue looking in her general direction for another second or two. If she looks back, make eye contact with her once again and smile.


If she looks back, it may be an indicator that she is interested in meeting and/or speaking to you.

