 There are a few times when you'll need to throw your shoulders back for a shot, but generally, a little slouch makes your pose look natural and relaxed. That doesn't mean you should hunch over (although this will work with some high fashion shots). If you're standing, put uneven weight on your feet, and the leg with less weight will naturally bend a little. You'll look more comfortable and your posture will appear more natural. Don't slouch so much, though, that it makes your stomach look bigger.


By "slouch," we mean "be natural." Most people aren't aware they're slouching when they are, so don't take your natural slouch and multiply it. Think casually, but with your head high. You want to elongate your neck as much as possible. Imagine a string holding up your forehead.;
, Your entire body needs to have life to it. Think of a dancer -- not a single part of her body isn't engaged while she's dancing, even if she's standing in position. No part of you should be a limp noodle!


Start by engaging your core (this will help suck you in, too) and then engage your limbs. "Strong" doesn't mean aggressive or masculine in this context -- it just means with conviction or with energy. You want to convey a feeling through the camera, after all!

, For a more interesting shot, make sure that you're doing something different with each side of your body. You can be dramatic and do something totally different with each of your limbs and tilt your head to the side, if it matches the feel of the shoot. Being asymmetrical can be as simple as dipping one shoulder or hip, making sure that your arms are at different heights, or bending one leg a little (or a lot) more than the other.


Remember: You're part of a picture. This photo isn't about how gosh dang pretty you are -- it's about the aestheticism of the photo. Even with the best make-up and hair in the world, if you don't create pleasing angles, the photo won't be as stellar as it could be.
 Looking at the camera straight on can work in some dramatic shots, but generally it's better to put your face at an angle, and look at the camera from that angle. Tilt your nose a little up or down, a little left or right, but keep your gaze on that camera.


Learn which angles flatter your face the most. Do you have a great jawline? Tilt your head up and to the side a little. Experiment in front of a mirror or with your own camera to see which angles make the most interesting shots on your face.
Know which direction the light is coming from. Remember that light will cast shadows, and even if they are slight, they will affect the appearance of your face. If light is coming from the top, tilting your nose down may cause your browbone to cast a shadow over your eyes, which is good if you're going for a sinister shot, but not good if you're trying to look friendly.
 While an interesting shot can be had by looking at the camera, you have many more options if you look elsewhere. What's going on over there? Is she staring in the mirror? Does she see a leprechaun? Is she talking to the Queen of England? Everyone will want to know.


Be careful of the clichéd, staring-off-into-the-distance look. At best you'll look existential and at worse you'll look like you're trying to be existential by staring off into the distance. Use this gaze minimally.
 Kinda like the last tip just eluded to, quartering out will make you look as slim as possible. Is she facing forward? Is she facing to the side? Just how wide is her waist? NO ONE WILL KNOW. Stick to a 3/4 angle to appear the slimmest.


Going head-on into anything will make you the most vulnerable and exposed (that goes for real life, too!). If you quarter out, which side is your good side? Emphasize that one to get the best photo.
 Possibly the most awkward part of modeling is knowing what to do with your hands. They're just there hanging awkwardly. If you stay engaged head to toe, though, hopefully you'll find poses that feel right, that make sense. The only thing you should not do, is put them around your face. Hello, bad 1980s glamour shot!


A good rule of thumb is to show the side of your hand. This creates the longest, thinnest line extending from your arm. It also avoids the are-my-hands-aging fear and the do-my-palms-look-funny worry.

