 You will need some yarn and a Tunisian crochet hook. In Tunisian crochet, you work the yarn onto the hook similar to how you would with knitting, but then you work the yarn off of the hook on your second pass. Most regular crochet hooks are too small to work in this way, so you will need a special Tunisian crochet hook.


You can use any size hook you like as long as it is appropriate for the type of yarn you are using. If you are not following the hook and yarn recommendations of a pattern, make sure that you check the gauge before beginning a project.
If you do not have a Tunisian crochet hook, then you can try taking a regular crochet hook and wrapping a rubber band around the end. Just keep in mind that this will only work for a narrower project, such as a practice swatch, scarf, or washcloth.;
, Start by making a chain in the length that your pattern or project calls for. If you just want to practice the Tunisian crossed stitch, then start with a chain of 12 stitches.


Try starting with 30 stitches for a washcloth or scarf. You can work in the Tunisian crossed stitch until you have a square washcloth or keep going to make a scarf. Make sure to use cotton yarn if you decide to make a washcloth.
 Insert the hook into the first stitch on your chain and then loop the yarn over your hook. Pull the new yarn through the previous loop. Then, insert the needle into the next stitch and repeat.Remember that you will be working stitches onto your hook as you go. After each new stitch, you should have a new loop on your hook.
Keep crocheting and working stitches onto the hook to the end of the row.
 To close the stitches you have created and work them off of your hook, you will need to work backwards starting with the stitches nearest your hook. Begin to bind off your stitches by looping the yarn over the hook and pulling this new yarn through your first loop. Then, yarn over again and pull through two stitches.Continue to yarn over and pull through two stitches all the way to the end of the row. When you reach the end, you should only have one stitch left on your hook.
 Locate the vertical threads in your foundation chain and then count to the second stitch from the end. Insert your hook under this thread and then loop the yarn over the hook and pull it through. This will leave a new loop on your hook that is connected to the thread., To create the crossing effect for this stitch, double back and insert the hook into the thread you skipped. Loop your yarn over the hook and pull this new loop through. Now, you should have three loops on your hook.Repeat the process of skipping and returning all the way to the end of your foundation chain to complete the first row of Tunisian crossed stitch.
 After each new row, you will need to bind off the stitches that are on your hook. Start by looping the yarn over the hook and pulling it through the first stitch on your hook. Then, yarn over again and pull this yarn through the next two loops.Keep yarning over and pulling through two loops until the end of the row.
There should be just one loop left on your hook when you reach the end.

