 Dry lips don’t reflect light and can make your lips look smaller and less full. Before you start contouring your lips with makeup, brush off any flakes and moisturize your lips to smooth out your canvas.Brush your lips lightly with a toothbrush in a circular motion. This can remove dry flakes and improve circulation, which gives your lips a small boost and rosy color.
Rub a bit of sugar or brown sugar on your lips. This can remove flakes, add moisture, and boost your circulation.
Consider buying a commercial lip exfoliator, which may have added moisturizers. You can purchase these products at many pharmacies, large retailers, and cosmetics stores.;
, A lip liner can optically change the contours of your lips. It can also give them the appearance of more depth, which in turn makes your pout appear fuller and more luscious.Choose a liner that matches the color lip you want to achieve. The darker the lipstick, the darker your lip liner should be. For example, if you want to do a pretty red lip, consider a dark chocolate liner. For a nude lip, you may want to try a pink, nude or white liner. Remember that you don’t want to choose a liner that is too dark or the first thing people may see is your liner and not your fuller lips.
Make sure your liner is sharpened to get the most accurate lines. You can soften up the lines by gently dabbing them with your finger.Start by lining the cupid’s bow of your lip. Extend the liner slightly above the cupid’s bow to make the shape of your lips larger. After this, line the center of your lower lip using the same technique. Then draw the outer corners of your lips. Again, you can extend the lines slightly above and below your lip line to make them appear fuller. Finally, connect the lines and blend them together with your finger.
 Now you’re ready to add some color to your pout. You can use a lipstick, gloss, or lip pencil to fill the contours between your liner with color.Apply the color using the lipstick tube, a separate applicator, or your fingers.
Focus on filling the corners of your pout with color. Extend the color to the middle of your lips by making short strokes that start at the liner outline and extend up to the center of your lips.
 Once you’ve filled your lips with your color of choice, blend it together so that it appears smooth. You may need to add a bit more color or may want to use a lip brush to smooth out any uneven areas.Consider using a brighter shade of lipstick to blend your base color. This can add highlights and depth to the color, which can make your lips appear fuller.
Start at the center of your mouth and use short blending strokes to even out the color. Avoid getting too close to the outline of your lips you made with the liner. This can erase the depth and fullness you created.
 A bit of highlighter will draw the eyes to the center of your lips, which is the fullest part. It also adds even more fullness and depth to the shape you’ve created with the liner and lip color.Use either a specific lip highlighting cream or try a shimmery powder. Lightly press the highlighter to the center of your bottom lip with either your finger or a lip brush. Blend in the highlighter so that it produces a gently shimmer on your lower lip.
Consider applying a lip gloss if you don’t want to use a highlighter. Dabbing a bit of clear gloss on the middle of your lower lip will have the same effect as a highlighter.Try this contouring trick to even out lips. Apply two different colors in the same shade family. Apply one shade all over your mouth and then a lighter color on the opposite lip that you want to appear fuller.
 Moist lips naturally appear more full. Add a bit of moisture and wetness back to your lips by using a lip balm. Avoid using gloss, which may dry out your lips and be a bit too much with your color.Use most lip balms to get the effect you want. You may also consider using a rose balm, which will moisturize your lips while giving them the slightest hint of extra shine. Rose lip balms are generally a product made out of petroleum jelly and rosewater or rose petals. These ingredients can soothe and moisturize your lips in addition to giving them a little shine.
 After you’ve got the luscious pout you want, seal it and make your lips pop even more by lining the outside with a concealer. Use a thin brush to apply a concealer that matches your skin tone. Not only can this make your lips appear even fuller, but it may also prevent the color from bleeding or fading.