 Begin by looking at samples of other brochures. This can be easily done online, but you can pay attention to brochures handed to you at business conferences as well. When browsing brochures, try to play the role of the customer and make note of the brochures that are most appealing.


You may ask yourself a number of questions. Does this brochure look good? Does it tell me what I need to know? Does it catch my eye immediately? What works with this brochure, and what does not? On the other hand, ask why is this a bad brochure?;
, There are a number of programs available to assist in designing brochures. QuarkXPress and Adobe InDesign are highly regarded, but there are many other desktop programs that will help to create a professional brochure. PagePlus is a less expensive alternative, for example. Web-based programs are also available, and these allow you to make a brochure without purchasing your own software. MyCreativeShop is a popular web-based choice.Before purchasing expensive desktop software, be sure the program has a function for brochure design.
Try experimenting with your new program. Learn its functions and spend time playing with the different features. Also, search the web for video tutorials for the program.
Web-based design is a good alternative, but note that there typically charges for using a template, printing and shipping.
 A template is a mold that you can follow when you make your own professional brochure. Once you have your software or web-based program, begin to identify which template appeals to you and fits your business. Think back to when you were finding samples. The advantage of selecting a template is that it will allow you to plug your information into a brochure that you know will have the professional look you want.


You do not have to use a template, and can create your own for a personal touch if you chose.
If you decide to use a template, you may want to avoid standard templates from brochure building programs that may be overused. Be sure to conduct a thorough search to find the best template for you.
 Think back to the samples that caught your attention and consider how you could build a brochure in a similar style. Think about what information you want to share and how.Professionals suggest that you include a good headline, include standard information about your business rather than complex details, avoid using jargon or big words, and think about including a discount with the brochure to grab peoples attention.This will help you create a professional brochure that reflects both you and your business.


Keep in mind that people do not always read brochures in their entirely. Instead, they focus on bold sentences and quick facts. Brainstorm some catchy and important headlines that will be important to your customers.
Think of how to make your brochure attention grabbing, how to keep the customer's interest in your text, and how to make your customers want to buy your product or service.
Put yourself in your customer's shoes.
Sell your product to your customer in your brochure, don't just tell them about it.
Tell your customer how you help them., Studies suggest that the brain finds it easy to grasp groups consisting of three - think of A, B, C or 1, 2, 3, "Just Do It" or "I'm Loving It".Brochures are often already divided into three parts vertically, but you can also divide them into three horizontally too. Moreover, try to use three images or groups on a page and no more than three fonts to make the brochure more appealing to the eye.
 Avoid using text that is small and hard to read, using size 14 or larger is a good rule to follow. Also, use larger fonts for headings and subheadings to distinguish them from other information. You should avoid industry jargon and being excessively wordy about unimportant topics. Instead use clear language that every potential customer can understand and get right to the point. This will help your brochure be user-friendly and approachable.


For example, don't spend two pages covering your history and only one talking about your available services.
 The design should be as simple as possible and you should avoid making the brochure look too 'busy'. Remember the rule of three. Be sure not to use any more text or images than you need to use to communicate with your customers. Avoid using patterned backdrops, as this will create a confusing brochure that customers will have difficulty focusing on.


In general, try to create a clean, modern look.
 This is largely a personal decision, but it is important that you use colors that are easy on the customers eyes while also being appealing. Think about selecting colors that match your business, perhaps the colors in your logo. The colors you select should be high contrast, with a light background and a dark text that makes the brochure easy to read. Also consider using bright accent colors for borders or shading so that the brochure stands out.If you do not have a logo, use colors that match the pictures included in your brochure.
If you are using images, avoid very detailed images and do not use too many. They can be expensive to print and harsh on a customer's eyes.
 Once you have researched and designed your brochure, you should find a local print shop that will be able to print your brochure. It is not recommended to print your brochures on a home printer, as they are typically low quality and will not print at high resolution. The print shop will have higher quality printers and paper to give your brochure a professional look.
 When you go to a professional printer, be sure to ask what options they have. Choose a high quality paper that looks crisp and clean. Think about having a glossy finish that will give your brochure a slick, high-class look.


You can think about a non-traditional brochure for a unique and professional look. It is possible to have a tri-fold brochure with the tops of the pages at different heights, or a bi-fold with a rounded back side. The possibilities are endless.
 If you want the final product to come out looking amazing, the best idea is to be talking constantly with your printer. They'll have experience and be able to advise you. Make sure that you talk to them at the beginning so that they will be able to see your vision.

