 It's important to do this before anything else. Knowing the area you need your backsplash to cover will allow you to calculate the cost of materials, which could influence the kind of metal you use. To calculate the dimensions for your backsplash:


Divide the wall where you plan on installing the backsplash evenly into rectangles to account for cabinets, windows, large appliances and so on. Measure the height and the width of each rectangle. Multiply these numbers together to find the area of each.
If you have a diagonal angle to account for, extend the base of the diagonal horizontally until it is even with the top of the diagonal. Connect the horizontal extension and the top of the diagonal to make a right triangle.

Calculate the area of triangles by multiplying the base and height of the triangle, then divide that number by 2 (triangle area = (base x height) / 2 ).


Add together the area calculations to get the total area in units squared (for example, in², ft², cm², m²). Multiply this number by 1.1 so you have extra backsplash material to fill in gaps or replace materials damaged during installation.;
, Now that you know the total area needed for your backsplash, you can begin shopping around. You can get quotes for backsplash material at your local big box hardware store (like Lowes, Home Depot, and Home Hardware) or online.An online backsplash provider may be the easiest option for getting a quote. In many cases, once you choose a backsplash material, you only need to input the total area on the site to determine the cost.
Before ordering your backsplash online, verify the seller's return policy. If tile is damaged during shipping, you may end up with an expensive and unusable backsplash.Common backsplash metals include:


Copper, which is lightweight. This makes it easier to install. Copper works well with rustic and retro designs.

Stainless steel, which comes in many shades. It is durable and is easy to maintain. It works well with modern decor.

Brass, which requires higher maintenance to prevent rust and keep clean.However, this metal has a unique, classical appearance., Most of the supplies you'll need can be found at your local hardware store or home center. But before you make any purchases, check the specifications for your backsplash to determine:


Whether or not you need adhesive, grout, and the tools associated with these components. Some varieties of backsplash already come with adhesive backing and will not need additional adhesive, grout, and their related tools.
What kind of backsplash cutting device you will need, if any. You'll only need to cut the backsplash to account for irregular angles, like you would along a diagonal., Clear out all appliances and countertop items from the backsplash installation area. If your stove is in this area, move it slightly away from the wall and disconnect it. Use tape to clearly define the edges of the backsplash installation area, including walls and countertops. Also:


Use a cover for your countertops, like a drop cloth, cardboard, or butcher paper, to prevent damage to it.
Remove fixtures that could get damaged or get in the way. Some fixtures you might have to remove include light/disposal switches, cover plates for outlets, and so on.
Turn off all electricity to your kitchen before installation. Metal backsplash has a greater risk transmitting electrical shocks. Prevent this by switching your kitchen electricity in your fuse box or electrical service panel to "OFF.", If your walls have slight bumps, depressions, or other imperfections, these will likely be visible in your installed backsplash. Take a metal straightedge and hold it to the wall to determine if it is level.


If your wall has imperfections, you should fix these before installation. Use a layer of joint compound or use other methods to fill in imperfections., Sometimes a design won't look as good as you initially thought it might. Especially if you can return your backsplash, use tape to hang a section of it to get a rough idea of how it will look.


In some cases, there may be plastic or a protective cover on the surface of your backsplash. Even so, a trial run will better help you visualize the next phase of this process: installation., Always follow your backsplash installation instructions, but in many cases, this will be a kind of mortar. However, it's becoming more and more common to produce backsplashes with their own adhesive, in which case you won't need a separate adhesive, mortar, or the tools associated with these components.


If using mortar, mix it in one of your two buckets according to its preparation instructions., This step can be skipped if your backsplash has its own adhesive backing.If not, use an adhesive applicator to apply adhesive to the wall where you will attach the backsplash. Do so according to the adhesive's directions. If using mortar:


Use the flat side of your V-notch trowel to apply a layer of mortar to the wall where you will install the backsplash.
Use the other side of your trowel, which should have V-shaped notches, to smooth the mortar so it is of uniform thickness throughout., Take your backsplash and press it into the adhesive or mortar using light, even pressure. Depending on your adhesive and backsplash, the time you should hold this pressure may vary. Follow the product instructions for best results.


Continue applying your backsplash, section by section. Pay close attention to the joints between tiles if your backsplash has any. These should line up evenly.
After you finish attaching backsplash to a section, apply your adhesive to a new section in the same fashion previously described, then attach more backsplash.
Take great care when attaching your backsplash to keep it level, otherwise it might turn out uneven or lopsided. A laser level can be helpful in this instance, but a traditional level can work just as well., After finishing a section, but before applying more mortar for your next section, take your wooden board and hold it flat across two backsplash segments already attached. Use your hammer to lightly tap the wood block where the backsplash is attached.


This is an optional step. However, by using this simple technique, you can correct unevenness in your backsplash before the adhesive hardens and cures. After hardening and curing, uneven depth will be hard to correct., In most cases, after 10 to 15 minutes has passed, you can remove the protective paper or plastic from the surface of your backsplash. Plastic can usually be peeled off easily. You may have to dampen your sponge and moisten protective paper before it pulls free.


When removing the protective covering on your backsplash, use firm but gentle force. You should keep the covering on the backsplash until this point to prevent damage., At this point, the adhesive/mortar will likely still be somewhat movable. Use your hands to make adjustments to the backsplash. For example, you might need to adjust the joints separating metal mosaic tile backsplashes., After peeling off the protective covering on your backsplash, there may be some adhesive or paper still on it. Gently scrub this with a non-abrasive nylon brush, then wipe the surface with a clean, damp sponge., This will likely be necessary for metal mosaic tiles, though backsplash that came with adhesive might not require grouting. Follow the label directions to mix your grout in your second bucket. Only use non-sanded grout to preserve the finish of your metal. Follow the grout instructions for best results, but generally, to apply the grout:


Use a rubber grout float to spread the grout onto your backsplash. Using firm pressure, force the grout into the joints between backsplash materials.
Wait between 15 minutes and one hour (depending on the kind of grout you used) before using a dampened sponge to remove extra grout from the surface of the backsplash. Use light pressure; too much pressure can remove grout from the joints., Only do this after the grout has cured. The information on the time this takes will be on the package or in the instructions. Use a clean, dampened sponge to wipe off any remaining grout on the surface of your tile that's making it hazy.


In some cases, you may need to use a cleaning agent, like an industrial alcohol based cleaner, to remove glue or stubborn grout.