 Learning how to solve conflicts is a key skill to teach your child, but it can be difficult. The first instinct that many adults have is to remove their children from the situation when a conflict arises. At times this is essential, especially when violent behaviour occurs. The best way to teach your child how to resolve a conflict is to leave them in the situation and help them figure out a resolution. Then, the next time they are in a conflict, allow them to try and solve the problem themselves.For example, if your child is arguing about playing with a toy, you can step in and provide a solution. Allow one child to play with the toy for 5 minutes and then the other child can play with it for 5 minutes. This provides a fair alternative and gives each child an opportunity to play with the toy.
Conflict resolution should satisfy everyone involved, when possible.
Some conflicts may be more complex and you can always offer your child guidance and brainstorm possible resolutions.
 Being able to persuade someone to understand your side of an argument is an important social skill. In order to persuade someone into changing their opinion of agreeing with your position, you need to be able to make a convincing argument. For example, you may need to cite evidence or appeal to the desires of others. Here are a few ways to teach this skill:If you have an older child, you could get them to try and convince you when they want something new, like a cell phone or a pet.
For instance, they would have to make an effective argument in order to persuade you into agreeing with them.
Each time they present a weak argument, you can explain why, and get them to continue making their case until you have been persuaded.
 If you want your child to have good people skills, then they will need to learn how to be empathetic. Empathy is the ability to understand and respect the values, feelings, and opinions of another person, even if they differ from your own. For example, putting yourself in someone else’s shoes.Talk about the feelings of other people: If your child explains a conflict at school you may ask them to think about how their classmates felt.
Point out similarities between people: Kids are more likely to empathize with people who share commonalities with them. Point out the similarities between people.
Model empathetic behaviour: Demonstrate your own empathy by actively listening to your child and make an effort to truly understand how they feel in different situations.

