 Only invite the gal pals you know will make this occasion rock. Leave out anyone likely to spoil the night by acting spoiled or pining for their male counterpart. Send out the invitations with enough time to get back to you.


Ensure that everyone has confirmed they're coming and that you have organised some form of transport.
Arrange for a designated driver. If someone is going to be driving, ensure that they won't drink.;
, To make sure that you're not rushing, start to get ready approximately 3 hours before you have arranged to go out. This doesn't mean you'll be full-on prepping but it does give you time to relax in between getting ready, allowing for a leisurely preparation time.
 It should be something you're comfortable with because confidence is the sexiest accessory. Wear something that you can move in easily, that fits well and shows off your best self.


If you like them, heels add an additional spark to an outfit. However, if you struggle to walk in heels, find lower heels or sexy low/flat shoes.
 Treat yourself to a luxurious bath before heading out. Use bath oils that refresh rather than relax though; you don't want to end up getting sleepy!

, Apply moisturiser, preferably scented, to help feel pampered. Moisturiser will help make the makeup stay better throughout the night.
 It's best not to go out on an empty stomach, as this will make you feel the effects of alcohol quicker. Also, you may be tempted to overeat unhealthy foods if you're hungry. Have a light snack if you'll be eating later, or a meal if you're only going out for drinks and dancing.
 For a night out, it is best to focus on a certain feature. This might be: eyes with false eyelashes, smokey eyes or dramatic eyeliner, or focus on your lips using either gloss or bright lips.
 Decide on a style that will suit your outfit and where you're going. Either straighten, curl or create an interesting up-do. Also, make sure you're happy with the hairstyle, so that you won't be playing with it all night. Beauty is meant to be effortless!


Avoid wearing your hair in too tight a style; it'll cause headaches and scalp pain.
If it's going to be an active girl's night out, choose a style that won't fall out when moving.
 Take your time and get the whole look just right.
 Remember these important things: ID, money, bank card (in case of emergencies), key, flat shoes to change into, mobile phone, essential makeup for any touch-ups and camera (or use the one with your phone).
 Let someone trusted know that you and your friends are going out. Give this person a contact number and get theirs. Give them a tentative time for your return home and let them know that you might call them if you need any help. It is important that someone is aware of your movements and that they're prepared to help out if needed. Hopefully, they won't be needed at all but it's better to be safe than sorry.


It's also a good idea for all of you to organise a pre-arranged meet-up area should you get separated during the night. Exchange phone numbers for those of you with mobiles and promise to text one another if you get separated and to go straight to this pre-arranged spot to regroup.
Another thing to do is to organise a secret signal to help each other out if any one of you needs to get away from someone coming on too strong or who is boring. Have a keyword or special phrase that will let the rest of you know to come to the rescue. And regardless of this, you should all keep an eye out for one another during the night.
 Then head out for a fantastic night out with everyone ready for fun.

