 Avid catfish noodlers spend years searching for and discovering popular nesting spots for Flatheads. You can accelerate this process by tagging along with an experienced noodler, or you might visit locations you've had luck pole fishing for flatheads, as these areas will likely have nests nearby., When noodling, you'll be hunting for male flatheads that are guarding spawning holes and caves. Noodling relies on provoking the male flathead to latch onto your arm, allowing you to draw the fish out of his hole.


Spawning season for flathead catfish takes place at the end of June and beginning of July.
Noodling for Flatheads outside of spawning season will likely be difficult.
 You never know what you might run in to in the murky water, so it's best to go noodling with a friend. That way, if you trip or get tangled in some roots, you have someone who can help you to safety.


Larger catfish, when noodled, might try to break free from your hold by twisting and thrashing.
If you've noodled an especially large catfish, you may need the help of a friend to wrestle your flathead free of the water., But before you do, remove any loose clothing that might get tangled in roots or make moving the water difficult. Once you're in the water, you might want to squish your hands in the muck to remove any "human scent" from your body that can scare away fish.
 When you believe you have found a suitable nest, dive underwater and listen carefully. You should hear a dull thumping noise; this is the flathead striking his tail to indicate it is guarding his nest. Approach the hole, and prepare to reach inside to provoke the fish., You may be able to gently slip your thumb into one side of the fish's gills, sticking your other fingers into his mouth to get a handle of it. As you do so, slowly but steadily wrap your other arm around the body of the catfish.


More aggressive catfish may bite you when noodling. This may startle you, but is not dangerous. The teeth of flathead catfish are too fine to do serious damage, though these may leave small marks or indentations on your skin.
When bitten, grab the lower jaw, which is shaped like a handle, and use your other arm to control the fish., Larger fish will have gill openings that should be large enough for you to fit a few fingers or, in some cases, your hand. Doing this will give you more control over larger fish, but will damage the gills, eventually causing the fish to die.