 Head to the center of Whiterun where you’ll find a large withering tree. At its base is a woman in brown hooded robe. This is Danica. Talk to her, and she’ll tell you that in order for you to retrieve the Eldergleam Sap, you’ll need a special weapon called Nettlebane—the only weapon that can be used to extract the sap.;
, Danica will tell you that Nettlebane can be found in a place called Orphan Rock. Exit Whiterun and travel straight south, passing Riverwood, towards Helgen. Once in Helgen, travel a few meters east until you find a large stone with a few tents on it. This is Orphan Rock.
 Climb the rocks and kill the witches you’ll see on top. These enemies have low life points and can easily be defeated using any weapon you may have. Once dead, search their bodies to retrieve the Nettlebane.
 Head back to Whiterun and give Danica the blade. She’ll tell you that she doesn’t want to touch the Nettlebane, and instead, tell you to go to the Eldergleam Sanctuary to retrieve the sap yourself.
 Head to the northeastern part of Skyrim to the city of Windhelm, and from there, travel straight south, crossing a river and passing the Broken Limb Camp. You’ll eventually find a large hole in the ground—this is the entrance to the sanctuary.
 Open your item inventory and equip the Nettlebane. Once you have the blade in your hands, drop down to the bottom of the sanctuary through the hole in the ground, and make your way to the largest tree at the center of the cave.


The path will be blocked by large tree roots. Simply attack these roots using Nettlebane, and it should move out of the way, clearing the path.
 Stand close to the tree and an “interaction” prompt will appear on the game screen. Press the corresponding button on your controller as prompted on the game screen and your character will retrieve the sap from the tree.
 Travel back to Whiterun and talk to Danica Pure-Spring for the last time. Give her the Eldergleam Sap, and she will use it to revive the Gildergreen tree at the Kynareth temple.

