 You need to have some people to teach! Invite some friends over, or ask your siblings or other family members if they'd like to play with you. Can't find anyone to play? Line up stuffed animals or other toys, so you'll have a classroom ready to go.


Put each student in a separate chair in the classroom. You can assign seats, or let students choose their own. You could even put name tags on each desk, or have the students make them.
Take your place at the front of the classroom and tell everyone to quiet down, because school is about to start.
 Now that you've got your group of students gathered, start teaching! Write things on the paper that you've got on the wall to help you show the students what they're supposed to learn.


You could even do a fun activity, like having the students "dissect" different stuffed animals and talk about what they find, if you want to have a science class. This could be a fun way to spend school time.
 Give each one of your students pieces of paper, or notebooks, so they can write things down and do little assignments, or take notes. Tell them specifically what they should do. You could also have them read out what they've written.


If you're teaching English class, you could say, "Write about what you did this weekend in a timed writing!" and then have everyone read it out.
 When you're the teacher, you've got a good chance to put everyone else on the spot. Throw out math questions and call on people randomly, or call on people with really silly or difficult questions. "Mr. Anderson, please come to the front of the class and explain how dinosaurs kiss to us. We're waiting!"


Turn the questions into a game. Ask all your students, "What's 132 minus 17?" and let them figure it out fast. Whoever gets the answer right quickest gets a candy.
Some teachers like to play bingo to get students involved. That could be a good way to play, as well.
 It's scary in real school, but at your pretend school it can be a lot of fun. Have each student come up to the board to answer a question, or to write in their answer to a question that you've asked.


Ask a math problem, or give them a silly prompt to draw something. Tell all the students that whoever can draw the best brontosaurus gets a gummy worm.
 After a little school, have all your students line up and walk to the "lunch room." If you can get your parents to be in charge of the cafeteria, that would be perfect. Have sandwiches and milk, or whatever you normally eat at lunch, ready to eat like you do at school. Then sit all together and have your lunch like normal.
 After lunch, have everyone go outside and play recess like you do at school, or see if your parents will take you to a park, to play on the playground stuff there.

