 While friendly chatter between players is fine in a home game and may be appropriate for a low-stakes casino or online game, trying to psych out another player by putting him or her down is frowned upon, as is putting down a player who makes a rookie mistake. Doing either of these things may invite the other players to target you with repeated calls.;
, Betting out of turn can help you spot weak hands by the other players' reactions, but they can also just as easily see what you're trying to do and gang up on you.
 You can take the time you need to think at the climax of the game, but don't drag out every play.
 This includes not just trying to look at or touch the cards in other players' hands, but also not looking at or touching the down cards of any player who has folded or by the player who has won the hand by outbidding everybody else.


Of course, it is acceptable to look at all the up cards in a game of stud poker or the up cards in a community hand in games such as Texas hold 'em.
 As long as your hand is in play, don't show the cards in it (other than the face-up cards in a stud poker game) to anyone else. Doing so may be regarded as having folded, and in some casino games, you may be penalized for doing this. Worse, doing this may change the outcome of the game by enabling another player to take advantage of the situation.
 Loudly declaring, "These cards are marked," is fine when appearing in an M&Ms commercial with cards smeared with peanut butter, but nowhere else. If the dealer does make a mistake, gently inform him or her of the mistake. If the dealer doesn't act to correct it, you can then approach the floor man if playing in a casino.


In general, you should teach yourself not to react to what others do during the game or to what kind of hand you have. Not only is this good etiquette, but developing a "poker face" prevents you from giving a "tell" that lets other players know how good or bad your hand is.
 Even if you're the world's best poker player, you're there to play, not give lessons. It's especially inappropriate to comment on a hand after you've been eliminated from it.

