 This method works best with fabric placemats. Choose something that looks interesting, preferably with embroidery. Something with a lining would work even better, and will give your clutch a more professional touch. Make sure that the material is sturdy and not flimsy.

Placemats with tassels and fringes work great!;
, If your placemat has a clear right and wrong side, make sure that the wrong side is facing up. If your placemat has a lining, then make sure that the lining is facing you.

If your placemat has tassels or a fringe, consider cutting off the ones along the bottom edge. This will eventually be the inside of your clutch.If you can leave them on, however, if that's what you'd like.
 Fold both of the long edges in by 1 inch (2.54 centimeters) and secure them with pins. Iron along the folds, then topstitch them down, as close to the outer edge as you can.This step is not completely necessary. If you are happy with the width of your

,, You can do this using a sewing machine and a straight stitch, or by hand using a blind stitch. You can even use a blanket stitch and some embroidery thread in a contrasting color for a rustic-chic touch.

If you don't want the stitching to be visible, consider folding some ribbon over the seams, and either gluing or blind-stitching it down.
If you don't know how to sew, you can simply glue the edges down using hot glue or fabric glue.
 Iron along the fold to make the crease. Make a loop out of thin, round, elastic cord, and stitch it to the top of the flap. Stitch a rustic-looking button to the corresponding spot on the body of the clutch.How much elastic cord you use will depend on the size of your button; you need enough to stretch over the button.

If your placemat at a lining, use a seam ripper to open up some of the stitching at the top-center of your flap, and tuck the elastic cord into the hole. Topstitch the hole down using a matching thread color.
For a more chic look: wrap a thin belt around clutch, with the buckle just below the flap (when the bag is closed). Glue the belt to the back and front of the clutch. Close the belt, and trim any excess off.