 The whole point of a storyblog is to tell a story without it being confined to a certain amount of pages or space. Make sure your story is not only interesting, but will be interesting for a long time.;
, Writing and keeping up storyblog takes a lot of time, and that time has to be consistent. Whether you write every day or every month, you need to have a solid block of time to sit down at the computer and write.
 Depending on your experience with creating a blog and your internet connection (among other things) you might need to join a different hosting site. A few good sites are: WordPress, and Blogger. While WordPress and Blogger are specifically for blogs, Webs is for complete websites. Know what type of storyblog you want before you choose your site.
 This, obviously, is an important step – so do it right. Make sure the web address, theme of your blog, and assorted other things are relevant to your story.
 There's a difference between writing and posting – make sure you know it. Open a word processor and write your first entry. This can either be the first "episode" of your story or an explanatory post that deals with things that don't relate to your story (how often you'll be posting, "Join my blog!" etc.). Make sure you save the entry onto your computer!

, There's nothing worse than a sloppy entry full of mistakes and grammar errors. Ergo, this is where the word processor comes in. Do a quick spell/grammar check of your post.
 After your entry is error-free, go to your blog and click 'Post New Entry'. Although the wording may vary, this is how you post. Then copy (right-click on the mouse and hold down while you drag it down the post, then click 'Copy'. Make sure everything is selected!) and paste (right click again and select 'Paste') into the text box. Click 'Post', 'Save, or 'Publish', whatever is there, and then visit your blog. Your entry should be there!

, Repeat Steps 5, 6, and 7 consistently, whether it be every other month or every other hour, make sure you keep a schedule so readers know when to check back.
 Although this step is optional, it's one of the most widely used. Once you feel you have enough posts and your storyblog is ready, submit your site to search engines like Google, Yahoo! and Bing. Make sure the tags you have are widely searched, relevant to your storyblog, and common words. Another recommended idea is to make yourself present on sites like Facebook, Myspace, and Twitter. Make sure to 'Tweet' or post whenever you update your storyblog. Joining other things like AIM and Skype aren't bad ideas either. Make sure you tell family, friends, and co-workers about your storyblog too!

