 There are many diseases or conditions that can manifest as a rash or irritation on your face, such as mild allergic reactions, autoimmune disorders (psoriasis), acne outbreaks, severe sunburn, eczema, rosacea, infections, vitamin deficiency or contact dermatitis. Your family doctor will be able to rule out anything serious, but remember they are not skin specialists, so you'll likely need to see a more specialized health professional to get the correct diagnosis.


Ask your doctor if skin irritation is a common side effect of any medications you may be taking.
Ask your doctor for a blood test to see if you're too low in vitamin B12 and other B vitamins. A lack of some B vitamins is linked to skin problems.;
, Dermatologists are skin specialists who can correctly diagnose skin problems and recommend a variety of treatments such as medicinal creams, acne medications, anti-inflammatories, micro-abrasion or laser therapy.


Your dermatologist will want to know if skin conditions are common among your family members because genetics play a role with many skin diseases, such as psoriasis.
Aside from sunburn, getting too much sun is a common trigger for many skin conditions, especially rosacea.Estheticians, herbalists, nutritionists, naturopaths and chiropractors may also be good sources of information regarding skin conditions and natural treatments, but it's best to see a medical doctor first.
 A doctor who specializes in diagnosing allergies is called an allergist. Allergic reactions range from mild to life-threatening, but they typically manifest quickly — within seconds to hours.A severe rash on the face that develops quickly is likely hives. If you experience breathing problems, nasal congestion or swelling of the lips and tongue, you need to call 911 or emergency services immediately, as this indicates anaphylaxis, a life-threatening emergency.
Food allergies are one of the most common allergies to affect the face.Common food allergies include nuts (peanuts), shellfish (shrimp), eggs, cow's milk, fish, wheat, and soy.