 Luckily, many of these exercises work other areas of your body as well. Only do it every other day, so you give your muscles a chance to rest and rebuild.


Although it is true that you cannot simply target 1 area of your body with exercises and expect to spot reduce the fat, building underlying muscle is the only way to lift and improve the look of the area as you lose weight. Muscle also burns more calories than fat, so it is a great way to boost weight loss.
 Stand with your feet hip width apart in front of the mirror. Put your body weight in your heels and sit down until your thighs are parallel with the ground.


Pause for 1 to 2 seconds before returning to the original position. Then slowly rise up. Do 10 to 20 full squats every other day.
 Stand with your legs hip width apart. Step out to far to the right side and bend your right knee as far as you can.


Keep your left leg straight. Pause and slowly return to standing position by pushing the floor away with your right foot. Repeat 10 times on each side.
 This alteration asks you to place your right leg behind your left as if you were doing a curtsy. Bend both knees while keeping your trunk straight.


Bend the knees as far as you can. Then, return to the original position. Do this 10 times, then switch legs and repeat.
 These exercises ask you to get on all fours and keep your trunk tucked and tight. Make sure you do not over arch your back, or you risk back injury.


Start with kickbacks. Pick up your right leg and straighten it. Turn it out slightly. Kick it upward for 45 seconds. Repeat on the opposite side.
Do fire hydrants. Return to all fours. Lift your right knee to the side, as if you are a dog using a fire hydrant. Bring it as high as you can, then pause and lower it. Do this for 45 seconds on each side.
Do hip extensions. Return to all fours. Raise your right leg with your knee staying bent. Lift your heel as if you are trying to touch the ceiling. Lower it slightly. Repeat for 45 seconds on each side.
 With planks, you get in a push up position and hold your body in a straight line for 30 to 60 seconds. Look for variations of this exercise for total body toning.
 Once you have the hang of these exercises add dumbbells, bars or kettle bells to increase the resistance.


Squats and step ups work especially well with weights. For step ups, you need a bench. Hold the weight up and step up onto a high bench that is knee level or above. Repeat 10 times on each side.

