 Apply for marriage licenses with both applicants present at the county clerk's office. Pay a $40 filing fee. The officiator of your wedding will send the signed license in to be recorded, after which you will receive a marriage certificate. Additional certified copies cost $5.;
, You can order divorce certification summaries—essentially a certified copy of the original—online through the VitalCheck system via the Utah Department of Health website. There is an $18 search fee, which includes one copy; each additional copy is $8. You can also order copies through the VitalCheck system over the phone. If you prefer to order by mail, you must send a photo copy of acceptable identification, an Application for Divorce Certification, and a check for the fee made out to the Office of Vital Records and Statistics to PO Box 141012, Salt Lake City, UT 84114-1012.You can also apply in person at 288 North 1460 West, Salt Lake City, Utah.
 Complete the SS-5 form. Gather certified copies of marriage or divorce or annulment certificate. Bring the completed SS-5 form and certified copies of marriage or divorce certificates along with a Utah driver's license, state ID, or passport to the SSA office. You will also need a U.S. birth certificate, U.S. citizenship certificate, or work authorization letter and I-94.You can also apply by mail by mailing your documents to your local SSA office along with the SS-5 form; your documents will be mailed back to you.You will receive your documents and new social security card with your new name by mail.
 Provide a current Utah driver’s license (with photo), a non-expired U.S. passport, or your Social Security card to your local Utah Department of Public Safety Driver License Division office in person. You will need proof of your name change, such as your marriage certificate (original/certified copy) or record of divorce (certified). You will then either renew your license with the new name or apply for a duplicate with the new name—you will get a duplicate if there is more than six months left before your current license expires, otherwise you will have to renew to have your license reflect your new name., To change your name on your car title and registration you will have to visit a Utah DMV office and surrender your current title and registration. You will submit a Vehicle Application for Utah Title and pay a fee of $6 for the title and $4 for the registration.