 When bringing a new cat into your family, you should think about what type of cat might be best for your existing pets. While you may have your heart set on a certain age or sex of cat, it's more important to get one that is compatible with the pets you already have.For example, if you already have two female cats, you may want to get a male cat. It is more likely that a male cat will integrate into the family easily than another female cat would.
Also, if you have an older cat already, it may take to a young cat or kitten better than another older cat.
 If you are getting an adult cat you should learn as much as you can about it before bringing it home. Talk to the person giving you the cat or the staff at the rescue or store to get a little background on the cat. It is best to get a cat that has a history of living in multi-pet households, as it is more likely that they will adjust to your home.


If you are bringing a kitten into your home, then there will be little information available about its personality and behavior.
 The hardest part about choosing a new cat is that you will not be able to guarantee that it will ever bond with your other pets. Even if you pick a breed that typically gets along well with other animals, they may not get along. Even if the cat you pick has a history of living with other cats and dogs peacefully, every pet is different. There may be personality conflicts that you simply cannot predict.This means that you are always taking a little bit of a chance of conflict when bringing a new cat into your home.
That said, many cats can integrate nicely into already established multi-pet households. With time, patience, and realistic expectations, the odds are in your favor.
 When considering getting another pet, you should think about the added costs, in addition to thinking about how it will impact your existing pets. Not only will a new cat cost you more for care, for instance paying for its food and veterinary bills, but it will take up more space and it will require that you give more time and energy. Remember, if you take on too many pets, they could all suffer from your lack of time, space, or money.


Taking on a new pet is a huge responsibility, even if you already have other pets. Make sure you are ready for that responsibility before bringing a new cat home.

