 If you have any symptoms of a blood clot, get medical help right away. Blood clots can lead to life-threatening medical conditions.
 Your doctor should ask questions about your symptoms, your lifestyle, your personal health history, and your family health history. Answer these questions in as much detail as possible to increase the chances of a quick and accurate diagnosis.
 Your doctor should perform a complete physical, looking for any signs or symptoms that could point to blood clots.
 Depending on your symptoms, your doctor will likely order standard blood work. In addition, he or she may recommend:


Ultrasound. Using an ultrasound machine, your doctor may be able to detect the formation of blood clots in the veins.
Venography. In venography, a contrast dye is injected into a small vein in your hand or foot. Using fluoroscopy, the doctor can then observe the path of the dye, looking for possible clots.
Arteriography. In arteriography, a dye is injected directly into an artery. Similar to venography, arteriography will allow your doctor to observe the path of the dye and confirm the presence of a clot.
 If your doctor suspects a blood clot in your lungs (also known as a pulmonary embolus), he or she will recommend an imaging test and/or ventilation perfusion to check your lungs. This may involve:


Chest x-rays. X-rays cannot detect the presence of clots. However, they can reveal some conditions, triggered by clots, that lead to chest pain and shortness of breath.
Electrocardiogram (EKG). An EKG is a painless test. It simply records your heart’s electrical activity, revealing abnormalities associated with a pulmonary embolus.
Computerized tomography (CT) scan. In a CT scan, a contrast dye is injected into a vein, and your lungs are scanned for signs of clots.
Ventilation perfusion. Ventrilation perfusion is a test in which a chemical is used to identify air inhaled into the lungs. This is then compared with the blood flow in the arteries to reveal the presence of a pulmonary embolus.
 Once all of the appropriate tests are performed, your doctor should be able to diagnose you with a certain type of clot. Treatment will depend, to some extent, on the type and location of your clot. Major types of clots include:


Thrombus. A thrombus is a blood clot that develops in the veins or arteries.
Embolus. An embolus is a thrombus that has moved from the bloodstream to another location.
Deep vein thrombosis (DVT). DVT is a common and dangerous clot, usually formed in a major vein in the leg (though sometimes also appearing in the arms, pelvis, or other parts of the body). It blocks blood flow and causes pain and swelling.

