 It can be overwhelming to navigate all of the options for mental health counseling. Your primary care physician will have experience dealing with medical conditions like depression and can recommend your next step.


Let your doctor give you a mental health evaluation. Your doctor will be able to assess whether your struggles will benefit from counseling or whether medical treatment is necessary. Many mental illnesses like depression or bipolar disorder can be helped with medication.
 Using your doctor and other resources, you’ll need to decide what sort of counselor to seek out. This can vary depending on for what you’re seeking help.


If you think talk-based therapy will help you, there are licensed therapists and social workers. These can range from those with Master’s degrees to doctorates in psychology. With the help of your doctor you may decide that a psychiatrist and biological approach using medicine will be most helpful. If your relationship needs help, licensed marriage or relationship counselors may be best.
 Once you know what type of counseling may work best for you, you’ll have to start narrowing down concrete options.


Use your doctor. Your doctor likely has experience dealing with mental health as well as knowledge of your medical history. They may be able to recommend a colleague they think will be a good fit.
Look online. You have to be careful about this but a simple search can bring you options in your area as well as reviews. You can always contact the professional before meeting to assess whether they can help you and the experience they have in treating similar problems.
Check with your health insurance provider. If you have insurance, this will not only help from a cost standpoint but they may also be able to help facilitate you finding the specific help you need.
 Once you decide it’s time to get help, you’ll have a lot of different options open to you. Based on your physician's advice, the nature of your problem, and your own research you can find the type of therapy that's best for you. Individual therapy. Individual psychotherapy usually entails sitting down one on one with a mental health professional, talking about your problems and taking steps to address your issues in a healthy way. This could be through talk therapy or more traditional methods like psychoanalysis that try to uncover subconscious issues.
Group therapy. You may do better in a group setting where a support group is guided by the expertise of a mental health professional.
Interpersonal therapy. This is a type of therapy that focuses on how you interact with friends and family. It seeks to improve communication and build up self esteem and can address a number of issues like depression and anxiety.
Cognitive behavioral therapy. This is a particular type of therapy that attempts identify and change behavioral and perceptual problems causing distress. This can be helpful in creating new ways of thinking and new ways of acting that reinforce positive emotional well being.
 It can be really hard and even scary to admit that you’re struggling. If you experience any of the above signs, seeking out help as soon as possible.


Sometimes it can be hard to talk to a doctor or stranger about your deep feelings. If you have a trusted friend, family member or someone like a pastor, they may be a more comfortable place to start. It is always easier to share your burden with someone you trust and care about.
Make sure you're comfortable with your therapist. It can be hard to discuss such personal, often painful feelings if you are not comfortable and trusting with your choice. If you find you don't click with your first choice, don't be afraid to explore other options. As you get further into the process you will start to gain a clearer understanding of what makes you comfortable and what works best for you.

