 Your upper body consists of your arms, shoulders, upper back and chest. There are dozens of potential dumbbell variations that you can try which will work these muscles. For your biceps, the classic dumbbell move is the bicep curl. To do this, start with arms relaxed at your sides and pull up the dumbbells to shoulder height individually or together in two to three sets of eight to 20 repetitions.As you raise the dumbbell keep good posture and try not to jerk your body. Aim for a smooth and controlled motion.
Variations include a sitting bicep curl, and a hammer curl, where you turn your palms in towards your body.
 Tricep extensions are a good dumbbell exercise that you can do to work out your triceps. To do a tricep extension hold the dumbbells up over your head, one in each hand. Then, bending your arm at the elbow, lower one hand down and back to the rear of your shoulder. Raise your arm back up so it is above your head. Repeat this on the other side. Keep your arm still, and your posture upright.


For a variation you can do a two-handed extension. Hold a dumbbell in both hands and perform the same movement as before.
An alternative tricep exercise is a kickback. To do this, put your knee and hand on a bench, and hold a dumbbell in the opposite hand as you lean over.
Push the dumbbell back so your hand goes up towards your hip as you extend your elbow.For each of these exercises try to perform between two to three sets of eight to 20 repetitions.
 There are a large variety of dumbbell exercises you can do to work your shoulders. Many of these are variations on the shoulder press. To perform a shoulder press, begin by holding the dumbbells at shoulder level and then push your arms up, raising the weights straight above your head. Keep them elevated for a moment, before carefully lowering them down to your shoulders. This is one repetition.


Don't lock you elbows out when you have the weights at the highest point, and take care not to jerk your back as you try to lift them.Keep your back straight and engage your core to support you.
Presses can be done while standing or while seated.
 You can use dumbbells for bench presses, the most commonly used exercise for strengthening the chest. Bench presses with dumbbells, just as with barbells, are useful for working out the chest muscles and require extra stabilizing muscles to help you lift. This move can be varied by performing a bench press on an incline, decline, or with a neutral grip.


Laying down on a bench, with your hands in front of your shoulders, press both dumbbells toward the ceiling, hold for a moment, and lower again slowly.For variation try fly exercises for the chest. Seated on an incline, decline, or regular bench or chair, hold dumbbells out to the sides at shoulder height with arms slightly bowed.
Perform a hugging motion to bring the weights in front of your body and slowly return them out to the sides.
 You can use dumbbells to work out your back in a number of ways. Rows, bends, and dead lifts are useful and simple dumbbell exercises for strengthening the back, but they require extra attention to safety. If you suffer from back pain or injury, do not perform these routines except under the guidance of a trained fitness professional. Because of the danger of back injury, always use a weight you are comfortable with.


To perform a row, stand with your knees bent and lean forward, holding the dumbbells in each hand. Take care to keep your back straight.
One at a time or both together, lift you hands up towards your core.
As you lift the dumbbells breathe out. Breathe in again as you lower them back down.
You can also do this in a squat position, or with the arm and leg of one side of your body resting on a bench.Do two to three sets of eight to 20 reps.
 To target your traps, the muscle between your neck and your shoulder, you can do a very simple dumbbell exercise. The shoulder shrug simply involves holding dumbbells in each hand by your sides. Then make an exaggerated shrugging motion, lifting the shoulders, and slowly returning them back down to normal posture. You will soon begin to feel fatigue in your traps.Perform two to three sets of eight to 20 reps.

