 The non-porousness of the board is what allows the ink to come off easily, as a clean, Teflon-like coating protects the board from letting ink set in. But scratches and "tears" in this coating will allow the ink to seep through, ruining your board permanently. Always use soft, clean towels and rags.


Adhesives like tape and glue will also rip up the coating when removed., Regular cleanings will be essential to prevent the need to restore the board in the first place. A light spray of cleaner and a towel will remove marks before the set in, keeping your board beautiful for years to come.


Any marker left on for more than 24 hours is at risk to leave "ghost" marks.
Very stubborn stains can be removed with a little propyl alcohol. Wipe and dry it off after applying -- don't let it dry on the board., Work quickly, then erase with a dry, clean eraser to get most of these marks off.


Note, if you work too slowly you may dry the black marker on their, completely defeating the purpose!
You can also use this method to spot clean certain marks. Just make sure they are completely covered with ink before erasing., Most soaps break up oils and sheens that are not water-soluble, helping cut through tough stains and chemicals. But the sheen on a whiteboard is there on purpose, allowing the markers to write without ever truly drying out. Never use a cleaner that isn't made to specifically work with your white board.


In a pinch, denatured alcohol can work as a more powerful cleaner than water, and it shouldn't harm whatever original finish you have left.
 Don't let the board air dry. If you're wiping the board down at the end of the day, take a paper towel and clean rag and dry it as well. This will help protect the longevity of the board.
 Blot it on a kitchen towel. If you need to wash it, dampen a soft cloth and run over it to remove traces of ink, but do not wet it. You want to start with as little dust and debris as possible to keep the board clean and smooth.
 If someone has ruined the finish with a heavy cleaner, or you find that you have to add WD-40 more and more frequently, you'll likely hit the end of the line with your board. While you can try to resurface it again, you'll likely be best off with a new, factory sprayed finish.


WD-40 will make the board usable again, but it may also lead to slightly streaky writing. It is nothing that makes the board unusable, but it should be noted.

