 You should also focus on keeping your area at work clean and tidy. Having a clean work area will show others you can be tidy at work and appear professional.


If you have a desk in your office at work, you should make sure it stays clean and organized. You may do a weekly or monthly clean out of your desk to get rid of any papers, sticky notes, or office supplies you no longer need.
If you have a work locker, you should keep it clean and get rid of any clutter so it is not overstuffed or full of junk. You may do a monthly clean of your locker to get rid of any items you no longer need or use.
 If you own a vehicle, you should get in the habit of giving your car a good clean down once a week or once a month. You should clean the exterior and the interior of your car so your ride appears clean and fresh.Go through your car and get rid of any take out boxes or papers. You should also wipe down the interior of the car to remove any dust or dirt. You may take out the carpeted mats in the car and have them professionally cleaned if they appear dirty or do not smell fresh.
You should also take your car through a self-service carwash and give it a good clean using water and soap. Make sure you dry and buff the car well so it looks polished and clean.
Depending on your budget, you may splurge on a professional car wash once every few months to keep your car extra clean.
 You should also maintain good hygiene at work and when you are on the go so you appear clean and tidy. Make sure you wash your hands before and after you eat as well as any time you use the bathroom. You should also clean your hands after you use a public space, such as riding the bus or the train.


You should also maintain a clean appearance and appear well groomed. If you eat foods that contain garlic at lunch, for example, you may brush your teeth afterward to freshen your breath. If you workout on your lunch break, you should take a shower so you are fresh and clean for when you return to the office.
 It can be tricky to stay clean while you are traveling, especially if you are traveling to an area that does not have standard washrooms or a Western idea of cleanliness. You should pack cleaning products so you are prepared and can stay clean when you are on the go.You may decide to create a travel kit to bring with you so you are prepared and can stay clean. The travel kit may include hand sanitizer, hand wipes, band aids, sunscreen, and breath mints.
You may also pack extra sanitary wipes and tissues in your travel bag so they are on hand when you need them. If required, you should also include tampons or pads so you have them if you get your period while traveling.

