 Food is the primary resource required to move your way up the ages in Age of Empires 2, so make it your mission to gather as much and as quickly as you can.


At the start of the game, you are provided with a cavalry scout. Use the scout to quickly explore the area near your Town Center for food by moving him around the unexplored areas.
There usually are a few sheep in the unexplored areas close to the Town Center. Send those back to the Town Center so villagers can gather food from them while easily storing it there.
Also be on the lookout for cherry bushes, which are another source of food.;
, Have 2 of the 3 villagers you are provided with at the start of the game gather food while the third builds two houses with the 200 Wood you are initially provided with. The houses will allow you to accommodate extra population as you try to create more villagers.


As soon as the houses are built, reassign the builder to food gathering.
 Using the food gathered by the initial 3 villagers, create at least 6 more villagers.


Assign 4 of these to food gathering and 2 to woodcutting. Now you have 7 villagers gathering food.
 You had 200 Wood at the start of the game, and at this point, 60 has been used to build 2 houses. Together with the Wood gathered by the two villagers assigned to the woodcutting, you should by now have around 300 Wood.


Explore the area using the scout cavalry to find the sea.
Use 150 Wood to construct a fishing dock and the remainder to create two fishing ships (at 75 Wood each).
Command the fishing ships to fish. You can do this by left-clicking the ship to select it and then right-clicking a part of the sea with fish (you will see them jumping about in the water).
 Assign any spare villagers you have to gathering, and as soon as you have more than 500 food, go to the Town Center and click the “Age Up” button. This will start the process of advancing your colony to Feudal Age (Age II).
 This resource will be needed to level up to higher ages. Just select or create a few more villagers and have them mine the boulders with yellow streaks on them, which you will find in areas nearby.
 The next ages after the Dark Age that your colony is initially in are Feudal Age (costs 500 food), Castle Age (costs 800 food and 200 Gold), and finally, Imperial Age (costs 1000 food and 800 Gold). Continue having your villagers gather resources for the cost of aging up, and once you’ve had enough resources, just go to the Town Center and click the “Age Up” button.


Advancing your age in AoE2 costs significant amounts of resources (food and Gold), and the more resources you spend, the more the Tech points you will have at the end of the game.
Advancing your age also makes more technologies available for researching. The more technologies you research, the more the resources you will use up, and the more the Tech points you will earn.

