 Most courses are designed to guide you, step by step, through a subject. If you have a syllabus, read it closely and try to follow its directions and suggestions. In other classes, pay attention to the calendar of assignments. Otherwise, you might find yourself trying to tackle an impossible task at the end of the term.


Don’t skip class.In class, focus on understanding what’s being said rather than writing every word down in your notes.
Don’t try to multitask in class. Close any distractions such as e-mail or social media. This kind of multitasking undermines your learning.Attend any extra test-preparation or study sessions offered.
Complete all the assignments in order and on time. Take on suggested reading or supplementary problems if possible.
 Studying with friends can offer moral support. In addition, you may understand a particular concept better if you hear someone else explain it.


Talk with your study group about what confuses you. Articulating the problem is frequently the first step to solving it.
Choose a study group that suits you. You want a group where you can learn, but not feel overwhelmed or intimidated.
Be especially careful not to rely too heavily on friends who find the subject easy. In the end, you will need to learn the material thoroughly for yourself.
 Talk to a roommate, a friend, or a sibling, and try to teach them the subject to the best of your ability.


Grab a whiteboard or large piece of paper so that you can sketch out concepts.
 Learning the same material through different modes can increase retention.If a particular style of learning appeals to you, make studying more pleasant by finding multiple ways to learn through that style.


If you learn well by listening to someone explain something, try looking up online lectures or demonstrations on the topics that confuse you.
Go to the library and check out another textbook on the topic. Does this one explain it in a way that is easier to understand?
If there are multiple sections or recitations for the class, check them all out. Some teachers will be a better fit for you than others.
Is there a movie or novel that relates to your difficult subject? Set aside some time for it. A dry history textbook might be more engaging after you’ve watched a movie set in the same time and place, for example.
 Don’t be afraid: your teacher wants to help you understand. Be prepared to explain what you’ve done to figure out the answers on your own, and where you got stuck: this will help your teacher to see that you’re trying hard and it might help them to understand what’s causing you trouble.
 Do you find it difficult in general to read, or to remember, or to follow directions or stay organized? It might not just be the one subject: it’s possible you have a learning disability.Talk to a teacher or a guidance counselor. With appropriate support, people with learning disabilities can be highly successful in academics.

