 If you have aches or a high temperature, your main two choices are acetaminophen (Tylenol) and NSAIDs (non-steroidal, anti-inflammatory drugs such as aspirin, ibuprofen, or naproxen). Avoid taking NSAIDs, if you have acid reflux or peptic ulcer disease. If you are already taking a NSAID for other issues, talk to your doctor before taking more. Do not take more than the prescribed amount, as indicated on the bottle. Too much of either medicine can lead to liver toxicity. You don't want to develop a worse condition while trying to fight off another., Congestion isn't the only nasty symptom you have to contend with during a cold - dry, itchy, or sore throats can be equally bothersome. An easy, natural way to deal with this is to gargle a salt solution. The water hydrates the throat, while the antiseptic properties in the salt help to fight infection. Make the solution by dissolving a teaspoon of salt in a glass of warm water. If the taste is too unpleasant for your liking, add a little baking soda to take the edge off the saltiness. Gargle this solution up to four times a day. Do not swallow. , Elderberries are said to be a great natural immune booster, and are therefore very popular as a natural cold remedy. Elderberry contains flavonoids, which have antioxidant properties and may help prevent damage to the body’s cells. However, very few studies have been done in humans, so researchers don't know how effective elder may be. You can use elderberries in a number of ways:Taking a spoonful of elderberry syrup every morning. This syrup can be found in most health food stores.
By adding a couple of drops of elderberry extract (also found in health food stores) to a glass of water or juice.
Or by drinking elderberry tea - a hot beverage with elder flowers and peppermint leaves.
 Raw honey is an effective natural immune booster, which also contains anti-viral properties and soothes sore throats making it a primary ingredient in many natural cold remedies.You can eat a spoonful of the raw honey by itself or stir it into warm water or tea. Another great cure for a cold is to have a glass of milk mixed with a spoonful of turmeric powder, then chase it down quickly with a spoonful of honey. Try to source raw honey from your local area, as it will help your body to develop a tolerance for allergens native to your region.
 Garlic boasts an impressive array of health benefits, thanks to its antimicrobial, antiviral and antibiotic properties. There is some evidence to suggest that raw garlic can help to relieve cold symptoms, shorten a colds duration and boost the immune system, thus preventing future cold.Garlic can be taken in supplement form, but for the most effective results, it is best taken raw. Crush up a clove of garlic and let it sit at room temperature for 15 minutes. This allows a compound known as allicin to develop - a potent anti-bacterial agent which gives garlic most of its health benefits.
The garlic can be eaten on its own (if you have a strong stomach) or mixed with a little honey or olive oil and spread on a cracker., There are certain natural supplements which are believed to help with cold symptoms. While they won't necessarily cure the cold or stop it in its tracks, they can help it to go away faster. For example:


Echinacea is an herbal supplement which is believed to contain anti-viral properties, aiding in the treatment of respiratory infections. When taken in tablet form it is said to reduce the span of a cold, if taken as soon as the first symptoms appear.Zinc is another natural substance which scientific research has shown to shorten the duration of colds by preventing the virus from reproducing. It can be taken in tablet, lozenge or syrup form.Ginseng is an ancient cold remedy which is scientifically proven to help shorten the duration of colds, while also reinforcing the immune system. It can be taken in supplement form, or the root can be boiled in water to make tea.