 Don’t set your Boxer up for failure: eliminate the opportunity and try not to leave any scraps or easily accessible food unattended.Never give it table scraps or human food, and if you have people over, instruct them not to feed your dog.


Practice extinction conditioning: if your dog begs, ignore it completely. Don’t look or speak to it at all, and be prepared to continue ignoring even if it barks louder or starts to act up. Eventually it will learn that begging won’t result in a reward.Even offering human food to your dog once will teach it that it can beg for food or try to steal food, so avoid getting soft on your rules. If you’re inconsistent and treat it like a lottery system, your dog will just get more persistent.
Consider giving your dog a toy or treat to keep it busy just before you sit down for dinner. If you get through dinner without your dog begging or trying to steal food, reward him afterwards with a treat and positive reinforcement.
Remember that scavenging is a powerful natural instinct, so don’t get too impatient with your dog if you can’t stop it from stealing food. If the problem persists, avoid having any food out in front of it, and consider restricting its access to the kitchen using baby gates.
 When dogs bark at doorbells, knocks, telephone ringing, or other sounds, they typically think they’re doing you a favor by letting you know what’s happening. If your Boxer barks excessively at the doorbell or phone, try training it to go to a designated area whenever it hears that particular sound.First, use command word training to teach it to go to a mat (or another designated area). Say “Mat!” and physically guide it over to the mat, then offer a treat and positive reinforcement. Repeat this process to teach it what the word means. Gradually set the mat farther away from the dog before giving the command as it begins to understand what the word means.
Once you’ve taught your dog how to go to its mat, add the command word to the sound of the doorbell, knock on the door, or phone ringing. Start with the dog away from the mat, give a quiet knock on the door, and say “Mat!” Give your dog a treat if it goes onto the mat.
Use a command word like “Sit” instead of “Mat” if you find it’s easier.
It’ll take some time, but repeat the process at least twenty times. Practice every day, continuing to say “Mat!” in conjunction with the sounds that typically cause your dog to bark.
Eventually, substitute the command word for the sound entirely, and be sure to offer plenty of positive reinforcement when your dog goes to its mat at the sound of the doorbell or knock.
 If your Boxer’s acting up, it might need more exercise. Decide if the behavior seems more playful than aggressive, and make sure it isn’t accompanied by growling, barking, snarling, or showing teeth.


Increasing and varying its exercise if your Boxer is acting up in a non-aggressive way. Just letting a Boxer outside to use the bathroom is not sufficient exercise. It needs one to two hours a day of brisk exercise that involves both physical and mental exertion.Play frisbee with your dog, play fetch, take it swimming, and incorporate command word training into your play, such as having your dog sit before going to fetch a ball or stick.
If your Boxer starts to act up or act aggressively, such as when passing another dog on a walk, redirect its attention. Say “What’s that?” and point in the opposite direction, then continue on your walk. Give the leash a tug to let your dog know it's time to move on, especially if it didn't respond to your verbal command and pointing.
 Boxers are energetic dogs and love to jump, but you should never let your dog jump on you or other people. When your dog jumps, do you best to completely ignore its behavior. Don’t make eye contact, push it off, or touch it.Try to simply step away without making any other acknowledgment.
Your dog doesn’t know what “No get down!” means, and if you push it off, it’ll probably think you’re playing with it.
Not giving your Boxer any attention at all is more of a punishment than yelling or hitting it, and will teach it that jumping is unacceptable behavior.
Consider the amount of exercise it gets and increase or vary if necessary.
 If your Boxer is starting to develop aggressive habits, don’t encourage it with aggressive play. Don’t play games that are high arousal or teach your dog to be possessive with a toy, such as tug of war.All games involving fetching should end with you getting the toy in the end. If your dog won’t drop the stick or ball when you say “Drop!” then stop playing and ignore it.
Don’t harass your Boxer by staring into its eyes for extended amounts of time, abruptly awakening it, hugging it tightly, or placing your arm over its shoulders, which is a sign of dominance and aggression.
 Find a trainer if your dog engages in aggressive behavior and doesn’t respond to command training, ignoring, or other measures you take on your own. Talk to your vet or local humane society about finding a reputable trainer.Find a licensed behaviorist by searching the Animal Behavior Society: http://www.animalbehaviorsociety.org/web/index.php

Ask friends or family for a referral to trainers they might have hired.
Contact your local pet store and ask if they have dog training classes. Ask if they have classes for dogs and their owners so you can learn more about how to curb aggressive behavior.

