 Before you can start organizing the closet(s), you will need to empty it out so you know how many clothes you have. Remember to keep one child's pile of clothes separate from the other child's clothes. This will reduce the chances of one child accidentally wearing the other child's clothes. If this step seems to long and like too much hard work, turn on some music to keep you motivated.;
, Now that all of the childrens' clothes are out of the closet, you will need to sort them out. Simple put them into piles of what they are. For example, put all of their jeans in one pile. Put all of their jumpers in another pile. This will help you to see exactly how many items you have of what type of clothing like jeans, t-shirts, hoodies etc. This will also make the next few steps funner and quicker.
 Pick up any of the piles that you've created. For example, the t-shirt pile. Now split that pile into three sub-piles. The first pile should be the pile of clothes that you want to keep. The next pile should have all the clothes you want to hand down, give to charity or sell. The last pile should have all the damaged clothes that you want to throw away.


The keep pile should have everything that you still want. Make sure that everything in this pile fits your child properly and don't keep something just because you paid a lot of money for it. If it doesn't fit the child, it doesn't belong in this pile. Also, make sure they like everything in this pile. When the rest of your clothes go, this is what they're going to be left with so consult them first.






The give away pile should have clothes that are too small for them. Since you may be giving these to charity, it's best to keep ripped, torn and stained clothes out of this pile. Even if you're going to hand them down, another one of your children may not appreciate a ripped up strip of denim that was once their big brother's favourite pair of jeans. Clothes that are in good condition but they don't like can also be put in this pile.
The throw away pile should have clothes that are beyond repair. This includes ripped up clothes, stained clothes, torn clothes and "those DIY projects that went a little wrong" clothes. All of these clothes will be thrown away. For this reason, anything that can be given to charity should be removed right away. This pile is strictly for clothes beyond repair. Ask the child to double-check this pile so that you don't throw away something that they like.
 With some wipes and a duster, clean out the interior of the closet. You don't want to put all of your newly organised clothes in a dirty old closet, do you? If there's any dust or spider webs still in there, get rid of them now. It's much easier to dust, clean and polish before the clothes go in for obvious reasons. If you were looking to paint the closet, now's the time to do that. Make sure that the is closet spotless.
 Now that you definitely know what you're keeping and what you're throwing/giving away, you can start re-filling the closet. Put one type of clothing on every shelf. If it's summer, the children won't be needing those jumpers any time soon. Put them on the top shelf. If it's winter, keep their summer clothes on the top shelf. Jeans and t-shirts should stay somewhere near the middle if they're pretty much worn all year round. Socks and underwear can stay somewhere near the bottom of the closet. If your closet has a hanging rail and no shelves, keep all the jeans together, all the t-shirts together, all the jumpers together etc.
 Now that you've done everything you need for one child, you will need to repeat these steps for the second one. If just one child took you a whole day, feel free to repeat the process for the other child tomorrow. If you think you can do it quicker because you know what you're doing now or because the have less clothes, feel free to attempt it today. Asking them to help can also speed up the process. Have fun with this project so you don't get burned out from the stress.

