 While you usually start by finding a shirt to build off, for pop concerts try starting at your shoes and working your way up.


Heels (or wedges) are a great look. Only wear heels that you are comfortable enough in that you can stand for five hours straight without needing to sit down.
Comfortable flats are a better choice. Keep in mind you will be on your feet most of the time and might be dancing. Go for some colorful ballet flats or bright sneakers.
Boots are a more conservative choice but are still very fashionable. These are great because they are comfortable, fashionable, and look fabulous with a pair of jeans.
Avoid open toe flats or sandals. Venues are crowded and full of people moving and dancing. You are likely to get your toes stepped on and closed toed shoes will protect them!;
, For example, you want to build off the look you choose for your shoes.


Start by creating a chic-casual look with a pair of skinny jeans. These are comfortable for wearing to a concert.
If you wear boots try a pair of skinny jeans. This is going to create a fashion forward, sophisticated look. But be careful on this choice because it may be too tight and you will most likely be walking around a whole lot.
For an extra burst of color, try pairing your boots with a pair of bright or pale colored jeans.
You could also choose a pair of leggings in a complementary color and tone to your shoes. If your heels are more strappy or you want to dress up the look even more, try a fitted miniskirt or peplum skirt. Wear this in a color that complements your body and personality., You want to create a look that is feminine and sophisticated.


If you are wearing jeans, adding a white tee is always chic, especially when they are extra loose, have detailing or ruffles, or have an interesting cut.
If you are wearing a colorful fitted mini or a peplum skirt, a tucked in looser tank top is going to create a feminine look.
If you want to stand out, try wearing a sparkly shirt or something in a bright color.
Make sure your top is made of cotton. You will be dancing and moving around in a hot room and you will likely get very sweaty. Cotton is best for absorbing sweat. , Many popular looks encourage short simple dresses that you can accessorize.


If you decided that you want to wear a dress for a fun girls night out, try wearing a fitted dress or a cut-out heavy dress. Wear shorts under a dress because it could be windy,
Throw on a colorful pair of heels, or a pair of sultry boots to add depth to your dress.
Try wearing something a little bit more fitted than a Daytime or maxi dress. However, these kinds of dresses can be worn to a pop concert in the summer if it is going to be hot.
Popular stores for concert dresses and accessories include Top Shop and H&M.
 Wear some jewelry to complement the style of shirt, pants or skirt, and shoes you have chosen.


For earrings, chose a pair of earrings that make a statement. If you have multiple ear piercings, choose one statement earring and wear simple studs in the others.
A couple of leather bracelets are always a good choice. You can usually find leather or plastic bracelets engraved with the pop artists name or logo. Layered necklaces are all great accessories that don't overpower your outfit, but provide a nice fashionable twist.
 These looks should complement your outfit.


Usually a bold lip (red or coral) and/or a thick layer of liquid liner on the top of your eyelash line are enough to make your look fashionable.
Hair should always be done and look polished. That means blown out straight, worn in loose curls or a cut fishtail braid are all viable options.
Paint your nails or have them professionally done to really add sophistication to your look.

