 (Little Black Dress) in your wardrobe. Every girl should have a LBD in their closet in case of an emergency. Try to find something simple yet classy, just above the knee is a good length because then it’s short enough to go clubbing in and long enough to fit a more formal occasion.;
, you can now choose any pair of comfortable heels to wear out, because pretty much anything goes with an L.B.D.
 You don’t have much time, so tonight is not the night to be adventurous with make up.


Rinse your face with water and pat dry. Lightly moisturise but not too much or your foundation will appear shiny.
Cover any red marks with concealer.
Apply foundation as per usual.
Lightly dust the face with bronzer.
Get an eye brush and lightly apply bronzer to your eyelids. This will add a bit more colour but you can’t go wrong because it’s your bronzer and so should adjust to your skin.
Lightly bronze the cheeks.
Apply two thick coats of mascara.
Apply a shiny coat of clear gloss.
 Majority of the time when we go out we freshly wash our hair, blow dry and straighten it. But tonight you don’t have time for all that.


It is always handy to keep a salt spray with your hair items, this can be purchased from Priceline or most hair places. If you don’t have salt spray a light hair spray will do.
Tip your head upside down and vigorously spray the underneath of your hair. Flip your head back up and using your hands scrunch your hair, especially at the roots.
If your hair is looking a little oily, get some talcum powder and lightly dust your hair at the roots and massage in, this will absorb the oil.
If your hair needs some height give it a good tease otherwise use a headband and push back your hair.
If you’ve got long hair pull it up into a messy bun.
 Now as you were un-prepared for this night out your legs might be in a little hairier state than you would like. Do not panic! Stockings were invented with good reason. So make sure you have a pair of neutral hole free stockings ready at all times. If black ones suit go the classic look and pull them on.
 Last but not least the handbag. As you’ve got a L.B.D. on pretty much any bag will match. So just chuck in I.D, key card, tissues, lip-gloss and your mobile phone and you’re set to go!

,