 Nude is a great option, but you should also pay attention to your personal skin tone. Just because the package says "skin tone" or "natural," does not necessarily mean that it will match your skin tone. For example, if you have very pale skin, you don't want something that is tanned or dark; it will look fake against your complexion. Instead, you could try ivory or something labeled "fair.", For example, if you have a black dress, then choose a pair of black tights or stockings. There is an exception to this rule, however; if your outfit is darker than the shoes you are wearing, choose nude-colored tights or stockings instead.The nude color should match the color of your legs, be it fair, neutral, Nubian, etc.
 For example, you are wearing black shoes, then you could wear black tights or stockings.You could also wear tights or stockings that are a little bit lighter than your shoes, but within reason. You don't want to wear white, opaque tights with black shoes.


If your shoes are darker than the skirt or dress you are wearing, then wear stockings that match your skin color instead.
If you are wearing open-toed shoes, go sheer and nude-colored. It would be best to skip tights or stockings altogether, however.
Avoid wearing black tights with brightly-colored shoes. The contrast is stark and often cartoonish.It will also make your legs look shorter and chunkier than they actually are.
 Some of these might be too dark for you, while others might be too light. If you have very fair skin, you might even have to go with "off-white" or "ivory." If you have very dark skin, you might have to stick with "brown," "espresso," or even special order them online; sheer black might be too dark for you.


The material should match your skin tone. If you go too dark, the color will look fake, instead of "sun-kissed" or "tanned."

, White, especially opaque white, is often associated with children and the Victorian and Colonial time eras. Unless this is the look you are going for, you might want to avoid wearing white, opaque tights and black shoes.This look is appropriate for young children.
If you have very fair skin, most "nude" colored tights and stockings might be too dark for you. In this case, sheer ivory or sheer off-white might be light enough for you.

