 Use a tape measure to measure around your child's hip. Next, measure from your child's waist down to his or her ankle. Record these measurements.You may be able to get this method to work for an adult skirt, but you may have to adjust the proportions. An adult's figure will be curvier than a child's.;
, The width of the rectangle needs to be 2 inches (5.08 centimeters) shorter than your waist measurement. The length of the rectangle needs to be 4 inches (10.16 centimeters) shorter than your waist-to-ankle measurement.Make sure that the length of the rectangle goes with the grain of the fabric, or it won't stretch right.
For a more mermaid-like skirt, go for a pretty shade of green. Bonus points if it has a scale print!

, This will be the bottom portion of the skirt. It needs to be 4 inches (10.16 centimeters) tall and twice the width of your skirt body.You can use the same fabric in the same color or a coordinating one.


For something that looks more like a mermaid tail, try a sheer fabric, such as organza or chiffon.
 It needs to be 4 inches (10.6 centimeters) tall and the same width as your skirt body. The length of the skinny rectangle needs to run along the grain of the fabric.You must use the same type of fabric as you did for the body of the skirt. It can be a different color, however.
 Fold the skirt body in half lengthwise with the long ends matching up. Fold the ruffle piece in half widthwise with the narrow ends matching up.
 Place the folded ruffle piece on top of the folded skirt body. Make sure that the bottom corners (opposite the folded corner) match up. Cut the bottom corner off so that it is rounded instead. The curve needs to be 4 inches (10.16 centimeters) tall on both pieces.Try to cut through all four layers of fabric at the same time so that they match up.
If the fabric is too thick, cut one piece first, then use it as a guild to cut the other.
If you are having troubles getting a nice curve, use a plate, bowl, or lid as a guide.
 Unfold the ruffle piece. Sew a straight stitch along the top, straight edge using a ¼-inch (0.64-centimeter) seam allowance. Sew another one just below it using a ½-inch (1.27-centimeter) seam allowance. Use the longest stitch length you can.
 Find both of the bobbin threads on one side of your ruffle piece. Gently pull on it to start gathering your fabric. Keep gathering until it is the same length as the bottom, curved edge of your skirt body.From time to time, you may have to switch over to the other side of the ruffle piece. Remember to pull on the bobbin threads!

, Place the ruffle piece on top of the skirt body, right sides together. Match up the gathered edge of your ruffle with the curved bottom edge of the skirt body. Pin them in place, then sew them together using a ½-inch (1.27-centimeter) seam allowance. Remove the pins as you sew.


If you are using jersey fabric, you don't need to serge it.
If you are using fabric that frays, it might be a good idea to serge it or go over the edges using a zigzag stitch.
 Fold the ruffle down so that the hem is against the skirt body. Fold the skirt in half, with the right sides facing in and the long edges matching up. Sew along the side of the skirt using a 1/2-inch (1.27-centimeter) seam allowance. Stop and backstitch when you reach the ruffle. Don't sew the ruffle edges together., Fold the waistband in half widthwise, with the right sides facing in and the narrow ends matching up. Sew along the narrow edge using a ½-inch (1.27-centimeter) seam allowance. Your waist band should now be 4 inches (10.16 centimeters) tall and the same width as your skirt.For a neater finish, spread apart the seam and press it flat with an iron.
 Working around the circumference of your waistband, start folding the top edge down towards the bottom. When you are done, you should have a 2-inch (5.08-centimeter) tall tube that is the same width as your skirt., Keeping the skirt turned inside-out, tuck the waistband into it. Make sure that the raw edges match up. Pin the waistband in place, then sew it using a ½-inch (1.27-centimeter) seam allowance and a stretch stitch. Remove the pins as you sew.If your sewing machine doesn't have a stretch stitch, use a zigzag stitch instead.
 Pull the waistband upwards and press it flat with an iron. If you want to, you can topstitch the hem down using a stretch stitch. Your little mermaid's skirt is ready to wear!

