 Just keep blowing until the air has inflated the balloon to about three inches from the end, then stop blowing and tie off the balloon.
 Starting at the knotted end of the balloon, make three basic twists to create a total of four balloon segments. The first segment, which includes the balloon's knot, will form the dog's snout. It is slightly longer than the second two segments, which will form the dog's ears. The last segment, which will be twisted into the dog's body, is the longest.









Hold all of the segments in one hand to prevent them from becoming untwisted, since they have not yet been locked.
Experiment with different segment lengths for the snout and ear segments. You can also make an extra-long snout and call your balloon animal an anteater.
 Use your free hand to grasp the second and third segments, the ear segments, and twist them together three times. This lock twist will keep them from coming untwisted. Do you see the dog's head?








, Make the first twist a few inches below the head to form a neck segment. Make two more twists below the neck to create two segments that are equal in length; these will be the front legs. Hold all the new segments in the same hand to prevent them from coming untwisted.









Would you rather have a giraffe than a dog? Make the neck segment extra long; the rest of the body is exactly the same.
You can make the leg segments long or short, but they should be the same length.
 Fold the balloon at the twist between the two leg segments. Grasp the leg segments with your free hand and twist them together three times at the base of the neck. The legs and neck are now locked in place.
 This time divide the remaining length of the balloon into four equal segments. The first segment is the dog's body, the second two segments will become the back legs of the dog, and the final segment is the tail. Hold them all in one hand to prevent them from becoming untwisted.
 Fold the balloon at the twist between the two back leg segments. Grasp the segments and twist them three times at the base of the body segment. Take a look at your finished sculpture: it has a knotted nose, short ears, front legs and back legs and a tail that sticks straight up. Your work is complete.








