 What do you want your cover design to be? Do you want a little note? Or maybe a cute little animal head! You decide. Then, decide on how to draw it. Maybe you would like to see How to Draw a "place thing to draw here." You might need to practice your drawing. See "How to Draw." Now, find out if you rather use a black and white notepad or a colorful pad.;
, Choose white or black if you are making a black and white pad. If you are using a colorful pad, choose between robin red, neon orange, neon yellow, leaf green, ocean blue, or peppy purple.
 This will be your cover. Don't worry if your color is dark, that will be fixed in the next step. You might want to trace a circular object to make the circle.
 This will be the part that you will draw or write on, mentioned in step one. Again, you might need to trace a circular object to make this circle.
 Center the smaller circle over the bigger circle. This step is really important because you will draw on it.
 Only do this part on the computer paper circle. Always leave some space for your name. This part is really hard, so draw lightly with pencil. When you're done, trace the final lines with a pen and erase the extra lines. Color it in unless black and white. Write your name.
 Make sure you use about twenty sheets or less. This paper are for any stray drawings you want to draw, so you can have a drawing pad too.
 This paper is for any notes you might have as you explore the world around you.
 This is where you will tie everything together. Make sure that they are all punched at the same time so that they will be in the same place in all the paper.
 Using yarn, measure the amount you need to cut to tie it through the hole. Next pull it though the hole and loop it around. Tie it into a double knot.
 This will help any people who find it later to give it back. in the last page, write down useful information, such as the multiplication table, or your friend's phone number.
 You have created your own notepad which will help you throughout the day!

