 Change out of any constricting garments, such as skinny jeans, before elevating your knee. Tight clothes can reduce blood flow to the area. Put on comfortable, loose fitting clothes, such as sweatpants, a skirt or athletic shorts., Lie on your back on a wide couch or in bed with plenty of room. You can place a pillow behind your head or shoulders to make yourself more comfortable, if you like. Make sure to have some propping pillows for your knee within arm’s reach.Avoid lying flat on your back if you are more than 3 months pregnant. Lying flat late in pregnancy can cause your uterus to compress a major artery in your body, which can decrease circulation. Place a few pillows behind your back and shoulders so you’re propped up at a 45-degree angle instead., Place a few pillows underneath your heel and calf to raise your knee until it is about 12 inches (30 cm) above your heart. Avoid putting pillows directly underneath the knee, which can apply pressure to any swelling and limit your range of motion. Use as many pillows as necessary to achieve the right elevation.It may be helpful to have a partner or friend place the pillows for you. This way you don’t have to exert yourself if you’re in any pain.
If you don’t feel confident about arranging your own pillows or don’t have enough to achieve the right elevation, many online retailers sell special knee-elevation pillows to hold your leg at just the right angle. Especially if you are injured or having trouble arranging multiple pillows yourself, this might be a good alternative.
 After arranging the pillows, check the angle between your thigh and the surface you are lying on. A 45-degree angle—halfway between lying flat and having your legs vertical—is best for good blood flow., Rest and elevate your knees 3 to 4 times a day for 15 minutes at a time. Use your elevations as a moment to relax, check your email, or watch a show. Elevating your knee for this amount of time will help increase blood flow and reduce any pain. It is not helpful to do elevations for a longer period of time, unless your doctor tells you to do so., Use an ice pack wrapped in a tea towel to ice your elevated knee for up to ten minutes at a time. Don’t ice more frequently than once an hour, though.Icing can reduce puffiness and ease any pain you’re experiencing. To protect yourself, always use a barrier, such as a towel or T-shirt, between the ice and your bare skin.If your pain makes you want to ice the knee more frequently, schedule a check up with your doctor to rule out a more serious knee injury.

