 Let as much fresh air ventilate the room or area as possible.;
, Use plain white wine vinegar on a cleaning cloth. Wipe this over the entire area of the paneling. This will both lift any marks, stains, grease and other residue from the wood paneling, as well as starting the deodorizing effect.


Note that vinegar has an odor of its own, which isn't considered pleasant by everyone. However, this odor will disappear within a day.
 Use warm soapy water; dip a cleaning rag into it and wipe over the paneling again. Be sure to wash really well. Wipe off any overly wet areas.


Either an all-purpose detergent or a dish-washing detergent are fine for this wash. However, always check an inconspicuous area of the wall first, to ensure that the solution won't stain the wood paneling.
Murphy's Oil soap is another possibility., This round will help to increase the deodorizing effect.
 The more days you can do this, the greater the opportunity for the odor to dissipate.
, This product will absorb the smoky odor as you clean with it.


Rub the chemical sponge over the wood paneling, being thorough to reach every spot.
Change positions on the sponge when it gets dirty in one area. If any area gets too dirty, cut that area off, as directed by the packaging instructions.
Continue until the paneling is clean and smells better. As with the method above, ensure that the room or area continues to be well ventilated.
 TSP is a degreaser, and this is essential when you're trying to remove the residues from smoking. Add one tablespoon of TSP to one gallon of warm water. Mix together. Wearing gloves, dip a sponge into the mixture, then wring. Wipe the sponge over the wood paneling, reaching all areas. Immediately follow with a new sponge dipped in clean water only (and wrung out), wiping off the TSP. Allow to dry, in good ventilation.


TSP can discolor wood, so test an inconspicuous area first. Do not let the water pool on the wood anywhere, or it will likely discolor it. Always wring out the application rag or scrubbing item well before applying to the wood.
 This will seal in the odors and improve the look. A sealant or gloss can be added as the final layer, firmly trapping in the odors.


A TSP wash is ideal pre-painting, as it will remove the smoke residue and leave a nice, clean surface for painting on.
If painting isn't an option, use a varnish, clear gloss, wood veneer or wood sealant instead. Shellac can be a good sealant but it has strong odors too, so ensure a lot of ventilation until its odors wear off.
Orange or lemon oil can make a good sealant that covers the odor.
 Look for companies that specialize in removing smoke odors and stains after a fire; they will have the tools and chemicals needed to neutralize the cigarette odors.


Get a quote before using the services. These services can be very expensive, depending on what area needs covering and what needs to be done.
Even with a professional service, it may not be possible to remove all of the odor.

