 The root clause in a sentence is also known as the main clause, as it forms the main section of the sentence. The embedded clause is then insert inside the main clause to expand on it. The root or main clause will contain the embedded clause.Keep in mind embedded clauses are sometimes called subordinate clauses. Most subordinate clauses begin with “because”, “since”, and “although”, which are called subordinators. For example, a subordinate clause would be found in the sentence: “Ashley left the room because she hated dancing.” “Because she hated dancing” is the subordinate clause as it adds more detail to the beginning of the sentence, “Ashley left the room”.;
, An embedded clause is a clause used in the middle of a sentence, or in the root clause. The embedded clause should give the reader more information and enhance the overall meaning of the sentence. Using embedded clauses will help to create more detail to your sentences and raise your writing to a higher level.The clause are usually a group of words that include a subject and a verb. The embedded clause will then be bracketed by commas in the sentence. Most embedded clauses begin with “who”, “which”, “where”, and “that”. Embedded clauses cannot stand separately from the sentence and would make the sentence grammatically incorrect if they were omitted.
 There are two types of embedded clauses: nominal clauses and relative clauses. Nominal clauses use “that” or “for” to create the embedded clause. Relative clauses use “who”, “which”, and “where” to create the embedded clause.You can use either type in sentences when you are trying to use an embedded clause. However, some sentences may work better if you use the nominal clause and some might work better if you use the relative clause.
 You will use “which” in an embedded clause when you are referring to an inanimate object, such as an item you own. You will use “where” when you are referring to a location or place, such as the house where you were born or your current address.For example, you may say, “My phone, which is brand new, is not working.” The embedded clause in this sentence is “which is brand new”, as it adds more information about the subject of the sentence, “my phone”.
You may say, “This house, where I grew up, has changed over the years.” The embedded clause in this sentence is “where I grew up”, as it provides more information about the subject of the sentence, “this house”.
You’ll notice that the embedded clauses “which is brand new” and “where I grew up” are bracketed by commas. They also do not make sense as separate phrases and are only grammatically correct when they are placed in the sentences.
 You will use “who” in an embedded clause when you are discussing a person, such as a friend, partner, or acquaintance.For example, you may say, “The nurse, who was very sweet, gave me a shot.” The embedded clause in this sentence is “who is very sweet” as it provides more information on the subject of the sentence, “the nurse”.
 You can also use “that” to create a relative clause, a type of embedded clause. This will allow you to provide more information in a sentence with the use of “that”.For example, you may say, “I should have noticed that Mark does not like Mindy.” The relative clause in the sentence is “that Mark does not like Mindy”. In this case, you are using the embedded clause to provide more information in the sentence and expand on “I should have noticed”.
 To effectively deploy embedded clauses in your writing, you should try to vary which ones you use and how you use them. Sprinkle them throughout a section of writing to add more detail, but avoid using them in every sentence or in two sentences in a row. Often, embedded clauses are more effective when they appear sporadically.For example, you may start with a sentence that does not have an embedded clause, such as, “I had a difficult day today.” You may then expand on the sentence by using a sentence with an embedded clause, such as, “My computer, which is very expensive, is not working properly.”
When you are using embedded clause in academic papers or essays, you should use them to expand on an idea or thought you have introduced earlier. For example, you may have the sentence, “Social norms and rules are a major theme in 19th century British literature.” You may then expand on the sentence with a sentence with an embedded clause, “Jane Austen, who is one of the more prominent novelist of the time, addresses this theme in many of her works.”

