 For some, it might seem crazy or impossible to 'think' yourself into a mindset for studying. It can be done by taking control of your inner voice. Simply tell yourself you are in the mood for studying. No matter how much you want to go do something else, tell yourself you're in the mood for it. Your motivation won't change instantly, but if you keep telling yourself the right thing, you'll eventually start feeling it a bit.Shifting into the right mindset is an important part of enjoying anything-- not just your homework!;
, Sharing your homework session with someone else helps a lot. If your friend is studying the same materials, you can bounce information off one another. Even if the two of you aren't studying the same material, it's usually inspiring to work with someone else around. You can keep each other accountable, and make sure the other doesn't get lazy.


Make a competition out of the stuff you're working on. Competition with a study buddy is an easy way to add some stakes to the thing you're working on, and the motivation can be a great thing for both of you. Competitions can be a longer-term thing as well. Consider a "days in a row" homework persistence bet with a friend. No one likes to be a loser, and you'll probably end up getting far more done than you first imagined.
Choose your study buddy well. In some cases, your study buddy can be a terrible distraction. If the two of you are known to make trouble together, it's probably not a good idea to ask him to study with you.
 Some teachers will assign you a very specific topic to write a paper about, but others will give you more freedom to craft your own topics.Take advantage of these opportunities to find a way to approach the subject matter that really interests you. Think about what aspects of the material engaged you most, or about which you had the most to say. The more invested you feel in a topic, the easier it will be to write about, and the more you will be able to enjoy the process of writing

, There's good evidence to show that we have an easier time remembering things we once forgot.The questions you get wrong on a test will probably be the things you remember most once you get the answers back. Write up a closed-book test of facts you're not too sure about and take it. When you look up the questions you can't answer, you'll remember them better for the real test.


This tends to work better if you have a study buddy to work with. The two of you can trade tests. That way, you won't know what answers you need to know beforehand.
 It's normal to focus on one subject for homework. However, you can learn more if you change up the subjects. For example, if you're reading up on your history for an hour, try switching to science for a bit. This will give the history information time to settle in.
 It's good to take a break from learning after a while. Information needs some time to settle into your brain. Spacing out your homework sessions will keep you from feeling overloaded.A three-hour session isn't as good as three one-hour sessions, spaced throughout a day. If you give yourself time to decompress, you'll have a far easier time of properly engaging with the material.


This is similar to taking breaks throughout your homework session. In this case however, you'll have enough time to go about the other things in your life.
 There are lots of ways you can turn homework into a bit of a game. If you wanted to, for example, you could make a Bingo sheet with the necessary tasks on it. Once you complete a task, you can blot out that task and give yourself a reward once you complete a row or column. There are also math and science sites online that have games specifically made for learning material.So long as the game you're playing doesn't overwhelm the learning itself, it can be a great way to keep yourself engaged with the stuff you're working on.


Inventing a game of your own based specifically around the work you're doing can be a fun activity of its own, and motivate you even more to finish the tasks at hand.

