 If you're going for extreme body, this is a good first step. Pick a shampoo that is labeled as "volumizing."


Shampoos labeled as "clarifying" are also a good choice when it comes to getting more volume. They'll clean away conditioning agents and oils that might be weighing your hair down.
Don't use shampoos that are made for dry hair if what you want is volume. These contain conditioners that might make your hair flatter.;
, Again, you want to go with a brand that says it will add volume, rather than smooth your hair down. If you want, skip the conditioner; when your hair is on the dryer side, it will have more texture, helping the backcomb style stay in place.
 Start at the roots, and spread it through to the ends. For best results, run a brush through your hair after applying to help distribute the product evenly.
 This helps create volume since the hair can dry virtually weightless.









Use a low temperature setting to add volume but prevent heat damage from occurring.

Using a diffuser is a way to preserve some natural wave and volume.
 Determine what part of your hair needs volume, and grasp a small section of hair in your hand. Hold the hair straight upward, and pull it taut so that none of the strands can escape.


A lot of people like to start with the section of hair on top, right above the forehead. Adding a little lift right there can make a dramatic difference.
 Place your brush or a fine-tooth comb about halfway between your hair's roots and your hand, and apply firm brush strokes downward toward the scalp. Repeat this motion until there is a cushion of hair at the base of the hair section. Use your hair spray to help hold the back combing.









At this point your hair will look wild. That's totally normal! If you backcombed it correctly, your hair should look like you haven't combed it in days. You can smooth out the top layer to hide the tangles later.
 Continue until you have volume in all the areas you desire. Most people use the technique on the top and sides of the head.
 Place your comb at your roots and gently comb out the very top layer of hair so that it hides the backcombed sections. You need enough pressure to blend the hair together to cover or hide the back combed areas but not enough to flatten out the areas where you just added volume. Your hair should appear smooth and full, and the back combing should not be visible.
 Add extra hair spray where necessary to hold the look.


Backcombing can be used to create gorgeous dreads.
Backcombing is the first step to creating the classic French twist.
