 Being alone isn’t cool and neither is chasing the friendship of the people with the most status. Instead of trying to befriend the most attractive people, spend time with friends the same gender as you and don’t abandon them if you do make more friends. Good friendships make you feel more confident now and more healthy long-term.Instead of looking for relationships and trying to impress immature kids who seem cool, stay home with your friends. Find activities you can do together, even if that means watching a movie and eating ice cream.
Social media is good for maintaining friendships, but be sure to spend plenty of time in-person with friends.;
, Social media is a widespread, easy platform to use to connect to friends, but it creates many problems. It’s very easy to get wrapped up in negative activities such as cyberbullying. Stay connected with others, discuss interests, but don’t make a bad name for yourself by being rude.Take as much time off as you can from social media to spend time with friends or do activities.
Don’t try hard to impress others. You don’t need to compete to take wild pictures and post status updates. Instead, having fun and doing what comes naturally will come through in the pictures and on the page and make you seem confident and cool.
It’s easy to respond quickly and angrily online, but this opens you up for retaliation. Instead, turn off computer and calm down first.
 Have you heard that new song yet? Everyone else in school has, and to be cool it’s useful to be able to keep up with what everyone else knows. If you know about that song, for instance, even if you don’t like it you’ll be able to talk about it.


Having common ground with someone helps you begin a conversation and become their friend., If you struggle with being entertaining, you can learn some jokes, for instance, but humor also includes the way you look at your situation. In the seventh grade, any awkward moment or mistake can look like a big deal. If you treat it like one, others see that and may even joke about it. Learning to let life not bother you is part of maintaining your cool.


Remember that the things that look bad now won’t mean anything later on, so you’ll end up laughing about many of these memories anyway.
 It doesn’t matter how trustworthy you think someone is. In the seventh grade, if you do anything, whether that be planning a surprise for a friend or sending a naked picture of yourself, expect that the school will know. The other seventh graders feel the need to know and be first to tell others, and they will distort the message along the way. Don’t tell anything you don’t want to be public knowledge.This also goes for anything anyone else tells you. If someone tells you a secret, the last person you want to be is the one who can’t be trusted. Keep it secret. If it’s important, talk to a trusted adult.
 Athletes are commonly considered cool. Sports are school-wide activities that a limited group of students get to perform. You can however participate in these sports and teams outside of school. If you’re not athletically-inclined, getting active means finding something else you enjoy, like a school club or a youth group.


The important step to being active is finding something you enjoy. Make friends while doing it. You’ll become happier, more confident, and therefore appear cooler.
Give up on worrying a lot about what other people think of your activities.

