 When you’re talking to your crush, use subtle body language to show your interest. Using non-verbal cues is a great way of letting your crush know you’re interested in them, even if everyone around you has no idea!Turn your whole body, in particular your torso, feet and face, toward your crush as you talk. This will show your crush that you are interested in what they have to say and that you have their undivided attention.
Mirror your crush’s body stance and gestures to subconsciously communicate to him or her that the two of you are in sync.
Stand or sit closer to your crush than you would to a friend. Getting in your crush’s personal space shows them that you are comfortable with being close to them.
Look at your crush’s mouth. While your crush is talking, look into their eyes, then flick your eyes downward toward their mouth. This may awaken your crush’s desire to give you a kiss!

, Aim to keep the conversation light and fun. Smile while you are talking to your crush, and if the moment is right, gently joke or tease them about something. Joking with your crush is a great way to take the conversation into flirting territory.For instance, if you run into your crush constantly you could say, “I’ve been seeing you everywhere! I have to ask, are you following me?”
Remember to smile and speak with a playful tone of voice so your crush knows that you are joking.
Don’t make a joke that is overly sexual. This could make the person you are flirting with feel uncomfortable, which is the opposite of what you want!

, Complimenting your crush is an innocent yet effective way of flirting that shows that your interest. A compliment is a great tool to use because on the surface it just seems like a nice thing to say, but in the context of your conversation it’s a subtle way to be flirty.Some compliments you might give include:


“You have the best hair! It always looks amazing!”
“I saw you score at the game the other day. You are so athletic!”
“I love this shirt on you. The color really complements your eyes.”

, Touch is a powerful tool to use during flirting when used correctly. If your crush seems receptive to your flirtations in general, do something like touching your crush’s arm when you are laughing at their jokes. Even a brief, friendly touch can change the dynamic of the conversation and bring it to the next level.Touch your crush on a place like their shoulder or arm, rather than an area that may feel too intimate.
Don’t touch your crush more than once or twice in the course of the conversation. If you’re hanging onto your crush or too insistent on physical contact, it will make your crush uncomfortable and may cause the people around you to talk.
 Try to flirt in a way that is apparent only to your crush. Communicate your interest with your eyes and your tone of voice so that the fact that you’re flirting isn’t immediately obvious to those around you.If you are a very friendly or touchy-feely person, try to tone these aspects down. Even though they are part of your personality, if your crush or the people around you don’t already know you well, your flirting could seem over the top!

, Aim to keep your conversation short and playful so that you leave your crush intrigued. It’s better to have a brief, flirty conversation than a long, lackluster one. If you leave your crush feeling like they want more, they’ll initiate flirtatious conversation in the future and take some of the pressure off you!

