 Before you make the big cut and to really ensure your decision, it's important to scope your head for any particular abnormalities on your skull so you can decide where you want the length to maybe even cover that weird mole.;
, This will help you to really decide if you have the resilience to style it during the process and avoid the "mullet stage."

, Put four notches under your hairline, on both cheeks, and on your chin. You'll need a mirror to assist you with this, of course.
 If it is by a little, look at the shape of your jawline. If it is rounded and you have a wide or narrow hairline, then you have an oval face. If you have a square jaw and a wide hairline, you have a square face, while a narrow hairline is a pear face shape. If you have a pointed jawline with a wide hairline, then you have a heart face shape, while a narrow hairline is a diamond face shape.
If your face is longer than it is wide by a lot, this is your guide on this step. If you have a rounded jawline and a wide or narrow hairline, you have an oblong face shape. If your jaw is square with a wide hairline, your face is rectangular, while a narrow hairline is a pear face shape. If your jawline is pointed with a wide hairline, then your face is triangle shaped while a narrow hairline is a diamond face shape.
If your face is not longer than it is wide, this is your guide on this step. If you have a rounded jawline with a wide or narrow hairline, then you have a round face shape. If your jawline is squared with a wide hairline your face is square while a narrow hairline means a pear shaped face. A pointed jawline and a wide hairline makes for a heart shaped face while a narrow hairline makes for a diamond shaped face.
 Along with Zooey Deschanel, Reese Witherspoon, Carey Mulligan and Kate Middleton, you have what it takes to pull off just about any pixie cut. Buzz it, crop it, sweep it to the side or anything else you prefer.
 Round faces tend to have larger foreheads and good angular and soft bangs really help soften that up and even it out.
 Those with long faces need to be cautious when getting the cut done because the wrong pixie can really exaggerate how long your face really is. Oblong faces should stick to the longer pixies, almost to the point of bobs, but you can balance it out with wavy bangs or pull them and slick them to the side.
 Those fortunate to have strong and angular jawlines can define and soften them up with a shaggy, choppy, and effortless pixie to really corner those angles.
 Diamonds can really add volume to the top to create a fuller head shape and cropping up the sides with choppy sideburns can really give gorgeous angles to your jaw and cheekbones.
 Beware of cowlicks and matted down hair from your pillow in the morning. Pixies get dirtier faster because the hair is short and gets covered with oil quicker. But, it is a cleaner and more hygiene-aware hairstyle, since all of the summertime sweat gets absorbed by long hair.
 Confidence is key with this style and you must recognize the strength it takes to really make the big chop. Anyone who is daring enough to brave the modern and flashy pixie cut deserves respect.

