 Your thumbs tend to cramp and become sore if you play the drums a lot.Try to rest your thumbs between performances and practice. Do not engage in activities, like texting and typing, that require you to use your thumbs. Try gently massaging the skin around your thumbs or soaking them in warm water.
 There's no magic trick to getting better at a musical instrument. You simply need to practice each day. The only way to become proficient in playing the snare drum is to put in the necessary work.


Practice should be part of your daily routine. Just as you brush your teeth and shower in the morning, practicing your snare drum should be a daily priority. Take half an hour to a hour each day to practice.
Schedule practice time into your weekly routine. If you get done with school or work around 3 o'clock each day, see if you can schedule practice time around 4 o'clock. You can adjust this schedule on weekends or if there are extenuating circumstances.
Make sure you're conscientious of others when practicing. Drums can be loud. If you're playing on a second story, make sure you put down carpeting or a rug under your drums to muffle the sound. Try not to practice too late at night or too early in the day.
 Keep a record of yourself practicing. You can listen to yourself playing afterwards and check for your strengths and weaknesses. You do not need extensive equipment to record yourself as your primary goal is to gauge your own proficiency. You can use your laptop or phone to record practice sessions., Lessons can be a great way to increase your proficiency. There are many different techniques and styles involved in playing the snare drum. After learning some basics, consider seeing a professional instructor. He or she will be able to observe you playing and offer specific feedback based on your style.


If money is an issue, consider buying a book on the snare drum. While this is not the same as one-on-one instruction, it could provide some additional insight on technique and style.

