 Choose a spot that you can sit in, without things getting in the way. If your closet has some clothes hanging in it, find a spot under the shorter clothes. They will help keep you hidden, and you will still be able to sit. You should be able to sit cross-legged in your hideout. If you can't, move some stuff around. You may have to move boxes and shoes to another part of the closet. If you don't have a closet at all, try one of these places:


A spot under a desk
A corner in a room—even better if it's behind some furniture
A large cupboard or cabinet
A wardrobe;
, Closets can get dusty and dirty. If the floor is made out of wood, use a broom to sweep it. If the floor is made out of carpet, use a vacuum. Pick up any pieces of trash, and put them into the trashcan.
 You can make a sign out of paper or cardboard, and hang it outside your closet. You can also hang some fabric inside the doorway of your closet. A quick and easy way to do this is to take a bed sheet, and tack both top corners to the top of the doorway.
 If your closet has an outlet nearby, you can plug a small lamp into it. You can also use a nightlight instead. If there are not outlets, here are some other options:


A large flashlight
A battery-operated light
A light-up toy
Glow sticks

, Closets are small and cramped, and not very comfortable. You can make it more comfortable by giving yourself some place soft to sit. Try one of these items:


A pillow or cushion
A folded blanket
A folded sweater or sweatshirt
A beanbag chair

, Hang up some pictures of posters inside your hideout. You can use tape, poster putty, or thumb tacks. You can also hang up things like tinsel, flower garlands, or strings of pretty beads.
 First, ask your parents if you can keep some snacks in your hideout. Pick snacks that come in wrappers, and stay away from anything crumbly. Here are some ideas:


Gummy fruit
Nuts
Candy
Small crackers, like goldfish

, Hideouts are no fun if you have nothing to keep you busy! Think of what you like to do for fun, then put some related items into your hideout. Here are some ideas:


If you like to draw, have a pad of paper, pencils, crayons, and markers.
If you like to write, keep a journal and some pens or pencils.
If you like to play games, keep a board game or a deck of cards near by.
If you like to keep entertained, keep a radio, music player, laptop, or tablet in your closet.
If you like to read, pick out some of your favorite books, and keep them inside your closet. You'll need a flashlight too!

, You can use your closet as a base for your club. If you have supplies for your club, like notes and badges, put everything into a box. Keep the box in the corner of your hideout.


Pick a box that blends in, like a shoe box. No one will suspect anything!
You can still have a hideout even if you don't have a club!

