 One of the best and healthiest ways to avoid a kissing disaster is to brush your teeth. No one wants to kiss someone who still has food particles in between their teeth or has bad breath.


Don’t forget to brush your tongue as well. Bacteria can build up on your tongue if it’s not brushed regularly, which causes bad breath.Get in the habit of bringing a travel size toothbrush and toothpaste with you. You can either keep it in the car or, for girls, in your purse. Having the essentials on hand will help you to be prepared at all times.
There are also disposable products you can purchase, which slip on your finger and serve as a toothbrush. These are a bit more discreet and don’t require you to have toothpaste on hand. You can find them at any major retail store or online at sites such as Amazon.;
, Once you’re done brushing, don’t forget to finish with some mouthwash. It not only helps to fight bacteria, but will freshen your breath and make you even more kissable.Mouthwash shouldn’t be used as a substitute for brushing. However, if you’ve brushed recently and are just in need of a freshening, feel free to swish with some mouthwash.
To use mouthwash properly, swish it around in your mouth for a full 30 seconds. If 30 seconds is too long, try to keep it in your mouth for as long as you can before it begins to burn.Travel size mouthwash is also something you can have on hand for emergencies. This is particularly useful if you think you may be staying overnight but don’t want to be presumptuous.
 In case you’re on the go and haven’t had time to adequately brush your teeth, breath mints and gum are an easy way to mask your bad breath. They also come in handy if your date has bad breath too!


Gum is actually beneficial in more ways than one, as it helps with saliva production. This may not seem like a good thing, but saliva production is actually a defense against bad breath.If you’re wondering what type of gum or mint is best, opt for cinnamon as it helps to reduce bacteria in your mouth.
 Another way to make your mouth more kissable and fresh is to apply chapstick or lip gloss. If you’re nervous, instead of licking your lips, try applying chapstick or gloss so that you don’t dry out your lips.


If you’re applying lip gloss, don’t wear anything that is too sticky. Instead, consider buying a flavored lip gloss that isn’t overly heavy.
Lip balm is another great product, which will make your lips softer and smoother and even more kissable.