 The Windows 10 Anniversary Update (version 1607) introduced the ability to easily turn your Windows 10 computer into a wireless hotspot without any additional software or command prompts.


Click the Start button or press ⊞ Win.
Type winver and press ↵ Enter.
Check the "Version" entry. It should be "1607" or later.;
, This update is free, but may take half an hour to an hour to completely install. Visit the Windows 10 Anniversary Update page and click the "Get the Anniversary Update now" button. Follow the prompts to download and install the update.
 Once the Anniversary Update is installed, you can access the wireless hotspot settings from the Start menu.


If you're not careful, you may accidentally open the Search menu instead, which will lead to the wrong Settings menu. Make sure you're tapping or clicking the Start button in the lower-left corner of the screen.
 This can be found on the left side of the Start menu. The button may be just a a gear icon.
 Your network settings will be displayed.
 You'll find this in the left menu. This is only visible if you have the Anniversary Update installed and you have a wireless internet adapter (all laptops should).
 You can change the default name and password to whatever you'd like. The name will appear on your other devices in the "Available Networks" menu, and the password will be required to connect.


It's important to have a strong password, especially if you are in a public area.
 If your laptop is currently connected to the internet via Wi-Fi, select "Wi-Fi." If it's connected to the network via Ethernet, select "Ethernet" from the menu.
 This will enable the hotspot and allow up to eight other devices connect to your laptop and access the internet. The devices will not have access to the files on your laptop.
 Once the hotspot is active, any device that supports Wi-Fi can connect to it. You'll connect to it just like you would any other wireless network. The name will be the name you entered previously.You can see how many devices are connected to your hotspot from the "Mobile hotspot" menu in the Settings.

