 One of the most important parts of raising funds is to have a clear plan of where you want to go and why. Your first step in organizing your fundraising campaign should be to decide which cause you will work for. Spend some time reflecting on your goals and your priorities.There are several questions you can ask yourself to help figure out where you should volunteer. For example, which cause is most important to you? The environment? Public health? Education?
Think about your skill set. How can you best help? Are you good at teaching people? Or are you comfortable working with animals?
Manage your expectations. Try to be realistic about the amount of change that you will be able to create during your time abroad. Also, remember that some people may not react positively to help from foreigners.;
, After you decide on a cause, it is time to choose the right program for you. You could sign up with an organization that will allow you to choose the type of work you want to do and where you want to go. Or you can look for a program that will send you wherever you are needed and teach you new skills.Consider who else will be going. Do you want to join a program that will have many volunteers your age, for example?
Think about your time commitment. Figure out how long you want to be overseas. Look for a program that can help you work within those parameters.
 When you are looking for a program, make sure to gather a lot of information. For example, keep track of what each program provides. Will you need to find your own housing? Or is that provided? These are the sorts of things to consider.Talk to former volunteers. Many overseas programs have social networking sites where volunteers can interact with one another. Join one of these groups and ask what the experience was like.
Learn about the country you will be working in. Study up on the language and learn about different cultural customs.
Consider your experience. For example, if you have medical training, you can narrow down the list of opportunities based on your level of skill.
 An important step in the planning process is to figure out the financial logistics. Consider the cost of each part of the volunteer experience. Take into account items such as food and housing.You should also include travel expenses in your budget. Look at different airlines to figure out how much your plane ticket will cost.
Do some research about cost of living in the country where you will be working. The cost of food, for instance, will vary differently depending on whether you are in Asia or Africa. The program you choose should be able to offer you good information on this.
Don't forget to include spending money in your budget. You won't be working 24 hours a day. You'll want to explore your area and have some fun, too.
 As you are planning your fundraising campaign, it is important that you remain organized. Keep track of all of your communications with the volunteer organization you choose. You should also keep detailed records of any money that you spend, or plan to spend on this venture.Create a timeline. Figure out when you want to study abroad. Set clear fundraising goals to help you reach that target date.
Keep track of anyone who donates money to your campaign. You will definitely want to thank them.

