 In order to effectively replace your shower head, you’ll need a blanket or tarp, an adjustable wrench, a pair of slip-joint pliers, and a new shower head. It would also be beneficial to have teflon tape.You can purchase these materials at a home improvement supply store.
 Make sure the shower knobs are completely turned off and are secured tightly. This will prevent any water from leaking out as you work to replace the shower head.


Don’t bother shutting off the water supply; this would require unnecessary effort.
 Lay a blanket or tarp down in the tub or on the shower floor to prevent any shower head bits from possibly falling down the shower drain, and to protect the tub or shower floor surface from falling tools or materials.If you’d like to be extra careful, you can put tape over the drain to ensure that anything that falls around the blanket or tarp won’t fall down the drain as well.
 Wrap a cloth around the base of the shower arm.Open up a pair of channel locks and grip them onto the cloth and shower arm to hold the shower arm secure when you screw off the shower head. Then wrap a cloth around the shower head, and use an adjustable wrench to clamp down onto the base of the shower head. Turn the shower head counter clockwise to completely unscrew the shower head from the shower arm.


Some shower heads are screwed on rather loosely, and can be easily removed by turning it counterclockwise with your hands. You can try removing with shower head with your hands initially, but if you can’t loosen it, use the tools and cloths to remove the shower head., Use a clean rag to wipe off the screw threads of the shower arm. You could also use an old toothbrush to get in between the threads, and clean out any built up grime and rust.Remove any old Teflon tape from the shower arm’s threads.
 Apply about 2-3 turns of Teflon tape to the threads of the shower arm, wrapping the tape tightly in a clockwise direction and making sure that it is embedding in the threads properly.Wrap the tape in a clockwise direction so when you screw on the new shower head, the sealing Teflon tape doesn’t come undone.


Be sure to press the taping into the grooves of the threads., Place the new shower head onto the shower arm, and twist it clockwise by hand to secure it into place. Once the shower head is secure, use the cloths, pliers, and adjustable wrench to tighten the shower head. Wrap the base of the shower head with a cloth, and wrap the base of the shower arm with cloth. Use the pliers to grip onto the cloth and hold the shower arm base in place. Use the adjustable wrench to clamp onto the cloth, and turn the shower head clockwise as much as it will go.


This same procedure is used to attach any kind of new shower head, fixed mount shower heads and hand-held shower heads alike.The only difference is that a hand-held shower head will have a diverter attached between the actual shower head and the shower arm.Further instillation directions will likely be included when you purchase the hand-held shower head.
 Turn the water supply back on, turn on the shower, and check for any leaks coming from the shower head. If you find any leaks, turn the water off, reapply the Teflon taping, and try tightening it a little more.When tightening the shower head, be careful not to overtighten it.

