 The most iconic disco decoration is the disco ball. They produce moving white dots of light when a spotlight is projected on their surface. You can easily find a disco ball online, or make one of your own.

Note that disco balls come in all sorts of sizes.
If you’re hoping to fill a living or dining room with moving white dots, get a ball that’s about 12 in (30 cm) diameter. For a larger room, get a roughly 20 in (50 cm) disco ball.;
, The disco lighting effect is amplified if you mount the ball on a motor that rotates the ball and moves the dots of light around the room. You can purchase disco balls that come with a motor, or purchase the motor separately online.Be sure to get a motor that can handle the size and weight of your ball. Some motors are designed for small disco balls, while others can handle larger ones.
 Choose a location near the middle of the room that has a horizontal surface you can attach the motor too, such as the ceiling. If the motor is powered by a plug, plan the route that the cord will take. Most disco ball motors will mount to the ceiling with screws.
Keep in mind that there will also be a light aimed at the disco ball, so there must also be an appropriate space to hang a light that will point at the ball.
 There are specific lights designed for use with a disco ball, but many different spotlights will work. The important factor is that the light is focused, or pointed in a particular direction like a spotlight. The effect will be even better if you are able to point two spotlights at the ball from different directions.You can mount the spot lights in many different ways. If you get a spotlight specifically for this purpose, it may even attach to the disco ball's base. It may also have a base of its own that you attach to the ceiling separately.
The ideal distance between the mirrored ball and the spotlight depends on the size of the ball, as well as the size and strength of the light. Experiment with positioning the spotlight in different locations relative to the ball and mount it where it provides the desired effect.
 Some spotlights have features that supplement the lighting effect that is made by the disco ball. For instance, you can get a spotlight that rotates through different colored filters, so that the dots of light moving around the room change color periodically.