 When you receive an invitation to a party, whether it's a dinner party or an informal get-together, it's simple courtesy to let your host know whether you will be attending. This is particularly important for a dinner party, where they will need to know how many to cook for. A good host will have issued the invitations well in advance and may have given you a date by which to respond. You should always respond before this date, whether you can attend or not. If the invitation doesn't include an RSVP date you should still give a response.;
, Your host will have told you what time to arrive. It is polite to arrive between 10 and 15 minutes before this time. This will allow your host an extra few minutes to make sure they are ready before guests arrive. You should always arrive early, particularly for a dinner party, so you can assist the host/hostess if they need it.
 A party is only as much fun as the people who attend. You should do your best to join in wherever possible. Make conversation, get to know the other guests, and have fun. If the host has planned some games or other events, take part.
 Casual drinking may help the guests relax and become sociable, but keep track of your consumption. DO NOT DRINK AND DRIVE.
 If the invitation stated a time for the party to finish, you should offer to help with cleanup at that time and if the host declines you should thank them and bid them good night. You don't know what else your host has planned - they may have a busy day the next day, or may simply be exhausted from the party and want to sleep. Of course they may be enjoying the party and want it to continue, in which case they should make it clear to you that they want you to stay.
 After your host has gone to all the trouble of putting a party together, the least you can do is express your gratitude. This will let your host know that someone appreciated their efforts. For a drinks party or informal gathering, a simple phone call will do the job perfectly. For a more formal dinner party, it's polite to send a postcard or short letter. If you've stayed for the weekend, you should send a letter.
 Use judgment.

