 Classic French fries are made using white potatoes, such as Russets or other baking potatoes. However, sweet potato fries are tasty alternative if you want a lower carb version.You can also sometimes find non-potato fries. Other vegetables or fruits such as eggplant, yucca, and avocado are sliced into sticks and prepared in a similar fashion to classic French fries. You can also find polenta and chickpea variations.;
, While classic French fries typically feature sliced potatoes, there are several different ways that the fries can be cut. Some fries are sliced extremely thin, while others are thick or have a wedge-like shape. If you’re simply planning to dip your fries in a sauce or condiment, any size or shape will work. For fries that are covered with toppings, a thicker fry typically holds up better.Shoestring French fries are some of the thinnest fries that you can get. They’re best used for dipping in a sauce or tossed with a seasoning.
Regular or traditional French fries feature julienned potatoes so they’re fairly thin. They’re best served with a dipping sauce.
Crinkle cut fries feature a wavy or ruffled edge. They are usually a medium thickness, and work well for dipping or covering with toppings.
Curly fries are cut into a coiled, spring-like shape. They’re fun to dip into a sauce or condiment, but can also work well as a base for heavier toppings.
Steak fries are thick and flat, and work well if you want to add toppings to your fries.
Waffle fries are thick fries that features a crisscross pattern. They also work well if you want to pile toppings on your fries.
Wedges are also extremely thick because the potato is actually cut into wedges rather than slices. They hold up well to heavy toppings.
 As their name implies, traditional French fries are made by deep frying the potatoes in oil. In many cases, they are actually fried twice to make them extra crisp. However, if you prefer a low-fat diet, you can choose baked “fries.” They aren’t as crispy as the fried version, but they don’t have as much fat or as many calories either.