 These plants can be somewhat particular and can die off if planted while the weather is too hot or too cold. As such, you should plan on transplanting established rhododendrons before the temperatures begin to shift.


These plants also need to be chilled for a few weeks in order to grow strong, healthy flowers. As such, planting these shrubs while the weather is a little chilly can actually improve your first season's yield of flowers.;
, Rhododendrons thrive in areas with spotted shade, so you should look for a sunny spot that receives at least a few hours of shade during the day. Do not choose a location that gets full sun or one that gets full shade.


Also keep in mind matters of slope and wind. A location that slopes to the north or east works well because the shrub can be shielded against dry southern and western winds. As a general rule, you should look for an area that protects against the wind. Hiding them behind building walls can help shield the plants, as well.
 The root system of a rhododendron does poorly in heavy, dense soils. If the soil is too heavy, you will need to amend it by mixing in light organic material that can make the overall density much less compact.


Amend the quality of the soil with organic matter. Dig in a mixture containing two parts ground pine bark, one part coarse sand, and one part topsoil if your initial soil is clay-like. For sandy soils, mix in equal parts topsoil with organic material, like compost.
Avoid using peat since it can trap too much moisture.
Rhododendrons need acidic soil with a pH between 5.0 and 5.5. Test the soil using a pH testing kit or by taking it to an agricultural center for testing. If the soil is too much of an alkaline, amend it by mixing in mortar, agricultural sulfur, or ferrous sulfate. If the soil has a pH below 4.5, though, you will need to raise it by mixing in ground agricultural limestone.
 If the drainage is poor, you will need to take measurements to improve it before planting.


Test the drainage of your chosen location by digging a 6-inch (15.24 cm) deep hole and filling it with water. The water should drain within four hours. If it has not, you should consider installing a drainage tile to carry away excess water away from the roots.
Alternatively, if the drainage of a site is not adequate, you could also plant the rhododendrons in raised beds.
 Rhododendron are almost always planted via transplant and not by seed. Choose plants with dark green, healthy leaves for your garden.


The plants should be a deep green with little to no trace of yellow. Avoid plants with wilted leaves.
Check the soil in the containers. It should be somewhat moist. If the soil is completely dry, the plant might be in poor shape, even if the leaves have not yet begun to yellow.
 In general, rhododendron prefer climates in Zones 5 through 8. If your climate is on the cooler side or on the warmer side, you need to keep a few things in mind before you plant these shrubs in your yard.


If you live in hot Zones 7 through 11, make sure that the site receives afternoon shade and opt for larger plants rather than smaller ones.If you live in cold Zones 3 through 6, consider planting the shrubs in full sun. They will need at least 6 hours of sun daily to avoid problems with mildew. You should also be even more prepared against the wind.
Note that if you get killing frosts during winter, you will also need to shield the shrubs against the winter winds. These plants suffer in extreme cold, so if you want them to last until spring, you will need to protect them by wrapping burlap around them in the late fall.
 Rhododendrons do well when planted in groups. Dig out a plant bed roughly 18 inches (45.72 cm) deep by 30 inches (76.2 cm) wide. Keep in mind that each plant in the group should be spaced roughly 3 to 4 feet (91.44 to 121.92 cm) apart from the others and 18 inches (45.72 cm) from the side of the bed.


Planting these shrubs in groups also makes it easier to prepare an adequate batch of soil.
Do not place the bed too close to tree with shallow roots, like a maple, ash, or elm tree. Feeder roots can move into the soil and steal away the water and food from the rhododendron.
 The hole you dig for each rhododendron plant within the plant bed must be slightly larger than the root ball but no deeper. The top roots should be at soil level.


The root ball should be 2 inches (5 cm) higher than the surrounding soil when you place the plant in the hole.
As a general rule, it is better to plant the rhododendron too shallow than it is to plant it too deep.
 Soak the soil thoroughly after you plant the rhododendron. Pack the moist soil around the root ball to keep it secure and steady in place.
 When the temperatures become hot and dry, you need to make sure that your rhododendron plants get 1 inch (2.5 cm) of water on a weekly basis.


Allow the plants to stay fairly dry from September on. Doing so will help the plants survive the winter, but you should also water once after the first major frost.
You only need to water the shrubs during the summer if you receive less than 1 inch (2.5 cm) of rain per week.
 Apply fresh mulch each year during the fall. Mulch can keep the roots moist and protect them against cold winter weather.


The best types of mulch to use include partially decomposed oak leaves or pine needles. Other decent options include oak shavings, hardwood chips, aged sawdust, and peat moss.
Wood mulch should be arranged so that it is 2 inches (5 cm) deep. Leaves, pine needles, and moss should be 4 to 6 inches (10 to 15.24 cm) deep.
The mulch should remain there all year. During the summer and fall, try to keep it off the plant stems. During the winter, pile it higher to protect the stems against the cold.
 Use a light amount of fertilizer during the early spring, once flower buds begin to swell. Resist the temptation to fertilize any more than that since fertilizer has been known to burn rhododendron roots.


Look for a fertilizer labeled for use with plants that require high acidity. Typically, this will be a fertilizer that supplies nitrogen in the form of ammonium.
If you are looking for an organic fertilizer, try cottonseed meal.
When you do fertilizer the plants, do so in May. Do not apply any fertilizer after the end of June.
 Rhododendron shrubs do not need to be pruned for the purpose of encouraging growth. You should, however, deadhead old flowers throughout the growing season and in fall.


If the plants start to get too large, prune them lightly by cutting back one or two branches a year. Wait until after the shrub flowers.
You can technically prune rhododendron plants by cutting them within 12 inches (30.48 cm) of the ground, but doing so will likely delay flowering for a few years afterward since these plants grow so slowly.When removing dead flowers, only clip off the dead growth. The buds for the following year lie just beyond the dead flowers, and if you trim away too much, you could end up cutting these buds off, as well.
Snap off spent flower stalks by hand. Simply bend them over until they break.
 While rhododendrons are not especially prone to pests and diseases, they are not immune to problems, either. Apply pesticide and fungicide only as needed.


Caterpillars and fall webworms can be the biggest problems as far as insects are concerned. While they rarely destroy the plant completely, they can chew holes in the leaves.
Root diseases can strike rhododendrons, as well. If a rhododendron has died from a root disease, move other rhododendron shrubs to a new location.
Other potential pests include vine weevil, white flies, grasshoppers, lace bugs, scale insects, aphids, powdery mildew, bud blast, rust, leafy gall, and petal blight.

