 A patio doesn't have to be flat. You can combine paving slabs with walling, steps, plants and different materials to build your unique space. You can consider a layered patio if this makes it easier to use the space available, with a step or more down to each level.


When working out the design, measure the space first and take into account existing obstacles. How will you use the space available and what will you do about any obstacles?
Turn obstacles into features. For example, is there a small native tree you'd like to incorporate rather than knock down? This could be the start of the entire design, as you work around the tree, making the paving go around it and turning it into a focal point rather than seeing it as a nuisance.
Plants can be a part of the patio or can be added later. If they are to be a part, this means consideration of including soil as part of the patio's design. If added after, use containers to create an additional sense of design.;
,, Actually laying paving slabs and building walls for the garden are not difficult jobs. You do not need to be a professional to do this sort of work.
 Most people have an idea of how they want their garden to look but perhaps find it difficult to actually put their ideas into action. The secret is in planning in advance.


Start with a sheet of graph paper. Using the measurements you've already taken, draw to scale the part of the garden you wish to develop.
Mark in any immovable objects, such as the rear wall of the house, the garage, your boundary line. Include any items such as large trees and any other features you wish to keep.
, Add interest to a layout by mixing slab colours, or you could leave out the odd slab here and there, to allow plants or shrubs to be grown.


Consider laying decorative chippings or gravel in the spaces.
Maybe incorporate a water feature or pond into a patio design. Important: If children are to use the area, make sure any water feature has little or no depth; ensure that water cannot pool but drains away quickly.
 Plan any lighting positions, electrical and drainage services early on (for drainage, see the relevant building regulations or talk to a plumber/architect). All cabling and drain runs will need to be in position, underground and protected before starting.


Note: All electrical work must conform to the relevant standard in your country (such as BS 7671 in the UK, the current IEE Wiring Regulations, and Part P of Building Regulations). You are advised to check with your local authority's Building Control Department, or an Authorised Competent Person before starting. If in any doubt about electrical work, contact a qualified electrician.
 The slabs don't always have to be alongside each other - they can be laid as stepping stones across the lawn or as a path beside a border. All ideas like these should be drawn into your scale plan - on paper - before commencing work.


As well as printing out the ideas, purchase a few test pavers to try out patterns for real. This can sometimes really transform your ideas about the exact layout because you'll also be seeing and feeling the texture, real color and depth.
 Set out using string lines and pegs. This will give you the opportunity to check that everything will be as you want it, and that, for example, not too much space is taken up by over-ambitious planning. Essential information at the planning stage is the size of paving slabs you intend to use, so that these can be incorporated into the design. Wherever possible, plan to use full size slabs to keep cutting to a minimum.


Note that the same applies to perimeter walling. You need to know block lengths and widths to be able to put these on the plans reasonably accurately (remembering the mortar gaps). Given accurate plans, you will be able to work out your material requirements more easily.

The slabs must be laid with a gentle slope away from the wall to ensure that rainwater runs away from the house. A slope of 50mm/1.9 inches over 3 metres/9.8 feet is the minimum acceptable.
 If the cutting of many paving slabs and walling blocks is necessary, you may find it worthwhile to hire a slab and walling block splitter from a local hire shop, or use a 9 inch/23cm angle grinder. If little cutting is needed, you will be able to make do with a club hammer and bolster chisel.


If hardcore needs to be put below paving on soft ground, this must be well compacted. Hire a plate compactor for this.
You will also need a good spirit level, ideally 600mm/23.6 inches long.
 It is always a good idea to know roughly the cost of materials required (in metric measurements, you can change these using Google's Metric Converter). Here is an example shopping list for a 3.6 by 2.7m patio using 450mm square textured paving slabs, plus a 3.6m long by about 760mm high wall, in pitched face walling blocks. Use the list to calculate your own requirements:


As a guide to quantities you require: 5 x 450 x 450mm paving slabs per square metre. 47 x 300 x 100 x 65mm walling blocks per square metre including mortar thickness.
One bag of sand and cement will be sufficient to lay about 30, 300 x 100 x 65mm walling blocks. You will require two bags of cement and 13 bags of sharp sand for every 5 square metres of paving.
Note: Always add 5-10% to quantities to allow for any breakage.
 This will improve adhesion, strength and workability. There are three stages:


Constructing a wall
Preparing the ground for a patio
Laying paving.
 The concrete part of these foundations should be 300mm/11.8 inches wide and 75mm/2.95 inches thick. The blocks will eventually be laid in the centre of the concrete surface.
 At least 100mm/3.93 inches of well firmed hardcore will be needed under the concrete so dig out a trench 180-200mm/7-7.8 inches deep where the wall is to be.


Use pegs and string to mark out the trench. Drive 300mm/11.8 inch long wooden pegs into the centre of the trench at 1200mm/47.2 inch to 1800mm/70.8 inch intervals so that they project from the base up to a point about 25mm/0.9 inches below ground level.
Use a spirit level and straight edge to ensure the tops of the pegs are level. They will serve as a guide when the concrete is laid, indicating the surface level.
Infill the trench with well compacted hardcore then concrete up to peg level. Leave the concrete to set.
Note: Cover with polythene sheeting to keep any rain off, and also to prevent it drying out too quickly in hot weather. Stretch a string line along the set concrete where the front edge of the wall is to finish. This will ensure that the first course is laid straight. The blocks are always laid in the centre of the concrete. Starting at one end of the wall spread mortar to a depth of about 12mm/0.47 inches behind the string line. The mortar should be workable but not sloppy. Lay the first end or corner block in place and tap down gently, compressing the mortar to about 9mm/0.35 inches. Check that it is level.
 Take care not to allow mortar to get on the faces of the blocks where it could cause staining.


Note: On a straight wall with no return corners start the second course with a half block.
 Lay the scored block on a sand bed, place the chisel in the groove then strike firmly with the club hammer to split the block. Alternatively, use a hired splitter or angle grinder (especially if you have many cuts to make)., Continue building course by course constantly checking that the blocks are level and in line both vertically and horizontally keeping the mortar joints to an even 9mm/0.35 inches thickness.


NOTE: Remove excess mortar immediately so that it does not stain the face of the blocks. When the mortar starts to set, either smooth it flush with the blocks using the rounded end of a piece of wood or rake, or back behind the block face to a depth of about 6mm/0.23 inches using a trowel. This is a job that can generally be left for a while, depending on temperature, after the mortar has been laid. Cap the finished wall with coping stones laid on a mortar bed.
The soil under the paving is retained by concrete blocks laid on hardcore and concrete footings. The footings for the two walls are separate to allow drainage through to the ground

,, You only need to dig out enough to ensure that the area is deep enough to cope with 38-50mm/1.4-1.9 inches of sand, plus the slab thickness, leaving the top of the slabs just below turf level. You can then mow over the edge of the slabs.
 In both of these situations the sand should be thoroughly mixed with cement - 1 part cement to 9 parts sand - and dampened with water creating a 'semi-dry' mix. The cement/sand is only laid just prior to the slabs going down.


In the case of thinner slabs, this should always be at least 100mm/3.93 inches of well-compacted hardcore, then lay the slab onto 25mm of mortar.
In reality, few areas are level enough for immediate paving, some areas will need to be excavated, while others built up to create the level.
Never re-use clay or peat soils to make up ground (as they will settle). Always make up with well compacted hardcore.
 Time spent in good preparation is time well spent. If you don't take care to prepare a firm base, you cannot expect your paving slabs to remain level or whole. Poor preparation will lead to slabs sinking and/or breaking, so that they have to be re-laid or replaced after a year or so., This should be 38-50mm/1.4-1.9 inches thick. As with the tiling of walls, always ensure that the first row (of slabs) is laid in a perfectly straight line, which may well be alongside the house wall or a wall, which you have built around the patio perimeter.
, Working away from walls etc. and leaving a gap of between 8-10mm/0.31 - 0.39 inches for mortar joints, carefully lay the slabs.


All thin or fragile slabs must be laid on a full bed of mortar, 25mm/0.98 inches thick.
Remember: If slabs are to be butted up against the house wall, the top surface of the slabs must be at least 150mm/5.9 inches below d.p.c. level and the slabs must slope away from the wall.
 Place the ply on the edge of the slab furthest from the house wall.


Place the spirit level on the ply and on the opposite edge of the slab. When the bubble in the level is central, you have the correct slope.
Leave 9mm/0.35 inch gaps between slabs. It will help if you prepare a good supply of spacers for this purpose, perhaps cutting up pieces of plywood of the correct thickness.
 When necessary add or remove the bedding mix to achieve a firm and stable base. There can be some colour/shade variation between packs of slabs. Intermix slabs from different packs.
 Lay the slab on a bed of sand and chip out a groove along the line, using a club hammer and bolster chisel. Chop out to a depth of about 3mm all round the slab. Tap the waste part of the slab with the club hammer handle. The slab should break apart along the line if the cut groove is deep enough. As mentioned previously, if a lot of cutting has to be done, it is far better to hire a block splitter (if you can't get one, use a 230mm/9" angle grinder).
 After this time you can remove the spacers. Infill the gaps with a mortar mix, taking care to keep the mix off the face of the slabs. This can be a tedious job, but failure to do it will lead to the growth of weeds between the slabs and will allow them to move sideways, out of position.


If time is not on your side, or you are not keen on filling each gap individually, use patio grout to fill paving gaps of over 5mm wide and 25mm deep.
Paving slabs are made from materials that contain natural salts. When wet these salts may appear on the surface of the slabs as discolouration or crystals - known as 'efflorescence'. This is perfectly normal. Never try to clean the surface of the slabs using yet more water. This will simply lead to the appearance of more crystals. Allow the slabs to dry then brush the surface firmly with a completely dry, stiff yard broom. Over a period of time after wetting, drying and brushing, the salts will cease to appear.
 This is a reasonably straightforward task involving little more than setting walling blocks onto concrete footings at the bottom end if at ground level and then putting paving slabs onto the walling following normal paving laying procedures. The paving slabs create the treads, and the walling blocks the risers.
 The slabs therefore must be secure and laid on hardcore topped with a cement/sand mix. In this case, the mix should be about 1 part cement to 6 parts sand and laid only slightly moistened.
 Note that in the UK, from October 2008, the permitted development rights that allow householders to pave over their front garden for hard standing without planning permission have changed. Planning permission is now required to lay traditional impermeable driveways that allow uncontrolled runoff of rainwater from front gardens onto roads. Other jurisdictions will likely have relevant rules in relation to the area you're in; check first.
 The right option for you will depend on local ground conditions and Local Authority guidelines. It is recommended that your contact your Local Authority Planning Department and seek advice before commencing work:


Use a traditional impermeable driveway solution and gain planning permission from your local authority.
Use a traditional impermeable driveway solution, with provision to ensure that surface water is directed to a soak away area within your property boundary.
Use a permeable solution such as for products that do not require planning permission.
 These blocks can be handled and laid more easily than most other driveway surfacing materials and can withstand the pressures exerted by the weight of a car when set on the correct base. They are equally suitable for making paths around the house and garden, and can even be used for a patio.
 Use a herringbone pattern for vehicular access. For pedestrian access or patios, either pattern is suitable. Coverage is about 50 blocks per square metre. Sharp sand is used for the bedding of the blocks and Patio and Block Paving Sand as the material for the infilling between blocks which have in-built spacers. The tools you will require are a shovel and rake, a plate vibrator (hired), a stone splitter (also hired), and a bolster chisel and club hammer.
 This is simply a piece of timber about 100mm/3.9 inches wide, and long enough to span the width of the intended drive or path. With other timber strips added at each end it is used to check the level of any hardcore used and then, with the end strips positioned differently, to level off the bedding sand. The timber strips are intended to rest on the top edges of a retaining edge structure whilst levelling is carried out. Any driveway or path needs to be built within a retaining frame to prevent the bedding sand or the blocks being displaced. Our path edgings set in a concrete bed are ideal for the purpose being set.
 Set the retaining edging stones in concrete so that the tops are at your intended finished drive level.
 Note the position of the timber strips. A plate vibrator may be used to compact the hardcore, but be careful not to disturb the edging stones.



Spread the sand to a thickness of 65mm/2.5 inches without walking on it or otherwise compacting.
Use the striking-off board, with the timbers set to achieve the level. Still without walking on the sand start positioning the blocks in the design of your choice on the sand up against the starting point. The in-built spacers, on the blocks, will keep them the correct distance apart.
If working to a herringbone pattern, don't worry about cutting blocks to fit edges yet. There can be some colour/shade variation between packs of blocks or slabs. Therefore, you should intermix blocks (or slabs) from different packs.
 Two or three passes with the vibrator should bed them to the level of the retaining wall. Do not vibrate within one metre of the end of the sand bed.


Continue spreading sand, laying blocks, and vibrating down in easy stages.
Fit cut edge blocks as necessary. Cut them with a splitter, if you have hired one, or with a bolster chisel and club hammer as for normal paving slabs, as previously described in this leaflet.
Patio/Block Paving Sand must then be spread over the surface and initially brushed backwards and forwards until the spaces between the blocks are completely full.
Leaving some sand on the surface, make a couple of passes with the vibrator to compress more sand into the gaps.
Finally, remove excess sand and the drive is ready for use.
 Pavers that are open and allow grass growth are ideal for occasional extra parking offering a versatile, sustainable alternative to solid paving. This is an open grid pattern allows grass to grow through for a 'lawn look' that can be mowed and maintained to disguise the concrete grid. These pavers should be 150mm MOT Type 1, hardcore, a bedding regulating layer of sharp sand or pea shingle 25mm plus 20% humus to support root development.
 Paving blocks can break or sink. Replacing or raising them can be a problem, as they are usually tightly packed together. Depending how tightly packed they are, one of two methods for their removal can be used (always wear eye protection and gloves):

, Insert a raw plug and screwed eye bolt of a suitable size, thread a piece of strong cord through the eye and carefully pull upward (this method only works if the block is not too tight).


Note: If there are several sunken blocks to be raised or replaced, start at the outer edge of the depression, these will be the least tightly packed and the easiest to remove.
 Using a sharp cold chisel and club hammer, chip out the block by cutting across the drilled holes. Repeat if necessary until the block is removed. Once a block (or piece) is out, the adjacent blocks should be easily removed.

Replacing one block - add a little sharp sand, levelling with the edge of a short piece of wood. Carefully drop the new block into place. Protecting the surface with another piece of wood; tamp down until level with the other blocks.
Replacing several blocks is similar to one, but make sure each one is completely level and firmly butted against its neighbour, making sure there aren't any gaps, or the last one won't fit and you'll have to start again. Fit the last one end up so it can be easily removed (this will stop the space closing up). When all are in place, use a long straight edge across the tops to re-check they are level, tamp down any that are proud. Add sand under any that are low. Fit the last block correctly (if this needs assistance, use a piece of wood over the block and gently tap in) and check for level.
 If this is the case, before attempting a repair, contact your local council/municipality (in the event of very obvious or serious damage, your insurance company), for advice about damage caused by trees. Never remove large roots without professional advice, you could cause all sorts of problems!

, Take care not to damage the edge of the neighbouring slabs. For a broken slab, chisel a hole into the broken part of the slab, then carefully lever out the pieces until all are removed.
 Assuming there is a gap between the slab and the neighbouring slabs, insert a wide chisel, spade or suitable lever.


Place a piece of wood over the adjacent slab and lever onto that.
Have two or three pieces of wood ready, strong and thick enough to support and raise the slab sufficiently for you to get your fingers underneath.
Carefully lift out the slab (if it's heavy, get some help). Place onto more pieces of wood (you'll need to get your fingers underneath to put it back).
 Add sharp sand, tamp down and level. If using mortar, allow about 10mm room on top of the sand for the mortar.
 The difficult bit is getting the slab into the hole without ruining the sand and mortar base.
 If you need to centre the slab, use a wide chisel or a spade and gently lever against (without damaging) the sound neighbouring slabs.


Another method is to lift the slab on two pieces of suitable cord (or flat plastic banding) and gently lower into the hole (if it's heavy use two or more people). Use the handle of a club hammer to tamp the slab into position, making sure it's level by using a long spirit level.
 Add mortar into the joints and smooth level with the other slabs. Quickly remove the excess or it will stain the slab surface and look unsightly.

