


If you are working with a newer version of Adobe Acrobat, you may see a Welcome Window that offers two main choices: opening a recent file or creating a PDF.
If your version doesn't have a Welcome Window, you can get started by choosing the "Create" option under "File" on the toolbar.;
,


A dialogue box opens that allows you to choose the document that you want to convert to a PDF file.
A drop-down window shows the many file formats that can be converted to PDFs.



Select from 5 available layout options or import a custom layout for your portfolio.
Click "Add Files" to begin adding files to the portfolio.
Make modifications to the portfolio as needed.
Save your PDF file.



When a dialogue box opens, choose "Add Files."
After selecting files, click "Combine Files."
The new PDF document opens with bookmarks for each original file.



A dialogue box opens that allows you to choose the source, either an open document, choosing a document or scanning a form.
Make your choice and click "Next."
Adobe Acrobat will convert the form to a PDF and then take you to the form editing page.
Make the form modifications needed before saving your new PDF form.
, For previous versions, choose the "Tools" or "Advanced" option on the main toolbar.



You can also insert pages or alter the page design in page editing.



Content editing options allow you to add a bookmark or attach files, edit objects and text and edit interactive objects in your PDF file.
Highlight text and right click to make formatting changes to text.
 Reviewers can comment on each other's reviews.
Use Acrobat Connect/Collaborate Live (add-on software) to choose the "Start Meeting" button and have a real-time web conference for up to 15 people.
 Sound, movies and multimedia presentations can be embedded or integrated within PDFs.


Choose "Tools" from your toolbar or tools task pane.
Under "Advanced Editing/Add or Edit Interactive Object>Multimedia," you will find options for Sound and Movies.
Draw a rectangle in the PDF to show when you want the specific multimedia tool to operate.
Find the sound or movie file you want to use.
Make certain "Embed Content in Document" is checked.
Click "OK."

