 There are a lot of myths and bad information about HIV and AIDS, so it's important to do your research. The most important thing you should know is that there have been a lot of advancements in the treatment of HIV and AIDS over the past few decades. It is very possible to live a long and fulfilling life even after a positive diagnosis.You can find a lot of helpful information online, but your most valuable source of information will be your doctor, as he or she will know your personal history, what strain of HIV you have, and the severity of your illness.
It's a good idea to write down every question you have as you think of it so you will remember to ask your doctor during your next appointment. Don't be shy about asking a lot of questions.;
, While it's normal for people to have emotional responses when they are diagnosed with HIV or AIDS, it's not healthy to hold in feelings of anger or sadness without talking to anyone about them.Ask your doctor or do an internet search to find out if there are any HIV/AIDS support groups in your area. These are great resources to meet people who know exactly what you are going through and can give you advice on how to cope. If you can't go to in-person meetings, consider online support groups.
Anonymous hotlines are also available to support individuals who have HIV and AIDS. These may be especially helpful to you if you don't have access to group meetings in your local area.You may also want to consider seeing a psychiatrist or psychologist, especially if you are struggling with depression after your diagnosis. Antidepressant medications may help. Talk to your infectious disease doctor and psychiatrist about proper treatment.
 No matter how uncertain your future is, you must fight on and keep living life to the fullest.Try not to withdraw from activities because of your diagnosis. You can't spread HIV through casual contact, like touching or sharing drinks, so there's no reason for you not to participate.Surrounding yourself with the people and things you love is a great way to get your mind off of your worries.
 Many people immediately begin to panic about the future when they are diagnosed with AIDS because they worry what will happen to their loved ones if they can no longer provide support. While this is an understandable concern, it is important not to let it cripple you. Remember that many patients are able to continue working and living normal lives.Instead of worrying about the future, try to focus your energy on staying healthy and caring for your loved ones in the present.
 It's up to you who you tell about your diagnosis and when, so take some time to think about it. Before you tell people, think about why you want to tell them, how supportive they are likely to be, and if there are any potential negative consequences of telling them.Don't feel compelled to tell everyone you know about your diagnosis, especially if you fear they may not react well. However, it is a moral obligation to tell people that you are having sex with that you have HIV, and make sure to use a condom each time you have oral, anal, or vaginal intercourse.
 While you do have the power to determine who you tell about your diagnosis in most cases, there are laws that require you to disclose your condition to certain individuals. You should tell all past, present, and future sexual partners, as well as anyone you have ever shared a needle with. Depending on where you live, you may be legally required to tell others as well.


It is illegal in many states to knowingly transmit HIV, which includes engaging in sexual intercourse without informing your partner that you have HIV or AIDS.You are legally required to tell all of your doctors and dentists about your diagnosis in some states.This is because they may come in contact with your blood or other body fluids, so it's a good idea to tell them even if it's not a law in your area. They are prohibited by law from refusing to treat you or disclosing your diagnosis to other people not involved in your treatment.
 Once you have been diagnosed with HIV or AIDS, it is your responsibility to take reasonable precautions to avoid spreading the virus to others. This means always using latex condoms during sex and never sharing needles or other drug paraphernalia with others.If you have a regular sexual partner, encourage him or her to take pre-exposure prophylaxis medications, which can help reduce the likelihood of contracting HIV.
If you believe you have exposed anyone to HIV recently, talk to them about post-exposure prophylaxis medications, and encourage them to get tested.
Antiretroviral therapy decreases, but does not eliminate, the risk that you will transmit the virus, so it is still important to take extra precautions, even if you are taking your medications as directed.
It is also possible to pass HIV on from mother to child during pregnancy or while breast feeding, so make sure to talk to your doctor about how to reduce these risks if you are pregnant or planning to become pregnant.Also, do not share razor blades or toothbrushes with anyone.
 It is extremely important that you start seeing an HIV/AIDS specialist as soon as possible. The sooner you begin treatment, the better your chances are of avoiding complications and living a long life. You will be seeing this doctor a lot, so make sure you choose someone you trust.If you don't already have a doctor, you can find a list of specialists in the United States at AIDS.gov. These are usually infectious disease doctors, but you can also find internal medicine doctors or family medicine doctors that specialize in HIV/AIDS.
When you first see your specialist, he or she will run a series of specialized tests that will determine what strain of HIV you have been exposed to and how far the virus has progressed. This information will help your doctor decide on the best treatment plan for you., Your doctor will most likely prescribe antiretroviral therapy (ART). While ART cannot cure HIV or AIDS, it is recommended for all patients because it is effective at slowing the progression of the disease and protecting the immune system.ART can have a variety of side effects, many of which may subside after a few weeks. Common side effects include fatigue, nausea, vomiting, headaches, insomnia, weight loss, rashes, dry mouth, decreased bone density, and decreased renal function. Talk to your doctor about all of these side effects, as there may be other medications you can take or lifestyle changes you can make to combat them.It is important to take your medication regularly, Missing even occasional doses can cause the virus to become resistant to the medication., In addition to ART, you may want to try a variety of alternative treatments to help you deal with your symptoms. Make sure to always discuss any new treatment plan with your doctor to ensure that there are no potential negative reactions.Depending on your symptoms, you may benefit from energy therapies like Reiki or qi gong, mind-body therapies like meditation or visualization, physical therapies like massage and acupuncture, or herbal supplements.
 Once you have been diagnosed with HIV or AIDS, you will need to follow up regularly with your doctor to monitor your condition. Your doctor may perform blood tests to keep track of the progression of the disease, as well as your general health.Regular dental cleanings are important to reduce gum bleeding, which can transmit HIV to others., In order to keep your immune system as strong as possible, it's a good idea to embrace a healthy lifestyle. This will help keep you feeling better and decrease your chances of acquiring infections.Eat a healthy diet, including adequate amounts of protein, carbohydrates, fat, vitamins, minerals, and water. HIV and AIDS can affect your metabolism, so be sure to discuss any changes you notice with your doctor.
Try to exercise as well. Your doctor can advise you on how much exercise is advisable for you.
Cigarettes, alcohol, and illicit drugs are all very bad for you, especially when you have HIV or AIDS, so minimize your use of these substances as much as possible.
 Opportunistic infections, or infections that occur more frequently and with more severity in people with HIV and AIDS due to their weakened immune systems, are a major concern. For this reason, it is important to do whatever you can to avoid coming in contact with other infections.Wash your hands often to avoid coming in contact with germs.
Avoid foods that carry a high risk of food borne illnesses, such as raw fish, undercooked meat or eggs, and unpasteurized dairy products. Take extra care to wash produce and any surfaces that come into contact with raw foods.
Only drink water that has been safely treated. Be cautious when traveling abroad.
Get all of the vaccines your doctor recommends, particularly those for the seasonal flu and pneumococcal pneumonia. These infections can be very serious for people with HIV or AIDS.Always practice safe sex. This will prevent you from coming into contact with different strains of HIV and other sexually transmitted infections.

