 A great way to reduce or manage hypertension is through increasing your physical fitness. Begin by assessing your current fitness level. Ask your doctor to measure your cardiorespiratory fitness. This can be calculated using algorithms and does not require your doctor to have any exercise equipment at their office. Individuals can increase their fitness relatively easily by introducing a small amount of activity into their daily routine., You can manage hypertension with regular physical activity. Exercising for a minimum of 30 minutes each day can actually help to reduce your blood pressure. The best type of exercise to reduce blood pressure is some form of cardiovascular activity. For example, take your dog for a 30 minute walk each day.You can also try jogging, cycling, or swimming.
You can track your fitness goals by wearing a step counter, such as a Fitbit.
 The nicotine contained in cigarettes and other tobacco products raises blood pressure. As a result, you should quit or avoid smoking in order to help manage hypertension. It can be very difficult to quit smoking because it is both psychologically and physically addictive. Try to quit smoking by:Avoiding triggers: Many people who smoke have a cigarette while engaging in certain activities. For example, during a coffee break, while consuming alcohol, after breakfast, etc. Learn your triggers and try to avoid or change them.
Changing habits: Instead of smoking during your morning coffee break, try taking a walk. By distracting yourself with a new activity you can help to fight or offset cravings.
Finding support: It is important that you have a strong support network to help you quit smoking. If you know someone else who is interested in quitting, try quitting together. This way you can support each other.
 Being overweight can lead to hypertension and increased blood pressure. If you weigh 10% or more over your ideal body weight, you can actually reduce your blood pressure through weight loss. A loss of just 10 lbs can lower your blood pressure. In order to lose weight you will need to follow a healthy diet and exercise routine.Ask your doctor to help you calculate a suitable weight for your height and body type.

