 The goal or the report is not only to to present your findings, but to give an insight into you you made them.;
, The first page of the lab report should carry the name of the school where he studied, the name of the subject (physics, chemistry or biology), the name of the teacher. in the central part should be the title of the report should reflect the subject studied. At the bottom you should write the name of the student section and the list number.
 In general it is useful to begin with a brief report language clarifying some theoretical question necessary for understanding the practical work that follows. This introduction should also mention if you have already made other experiences that led to the execution thereof.
 This part of your lab report writing is what the researcher wants to verify or supposed to happen, that is, the hypothesis on which you want to work towards some kind of conclusion.
 This section includes materials needed for experimental development. Materials can be classified into two columns: one for glass or other materials, chemicals and other for other equipment.
 This section includes two detailed experiment or activity that you perform in the laboratory. It must specify the amount and concentration of the substances used, like the glass or other material to be used as the work develops, for which you receive guidance from your teacher.
 There are several ways to present the results of the activity.- Description of the data obtained in each activity. Tables or tables with numerical or qualitative data. Figures or graphics you numerical data.
 This section should make a careful study of the data which give reasons why the results obtained. Here you can also include part of the oral discussion of the results achieved in the laboratory.
 This section is written to the most important points to be drawn from the discussion of the results.
 The list of books, magazines and previous works that were consulted in designing the experiment and during the making of the report.

