 While all the above steps can fit into anyone's life, one of the key factors in success with being taken seriously by men, is being intelligent and well spoken. How you speak goes with how you carry yourself (self-respect and confidence).Appropriate grammar and tone, as well as how frequently you speak can make or break success in the workplace, among new acquaintances and in recreational activities. Although all women have different sounding voices (high, low, soft, etc.), it is important to remember that you may be judged by your pitch, how much emphasis you put on words, and your laugh.


Record yourself to alter how you present yourself to other people. For example, if you let your voice trail off at the end of a sentence, this implies that you are not confident and you could be setting yourself back in terms of getting an important message across.Speak in terms of specific outcomes and results.Be assertive.Say what you think and feel in a respectful way. Be firm but polite. Ask for what you want. Say no when you need to. Be warm, welcoming, and friendly to others. Respect the opinions of others and be willing to compromise. Examples of assertive speech include, “That’s a good idea, and how about if we did this too…” or “I can see that, but I’d really like ____.", A woman who is well informed on various topics will have a better chance of being taken seriously by men (and other women).


There are many ways to be "intelligent" but for the most part-pursuing higher education is usually a good place to start.
Watching educational programs, reading books, and keeping up on the latest news are easy and usually low-cost ways to increase your knowledge.
Watching movies, playing video games, and being familiar with sports teams will also make you more diverse in conversations.
 It is important to pay attention to your body language in addition to your speaking. If you walk around with your head hung low, people may expect that you are negative and unmotivated. On the other hand, how you carry yourself can show gravitas and power.Stand up straight and tall. Do not slouch. You can practice correcting your posture by lying flat on the ground or standing with your back against a wall.
Give a firm handshake, a weak or sloppy one can make the other person think you are not confident.
Show power by keeping your limbs open and taking up more space. Avoid fidgeting, which can make you appear nervous or uncomfortable., How you dress shows a lot about your confidence and self-image.Men are constantly inundated with sexual images of women on television and other forms of media. Unfortunately, if you dress in a sexual, provocative, or revealing way, it is possible that you will send the wrong message.If you really want to be heard, make an effort to appear professional and put together.


Dress to match the occasion. If you are at work, you probably should avoid short shirts or tops where your cleavage is visible. Try wearing a knee-length skirt, pants, or a suit jacket.
As a general rule for women in the work place, to check if your clothing is appropriate for the setting or for an interview, do the bend-over check. If you see any bit of cleavage or your skirt comes up way too high in the back when you bend over to touch your toes, chances are it is not work appropriate. If you have any doubts at all, don't risk it. Your reputation is more important than looking cute or stylish during important business transactions.

