 Take a seat at the front of the class. Create a steady stream of notes. Ask questions and participate as often as you can. The information that you will receive in class usually serves as the foundation for your homework, so make an effort to actively listen and learn.Try to find something interesting within the subjects that you might consider ‘boring.’ For example, if you dislike history but enjoy fashion, you might find the history of fashion and dress really exciting. Ask your teacher about it and see if you can use this interest in your homework.
 Write down everything your teacher says if they announce the assignment in class. If they give out a hand-out read over it closely to see if there is anything that you are missing. If you sit down to work on the project and are unsure about something reach out to a classmate for a second opinion., Give every piece of homework your best effort, even if you don’t feel particularly confident in the final product. When in doubt make an educated guess using the information that you do understand. Homework is, in part, about developing a skill set so your instructor will most likely appreciate your attempt.


This is a good practice to follow as it will help you on most tests as well. It is usually better to leaving nothing blank on an exam as your instructor may be able to award you partial credit for the attempt.
 As soon as you finish an assignment set it aside for a few moments. Then, come back to it and look it over for any mistakes. You can also ask your friend, roommate, classmate, or parent to take a quick glance over the assignment as well. This is especially helpful with essays as they may catch an error that you may have overlooked., Repeat aloud or in your head, “I can do this,” if you get frustrated. Take a few deep breaths and then jump back in to the assignment. Remind yourself that homework isn’t intended to be easy, it should challenge you. Think about your long-term goals and remember that all of your hard work will pay off in the end., No matter how stressed out you are it is important that you turn in your own work. Don’t ask your friends to give you the answers or to help you when they are not supposed to. If you do this you may get caught but you will definitely be less prepared for the quiz or test later.
 After a long day and night it is really easy to walk out the door and forget your homework on the table. To prevent this as soon as you finish a piece of homework put it in your backpack or bag. Then, take a quick glance inside your bag before heading out in the morning just to make sure everything is there.Have a designated area where you put projects that are ‘in progress’ so you don’t confuse them with homework that needs to be turned in.

