 This tank will serves the animals home for the rest of it's life so get the right stuff because how would you like to live in a house without a TV, toys, or furniture. The size of the tank depends on the size of your toad(s) and how many toad(s) will be in the tank. For one toad get a 10 gallon (37.9 L) tank, for two toads get a fifteen, three get a twenty gallon tank. You shouldn't really put no more than three in a tank together unless you get a forty gallon breeder tank for four toads. The toads you have should be all around the same size. The tank should be longer than tall.;
, (ground covering) You should have enough for there to be at least three inches cause the toads like to burrow. You shouldn't have any more than five cause sometimes they will get down to low and they can't get back up cause it is too thick or another toad has burrowed on top of the one already burrowed. You can use some unfertilized soil for the substrate or you can go to the pet store and get some eco earth, bed a beast, coconut fiber, coconut husk, or reptile bark. I don't recommend sand cause sometimes they ingest it and it gets in their mouths and it grinds down there inside of the mouth and can get infected. Also,if they swallow it it can become impacted in their digestive system and kill them.
 The reason for putting the background on is because it makes hem feel more secure and they don't feel completely out in the open. Put this in on the outside instead of the inside because if it's in the inside it can get wet and make the tape to not stick and it will fall off. Don't just check one side of the background cause one side may have a different scene.
 The rock shouldn't be big enough to take up both of the corners in that side because you have to put something in the other corner.
 that isn't deep enough for the toad(s) to have its head cause they don't like to swim but they can just not very well. You should carry this down in the substrate so that the edge is lined up with the substrate but make sure a lot of the substrate isn't pouring into it.
 Aquarium dechlorinating drops may be used or water can be left uncovered in a container for 24 hours to allow the chlorine to dissipate.
, Don't use real plants unless you have a bunch of extra time on your hands and you know that plant is not poisonous to the toad.
 You can also get some worms of the right size in to but they might not get eaten till you mist the terrarium cause that's when the worms will come up. Don't put more than two for any number of toads.
,, You don't have to do this but if you want to you can and this makes the toads happier.
,