 Before you set out to create a painted projector screen it can be helpful to have an understanding of the whole project. Knowing what to expect can help you get the right materials and assemble them properly when you move onto those stages. Check out the following overview to get a good grasp on the project:Buy paint for both the wall and the screen.
Paint your wall entirely.
Paint the screen.
Add a frame.;
, Since the main surface of this projector screen will be a painted surface it is critical that you get the right type of paint. Using the wrong type of paint can result in reduced or altered image quality. Make sure your paint will work well for the screen you are building before proceeding.Sherwin-Williams ProClassic Smooth Enamel Satin Extra White, # B20 W 51 is recommended.
 Once you have your paint ready you can begin painting. However, you won't be painting the exact area of the screen just yet. Before you paint the screen it can be a good idea to paint the entire wall. This can help give contrast to the screen, making it stand out and prevent any paint from dripping on the screen itself.Turn on your projector and position it to where you want the image to be on the wall.
Mark off the inside area of where your projected image will be.
Paint the wall around this border, leaving the screen area for later.
Try to use a paint that is non-reflective and darker than your screen paint.
 After your walls have been painted you can begin painting your the screen itself. Take your time and make sure everything is where you want it before you begin creating the screen. Keep some of the following tips in mind as you paint your screen:Move your tape to the outside border of your screen.
Sand the area and make sure the wall surface is flat and free of any holes, cracks, or bumps.
Apply primer and let it dry.
Apply your first coat of paint. Use a small paint roller for the best results.
Once you've got a smooth and dry first coat you can add another to finish.
 To finish your screen you may want to add a simple black frame. The easiest way to add a frame to your painted screen is to use black velvet tape. The frame will help make your screen look completed and can also help improve picture quality as well.Add a strip of black velvet tape to each edge of the screen.
Make sure the tape runs evenly and that your frame is level and straight.
Check that the tape is laying smooth and flat against the wall.

