 When you start a game, you will see the game board in front of you, covered in candies. Notice how the candies sit in specific places and the area behind them is kind of gray? The grey area where the candies sit is the game board. You will only be able to move candies in those areas (which means if there is a hole in the game board, you cannot move candies across it).


You will also see your bonuses at the top (discussed below), and your target score for that particular game.
Below or to the side, you will see Moves with a number. This is the number of actions you are allowed to take before the game ends. The game ends not when you reach a particular score but either when you run out of moves or you accomplish the goal of the individual game.
You will also see a score progress bar. Every time you crush candies (as discussed below), you’ll earn points. These points will help you progress through the levels. If you do not earn enough points over the course of completing a level, you will lose a life. Lose all five lives and you’ll be forced to either wait until your lives refill or edit the Settings. Lives can be viewed on the larger game screen, where your progress through the levels is shown.;
, The game is played by swiping candies, in any direction (so long as it is not blocked), to create sets of 3 or more matching candies. When matched, the candies will crush and shift the candies above them, allowing you to accomplish a series of different goals. If you create sets greater than 3, you will create candy combinations. These are powerful candy crushing machines which work in a variety of ways.


If you match four candies, a special candy will be created which will burst an entire row if matched as part of another set of 3 or more.
If you match 5 or more candies in a T or L shape, you will create a wrapped candy. These explode the square of candies surrounding that tile (when matched) and then explode a subsequent 3x3 block wherever they settle.
If you match 5 candies in a single row, you’ll create color bombs. These look like balls of chocolate covered in sprinkles. These will crush all candies on the board of the same color as the candy you swap them with. They do not need to be merged into a set of three. Choose which color they crush wisely.
You can also match any two special candies with each other. This will produce a variety of effects. Combining striped and wrapped candies and stripes and color bombs are especially productive, as this will clear a large number of candies.
 You can earn a few of the boosters in the beginning of the game. You can also purchase most boosters within the game using actual money. These can help you win a level when you’re too frustrated or unable to continue. Be careful how you use them, however, as you never know when you’ll need one. Be strategic.


There are boosters which add moves, the lollipop hammer (which crushes the desired candy on the board), shuffle candy (which will rearrange the board), among a number of other boosters. They should be explained as you earn them, though almost all you will have to buy.
 Each level will have a set goal. This can be reaching a specific number of points, destroying a specific set of tiles (jelly-covered tiles), or other goals like forcing items to fall to the bottom.
 You will play a series of games, each with a different game board and many with different goals, which will progress you across the levels. The game is split into sections of 15 levels. In order to progress to the next section of level you will have to acquire tickets (3, to be exact). These can be given by your friends who play Candy Crush or you will need to purchase them.

