 If you want to alternate colors, choose two colors of duct tape that match nicely. Beginners may wish to work with just one color to start with, to gain confidence in the process.


One interesting look could be to mix one plain color duct tape with one patterned duct tape, in a matching or complementary color.;
, It's up to you how tightly or loosely you'd like to have the bracelet sit. Record the measurement and use it later to determine the length of the bracelet.


Do not make it so tight that you cannot slip it on and off; equally, not so loose that it slips off of its own accord.
 This part is time-consuming but once you get a "process line" going, it'll speed up as your skill improves.
 Cut the template out.
 For a decent-length bracelet, you'll need about 30 pieces.


If using two colors, make 15 squares in one color and 15 squares in the other color.
Work over a cutting mat, to protect the surface you're working on. A cutting mat is essential if you're using an X-Acto or craft knife to cut the squares with.
 Fold the piece into a "house" shape, turning down the two top corners to meet in the center on the sticky side. This leaves half of the square unfolded and still sticky, and the other half folded into two triangles, non-sticky.
 Align these in neat rows separate from one another, to avoid accidentally sticking them together. Once they're all created, you're ready to form the bracelet.
 This will prevent the tape from sticking on the work surface.


Wax paper will also work if you don't have a silicone sheet.
 Have the sticky side facing down on the silicone sheet.
 Line up the sides of the pieces so that they fit together exactly but leave a 1/4" gap so that the second piece sits lower down than the first piece. This forms a staggered overlap that will open out when the bracelet is worn.


If alternating colors or designs, be sure to keep this pattern in place as you go.
 Once all of the pieces have been added, double check that it's the length you measured originally. If not, adjust as needed (adding or removing pieces).
 This will bring the sticky side to face upward. You will probably need to neaten the chain a little, as some pieces will move during turning over.
 Then fold the other side in to meet it. This will mostly cover the sticky side and holds the bracelet together.
 Cut a narrow strip of colored duct tape, about 1/4" in width, the same length as the finished bracelet, plus a little extra. Remove the backing and carefully stick this down the center join you've just made on the flat side of the bracelet. Leave the additional overlap of this length untouched, sticking out at one end. Smooth down the tape. This will now cover the join area and helps to strengthen the bracelet for wearing.
 Cut it diagonally to be pointed in just the same way as the other pointy end.
 Insert the newly cut pointed end into the opening at the other end of the bracelet. Smooth down the remaining piece of inner duct tape length that covers the join.


If you are concerned that the join for the circle may not be strong enough, reinforce it with a small piece of tape wrapped around it. Use the same color as the chevron piece you're wrapping the duct tape around, and keep the wrap underneath the chevron, making it as neat as possible.
 You should now have a pretty chevron duct tape bracelet that opens out a little like scales when worn.


The bracelet slips on and off.

