 For management studies in USA, a minimum four degree is mandatory to seek admission. Countries like India and Australia which have three year degree are not considered for management program in USA therefore, you must have a professional degree such as Engineering or Medical to become eligible.


You may also do a master degree like MA, M.Com to become eligible for US business school.;
, An important thing to note tuition fees in USA is divided into two categories – Public (state, supported) and private (independent). As an international student, if you seek admission in Public business school then your education expenditure is comparatively lesser than that of private Universities. However, this difference does not affect the quality of the program.
 USA has many business schools where you could go for management studies. Most of these Universities prefer work experience of two to three years before they take you in. Though some Universities may accept students without work experience as well but candidates with work experience are given more preference.
 GMAT is compulsory in American Business universities, it is an important procedure of the Universities to select students for the management program. To get admission in the top most business colleges you must excel in your GMAT score. This is to be noted here for international students the score of GMAT is even more important because it helps them to get student visa. If you do not give this test then getting student visa may become difficult for you even if you have got admission in US business school.
 Another important exam that international students have to go through is TOEFL, this is as important as GMAT. It checks the efficiency of English; if you have fluency in English with strong writing skills then it would not be a problem to pass this test.
, All the top Universities of US have very high fee structure and other charges. In that case you could opt for scholarships, fellowships and loans which can fund your education expense.
 It is tough to obtain but it covers your entire education expenditure except your airfare. Loans can be obtained from the corporate banks of your city.
 Some of the most respected business schools of United States are listed below-


Harvard University
Stanford University
University of Pennsylvania
Columbia University
University of Chicago
Duke University

