 Regular exercise releases a variety of neurotransmitters that improve your mood.Find exercises that work for you and do them regularly. Even brisk walking, if done often enough (and briskly enough), has significant health benefits.The US Department of Health and Human Services recommends that most healthy adults get at least 150 minutes of moderate aerobic activity per week or 75 minutes of vigorous aerobic activity, combined with strength training at least twice per week. Aiming for at least 30 minutes of exercise per day is a good starting goal. Always check with your doctor before beginning any sustained exercise program.;
, Get enough sleep every night, floss regularly, eat healthful foods, and take care of your personal appearance. Doing so will help keep your mood elevated.


If you drink alcohol, avoid heavy drinking. Consuming more than 5 drinks per day or 15 drinks per week (for men) and 4 drinks per day or 8 per week (for women) can interfere with sleep and lead to long-term health problems such as liver and heart disease. Dress in clothes that make you feel good about yourself. Don’t let other people tell you how to dress unless you know them well and trust them to make the right decisions for you.
 A fun hobby can be a great way to take your mind off of whatever is bothering you. And whether it’s yoga, reading literature, or playing the guitar, developing skill at your hobby will increase your confidence. The key is that as with exercising, find something you like to do regularly. And while solo hobbies are great, group hobbies are a good way to meet new people and expand your social circle. There are plenty of websites that can help you find people who share your interests., Writing down your goals can help keep you focused on achieving them. Be sure to include the steps you’re taking to realize your goals. The more detailed the plan, the better.


One of the more well-known ways of setting goals is known as the S.M.A.R.T. system. This stands for Specific, Measurable, Attainable, Realistic, and Timely. Making sure your goals fit all of these criteria will increase the likelihood that you will achieve them.A goal such as “Get in shape,” for instance, does not fit all five of the S.M.A.R.T. criteria. While it sets a goal of getting in shape, it does not establish what success will look like or measurable benchmarks of how this goal will be achieved. Nor does it specify if it can be attained in a realistic timeframe. A better way of framing this goal might be “Lose 20 pounds over the next 6 months by exercising at least 3 times a week for 1 hour at a time while eating at least 5 servings of fruit and vegetables per day.”
Revisit your goals periodically to reassess them. What seems realistic at first might prove unrealistic. Alternatively, a goal might turn out to be easier than you thought it would be. Be proactive about revising your goals and the steps necessary to achieve them while continuing to challenge yourself to be better., Persistent unhappiness may be rooted in serious mental illnesses such as major depressive disorder or social anxiety disorder. A history of abuse can also contribute to unhappiness or depression. There is no shame at all in seeking professional help if you need it.


Don’t wait to seek help. Seeking help as early as possible can prevent a small problem from developing into a bigger one. This is particularly true with mental illness. If people you trust are expressing serious concerns for your physical or mental well-being, listen to them. You don’t need to go it alone.Professional therapy can be beneficial for those struggling with mental illness. There are many different types of therapy available depending on your specific situation.Meditation may also be useful for those going through a tough time. Regular meditation can help relieve pain and stress. It can also help boost your immune system, encourage a healthy lifestyle, and improve your overall physical health.