 If you are in a situation where other people are shooting each other or someone is shooting at people that aren't you, your main goal should be to get as far away as possible. If you see that you can reasonably get away, do that as soon as you hear shots. If you don't know where the shots are coming from but you know there is a secure room very near by, go there., If you do not see a way to leave, then you will want to find cover. Get behind something that can stop bullets, preferably, like a car or other very solid object. Thin walls or a door is not enough, though it can keep a shooter from realizing you're there. Stay behind the cover, and if it is large enough get on the ground. Lying on the ground significantly reduces the likelihood of your getting shot., Do not stop to gather your belongings before fleeing an area. This can significantly impact the amount of time you have to get away and make a big difference in your ability to get away before the shooter realizes you're there. Just go. You're more important than your wallet.
 While taking cover or fleeing, be as quiet as possible. Breathe slowly and avoid crying. Alerting the shooter to your presence can put you in danger. Don't talk with people nearby or make phone calls. If you can, turn a phone on silent. Text if you want to get someone's help or attention.
 Once you are in cover, stay in cover. Do not move from one cover to another unless you absolutely have to. Staying put will also reduce the amount of noise you make and draw less attention to your presence.
 If you can take cover in a single, secure room, be sure to barricade the entrances. Lock doors, move heavy pieces of furniture to block the doors, cover windows if you can, and turn off lights and anything which makes sounds. Stay quiet and move as little as possible.
 Once you are in a relatively safe place, either barricaded or at least under cover, simply wait for help. This is the only thing you can do. Most shootings last less than three minutes, so while it may seem to last forever, you are unlikely to have to wait for help for very long.

