 The teenage brain is very different from a fully developed adult’s brain. The areas of the brain responsible for “mature” behavior -- such as impulse control, long-term thinking, and advance planning -- are among the last areas of the brain to mature, and they also mature slower in boys. This means that your teenage boy may literally not be capable of really considering the consequences of his actions.Because the teenage brain is in a constant state of development, it’s also the perfect time for learning positive behaviors. The new neural networks constantly being established mean that your teenage boy’s brain is inclined to curiosity, development, and experimentation, which can be channeled into useful pursuits such as sports, hobbies, and personal relationships.
 By the time they hit age 10 or 11, boys’ systems are constantly being swamped with hormones like testosterone, which promotes feelings of aggression and impulsivity.The teenage brain also experiences emotional responses at a much higher level of intensity than young children and adults,which can mean that your teen boy is more prone to emotional outbursts.Try to avoid seeming judgmental when you interact with your teen. Teenagers are extremely sensitive to criticism, so there’s a big difference between “You’re going to school in that?” and “I’d prefer that you not wear that to school.”

, Because teenagers experience most emotions more intensely than adults, it’s especially important for you to acknowledge your boy’s feelings as valid, even if they seem blown out of proportion or completely foreign to you. Experts suggest that acknowledging negative emotions allows them to dissipate faster than denying them, so if your teen boy is feeling sad or angry (and these things will happen!), let him know you understand he’s experiencing those emotions. For example, if your teenage boy experiences a disappointment such as not being picked for a sports team, he may feel angry and hurt about not being selected. Rather than deny those feelings by saying something like “It’s not so bad, don’t get torn up about it,” try telling him that you acknowledge his feelings and then offer encouragement: “I understand it was really disappointing for you not to be picked for the team. That really sucks. It’s upsetting right now, but there will be other opportunities in the future.”

, Feelings of rebellion are very common for adolescent boys. While they can cause significant conflict between you and your son, it’s important to understand that these feelings are important for your child to develop his own moral compass.Try to keep defiance in perspective. If your teenage boy is defying rules that are meant to keep him and others safe and healthy, such as not texting while driving or avoiding alcohol at parties, it’s time to have a talk with him. However, if his rebellion is focused on issues of personal expression, such as what music he likes or what clothes he wants to wear, you probably should avoid intervening. It’s important that teenagers have a safe space to figure out how to become adults.
 You can and should put your foot down about some things with your teenage boy: for example, alcohol and drug use, unsafe behavior such as texting while driving, and permanent body modifications. However, it’s natural for teenagers to rebel against their parents, especially in matters of taste, so allowing your teenage boy some room for individual expression will actually benefit you both.If you’re concerned about issues such as your boy being bullied by others for his expressions, have an honest talk with him. Share your concerns, but also respect his need to express himself and support non-damaging behaviors.
 Teenage boys think about sex. A lot. During and after puberty, their bodies and hormones rapidly change. Interest in sex is completely normal at this age, as is the desire to explore sexuality on his own through masturbation and pornography and with others through sexual activities. Educate your teen about responsible sexual attitudes and behaviors, such as safer sex practices, and be honest about your own feelings and rules regarding sex. Emphasize the importance of responsibility and respect for both himself and others.Allow your teenage boy his privacy. It may be uncomfortable knowing that your son masturbates or watches pornography, but as long as these activities are done responsibly and don’t interfere with his healthy daily functioning, mental health experts say they’re totally normal.
While it is often not a problem, just as with other pleasurable activities, pornography can become an addiction. Researchers note that signs of a pornography addiction include compulsive pornography viewing, escalating usage, and interference with daily activities and functioning. If you notice these signs, try talking with your son about healthy, responsible activity. If that fails, you may wish to consider seeking counseling., It’s important to be involved in your teenage boy’s life, even if sometimes it seems like he doesn’t want you to be. Try to maintain open communication with him, meet his friends, and know what he’s up to. Set firm and fair boundaries, and enforce them as calmly and consistently as possible. Yet give him the personal space he needs to be “cool” to his friends and pursue his own interests.Pay attention to his interests. While many teenage boys aren’t interested in chatting with their parents about most things, they may have areas of interest that they love to talk about. Try to engage with him when he expresses interest in something., Studies have shown that adolescents who don’t get the sleep they need don’t do as well in school and are at a higher risk for automobile accidents. Whenever possible, give your boy the opportunity to sleep between 8.5-10 hours a night.Encourage your teenage boy to stick to a schedule. It can be very tempting to stay up all night playing video games, especially on weekends, but maintaining a regular sleep cycle is key to staying in good mental and physical shape.
Maintaining an electronics curfew can also help your teen get the sleep he needs. Studies have shown that the blue light emitted by things like TVs, tablets, and cell-phones can mess with sleep cycles, so enforcing a “no screens after 10 PM” rule may help your teenage boy fall asleep and stay asleep.Excessive sleepiness, especially when your boy is getting a healthy amount of sleep, may be a sign of other health disorders or depression. If your teen’s sleep problems persist despite good habits, see a doctor.
 One of the hardest things about dealing with teenage boys is their seeming ability to inhale vast quantities of food. The teenage male body may grow between 3-4 inches in a single year, and this requires a lot of calories: roughly 3,500 calories a day during growth periods. To ensure he gets the nutrients he needs, provide your boy with plenty of high-protein, lower-carbohydrate foods and lots of fruits and vegetables.