 Feed your Egyptian Mau a good quality, protein rich food. This means that meat is listed first and second on the pet food label.Avoid foods that are heavy on carbohydrates and have grains or cereals listed as a main ingredient.
 It is important your Egyptian Mau doesn't become overweight. This will predispose her to health problems such as diabetes or arthritis.Monitor your cat's weight and be alert for weight gain, reducing her portion size accordingly.


Each cat has a different frame size, so it's not helpful to give a suggested weight. Instead, make sure you can feel your Egyptian Mau's ribs easily, but they aren't staring out through the coat. A good guide is to think how it feels when you run your fingertips over the back of your closed fingers. That kind of gentle bump is how your cat's ribs should feel.
 The Egyptian Mau’s coat is easy to care for, but it does benefit from daily to weekly brushing.This helps to remove shed hair, which reduces the risk of the cat ingesting that hair and having furballs. Regular brushing also helps spread the natural oils over the hair, which adds to the satin-gleam that is associated with the breed.
 Trim your cat’s nails once every two weeks. This helps keep them from being too sharp and catching on your carpet or furniture.If you aren't confident how much to clip away then it's a good idea to have a groomer or vet tech show you how to this.
 Get into the habit of brushing your Egyptian Mau's teeth. This is best done by introducing the toothbrush to the cat as a toy, so she gets used to it. Teach her each step of the brushing process, and allow her to become comfortable with each step before progressing onto the next.Start by lifting her lip, then touching the brush to her teeth, then wetting the brush with water and wiping it up and down, then adding a blob of cat-toothpaste onto the brush.
Never use human toothpaste as the high fluoride content is toxic to cats if swallowed.
 Egyptian Mau’s like to be warm, so they do better in warmer climates. Their fur insulates them, but they prefer a warm cosy house. This means they need to be inside cats. If you live in a cold climate, make sure you keep your cat warm.