 Unless you are in a class where a topic is specifically provided to you, you will need to select the topic for your research. This should be based not only on your own interests and expertise, but also on an academic need to answer some particular question. Think about the following questions in selecting your topic:What topics interest you enough to research and write about?
Is the topic important enough, and why?
What problems or open academic questions will your research answer?
How does your proposal build on research that has already been done?
Can you accomplish the research in the time allotted?

, Before you even begin writing, you need to have a plan for your project and the written proposal. By setting out an outline, you will give your research a direction and purpose. In general, most academic proposals should include the following sections:Introduction
Background and significance
Literature review
Research design and methods.
Conclusion
Citations

, This will be the section that provides the basic proposal and explains the topic that you seek to research. You will introduce the topic and the research methods that you plan to use. You should also explain briefly why this topic is important enough to consider.In the introduction, consider the following questions:


What is the main field of your research?
What is the specific topic of study related to that problem?
What methods will you be using to analyze the research problem?
Why is this research worthwhile? What is its significance?
Why would someone reviewing your proposal be interested in the results of your research?

, This is the section of your proposal that will address the reason for your project. Explain the academic context for your proposed research. Provide some basis of work that has already occurred on your particular topic, and where it has left off. Discuss how you will progress from there, and why your proposed topic is worth the work that you will put into it.In this section, you will address:


The primary research problem. Explain the purpose of your study beyond the brief introduction you started with.
The rationale of your proposed study. Explain why this project is worth doing. Anticipate and explain why anyone would care about the outcome of your research.
The major issues or problems to be addressed by your research. Address the ways in which your proposal expands on previous assumptions and beliefs about the topic.
Explain how you plan to conduct your research. Define the primary sources you will use and their contribution to your analysis.
Focus your research. Provide the boundaries for your particular project. If there are related issues that you are specifically not addressing, explain what those are.
 Whether your proposal consists of scientific research in a laboratory, psychological research consisting of observing human subjects, or analysis of particular literature or history, you will be relying on some academic literature as a basis. This section of your proposal is to explain that academic literature and its effect on your project. You need to put your research in a greater context and show how you advance or contradict earlier work., In this section, you need to explain very thoroughly what you intend to do, and why your proposal is worth doing. This is the primary section that will convince your reader that your proposal is not only beneficial but also well-planned and worth pursuing. You need to show that you know what you are doing and that your proposal is the best way to answer the questions you have raised in prior sections. Include the following details:The specific tasks and steps you will undertake. With each step, include a description of the reason for it, and how that step will add to the research project as a whole.
Comparisons to other prior research. If your academic review has found other, similar projects or research, you should discuss how your methods will differ. Explain why the difference is important, and what you intend to show by using your method.
 Part of the responsibility of making a formal proposal includes recognizing limitations or problems you could face. Certainly, you want your proposal to be accepted. However, you do not want to get accepted and then have problems arise that could surprise your supervisors or supporters. In this section, you should mention the following:Materials and budget. If you need financial support for your research, this is the section to include a budget. Provide a list of the materials that you will be using, and explain why they are critical to your work. If other, cheaper supplies are available, explain why you propose to use what you do. Be aware of any limitations that have been placed on any proposals.
Acknowledge potential problems you anticipate. At the outset, you should consider difficulties that may arise. Address them here, and how you believe you will address them.
Provide a timeline.
 Repeat the need, as you see it, for conducting this research. Summarize the key points of your purpose and your project design. Impress upon the reader that your proposal will advance some important academic question, and explain why. You want the reader to come away with the same understand, belief, and passion for the topic that you have., Follow whatever format you have been assigned or that is customary at your institution. You may include a list of references or a complete bibliography of sources. In either case, the purpose is to justify your proposal and allow the reader to review and even check parts of your proposal as necessary.