 If you suspect that you have sleep apnea, you will want to monitor your sleep for symptoms. A professional sleep study is the main method of determining if your have sleep apnea, but telling your doctor about the symptoms you have will also help your doctor make a diagnosis.


Ask your sleeping partner to provide feedback on your sleeping patterns, especially if your behavior is interrupting your partner's sleep.
If you sleep alone, record yourself sleeping with a video or audio recorder or keep a sleep diary so you can record the hours you spend in bed, any awakenings during the night, and how you feel in the morning.;
, Loud snoring is one of the main symptoms of sleep apnea, especially the obstructive kind (which occurs when the muscles in your throat relax too much). You have loud snoring if it disturbs the sleep of those who share a room or a home with you. Loud snoring will cause you to suffer from extreme fatigue and sleepiness during the day, whereas normal snoring won't affect your daytime health., People with sleep apnea often wake up suddenly due to shortness of breath. Upon waking, they may also choke, snort, or gasp. You may not even be aware of some of these symptoms while you sleep, but waking up feeling out of breath is a strong indicator that you have sleep apnea. , People with sleep apnea suffer from extreme lack of energy, drowsiness, or sleepiness during the day regardless of the time spent in bed. Sufferers of sleep apnea may even fall asleep while performing important tasks such as working or driving., It is common for sufferers of sleep apnea to wake up with a sore throat or dry mouth as a result of their snoring. If you frequently wake up with a dry mouth and/or sore throat, then that might be a sign of sleep apnea., Morning headaches are common in people who suffer from sleep apnea. If you notice that you often wake up with a headache, you might have sleep apnea., People who suffer from sleep apnea often have trouble staying asleep or sleeping at all. If you have a hard time getting to sleep or staying asleep, then this might be a sign of sleep apnea., It is common for sufferers of sleep apnea to experience forgetfulness, concentration problems, and moodiness. If you frequently experience one or more of these issues, then this might also be a symptom of sleep apnea., Sleep apnea can cause serious health problems, so it is important to get a diagnosis and begin treatment as soon as possible. If your doctor suspects that you have sleep apnea, she will order a sleep study or polysomnogram to make a final diagnosis.The sleep study may be done in a sleep lab for complicated cases or at home for simpler cases.
During a sleep study, you will be connected to monitoring devices that will record the activity of your muscles, brain, lungs, and heart while you sleep.