 In a frontal lisp, the speaker puts his tongue forward against his teeth when he says the "S" or "Z" sound, causing a "TH" sound instead.If he has a gap between his front teeth, he may push his tongue through this gap. If you're not sure whether this describes you, look at yourself in a mirror while you make the "S" or "Z" sound.


With a frontal lisp, "S" ends up sounding like the "TH" in "math" and "Z" ends up sounding like the "TH" in "father.";
, Find a mirror in a well-lit area, so you can easily see your mouth while you speak. Smile into the mirror to display your teeth. Smiling will both make it easier to watch yourself, and help pull the tongue back slightly, where it needs to be for an "s" sound., Keep your teeth together, but remain smiling with your lips apart. You do not need to clench your teeth together hard.
 Move your tongue so the tip is just behind the teeth, high up against the roof of the mouth. Don't press your tongue against your teeth, and keep your tongue fairly relaxed, not pressing hard.
 If you don't hear a hissing "S" sound, your tongue may be too far forward still. Try pulling your tongue back and smiling forward. If you can't get it, don't get frustrated. Try the next exercise below, and keep practicing often.
 If saying "s" is still difficult in the above exercise, try this exercise as well. Separate your teeth slightly, and press the sides of your tongue against your upper back molars (the teeth in the back top of your mouth). Smile, and try to say "EET" and keep the back of your tongue in this shape while the tip of your tongue rises to make the final "T" sound. If the back of your tongue falls when this happens, keep practicing until you can say "EET" with your tongue in this position.


This is the sound "EET" as in "sleet" or "meet."
If you are having difficulty keeping the back of your tongue raised, use a tongue depressor or popsicle stick to hold your tongue up while you say "EET."

, Once you can say "EET" with your tongue in the right position, say it again while holding the "T" sound. Leave the tip of your tongue up there while you say "T-T-T-T-T-T." The flow of air past your tongue tip can turn this sound into an "S." Keep practicing this exercise until you can get an "EEETS" sound, then an "EES" sound, although you don't have to get this right on your day one.


You might end up spraying some spit on this exercise!

, Try these exercises at least once a day, and preferably several times a day. Once you can repeat the "s" sound many times in a row, try to use it in words and sentences. It might be easier for you to say nonsense words first, such as "beejseet" or "ah sah asah," then move on to reading aloud.
 If you are still having trouble with your lisp after a few weeks, try finding a speech therapist in your area. She should be able to give you exercises that are individualized for your speech patterns, specifically designed to help you say the sounds you're trying to say.

