 You can also get a short-term loan from a payday lender. These loans are often due in two weeks or on your next pay period and come with high interest rates. For this reason, taking out a payday loan is not advised.However, if you no other options, then you might want to find a payday lender. Lenders are located in most parts of the country and you don’t need a credit card to get a loan. Look in your phone book or check online. Some lenders allow you apply over the Internet, but this is not recommended because there is a higher risk of being scammed online.As of 2014, Payday lending is legal in about 27 states in the U.S. About nine other states allow some form of store front lending, but 14 states prohibit payday lending altogether, as does the District of Columbia.States that prohibit payday loans include Arizona, Arkansas, Connecticut, Georgia, Maryland, Massachusetts, Montana, New Hampshire, New Jersey, New York, North Carolina, Pennsylvania, Vermont, and West Virginia.
 Unfortunately, there are many scam payday lenders in operation, and you should be aware of the red flags. Refuse to do business with any lender who does any of the following:Approaches you and offers you a loan. You should never borrow money from someone who initiates contact.
Threatens that you can be put in jail if you don’t pay back the loan. In fact, it is illegal to jail someone for a debt. It’s even illegal to threaten you with jail.
Offers you a loan regardless of your income or credit history.If you hear the words “No credit, no problem!” then you should probably run.
Has enormously high interest rates. Payday loans have high rates in any event, but you should compare interest rates and avoid those with the highest. Also many states cap the amount a payday lender may charge.Look this amount up online and avoid any lender in your state that charges more.
Doesn’t tell you how you can stop the lender from taking electronic withdrawals from your account.
 Even if you don’t see any red flags, you should still ask the payday lender if they are licensed. Also ask to see their license or get their license number. You should then check with your state’s regulatory agency to confirm the payday lender is licensed.The regulatory agency will have different names, depending on your state. For example, it may be the Department of Financial Services or Department of Insurance and Financial Services.
 You will have to pay back more than the amount you borrow. The payday lender will also charge a fee. This amount could be $10 to $30 for every $100 that you borrow.A $15 charge on a $100 loan is equal to an APR of 400%. By contrast, the APR for a cash advance on a credit card might be 20 to 25%. Be aware that payday loans can legally charge higher interest rates and fees than credit cards in states where such loans are available.
The payday lender should give you the finance charge and the APR in writing before asking you to sign for the loan.You also will need to sign an authorization to permit the lender to electronically withdraw money from your account.
 Some lenders might want to see proof of your financial situation. You should call ahead and ask. You can take them with you or fax them to the lender. For example, you may have to submit the following:A recent paystub.
Recent bank statements.
Proof of government benefits.
Schedule C from your tax return if you are self-employed.
Copies of business contracts if you are self-employed.
Proof of annual pension or annuity.
Written agreement or court degree that shows your income.
 Each payday lender will have certain requirements you must meet to qualify for a payday loan. These requirements might be posted online, or the payday lender will ask you questions when you stop in to apply. Some of the more common requirements include:You must be 18 or older.
You must live in the state where you choose to get your loan.
You are employed or have a steady stream of income.
You can’t intend to file for bankruptcy or already have filed.
You can’t be a regular or reserve member of the Armed Forces.
 The payday lender will want to see a form of valid personal identification, so take one with you. If you apply online, you may also have to supply your Social Security Number, a phone number, and proof of a bank account that has been open for at least one month.Ask the lender how you will receive the money. Some lenders will give you cash, load money onto a prepaid debit card, or deposit funds electronically into a checking account.You may also have to write a check before you get the loan. The check will be in the amount of the loan (plus finance charge), and the payday lender will cash it when your loan is due.
 Payday loans are usually paid back in a lump sum. However, payday lenders have begun to offer more repayment options. For example, you might be able to get interest-only payments or you could pay back the loan in installments.Be careful about alternative payment arrangements. For example, interest-only payments stretch out the length of the loan. You’ll only end up paying more over the long term.
You should have asked about repayment options when you applied.
 Report any lenders you think are running a scam or are operating in a state where payday lending is illegal. You should contact the following government agencies:Your state’s Department of Financial Services or an equivalent agency.
The Federal Trade Commission. You can call them toll-free at 1-877-382-4357 or contact them online at http://www.ftc.gov.
The federal Consumer Financial Protection Bureau. Visit their website at http://www.consumerfinance.gov or call 855-411-2372.

