 A beef and almond zucchini boat is basically a zucchini sliced lengthwise with its innards scooped out and filled with beef, almonds, and a spicy seasoning. Kids and adults will love your almond zucchini boat.To begin, preheat your oven to 375° F (190° C). Toast 1/3 of a cup of slivered almonds for about three minutes, stirring occasionally.
Cook one small onion in 1 tablespoon of olive oil for about three minutes. Then add two large, minced garlic cloves and stir for another minute.
Finally, add ½ a pound of lean ground beef and stir in 1.5 teaspoons of coriander, ½ teaspoon of cinnamon, ¼ teaspoon of red pepper flakes, and 1 teaspoon of salt. Cook for one more minute.
Add 2/3 cup of cooked bulgur wheat, 3 tablespoons of raisins, and 1 can (14.5 ounces) of drained, diced tomatoes. Cook for two more minutes, then add the toasted almonds.
Slice two or three zucchinis lengthwise and scoop out the zucchini flesh with a melon baller or small spoon. Discard or consume the removed material. Fill the zucchini with the almond-beef mixture you just cooked.
Place the zucchini boats on an oven tray and cover with foil. Bake for 30 minutes. Remove foil and bake for 10 more minutes. Remove and allow to cool. Consume the tasty zucchini boats with your friends.
 Almond flour is perfect for deserts and baked goods. You could also incorporate it into pancakes or any other dish you want to lend a mild, nutty flavor.For instance, you could try an almond flour blueberry muffin. Pre-heat your oven to 350° F (176° C). Place 2 cups of almond flour, 1.5 teaspoons baking soda, ¼ cup applesauce, ¼ cup maple syrup, 1 tablespoon of apple cider vinegar, a dash of salt, 2 tablespoons of coconut oil, and 1 teaspoon of vanilla extract into your food processor and blend until smooth.Pour the mixture out into a large mixing bowl and mix in the blueberries.
Spray a muffin tin with a non-stick cooking spray. Scoop the batter into the recesses of the tin to a level that does not exceed the edge of each recess.
Bake the muffins for 25 minutes. Remove and allow the muffins to cool before consuming.
To make two cups of almond flour, soak two cups of almonds briefly, then remove and let them dry. Once dry, place one cup of almonds in your food processor and blend on high using the pulse feature. Remove the first batch, then add the second cup of almonds. Store your almond flour in a resealable container if you don’t want to use it right away., Almond butter is great on toast, waffles, or pancakes. The best almond butter will have a hint of sweetness in addition to the savory nut flavor.To make 1.75 cups of almond butter, preheat your oven to 325° F (162° C), then toast 2.25 cups of almonds for 12 to 15 minutes in the oven. Let the almonds cool slightly, then dump them in your food processor and process them for about two minutes. The almonds should look dry, like almond flour.
Add ¾ teaspoon of salt and 1 tablespoon of safflower oil. Turn the processor back on for another minute. If you want a sweeter almond butter, you could also add 2 tablespoons of honey or maple syrup at this point. If you like cinnamon, you could also add ½ a teaspoon of cinnamon.You can refrigerate your nut butter for up to four weeks in an airtight container.
 If you’re lactose-intolerant or trying to cut down on your cholesterol, drinking almond milk instead of cow milk is a great way to go. You can easily make almond milk at home.To make about 3.5 cups of almond milk, soak one cup of almonds in a large bowl and fill the bowl with water to a level that covers the nuts by two inches. Leave the nuts in the bowl overnight, or for at least 12 hours.
Drain the water from the bowl, then put your nuts, 1/8 teaspoon of salt, 4 teaspoons agave syrup, and 4 cups hot water (but not boiling water) into your blender. Blend on high for about two minutes.
Strain the nut pulp from the liquid using a fine-mesh strainer. Simply place the strainer over a large bowl, then pour the blended mixture slowly into the bowl. Discard the nut pulp that accumulates on the strainer surface.
If you don’t want to make your own, almond milk is available at most grocery stores.

