 If possible, take some time to check out the company beforehand. See what other women are wearing at the company to get a sense of what you should wear.For instance, see if most women are wearing skirts or pants. Check out how casual they are on a day to day basis. Try not to go on a Friday, as some places dress casually on Friday.
Also check to see if women are wearing hose and see what their jewelry and accessories are like.;
, You may also be able to find out what employees wear by looking at social media. If the company posts pictures, you can get an idea of what everyone is wearing in the office.
 It doesn't hurt to just ask what type of clothing is appropriate for that company. When you get an email about coming in for an interview, add a line in your reply.You can say something along the lines of "Would you please give me advice on what one typically wears for an interview at your company?", The company is part of a certain industry, and that industry will have certain standards of dress. For instance, librarians are going to dress differently than a financial corporation. Nonetheless, even within the industry, you'll see some variation by region.Really think about the job you're going to be doing. As a nurse, for instance, you may not want to go into an interview in high heels, as that may show you're not ready for a job where you're on your feet a good deal.
Showing your piercings or tattoos may be appropriate if you're going up for a job in the world of alternative art or one at a tattoo or piercing parlor, but you may want to hide both if you're applying as a teacher.
 Once you've observed what women at the company are wearing, it's your job to dress a level up or so from what they're wearing. For instance, if they're wearing nice pants or skirts and blouses with hose, you should definitely opt for a suit and hose., When you're unsure, a suit is always a good bet. Whether the suit has a skirt or pants is up to you.However, more conservative companies may prefer a skirt.Pick a suit that fits you well and isn't too flashy. Stick to darker colors.High-end brands will get you noticed, but they aren't strictly necessary. Buy the best quality you can afford, and try supplementing with a name-brand briefcase, handbag, or scarf if you can.For skirt length, knee-length is usually the most appropriate. If you wear something longer, it shouldn't puff or flow.
 Stick to neutral colors, such as white, beige, gray, or black. A button-down shirt or blouse is generally best.However, you can also wear a shell or a knit top underneath a suit, as long as it is well-made and professional-looking.
 If the place you're applying to is more casual, you may get away without wearing a suit. However, you should still wear something classy and sophisticated. For instance, a dark sweater and tailored pants is a good pairing.Nonetheless, if you wear a shirt, make sure it is button-down with a collar.You should still stick with dark colors and high quality materials. You don't have to purchase a high-end brand, but you should try to purchase material of quality that will last. Shy away from anything too flashy, including loud patterns.
Also, pay attention to details. Make sure you don't have any loose threads hanging down. Check for stains and holes while putting your outfit together, and don't forget to use a lint roller, especially if you live with pets.
 Some places will expect you to wear hose no matter what the weather. Other places won't care as much. If you're not sure about your company, it's best to err on the side of caution and wear the hose., Even if the company is casual, you shouldn't wear jeans to an interview. Dressing up shows you are serious about the job, and you want to show you are a professional, even if you dress more casually in your day-to-day job.
 Before you go in, you need to make sure your outfit is clean and free of wrinkles. Check on it a week before the interview to see if you need to take it to the cleaners.
 A mid-heel pump is a classic choice. Don't pick something you can't walk in. If you don't like heels, stick to something low and basic.Also, don't forget to take your industry in consideration when picking the shoe. In the fashion industry, you may want to choose a glamorous high heel, while as a teacher, a basic flat is probably fine.
 Keep it simple. For instance, a small necklace and a pair of smallish earrings. In addition, don't wear too many rings.You also want to skip other piercings besides a regular pair of earrings. Most companies frown upon other types of piercings.
 Like your jewelry, you want to keep your makeup simple. Go for a more natural look, and don't go overboard on designs or colors.Pick a natural, neutral concealer to hide flaws, followed by a neutral powder to help take care of shininess. Use blush that goes with your complexion; usually warm pink or peach is a good choice.For your eyes, a light brown or one slightly darker than your skin tone can add dimension without looking like you're wearing eye shadow. You can use eye liner, but try light gray and just lightly dot it on your upper eyelid.Finally, choose a lipstick or lip tint that is basically the same color as your lips.Keep all of it light. Basically, you want to look like you're not actually wearing makeup, but you want to even out your skin tone and add a bit of color., If you have important papers to carry, don't forget to add a professional-looking briefcase. Use a dark color, and try to pick one that's more modern. Leather is always a nice choice.

