 You can use pure acetone or nail polish remover. For light residue, soak a cotton ball with acetone, and wipe the surface of the quarter until the stickiness is gone. For more stubborn residue, pour some acetone into a glass cup and leave the quarter in there for up to 24 hours. Remove the quarter, then dry it off with a tissue.Acetone works on tape residue as well as gunked up ink, tar, and glue.
You must use a glass container. Do not use metal or plastic. Metal which can react with the quarter and ruin it. Plastic can be corroded or melted by the acetone.
 If you are collecting quarters that you plan on having as part of a set, such as the State quarters, consider lightening them with ammonia. This was, they will all match. To do this, soak a cotton ball with some ammonia, and wipe the surface of each quarter.


This works only on quarters that are mostly clean. If your quarter is very dirty, consider cleaning it with some soap and water.Ammonia can also remove green tarnish.
Get plain ammonia from the grocery story. Avoid using ammonia-based household cleaning products. They tend to be too harsh for quarters.
 Pour some baking soda into the palm of your hand. Dip the quarter you want to clean in water, then place it into the baking soda. Roll it around and flip it over. Use your fingers to rub the baking soda across the surface of the quarter. Rinse the baking soda off with distilled water. Repeat this step, if necessary.Baking soda is effective, but it is also very harsh. It can create tiny scratches that collectors and dealers will notice upon inspection. Do not use this on valuable, collectible quarters.
 Place the quarter you want to clean into a small plastic bowl. Fill the bowl with enough lemon juice to cover the quarter. Wait a few minutes, then check on the quarter. If the quarter is clean, rinse it off with distilled water. If the quarter is still dirty, let it soak for a few more minutes. Once you have the quarter rinsed off, pat it dry with a tissue., Place the quarter you want to clean in a small plastic bowl. Fill the bowl with just enough olive oil to cover it. Olive oil is very gentle, but it takes a long time for it to work. Check on the quarter after several hours. If you want, you can gently rub the surface with your fingers to dislodge any surface dirt. Rinse the quarter off with dish soap and warm water, then give it a final rinse with distilled water. Pat it dry with a tissue., Place the quarters you want to clean into a small plastic bowl. Fill the bowl with just enough rubbing alcohol to cover the quarters. Wait a few hours, then check on the quarters. If they are still dirty, let them soak for a few more hours. If they are clean, take them out of the rubbing alcohol bath and pat them dry with a tissue., Dip a Q-tip into some Vaseline. Apply the Vaseline to the face of the quarter, then wipe it off with a clean Q-tip. Keep doing this until the quarter is clean, then repeat for the other side. Once the quarter is clean, wipe it off with lint-free fabric, such as microfiber., Fill a small, glass bowl with 1 cup (240 milliliters) of white vinegar and 2 tablespoons of salt. Stir the solution to mix, then add the quarters. Leave the quarters there for several hours to overnight. When they are clean, take them out and rinse them off using distilled water. Gently pat them dry with a tissue., There are some cleaning agents that should be avoided, mostly because they can permanently mar the surface of the quarter. Listed below are several cleaning agents that you should avoid when cleaning quarters, and why:


Chlorine, bleach, porcelain cleaners, and other cleaning acids can corrode and darken the surface.Do not use silver dip or silver polish.They tend to be too abrasive and can scratch up the coin's surface.This is especially important for quarters minted in 1964 and earlier. These are made from almost pure silver.

