 Before the onset of psychosis, many people experience significant changes in their behavior or attitude.Educating yourself about these changes and acting on them could give you the opportunity to delay or avoid psychosis. Signs of impending psychosis include:


Feeling on edge
Being suspicious of others
Not enjoying the things you usually enjoy
Skipping work or school
Feeling depressed
Feeling anxious
Not showering or maintaining proper hygiene

, Anxiety and stress can bog you down and make you feel like life is unbearable. If you feel this way, you must reduce the amount of stress in your life to prevent developing psychosis.To keep stress from affecting your mental capabilities, manage the things that are stressing you out. Avoid, take control of, or adapt to whatever is causing you undue stress.Keep a stress journal and write down all the things that are causing you stress.When possible, avoid people that make you feel anxious.
Drop responsibilities that aren’t necessary. Make a list of the tasks you have to do and separate them into things you absolutely have to do, and things that you can get away with not doing, or do at a later date.
Do things that make you happy. This includes being with people that make you laugh.
Get plenty of exercise. Exercising releases endorphins in your body that act as a natural stress reducer.
Talk to a therapist about your anxieties. Sometimes talking to someone about what is stressing you out can lead you to a solution.
 Psychosis can be the result of bottling up your emotions. Keeping your feelings to yourself or agreeing to do things you don’t want to can trigger psychosis. The best way to deal with your emotions is to express yourself to someone you trust.


Seek the advice of a trusted friend or family member, and listen to other perspectives on your situation.
Learn to say no. You are not obligated to do all that others ask of you. Helping others is important, but be sure that you’re taking care of yourself first.
Talk to a therapist about your thoughts and feelings. Sometimes opening up to someone who is not close to you can be hard, but therapists are specially trained to address mental health issues, and can offer a more objective point of view than a friend or family member.
Try writing, playing music, or painting. Creative acts can reduce stress and serve as outlets for emotional energy., This is especially important in cases of bipolar or depressive psychosis.When you focus on negative, self-defeating thoughts, you create an unhealthy mentality. Instead, think only about the good aspects of your life and personality. While it is important to remember that no one is perfect, it helps to focus on your accomplishments, rather than aspects of yourself which are less than ideal.


Thoughts like “There is nothing I can do” or “I am weak” may pop up. Respond to them by saying: “I can overcome this” and “I am strong enough to deal with this situation, and ask for help if I need it.”
Focus on your strengths and achievements. You can also come up with a game plan to strengthen the aspects of yourself that you think could be improved.
Thinking positively involves acknowledging that even though you are at risk for psychosis, it’s not the end of the world.Understand that you’re not crazy, and you’re not a bad person; you’re just having a rough experience and you can get through it.
 The body and mind sometimes seem separate, but are best thought of as a holistic (joined) unit. Maintaining a healthy diet and engaging in physical activity can prevent psychosis.Incorporate omega-3 fatty acids into your diet.Omega-3 fatty acids can be found in foods like fish, eggs, flax, and hemp, or in supplement form.
Exercise daily. When you exercise, your body releases endorphins. Endorphins are responsible for making you feel happy and less stressed. When you are happier and less stressed, you are less likely to get bogged down by negative thinking that can lead to psychosis. If you are worried you might develop psychosis, exercise as often as you can.Try to get at least 30 minutes of exercise five times a week. Pick activities that you enjoy, like running, swimming, biking, hiking, or rock climbing., A combination of a lack of sleep and high stress levels is a common gateway into psychosis.Do your best to allow both your mind and body to rest when it needs to. Allowing your brain the opportunity to rest will make you feel much more relaxed and happy in general and will therefore serve as a prevention technique for psychosis. Get around eight hours of sleep each night and practice relaxation techniques like yoga or meditation.Keep a sleep diary to figure out what helps you to get the rest that you need. Write down you ate before bed, what activities you performed, what you were thinking about, etc. You’ll then be able to establish what relaxes you and helps you get a fulfilling night’s rest, as well as what makes you anxious and prevents sound sleep.
 It is important to remember that you cannot do everything alone all the time. Pushing yourself beyond your limits can take a toll on your overall happiness, healthiness, and ability to cope with stress — all of which can lead to psychosis. If you are starting to feel stressed, figure out what you don’t absolutely need to do, or what you can get assistance with. Write down all of the tasks that you need to accomplish. Writing everything down will serve as a visual aid, and is more useful than just thinking about the tasks you feel you need to do. With a list in hand, you can begin to decide which tasks are not that important and can be removed from your daily routine. Having less to do will make you feel less stressed and more in control of your life.

