 Find a time when you can speak to your boyfriend privately. Do this face to face, not over the phone or text.Make it clear that you want to work on your grades. This does not mean that you are avoiding him. Rather, it shows that you consider your schoolwork to be important too. Be gentle as you tell him this. Do not blame him, but do let him know where your priorities stand.


You can say, “I really want to hang out with you, but I have to make sure that my grades stay up. I won’t be able to hang out every night of the week, but we can still have fun together.”
It might help to be specific with your boyfriend upfront. For example, at the beginning of the week, say something like, “I have a biology test on Thursday and an English paper due on Friday. I’m going to have to work all week on this.”;
, Your boyfriend may be just as concerned about his schoolwork as you are about yours. Each week, plan ahead of time when you will hang out. Look over each other’s schedules, and see what works for you. If you plan ahead, your boyfriend will know that you are not ignoring him and that you still want to spend time together.
 Sometimes, people may get jealous or frustrated when their partners succeed or perform better than they do.Your boyfriend may be struggling at school himself, and it may make him feel bad to see you so dedicated. The solution to this is to support your boyfriend and to encourage him in his own studies.


When he is stressed, let him know that you are there for him. Instead of trying to solve his problems, gently comfort him instead.You can suggest, “Hey, maybe once you take your test, we can go see a football game together.” This will give him something to look forward to so that he does not burn out on studying.
If he struggling with his own grades, offer to help him study. Do not do his homework for him, and don’t give him the answers. You can, however, quiz him or proofread his essays.
 If your boyfriend pushes back, do not give in. He might try to guilt you or plead with you. Be firm but nice. Let him know that you understand how difficult the situation is but that you have to focus on your schoolwork. Do not let him make you feel bad, insecure, or guilty.


You can say, “If I want to get into college, I have to make good grades” or “If my grades start to slip, my parents won’t let me date.”
If he tries to tell you something like “If you loved me, you’d hang out with me more,” turn it around on him. Say, “If you loved me, you’d want me to do well in school.” If a boy starts using guilt tactics like this, he is trying to manipulate you. This is usually a red flag.
 If you know that you will have to cancel a date, tell your boyfriend as early as possible, and always try to reschedule it. You should try to avoid canceling plans at the last minute. Do not stand him up without telling him.


You can say, “I have a history test on Monday. I think I need to study over the weekend. Can we move our movie night to next weekend?”

