 Emotional stress is akin to the feeling of being on your “last straw” or “last nerve” for an extended period of time.This feeling can present in the varieties of different ways discussed elsewhere in this article. The first step to coping with emotional stress is identifying the source of the stress.


Our work and/or school responsibilities and interpersonal relationships are some of the most common sources of taxing emotional states.
Try writing down things that you feel stressed about. Rank them from 0 (no stress) to 3 (serious stress).
If you have a lot of sources of stress but they’re ranked fairly low, or only one or two areas of highly ranked stress, your stress may feel more manageable on your own. If you have many sources of stress that are ranked highly, you should consider seeking professional help, as coping with extreme levels of stress can very challenging on your own.
 It can be very challenging to accept that bad things are happening. However, this simple shift relieves you of the pressure of feeling as if things should be different when they are not.This can apply to anything from the weather to someone’s behavior. Obviously, some things are easier to accept than others, but for whatever you cannot control, try to adopt an attitude of acceptance.
 Mindfulness has been shown to help lower stress and anxiety levels. Mindfulness can expand the hippocampus, the same area shrunk by stress and depression. It can also help rewire your brain’s fear responses, resulting in less stress.Mindfulness has even been shown to help battle the effects of depression.Here are two mindfulness exercises to help you get started.The “finding silver linings” exercise. This exercise has been shown to reduce depressive symptoms and can help you build resilience to stress.Begin by listing 5 things that make you happy or that you value.

Focus on a source of stress for you right now. Write down a few sentences about the situation and how it made you feel. Try to show yourself compassion as you write, not judging yourself for your feelings. For example: “I’m feeling stressed because my partner doesn’t talk to me as much anymore.”
Now try to find three little “silver linings” to the situation. This step takes a lot of practice and a willingness to be open, but it can help you. For example, “This situation is an opportunity for me to practice acceptance for my partner” or “This situation reminds me how much I value communication.” It can be hard to see the bright side, especially of an upsetting situation, but give it a go. Try this for 10 minutes a day for 3 weeks.


The “self-compassion break.” We are sometimes a source of our own stress, particularly if we’re judging ourselves for perceived mistakes or failings. Learning to take a quick 5-minute self-compassion break every day can help you break this habit of judging yourself harshly, which can help reduce your stress levels.Begin by selecting a situation that is causing you stress, such as “I’m afraid that I’m not a good mother to my son because I have to work so much.”Notice how the stress feels in your body when you think about this situation. What sensations do you experience? You might experience a rapid heartbeat, a fluttery stomach, nausea, etc.
Say gently to yourself, “This is a moment of stress.” It’s important to acknowledge when we’re in pain, rather than try to ignore or repress it.
Remind yourself, “Stress is something everyone struggles with.” It can help to remind yourself of your common humanity: you aren’t alone, and it is natural to experience stress in our lives.
Place your hands over your heart, or wrap your arms around your body to give yourself a hug. Gently say, “May I show myself kindness” or “May I accept myself.” You can say any phrase that seems meaningful to you, as long as it is compassionate and positive.
Repeat this at least once a day, but you can do it whenever you’re having a moment of stress.
 The trusted ear of a family member, friend, or even a mental health professional can help you feel better when you express your emotions about stress.Sometimes these individuals can offer potentially valuable feedback. Even a sympathetic and caring presence will ensure that you do not feel alone with your stress.


A study with cancer patients found that the greater amount of social support a patient reported, the less they reported mood disturbance.It is important that your support system be comprised of people who will truly support you. Find those who will listen to your concerns and fears without being judgmental, angry, or trying to “fix” something that cannot be changed., Emotional stress often feels like a lack of control over your life, and maintaining an exercise routine is a great way to take back some of that control. Exercising also provides an outlet for some of the stressful energy, and it helps the body produce pleasurable endorphins when you feel accomplished after a good workout. Though fatigue may be one of your stress symptoms, you should still try your hardest to exercise regularly.A heightened amount of physical activity may also help with stress-related sleep disturbances if you’re experiencing them as part of your symptoms.
 Another great way to help yourself feel like you’re regaining control is to focus on a number of smaller problems you’re confronting.This allows you to shift your focus from larger issues while also finding resolutions to smaller ones. You may even begin feeling like the larger problems are more manageable with some smaller ones behind you.


This also means setting realistic goals at work, school, and home.You can’t mitigate stress while still overloading yourself with it.
Setting smaller, realistic goals can mean tackling a specific homework assignment at school as opposed to worrying about your grade for the entire semester.
At work, you might set a daily to-do list for certain parts of a project rather allowing the entire project to daunt you.
 Though you may find it difficult if a lack of appetite is one of your symptoms, a well-balanced diet is always a crucial part of feeling physically and mentally healthy.If fatigue and lethargy are some of your stress symptoms, then eating better will help provide you with daily energy as well.
 Even while emotionally stressed, we all still take joy in hobbies, crafts, or other personal activities. Try to make more time for the things that make you happy.This can be anything from sports with friends to spending time with a great book.


If you can’t think of a single activity to fit this step, then your stressful situation may have developed into an actual depression. In this case, your physician or a mental health professional may be able to help., Many of the things leading to your emotional distress may stem from the things you encounter on a daily basis. If the daily news stresses you out or the same commute to work every day, then try changing those things in your daily environment.Isolate and avoid as many of these daily stressors as you can and try your hardest to accept that you cannot change the others.
 Emotional stress doesn’t always occur when your support network is available to listen. A stress journal gives you a chance to write down the source of your stress and exactly how it made you feel, which is a great alternative to venting those feelings to a friend or family member.This approach even allows you to write down how you feel you handled the stress, which can help you discover your own best practices for coping.For instance, you may realize once you go to write it down that a discussion with a significant other turned into an argument around a certain topic. You can use that information to think closely about the topic and a better way to handle the discussion next time it arises.
 Ongoing conflicts with those close to you are some of the prime sources of emotional stress. Working to resolve these conflicts wherever possible is a huge step toward mitigating emotional distress.When dealing with potentially tense interactions during these conflicts, express your feelings assertively without letting the person take advantage of you, but always do so respectfully as well.Remember that negotiation and compromise is the best way to defuse interpersonal conflict in a productive way., Meditation is a form of guided thought wherein you focus typically on one specific action, such as breathing (or stretching in the case of yoga).If you are spiritual or religious, you may find a similar form of calm and peace in prayer.


Deep, relaxed breathing by itself is a great way to combat stress.Relaxation training is another form of meditation. Find a quiet, comfortable position and flex each muscle in your body one muscle group at a time. Start with your toes and work your way up.