 If one of you disagrees with the other’s parenting decisions, be sure to discuss the matter in the appropriate way. Always hash out disagreements away from the children. When they overhear, you risk your kids using conflicts against you. Children can also potentially develop beliefs that one parent is better or more normal than the other.


For instance, if Mom tells the kids to go wash up for bedtime and Dad sighs and says, “Fun-time is over kids,” this sends the message that Dad doesn’t approve of bedtime. The children can start to view Mom as mean because of her disciplinary choices.
To prevent dysfunctional parenting patterns from emerging, pause before reacting or cutting into the other parent’s parenting. Wait until you’re alone and then bring up the issue with your spouse or partner., Rather than standing on either side of an issue, stand together in the face of parenting woes. You shouldn’t view your co-parent as bad or wrong because their ideas about parenting are different. Instead, try to work together to establish feasible guidelines that suit you both.


Brainstorm solutions as partners. For instance, if one parent says, “I think you went a little overboard with disciplining Callie earlier,” the other parent should try to consider their perspective.
Then, strive to find a workable solution. You might say, “Maybe I did let my anger get the best of me. Let’s come up with a phrase that signals one of us needs time out to cool off. We’ll take a break, discuss the issue between us, then go back to the kids to dole out a punishment. Does that sound good?”, Sometimes, we fall short as parents because we don’t play to our strengths. Compromise about who takes the lead on certain aspects of parenting. That way, you are less likely to disagree about the other’s choices. You simply defer to their judgment and recognize that they are more experienced in this area.If Mom has the ability to keep a cool head under pressure, she might be the best person to handle explaining punishments and handling crises. On the other hand, Dad is great with relating to the children, so he talks through issues with them like peer pressure or bullying.
Point out what each parent is good at and use these abilities in your parenting.
 Parents can start stepping on each other’s toes because there is little communication about what’s happening day-to-day in the household. Taking time to sit down with one another in private to catch up on the rules and any problems or areas of concern can prevent conflict.


Take turns expressing each other’s feelings about parenting stress and challenges. Each partner should listen attentively, being careful to make eye contact, nod, and orient towards the speaker. Listen to understand rather than to reply.