 Get your ingredients together to cook two servings of udon noodle soup, for which you will need the following: five cups of vegetable broth; two whole star anise; a stick of cinnamon; two eggs; two packages of fresh or frozen udon noodles; five bok choy leaves; two sliced spring onions; four tablespoons of soy sauce. Use these ingredients to make a healthy home cooked soup:

Start by boiling your broth and then simmering it with the star anise and the cinnamon stick.
After removing the spices from the broth, you can add your eggs to poach them in the broth.
If you are using dry noodles, you will want to add them first. If you are using fresh noodles, you can add them after the eggs.
You can add the bok choy after the eggs and noodles, and then cook for a couple minutes.
Finally, add your soy sauce and spring onions for a healthy soup., Vegetarian pho is a wonderfully healthy soup that is rich in flavor and texture. You will need to find the following ingredients for the vegetarian broth: a large, peeled onion; a small piece of fresh ginger; three pieces of cinnamon stick; a star anise; two whole cloves; a teaspoon of coriander seeds; four cups of vegetable stock; two teaspoons of soy sauce; and four, coarsely chopped carrots. Using these ingredients, you can cook your pho:

To make the broth, you will need to char the onions and ginger, and then dry-roast the spices.
Once you smell a good aroma, add the vegetable stock and all other ingredients, bring it to a boil and then simmer for thirty minutes.
Add half a pound of cooked, flat rice noodles.
Top the soup with your choice of chopped vegetables such as mushrooms, scallions, chile pepper, bean sprouts, and a lime., Soba noodle soup is a wonderfully healthy and quick lunch or dinner. For this soup, you will need the following ingredients: four and a third cups of vegetable broth; a diced onion; three cloves of minced garlic; three stalks of chopped bok choy; two stalks of chopped celery; two small chopped broccoli florets; three cups of water; three tablespoons of soy sauce; a tablespoon of rice vinegar; a cup of red cabbage; three tablespoons of cilantro; and five ounces of soba noodles. You can also add a squirt of sriracha. Using these ingredients, create your soba noodle soup:

Bring your broth to a boil over medium-high heat and saute your garlic.
Add your vegetables to the pot of broth and simmer for eight minutes.
Add the rest of the ingredients and cook until the soba noodles are soft, which should take four minutes.
Garnish and add sriracha if desired.