 Allow yourself a wide range of vision so that you can spot any hippos in the area long before you can reach it. Give the hippos the same opportunity to spot you from a safe distance. Remember that hippos are easily startled, but will show little interest in you if they see that you are maintaining a respectful distance.Definitely steer clear of dense vegetation along the edge of waterways. If space within the waterway is limited, those hippos that have lost territorial disputes may congregate here. They will feel especially vulnerable and that much quicker to attack out of fear.
 Remain aware of the direction of the nearest body of water. When you encounter a hippo on land, always allow it a clear path to the water. Even if you maintain a respectful distance without posing a threat to the hippo, anticipate that some other factor may startle it at any time. Expect it to flee for the safety of the water. Keep well out of its path.Should you find yourself in front of a hippo running for the water, flee to either side. The hippo has no interest in you, but it may outrun you or see you as a threat if you run for the water as well.
 Hippos use their feces to mark paths between waterways and food sources inland. Expect these paths to be travelled continuously, especially at night.Look for dung that has been sprayed over a wide area, rather than a neat pile, since hippos use their tails to spread their poop around as they excrete.If possible, do not strike camp near a dung trail, because hippos are nocturnal and will use the path at night. If you are forced to camp near one, do not start a fire or use any other lights, since these will spark their interest., In the event that a hippo charges you, be aware that hippos can reach speeds of 30 miles per hour (45 kph).Do not try to outrun a hippo in a straight sprint. Seek cover immediately. If no buildings or vehicles are in sight, use natural cover and obstacles like trees, rocks, hills, and termite mounds to slow the hippo’s momentum.If a hippo charges you, remember that it is because you have intruded on its territory. Once you have gained enough distance from there, it should give up the chase.

