 Feed your dog a pleasing meal. Take it for a walk to help it digest its food and work off excess energy. This will help your dog feel more at ease when it first meets its feline counterpart.You could also help your new dog relax by strapping a pheromone collar on it. Pheromone collars release pheromones – chemical compounds that dogs produce naturally – to help your dog calm down.Pheromone collars are available at most pet stores and online.
 Your best bet is to place your cat in an enclosed room and close the door. Let your new dog wander the house getting the cat’s scent for about 40 minutes. Then, take your dog out for a walk and have a housemate or family member let the cat out of the room. This will let your cat “meet” your new dog by scent.Ensure your cat has access to its litter box while in the safe room.
 You could tie the short leash to your belt or just walk around with it in your hand. In either case, keep the dog on a short lease and close to you for several days. This will ensure that your dog does not go near your cat unless you allow it, and that you can separate your cat and dog quickly if necessary., Allow them to see each other from a distance at first. Talk to your dog in a soothing manner. You might say things like, “Good dog” or “That’s your feline friend.” These calming words will help your dog relax.If your cat is afraid of your dog during this early period, place it in its carrier. You can detect fear in cats by listening for hissing and looking for raised hair along the spine of the cat.
If your dog runs toward the cat, it won’t get far because it is on a short leash. Stop your dog’s lunging by commanding it to sit or lie down.
These encounters should last several minutes. Repeat several times each day.
 Each day, allow your dog and cat to come a bit closer to each other by extending the length of the leash slightly. If at any point you detect hostility on the part of either the dog or cat, increase the distance between them again.Don’t confuse real hostility with playful “sibling rivalry” and socialization. Your cat and dog might swat at each other, but don’t separate them immediately unless you hear hissing or growling. These are indications that continued contact could lead to either or both being harmed.
Use both animals’ names when attempting to reassure or restrain them.
 Once your dog and cat have interacted in a positive, healthy way, with your dog’s leash extended to its maximum length, you should begin to remove the leash from the equation altogether. Let your dog roam the house without its leash for 20 minutes or so, then replace the leash. Repeat several times daily.If the initial no-leash session was free of conflicts between the dog and cat, extend the no-leash time to 40 minutes per session. If that session is successful, extend the no-leash time to one hour.
Continue to add time in 20-minute increments in this way until your dog is completely unbound from its leash. Supervise your dog and cat closely from this point on.
At this stage, you do not need to put the dog back on a leash if it gets into a conflict with the cat, but you should separate them. Close one of them in a separate room for about an hour. This “time out” period will give each animal time to cool down.

