 In addition to seeing what your parent's opinion might be about the contact, you might also request their help in making a connection. Talk to the parent with whom you and your half-siblings are both related. Ask your mom or dad if they are willing to assist you in reaching out to your siblings.


You might say, "I'd really like to get to know my half-siblings. Will you help me find them and/or make contact?"

, If you live in the same town or region as your half-siblings or have mutual acquaintances, it might help to have an ally helping you make contact. Reach out to a relative or family friend to act as liaison.


This person can cushion the blow once your half-siblings receive news of a sibling they never knew about. What’s more, this person can also serve as a source of support for you if the response isn’t what you hoped.Ask this person to contact your half-siblings on your behalf. You might say, “Could you please reach out to Harry and Beth for me? If they are interested, I’d love to talk to them. Here’s my number…”

, Social media has made the world so much smaller. People who currently live across the globe from one another are accessible with the click of a cursor. If you are able to find your half-siblings on Facebook, you may be able to send a friend request, asking them to connect with you.Keep your initial contact brief. You might say, “Hi, I’m from the Bay area, too! I think we might know some of the same people.”

, If you can locate full names of your half-siblings, you might be able to find a personal or work email account listed for them. In some cases, people often have their email addresses connected to their social media profiles. You might find this information there.


An email is a more formal way to reach out to your half-siblings. Because you can type a longer message without seeming like a weirdo, you will have a greater opportunity to introduce yourself and explain the circumstances of your relationship with them.
In your note, be sensitive to their reaction since they do not know you exist. Keep your words positive and enthusiastic, but avoid assuming they will want to have a relationship with you."I know this may come as a surprise to you, but we have the same father. I've known this for many years. However, I was recently diagnosed with cancer and it gave me the desire to know you." Briefly explaining the connection and your reasons for reaching out may be a good start.

