 Are your power tubes the problem? If you answer yes to any of the questions below, your power tubes may need replacing. These tubes are the larger unguarded tubes located in the middle of your amp.


Is there a crackling sound or volume fluctuation when the amp is in use?
Does the amp fail to turn on when the power cable is connected to a working outlet?
Are the tubes glowing unevenly?
Are burn marks or cracks on one or more of the power tubes?;
, If you answer yes to any of the questions above, your preamp tubes may be the problem. These tubes are smaller and located at the sides and front of the amp and they have a small aluminum casing surrounding them.

Are the power tubes in seemingly working condition yet your tone or volume seems bland or quiet?
Does a crackling or screeching sound change when you adjust the volume knob?

, Look at the instruction manual for information on compatible tubes for your amp. These tubes are best to buy in pairs with matched ratings.

Discuss your tube options with technicians or salespeople before making a purchase in store.
 Wait about 15 minutes before maintenance. The tubes must be cool and uncharged for safety purposes., The screws will be located on the side of the head, or on the back of the cage itself.
 Use gloves or a cloth to handle new tubes. There is some debate going on about the influence of oils in human skin on a tube. In addition, there is no harm in wearing gloves to change tubes so it may be a good exercise in caution.

Do not place tubes near any ledges. The round tube has the tendency to roll around so use a cloth to place under them.
 Firmly grasp the tube with one hand and press down on the clamp to provide room for the tube to move.


Gently rock the tube back and forth while lightly pulling upwards.
Note the positions of the pins on the bottom of the tube. There is a plastic nub in the middle of the bottom of the tube that fits into a guide in the socket.
,

Press on the clamps if needed to ease the tube in.
When the pins are no longer visible the tube is in place.
If you plan on replacing the preamp tubes as well, leave out any power tube replacements that may crowd the area you are working in.



Remove the screws on the metal covering that encases the preamp tubes.
Lift the covering directly up to avoid metal on glass contact.
Gently rock the tube back and forth while lightly pulling upwards.
Note the position of the pins.
 This is done in the same fashion as the power tubes except that the pins will have a prominent gap between two pins instead of a nub. Match this gap up with the corresponding gap in the preamp tube socket and gently place it in.,,, Let it warm up for about 20 minutes. This will allow the amplifier to adjust to the new tubes.
