 In a song, the verses will be grouped or sectioned into four or more lines, with a blank space between each grouping. If you are looking at a song that has been written down, notice groupings of at least four to five lines in sections. These are often the verses in the song.The verses will have different content from verse to verse but they are often the same length throughout the song. For example, you may have one verse that talks about love and one verse that talks about sadness, but both verses will be five to six lines long.;
, Listen to the song to help you identify the verses. Verses will have the same melody but contain different words. The verses may also follow the same rhythm or pattern, though the lyrics or words are different from verse to verse.You may notice the same musical patterns are playing for each verse, or the same beat, but the lyrics changes from verse to verse. Listen closely to the song as it plays to identify the verses.
For example, in the song “Everybody” by the Backstreet Boys, the first verse starts as “Oh my God we’re back again/brother, sister’s everybody sing.”The second verse starts as, “Now throw your hands up in the air/And wave ‘em around like you just don’t care.” Both verses have the same melody but different lyrics.
 Another way you can identify the verse is a song is to distinguish it from the chorus in the song. The chorus is often shorter than the verse and has the same melody every time it is played. The chorus also contains the same lyrics every time. Often, the title of the song is based on the chorus of the song. This is very different than the structure of a verse.For example, you may have a chorus in a song called “Quit Playing Games With My Heart” that goes, “Quit playing games with my heart/Before you tear us apart (my heart).”The chorus will repeat three to four times in the song with the same melody and lyrics. The verses will have the same melody but different lyrics each time they appear in the song.
 Most popular songs follow a standard pattern: verse, chorus, verse, bridge, and chorus. Listen to the song and identify each section of the pattern in the song. Notice if the song follows the most common pattern, with the verse appearing first and then between the chorus and the bridge. This can help you identify the verses in the song.For example, the song "I Want It That Way" by the Backstreet Boys follows the pattern: verse, verse, chorus, verse, chorus, bridge, verse, chorus.If the song does not adhere to the most common pattern, you can still plot out the pattern based on your knowledge of what a verse is and what a chorus is. For example, you may have a song that has an introductory section, followed by the verse, then the chorus, then a bridge, a final verse, and the chorus.

