 When you get vaccinated around your pregnancy, you help protect your child from those diseases, if you're not already up-to-date and immune. The CDC recommends that you should have some vaccines directly before your pregnancy (about a month), including the MMR vaccine (measles, mumps, and rubella). During your pregnancy, you should have the Tdap vaccine (for whooping cough).You can also take the flu vaccine as needed. If you missed other vaccinations while pregnant, ask your doctor about taking them after you give birth to your child. You'll pass it to your child through your breast milk.
A blood test will show if you need to have these vaccinations, as your doctor will be able to tell if you're already immune.
 Getting your child the regular vaccinations is one sure way to boost their immune system. A vaccination basically teaches your child's immune system how to fight certain infections, making it more robust.Talk to your doctor about an appropriate vaccination schedule for your child. Generally, kids are vaccinated at birth, two months, four months, six months, and 12 to 18 months. Kids will also need boosts before starting school.
 Sometimes, the flu vaccine is overlooked for its benefits. It can boost your child's ability to fight against certain flu strains, keeping your child healthier through the fall and winter. Your child's flu vaccine should be covered by insurance if you have it., You want your child to get better as quickly as possible when they are sick. However, not every illness requires or responds to antibiotics. Viruses, for instance, do not respond to antibiotics. The problem is, when your child takes antibiotics too often, it leads to stronger bacteria that are harder to kill. In addition, it kills off the good bacteria that help keep your child's body in balance.Your child should take antibiotics if they have a more serious bacterial infection (rather than mild). However, your child's doctor should make the call about whether antibiotics are necessary.
If your child has an earache or sore throat, these are not times to skip on an antibiotic. You need to see a physician and they will tell you if your child’s illness requires an antibiotic or not.
 Exercising can help boost children's and adults' immune systems alike.It increases the antibodies in the body, part of your system's way of fighting off disease.Kids should aim for an hour of exercise and play each day.


Kids should work on aerobic exercises, strength-training exercises, and bone-strengthening exercises. Aerobic exercises should make up the bulk of your child's exercising and can include things like running, walking quickly, playing sports, or swimming. Pushups, sit-ups, and gymnastics can help strengthen muscles, while bone-strengthening exercises include jumping rope and running.According to the President's Council on Fitness, Sports and Nutrition children should get 60 minutes of exercise a day. The exercise should be in the form of moderate to vigorous intensity aerobic exercise. Further, they should get strengthening activities at least three days a week.