 As a newspaper columnist, you’re charged to have distinct opinions and a voice. Your voice could be humorous or dark, for example.A good way to find your voice is to read newspaper articles that simply report the facts and then freewrite a response to the story. Do this with five or six articles, and then chart how you reacted. You might notice that you consistently take a sarcastic tone or maybe you’re always optimistic.
Your editor will also be able to help you refine your voice, so don’t be afraid to reach out.;
, What distinguishes a newspaper column from an article is that a column inserts an opinion where the article only reports facts in an objective way. Forming an opinion is a good way to speak your voice.A good way to test your opinion is to ask yourself, “Will someone have a strong reaction against my article?” If the answer is yes, you’ve successfully formed an opinion. If your stance doesn’t elicit any reaction then you’ve probably written a very neutral piece.
Make sure you can back that opinion up with researched evidence. This will help persuade your readers to buy into your opinion.
 A good way to develop a voice and opinion is to draw from your own personal experiences. Including anecdotes from your own life will not only make you more relatable to your reader, but also more credible.If you’ve had a situation where prescription drug costs buried you financially, start off your column with an anecdote about this time in your life before you lay out your fiery opinion on the high cost of prescription drugs for seniors.
 Since a column is based on your opinion, incorporate your voice by using “I.” This will remind the reader of your presence and will help establish which opinions presented are yours.Instead of saying, “The facilities for race horses are frequently not up to snuff,” you can make this statement more compelling with the use of first person. For example: “The horse racing facilities that I, as a trainer, have visited are routinely inadequate for the needs of horses, and this impacts their performance and well-being.”

