 Getting your kids involved with the process is a great way to make them more interested in food. Most kids also love to "help," so ask for some assistance when preparing your next meal. Treating cooking as a fun way to spend time together will make a positive impression on your child.Designate specific duties for your child. If they are very young, let them help you stir something, or shake the jar to mix salad dressing.
Choose the right time. Don't expect kids to enjoy helping if you are on a tight schedule and rushing to get everything done. Instead, try cooking together on an evening when you are not hurried.
Make sure to stress safety. Not only do you want your kids to learn about food, but you want them to learn that knives and stoves are not toys.;
, As they get older, kids begin to assert their independence. A great way to facilitate this process is allow them to have some input on the foods they eat. If you are having trouble getting your child to eat, try offering them a couple of different options.Present two healthy options as choices. For example, you can say "Would you rather have peas or spinach as your side with dinner tonight?"
When offering your child new foods, have them rate or grade each one. Try saying, "Here, try some sweet potato. What do you think?" This shows your child you are interested in what they think.
 Try taking your kids to the grocery store with you. It can be fun for a child to be the designated "produce picker." Ask your kids what looks good. Encourage them to try new items. Your kids will be more invested in eating if they have picked some of the ingredients themselves.Try taking your kids to a local farmer's market. This can be a fun way to introduce them to new, healthy, foods.
Before you shop, ask your kids to help you menu plan for the week. Listen to their ideas, and take some of their suggestions.
 When you are dealing with a picky eater, it can be difficult to convince them that mealtime can be fun. Try to make each meal seem like an occasion, rather than a chore. For example, you could have a theme night for dinner.Your theme does not be complex. It can be as simple as "Our Family's Favorite Foods," but it will make dinner seem more like a festive occasion.
Try cutting foods into interesting shapes. A sandwich shaped like a star, for example, is more fun than a regular sandwich.
Put faces on pancakes with raisins or banana slices.
 By making mealtime fun, you can help make food more appealing to your kids. Commit to having family dinner each night — or as often as possible. At dinner, try to talk about upbeat, happy topics. Maybe you could even have a joke of the day.Get your kids involved in the fun by letting them help you come up with new food combinations. For example, let them pick something new to dip veggies in, like a new flavor of hummus or yogurt.
Name some of your favorite dishes. Kids like to take ownership, so when she likes a dish, name it "Karen's Cheerful Chili."

