 If you want to sell more art, it’s important to first have an understanding of who’s most inclined to buy it. Think about the dominant images or ideas contained in your work and what sort of views they reflect. Once you’ve identified your core fanbase, you can begin developing strategies that will allow you to bring your art to their attention more effectively.Modern pop art full of cultural references, for instance, is more likely to appeal to other artists and art aficionados, whereas traditional watercolor landscapes will be more popular with a general audience.
Advertise in places where your target demographic has the greatest chance of stumbling upon your work.
 Anytime you’re at an exhibition or event, stick close to your work so you’ll be available to answer questions and highlight interesting features. Being friendly and approachable will encourage people to take a closer look. In the best case, it may even give casual onlookers the push they need to add a piece to their personal collection.Being able to describe your creative process is instrumental in helping people better connect to your art.Be ready to explain the complex themes in your work and provide insight into your influences and favorite techniques.
 Commissions are the bread and butter of many professional artists. When a buyer hires you to produce a commission, it’s like signing a contract that guarantees you a paycheck. Approach each commission differently and work out a price you think is fair for the request.The best way to entice people to buy commissions is to advertise the option for custom artwork on your business card, exhibition display or website.
Commissioned work should take precedence over other pieces.
It’s a good idea to ask for a percentage of the payment up front in case the buyer tries to back out later on., All the exposure in the world won’t mean anything if no one knows who you are. Be sure to introduce yourself to everyone you meet, and remind them of your name before you part ways. You might even consider printing up some business cards that you can hand out at exhibitions and networking events.Come up with separate name for your studio or personal business, such as “The Rickety Easel” or “Ada’s Impressions.”Your business cards should include your first and last name, a brief overview of the type of art you create and a simple but eye-catching graphic that offers a glimpse of your signature style.