 In order to increase the amount of water released with each flush, you’ll need to have access to the tank. Shut off the water supply, remove the lid and hit the plunger to drain the tank. Once this is done, you’ll be able to work unobstructed.Do not attempt to change your toilet’s fill level while there’s still water in the tank.
 On most standard toilets, this will appear as a large upright tube positioned on one side of the tank. This is the part that controls how much water enters the tank when the toilet refills. Your toilet’s fill valve will most likely have either a ballcock or floating cylinder construction—both can be tweaked manually in just a couple of minutes.Ballcock valves make use of a floating rubber ball to gauge the water level, while cylinder valves can be set to designate the cutoff point.If there’s any obvious damage to your toilet’s fill valve, the wisest option is to simply purchase a new one.
 If your toilet uses a ballcock design with a floating rubber ball attached to a separate arm, you can manually adjust the water level by twisting the stem at the top of the arm counterclockwise. If it uses a newer sliding cylinder construction, simply pinch the clips on the edge of the cylinder and raise or lower it to the desired height.You may need to use a screwdriver, coin or some other slender object to change the position of a ballcock stem.Take note of the normal water level, as indicated by hard water discoloration. This will give you an idea how much water is typically needed to achieve a satisfactory flush.
On some newer toilets, the manufacturers specify the optimal fill level with a line etched on the interior wall of the tank., Turn the water supply to the toilet back on and wait for the tank to refill. Lift the toilet seat and flush. If you’re satisfied with the flush, replace the toilet tank lid and continue using your toilet as usual. If not, continue adjusting the height of the fill valve to improve the flushing power to your liking.


It may take you a few unsuccessful tries before you finally get the water level exactly where you want it.
Be careful not to set your toilet tank to overfill. This will cause it to run incessantly in an effort to drain excess water, which is wasteful and expensive.