 Not all countries accept US driver’s licenses. If you don’t make a reservation ahead of time, you don’t want to find out that you’re ineligible to rent a car altogether because you don’t have an International Driving Permit.International Driving Permits (IDP) are not too difficult to obtain. You’ll need to fill out an application through the American Automobile Association or the National Auto Club, have a valid US license, two passport pictures, and $20. The AAA application can be found at http://www.aaa.com/vacation/idpf.html and the NAC’s can be found at http://www.thenac.com/idp_faqs.htm.
You should check with the US Embassy or Consulate at http://www.usembassy.gov/ in the country you’ll be visiting to see if you’ll need an IDP.;
, Liability coverage for damages to anything outside of the car (damage you or the car inflicts) is usually included in the price of the rental. When you purchase the equivalent of collision “insurance” from the rental car company, it’s actually a Collision Damage Waiver, or CDW.The CDW isn’t actually insurance. Instead, the car rental company is waiving its right to collect the full amount of damage from you in the event of a collision. There may still be a big deductible ($1000 or more) that isn’t covered by the waiver. The basic CDW will cost you about 30% extra.<Re> https://www.ricksteves.com/travel-tips/transportation/car-rental-cdw</ref>
In order to have no deductible or a very small deductible, you’ll have to purchase an additional waiver, called super-CDW or zero-deductible CDW. The additional waiver can cost another $10-$30 per day.
In order to have comprehensive protection from theft and other occurrences, you’ll need to purchase additional coverage specifically for loss and theft.
 Make sure you let the rental company know what countries you’ll be visiting. Different countries have different risk levels, and what may be a covered occurrence in one country may not be a covered occurrence in another country.Italy and Ireland are two countries with peculiar rules with respect to insurers. If you’re travelling to either country, make sure your rental car company knows ahead of time., The insurance you purchased may only apply to the people the car company knows will be driving. If they can prove someone else was driving the car when a covered occurrence happened, they may hold you liable for the totality of the damage.You may have to pay $8-$15 extra for each covered driver.
 You’ll most likely save money by purchasing the insurance when you make the reservation rather than when you’re at the counter.Not only is the price higher at the counter, it’s easier for the agents to talk you into coverage you don’t need. You’re probably tired, there may be a language barrier, bargaining customs may be more high-pressure, and the terminology may be different.

