 Manufacturer guidelines for hot water systems, air conditioning systems, and hot tubs should include provisions to prevent the spread of Legionella bacteria. Many of these provisions are specific to the appliance in question and can best be defined by the manufacturer itself.


The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) recommend the ASHRAE (American Society of Heating, Refrigerating and Air Conditioning Engineers) guidelines when it comes to the appropriate chemical treatment and temperatures of water in preventing legionellosis..
The first step is to avoid water temperatures between 20 to 45°C (77 to 104 °F). This range of temperature favors the growth of Legionella bacteria.;
, Legionella will grow faster if undisturbed, thus it lives in stagnant water. For this reason, you need to ensure that water systems are frequently used to prevent stagnation. This is particularly true for hot water heaters, which should remain on to forestall the development of bacteria., Scales and sentiment can protect Legionella from disinfectants. Any appliance that stores or distributes water in the temperature range of 20 to 45°C (77 to 104 °F) should be cleaned vigorously to eliminate scales and sentiment.Whirlpool spas, swimming pools and hot tubs should be chemically treated to prevent bacterial growth. They should also be routinely drained. The water should be changed at least once a month.
When using humidifiers for ill patients, especially those with pulmonary problems, use sterile water instead of tap water.
Change the water in decorative fountains at least once a week.
Check for obvious signs of dirt in showers. For example, when using the public shower in the gym, call the attention of the management when you see rust or dirt along the shower line.
Hot water heaters are particularly susceptible to Legionnaires’ disease, but cooling towers are too., You should have your hot water heater treated for Legionella regularly. The tank should be flushed and cleaned with disinfectant. The system should store water at 45°C (140°F). To maintain heat throughout the system you will need effective circulation and good insulation. Refrain from turning off the water heater, else more hospital temperatures and stagnant water will encourage the growth of Legionella bacteria., Legionella is especially common in hot tubs because it is difficult to maintain the appropriate disinfectant levels in warm water. Chlorine should be at 2 – 4 ppm (parts per million), bromine should be at 4 – 6 ppm, and pH at 7.2 – 7.8 ppm. Change the water regularly, replace the filter as recommended by the manufacturer, and remove slime and other biofilm with regular cleanings., Unfortunately, chlorination and moderate heat will not eliminate Legionella bacteria. To kill the bacteria, you will need to administer temperatures upwards of 45°C (140°F), disinfect with mono chloramine, or use copper-silver ionization.