 Make sure your washing machine's power supply is off before you try to make any repairs. Making repairs while the power supply is on could cause injury.
 These are located at the back of the machine, and they feed water into the machine during the wash cycle. Old or damaged supply hoses are a common cause of leaks located at the back of the machine. If you have a supply hose leak, the leak will continuously drip throughout the wash cycle. Here's how to repair water supply hoses:









Turn off the water main or shutoff valve.













Unscrew the supply hoses with pliers.













Examine the hoses. If they look old and corroded, replace the hoses with no-burst hoses and new washers.If the hoses are still in good shape, replace the internal washers. Old washers lose elasticity and don't fit as tightly.
Make sure all of the connections are tight and secure before using the washer again.
 The hoses inside the machine can also get corroded and worn out, and they need to be replaced from time to time. To access the internal hoses, you'll need to open the washing machine's cabinet or the panel behind which the hoses lie by unscrewing the bolts.









Look for old, corroded or ripped hoses and rusty hose clamps.
To remove a hose, use pliers to squeeze the hose clamp and slide it down the hose, then remove the hose.
Replace the old hoses and hose clamps with new parts., The pump moves the water from the tub of the washing machine to the drain. It's made with internal seals that can get worn out over time, leading to leaks.If you see signs that the pump is leaking - evidence of staining or rust - it will need to be replaced.








By the correct replacement pump for your machine.
Open your washing machine's cabinet.
Loosen the motor mounting bolts.
Disconnect the pump hoses and unscrew it, then remove it from the machine. Replace it with the new pump.
For detailed instructions on replacing a washing machine pump, see How to Replace a Washing Machine Water Pump.

