 If the leg is obviously broken and no bones are sticking through the skin, you can splint the leg. You should only consider splinting the leg if you cannot get to the vet right away or it is a long journey to the vet. Splinting is a controversial practice because if done incorrectly, it applies pressure to the ends of the broken bone and can cause more pain for your dog. However, if done correctly, it stops the bones moving, gives them further support, and helps ease discomfort.


Be aware that handling the broken leg will be painful, so you may need to muzzle the dog to stop him from biting in self defense.
Splinting works best if the fracture is below the elbow or the knee. The big muscles groups of the shoulder and hip get in the way of bandages and cause them to slip down, which can cause a problem if the break is in the humerus (upper arm) or thigh (femur). Those fractures are best left unsupported and the dog kept caged until you can get help.;
, Make sure you have the proper materials to splint your dog's broken bone before starting. To splint limb, you need a firm straight object that is the same length as the broken bone. Household items such as a wooden spoon, wooden spatula, or ruler can be used, depending on the dog's size.


You also need some gauze and self-adhesive tape.
 Before you place a splint on the dog’s leg, cover the area with gauze. Wrap a layer of gauze bandage firmly around the limb from the paw, up over the fracture site, and up over the joint above the fracture. Wind the gauze in a spiral fashion with each loop overlapping the previous one.Covering the area in gauze helps prevent the splint rubbing the skin and causing sores.
 Hold the splint over the fracture site. Wrap dressing tape around the splint and leg to tape the splint firmly in place. Now apply a spiral layer of bandage over the top of the splint, applied firmly but not tight. Finish with a layer of self-adhesive bandage. This all helps to immobilise the joints above and below the splint and hold the splint in place.Use enough pressure on the tape so that the fit is snug, but not tight.
 After splinting the leg, you should monitor the paw closely for any signs of swelling. Swelling can indicate the dressing is too tight. If the paw is swollen, you should release the dressing immediately. Lack of circulation to the limb can cause tissue death and gangrene.Keep the dressing dry.
Never use a splint in place of professional vet treatment for broken bones. Take your dog to get professional veterinary help as soon as possible.

