 As a teen or kid, you are growing at a pretty quick pace. So you probably have some clothes that don’t fit you. Go through your wardrobe and pick out nice pieces to sell that you no longer wear.


You can take your clothes to a thrift or secondhand store. These consignment stores will go through your clothes and offer you money for the items that the store decides to buy from you. Selling old clothes is a great way to make some extra money. It can also help you pay for new clothes.
Make sure that any clothes you plan to sell are clean and ironed. And that your shoes are shined and without too much wear. You will have a better chance of selling your clothes if the pieces look nice and presentable.
Don’t spend all your earnings or savings. If you sell your old stuff or even make things to sell, don’t spend all the money you earn. The importance of a goal is that it helps you stay committed to earning money for a specific purpose. Instead of spending all the money you earn, put at least 10% of it away. Don’t spend that money until you have reached your goal.
 You can easily gather up any toys or clothes that you no longer have a need for and sell these items right from your front yard.


Get your friends from the neighborhood to help you as well. The more of you there are, the more appealing your sale will look as it will have more items to browse. Your friends probably have things that can be sold and will probably be willing to help.
Post signs up around your neighborhood advertising your sale a few days before the sale so people can learn about it. It’s also a good idea to hold the garage sale in the spring. Garage sales are popular in the spring as people are typically cleaning out junk that accumulated over the last year or so.
Before you sell anything that you think is yours, make sure you get permission from your parents. You shouldn’t sell clothes, toys, or other items without permission. Especially if your parents were the ones who bought you these items.
 You can learn to make great products that are desirable enough to customers. Things like jewelry to handmade clothes, to even furniture, can make you a good profit.


If you know how to make something that people will enjoy or use, you can start a little business for yourself and start selling your product. Before you get too invested, you will need to budget for your materials.
Write down how much every individual item will cost. Then add up these costs. Your total cost is how much you will have to pay before you can make anything and earn any money. And when you sell your item, you will have to sell it for more than the cost.
Try making jewelry. If you have a good eye for fashion and jewelry you can make your own jewelry to sell online, to your friends, and even at some consignment stores. There are sites that you can purchase costume jewelry components from at a wholesale price. Wholesale means that you will get a large quantity, but for less money than the retail price. You can then make and sell your beautiful jewelry for a profit.
Perhaps you’re already a very talented artist. Create art that you can sell. If you don’t know what to create, you can try asking people for requests. Your friends may pay you to draw or paint something specific. Create a social media page that showcases your art and uses it to get people to notice your talents.
 If you’re very attentive at school and organized you can help tutor people in your school or community for money.


Tutoring for a profit may not always be allowed at your school. It’s best to find out what your restrictions are.
Take accurate study notes. When you’re finished, type the notes out and print copies. If you are allowed to offer tutoring or study aid for a profit, you can use your notes to aid the people you are helping to study. You may even be able to offer a tiered pricing structure. Meaning that people have to pay more for more of your time and resources.
 Lemonade stands are popular in the summer, and help you earn some extra money. Gather your friends and make lemonade to sell in your neighborhood.Make your lemonade stand more sophisticated with a range of drinks as well as some cookies, brownies, and cupcakes.
Place your lemonade stand somewhere where there isn’t a lot of competition. It should be somewhere busy and in a visible part of the neighborhood. A street corner always works well.
Make your stand unique and inviting. Get creative, build and old-fashioned stand. Decorate it with ribbons and a banner with the name of your lemonade stand company on it.
Keep track of what you spent on ingredients, and charge enough so that you can make a profit. But don’t overcharge. You won’t make any money if no one is buying your product.
Include a menu of your offerings. Treat your stand like a business. A nice chalkboard sandwich board will look attractive and let passerby's know what you offer.
Make signs and send some kids walking around the neighborhood and standing at the ends of the block advertising your stand. Have some people making more lemonade and other treats so you always have enough stock to sell.
You could also try to sell some art or handmade jewelry at your stand as well.
 If you know photography and graphic design, you can offer your services to people who want photos taken or edited.


Take and edit photos of used goods for online sales. Offer to transfer people’s old physical photographs and create digital backups. You can also offer your services for parties, dances, and even class photos.
Certain websites like fiverr.com allow you to post your talents online which people can pay you for. Talents like photo editing, coding, and social media help are popular. Just make sure you are allowed to do this and your parents know.
 View yourself as a business. You will have to spend some of your money to get new and better supplies.


Invest in a skill like singing by taking voice lessons, or music lessons on an instrument. If you know how to sing, play music, or even produce and MC, offer your services up for parties. The more you learn about your talents and crafts, the better you’ll become. And as you get better you can begin to charge more.
You can also offer to teach your friends some of your skills as well. For example, if you are good at playing the guitar, you can charge a small fee to give lessons.
 Make videos about how to do something you’re skilled at. If you have skills or hobbies, you can incorporate a video aspect to get more exposure. For example, if you’re already selling handmade jewelry, you can post tutorials on how other people can make jewelry at home.


Note that making videos isn’t usually a direct way to earn money. If you do end up getting a lot of followers you may be able to include advertisements before your video plays. This can sometimes earn you money. Your videos should be made to help you get exposure and showcase your talents and products. Not as a way to earn a lot of money.
Your videos can cover plenty of topics like doing hair and makeup, assembling furniture, or making jewelry or other crafts. You can make videos that showcase your products or work.
For example, you can make a funny and informative commercial about your dog walking business. Or make videos where you explain how easy certain tasks are. Maybe you are really good at assembling Ikea furniture. Perhaps you could make simple tutorials for kids and adults on how easy it is to put furniture together.
Make sure that the video is well-made, and that you look as professional as you can. Your videos need cover something that you know how to do really well. So you can give people good information and sound like an “expert” in your field.

