 Be specific in scope and range.;
,


Are you writing a manual for beginners or experts (or somewhere in between)?
Is the audience going to be involved with a class (using the manual) or self-study?

,


Example: You are writing a manual "How to Install Doors". One section might be about sliding doors. Another section might be about front doors. Still another section might be about back doors.
 This is not about a logical order of actions. Some subject may need to be presented first. Tasks that will be included in all parts of the manual should probably be discussed first. If you feel that the reader should already have the skills to complete the task, then consider describing the task in an appendix.
 If it is unlikely the reader will already know the jargon, place the glossary immediately after the table of contents. Update the glossary as you write the manual.


Definitions of terms in the glossary need to be as exact as possible. If the term is an acronym, like "Scuba", then fully explain that it means "Self Contained Underwater Breathing Apparatus" in the definition.
 An inaccurate manual is a useless manual. Complete your preliminary research before starting the manual.



Example: You are writing a manual about such and so computer. You have a section called "Troubleshooting". You might write part of it about disk space issues. You might write another about excessive memory usage.
, Use your organization as a guide, but alter it if it doesn't work.


Write descriptions of different tasks.
Write examples that the reader can follow to gain instruction.
Prepare appropriate illustrations. Do not add them until the manual is completed. The illustrations will need to be fitted to the text.


Modify illustrations to give hints to indicate what the user is looking for.

Example 1: (Looking on a numbered list) A writer would connect a problem with the number "13".
Example 2: (Sorting Out) A writer would enlarge a line of text that was out of order.
 Have a reference and/or a citation section listing books, manuals and people who gave you the information.


Nothing destroys a writer's credibility faster than plagiarism. One day, someone may be quoting your writing. How would you feel about someone "stealing" your work?

, Fit them into the document. Do not be afraid to use white space.
 Proofreading should be ongoing. Make notes of errors or omissions. Correct them. Make notes of passages others find confusing. Rewrite the passage to make it easier to read. Have a variety of people read your manual to insure the best possible result.




This is the order I recommend you have a completed manual proofread:

Proof your work, yourself.
Have a friend proofread it.
Have an expert (in the field you are writing about) proofread it.
(If the manual is for your company), have your boss proofread it.
Have a novice proofread it.


Why have a novice proofread it? The manual must be understandable to the minimum knowledge level you expect to read it.





