 Wrap an ice pack or ice cubes in a clean cloth and place them on the affected area as soon as you notice a rash developing. The cold temperature will reduce immediate swelling and redness, and might help reduce discomfort. Avoid rubbing the cloth along your skin. Instead, gently pat your irritated skin if the surface area is larger than your cold compress.You can also make a cold compress by soaking a towel in very cold water, or putting a wet towel in the freezer for 10 to 15 minutes (before it has time to freeze solid).;
, To soothe the first signs of discomfort, irritation, and pain due to shaving rash, apply a thin coat of petroleum jelly. It will keep your skin hydrated, preventing further irritation, and relieve itchiness. Apply a coat to protect your skin, and repeat after a few hours or if the area has started to dry out., Try easing immediate discomfort and inflammation by crushing a couple aspirin in a few drops of water, and mixing it well to make a paste. Apply the paste to the irritated area for up to 10 minutes, then rinse with lukewarm water. Repeat regularly up to three times a day if you continue to experience symptoms.If you have dry or sensitive skin, leave the paste on for a shorter period of time to avoid irritation.
Avoid using aspirin on your skin if you're allergic to it or any of its ingredients or experience problems with bleeding, such as the inability to form blood clots. Consult your doctor if you have any questions about any sensitivities to aspirin.
 You can purchase hydrocortisone from any convenience or grocery store. Dab a small amount onto your fingertip or cotton swab, and gently spread it onto the affected area so your skin absorbs it. Use it according to directions on its package, and avoid applying it to open wounds., Apply an antibacterial or antiseptic agent, like an antibacterial gel or an alternative such as witch hazel. Use the product according to its instructions to cut down on bacteria and help heal the rash more quickly. If no other antibacterial products are available, consider dabbing the area with a cotton ball dipped in alcohol.While rubbing alcohol and alcohol-based products will kill germs, they will also dry out your skin and may cause stinging upon application. Using them too frequently can result in overdrying, so use sparingly.
Check the labels of the skin products you use to see if they contain alcohol.
If your cleanser or antibacterial agent contains alcohol and irritates your skin, either stop using it or use it in conjunction with a balm or petroleum jelly.

