


Most importantly, don't grumble if your friend is not the quintessence of your idea of perfection. Just because she is your friend, doesn't mean that she has to be what you want!
Always know that you do not have to be 'perfect' to be a friend. 'Perfection' is non-existent. You just have to be kind, helpful, and trustworthy to be a good friend.
Learn to love yourself, and stop comparing yourself to others. You are what you are! Love yourself for your strengths and love yourself for your weaknesses, and work on improving them. Know that as long as you do not harm anyone, as long as you behave in the way humans should behave, you are alright.;
, However, changing yourself completely to be accepted is not good, bad in fact. For example, if you have a spiteful nature, you might try to be not spiteful, but changing yourself completely is not good.


There is a thin line between changing for the better and changing completely. You should not change yourself just for some people. Learning not to tell lies, trying to help others will not only win you more friendships, but also keep you peaceful. But, watching more movies instead of reading books which you like just to get accepted is wrong.
Maintain a balance in life. You can't say, 'I will be a loner, I will not make friends, I will not change', because having friends is a must! Friendships play an important role in life. But changing yourself completely, instead of doing small amounts of both is horribly wrong!
Getting accepted because you have changed yourself is crime and punishment. Changing yourself is crime, and getting accepted by someone who doesn't accept your differences is punishment!

, So being yourself and being with yourself is best!


If they show plainly that they don't want to be friends, don't beg for friendship.
However, if they welcome you pleasantly when you try to talk to them, make friends happily, but don't push it too far. You are still new people!
Don't stick to them like a limpet. Even if they seem friendly, maintain a distance. You don't want to scare them off! You don't want to be like a friendship-hungry person who follows the unfortunate new friend like a puppy dog.
 If they are correctable, correct them, if not, leave!



Be more friendly and look approachable. Having a mean look or a scowl on your face will deter most people from talking with you.
Stop responding with short, curt answers when meeting new people. Ask questions about their life and stop boasting about yourself.
See if you appear rude. Sometimes, when you might be preoccupied with a pressing problem and refuse to come out of your shell, you might be seen as snobbish.
 everyone has their own faults, as well as their own strengths. You have to learn that you are human, and not perfect, nd so is everyone.


Also, stop seeing only the negative things in others. Before blaming anyone, see if you have wronged.
Learn to accept blame when you deserve it. Accept your fault, and promise to not repeat it. Keep your promise, and be nicer. Do not try to blame others for your faults.
 These adjectives have the same meaning, but are superficially different.


Avoid things like, 'I am passionate about reading but my friend is obsessed with it', 'I eat healthily, but my friend lives to eat'. Here, passionate and obsessed, and eating healthily and living to eat are the same, but the adjectives used for 'I' are different.
Instead, say 'we both love reading'. Avoid the use of negative, if possible. Have a positive, bubbly personality. Being positive makes you more fun to be with.

