 This is a temporary measure. The cat can be reintroduced to his entire domain after these other steps have been accomplished.;
, Something like an end table, a chest, a wall, or even a cinder block or two. Again, this doesn't have to stay there in the long run. It is just to end the destruction immediately.
 Not just any scratching post. It needs to be as tall as what he is destroying now. So measure up to the highest point of the damage. This is probably going to be somewhere around 24", and it wouldn't hurt to go up to 35" or even 48" when you get your cat's new post. The post also needs to be stable. This means that the base needs to be EITHER at least 60% of the height of the post (for a 24" post, the base should be at least about 14 1/2" square), or made from heavy material, like 5/8" to 3/4" panel. Finally, this scratching post should be wrapped with 3/8" Brazilian sisal rope. It can be wrapped on the top half with this rope. Not recommended: hemp, jute, or manila. Totally carpeted scratching posts could be considered, but this 3/8" Brazilian sisal rope is very long-lasting, and cats find that they can really sink their claws into it for a satisfying scratch that is likely to be repeated. Carpet, like corrugated cardboard (sometimes used for scratching pads), will leave a big mess on the floor, and will also need to be replaced frequently. Many sisal rope scratching posts can last upwards of 8 years. Many scratching posts are made with 1/4" sisal rope. In addition to having a shorter life, they are typically prone to being too loosely wrapped to be of much use. There are cheap "traffic cone" scratching posts sold in all the major pet supply stores, and they are bound to be ignored by the cat.
 But after being shown by your vet the proper way to do this regular bit of cat maintenance, it can become routine. The best time to clip a cat's claws is when he is relaxed and sitting - maybe even sleeping - next to you. Many times, this task can be accomplished swiftly without disturbing the cat.
 If the cat generally sits with you while you watch TV, put it at the entrance to this room. Other high traffic areas are just inside the room where the cat is fed, at the entrance to the room where his litter box is, and near a window where he likes to sit & watch birds.
 An effective method is included as a source, here.
 Water is terrifying to a lot of cats, and it's just not necessary to intimidate your cat in any way for any reason. This also applies to striking, yelling at, or otherwise imposing your substantial size advantage on your critter.
,, He'll also appreciate a loving scratch on the top of his head for being a good cat.

