 Giving yourself a gentle massage with essential oils before bed will help relax you and relieve tension. Applying some essential oil to places such as your feet and temples can have a similarly calming effect. By applying these essential oils your body, you may help yourself fall asleep more quickly.


If you are using essential oil for a massage, make sure to mix it with a carrier oil so you don’t burn your skin.Make sure to keep the massage light or else you’ll stimulate your circulation and have a hard time falling and staying asleep.Consider massaging the essential oil into your wrists, feet, legs, or on your temples., If you don’t want to put an essential oil on your skin because it is sensitive, spritz it on your bed linens. The scent will help you relax and may help induce sleep.


Make your spritzer by adding 30-40 drops of your favorite essential oil for sleep to 1.5 ounces of distilled water. Mix these in a clean spray bottle.The number of drops of essential oil you use will depend on how strong you want the scent to be.You only need to lightly mist your bed linens. Dousing them could make for an uncomfortable night’s sleep.
 Candles made from essential oils and scent diffusers that heat essential oil can have the same calming effect as a bath or a massage. Don’t leave them burning so that you don’t accidentally start a fire.


You can buy candles and scent diffusers at most retail stores and online.
When buying candles, it’s important to look for ones without synthetic fragrance. Beeswax, soy and other vegetable based waxes are the best option for getting the benefits of an essential oil by candle.Scent diffusers disperse the essential oil through the air in a room, filling it with the aroma.
For the best use, light candles or scent diffusers an hour to 30 minutes before you go to bed. This will ensure that the scent circulates in your bedroom and creates a relaxing environment to help you sleep.
Make sure to extinguish candles and scent diffusers before you go to bed so that you don’t start a fire.

