 You will first need to purchase either non-buckle board, masonite, hard board, or birch plywood. The first can be found at your local arts and crafts store and is traditionally labeled Gator Board. The latter three can be found at your nearest hardware store. You will need 1/2 inch thick panels. The dimensions of the board should be the size you wish your painting to be. If you can only buy pre-cut panels, make sure to get one larger than your final project. You will also need:


Linen or cotton canvas material. This usually comes in rolls and can be found at arts and crafts stores. A typical precut canvas size is a 21 inch (53.34 cm) height x 50 inch (127 cm) width roll of canvas, which will give you two 20 inch x 24 inch (50.8 cm x 60.96 cm) canvas panels.Miracle Muck Glue
Rotary blade and/or scissors
Ruler
Pencil
Rubber paint roller
Heavy rubber roller
Paper towels
Sand paper
Rotary saw (for masonite, hard board, and/or birch plywood)
Brown wrapping paper

, This is only if the sheet of board you bought was pre-cut, and therefore larger than your final project. First measure out, using a ruler and pencil, the dimensions of your board. You can draw lines directly onto the board. Try and make sure to use the back of the board, this way pencil lines won't appear on the front. When you are done you should have a rectangular shape outlined on the board.If your board is non-buckle board such as Gator Board, use a rotary blade to cut along the lines you drew.
If your board is masonite, hard board, or birch plywood, you will need to use a rotary saw to cut it down to size. Cut along the lines that you drew on the board.
Make sure that you are in a safe area, such as outside or in your construction garage. Always wear goggles when cutting, and make sure that your hands do not get near the blade.
No matter what board you are using, after it is cut, sand the edges down gently so that they are smooth.
 Outline a blueprint to cut along, approximately 1 inch (2.54 cm) longer than the board on each side. You can do this with a simple ruler and pencil. If your canvas material has two sides (one for show, one for backing) make sure you are drawing pencil lines on the side meant for backing. Lift away your canvas.For example, if your board is 20 X 30 inches, the rectangle you draw onto the canvas should be 22 X 32 inches.
Cut the rectangle out with either a pair of scissors or a rotary blade. If you use a rotary blade, make sure that you are cutting on top of a safe surface such as a cutting board.
 Take some of your Miracle Muck Glue (or off brand) and pour it onto the middle of the canvas sheet (middle of the drawn rectangle). Take out your rubber paint roller and begin spreading it around the sheet. Try your best to keep the glue contained within the drawn rectangle.Then pour some glue onto the middle of one side of your board. Take the same roller and begin to spread it around. The corners and edges are especially important.
The glue spread over both surfaces should be a relatively thin layer. Do not pour too much otherwise it will ooze out the sides when you place them together.
 Take your board and flip it over. Press the glued side of the board against the glue side of the canvas (on table, facing up). Line up the board as best you can with the drawn rectangle on the canvas. Then, take your heavy roller out and begin to run the roller against the board. This will get the air bubbles out that are likely to be present between the canvas and board.While you are rolling the board, you may have to readjust the board as it might slide.
After you have rolled against the board, press down with your hands. Place one hand overtop of one another and apply pressure firmly and evenly throughout. This will further secure the board to the canvas.
 Place two heavy books side-by-side on top of your canvas so that they cover the entire space. Then begin to stack other books on top of them. You can even add other heavy objects such as paper weights to the top of your pile. This pressure needs to be created in order for the canvas to seal with the board.If you have not already done so, transfer this pile to a safe location. This should be somewhere where there is not a lot of movement going on. Do not place this near a children's play space. The best place is a basement, or a secluded room.
Your canvas will need an entire day to properly dry and set. The following day (after 24 hours) you can remove the books/weights.
 Do so by cutting a diagonal slice into the canvas in line with each corner of the board. Then fold each side of the slice so they are lying on top of each other in a perpendicular manner. One option to get them to remain pulled back is to apply some super glue to the underside of the canvas edges. Then press each edge, one at a time, against the edge of the board. Hold each edge for at least 1 minute.If you use the glue method, make sure that the glue is spread evenly over the entire strip so that it does not begin to peel away.
The second method is to use sewing pins. Curve your edges backwards and stick two to three pins on each side, through the canvas and into the board. This method only really works on Gator Board; however, you can try to tick the pins into a harder surface.
 Take your rotary blade and cut the canvas as close to the board as you can possibly get it. Make sure that you are cutting on a safe surface such as a cutting board. Depending on the thickness of the canvas you may have to pass over the same area multiple times in order to cut it., Outline and cut a sheet of brown wrapping paper about 1/2 inch (1.27 cm) shy of the actual size of the mounted canvas on each side. For example, if your mounted canvas is 20 X30 inches, the brown wrapping paper should be 19 1/2 X 29 1/2 inches. Simply use a ruler to measure the edges, and draw out the dimensions onto the paper using a pencil. Then cut with either scissors or a rotary blade., Make sure that the canvas fabric is facing down. First, pour some Miracle Muck Glue onto the back of the board. Spread it out evenly using your paint roller. Then take your brown wrapping paper and press it against the glued board. Use your heavy roller and roll against the brown paper. Make sure that there are no air bubbles left over.Put two heavy books on top of the brown paper so that they cover the entire space. Put other heavy books and/or objects on top of those two books.
 The canvas should once more be kept in a safe space. Wait 24 hours before you remove the books and/or objects. Once the canvas is dry, it is ready for use.

