 The app will use your current location as the default start point, but you can enter one manually, which is helpful for planning trips in advance. Tap the right-pointing arrow on the upper left to manually enter a Start location.;
, Tap the search bar at the top of your screen and enter an address, city and zip code. If you tapped the right-pointing arrow to enter a Start location, you can also indicate the Destination here.


Alternate method: Search for any destination or address in Safari, then click the Directions icon to open the Maps app.
 Once the Start and End destinations have been set, the app will automatically return to a map view, highlighting a driving route by default. Next to the Drive tab, you’ll see a Walk and Transit tab. Tap the Transit tab to view public transit options.
 Stops will be noted with circular waypoints along the route. Connections and transfers are noted in different colors for easy reference. For instance, in New York, subways are different colors than bus lines.


View the legend beneath the map for icons denoting the type of public transit used, which can be a combination of buses, subways, and trolleys. The legend offers estimated wait times for each bus stop and transfer, along with an estimate of total travel time.
 If you’ve found a route you’d like to use, tap the legend heading to view the navigational instructions in list form.
 If you want to view alternative travel routes on the map, tap “More Routes.”

, Click “Options” at the top right to set departure and arrival times along with preferred transit vehicles. Once finished, click “Done” on the top left.
 The map will enlarge to display a series of single screen instructions. Walking routes will be noted by a dashed line and lead to the nearest transit stop.
 Directions will include walking distance and estimated time. A visual route will display on the map beneath the navigation headings.


Swipe left across the navigation headings to view the next step and instructions along the route along with any time estimates. Swipe right to return to the previous instruction.
Alternate method: Tap the Bullet List icon at the bottom center of your screen to view all directions in list format. Tap any entry on the list to go to that step on the map view.
Tap the “Overview” button on the top right at any time to view the entire route on the map. Tap “Resume” on the top right to resume navigation instructions.
 Directions will include exits and transfers by noting specific intersections and street names, along with walking instructions to any additional transit lines. Once your public transit journey is complete, the app will offer walking directions to your final destination.

