 In order to make the dusting process easier and more effective, you should remove all of the clutter around your house. Remove things that have gathered on tables or countertops. Put away loose items that have collects on the floors, sofas, and chairs., Wear a facemask that covers your nose and mouth if you are sensitive to dust. You may also want to cover your eyes with goggles to prevent dust from entering and bothering your eyes., Before you start dusting, try to remove as much dust from fabrics in your home by shaking them out outside. Remove couch cushions and firmly pat them to remove loose dust. Do the same with the pillows on your bed, couch, and chairs. Shake out your curtains, too., It is best to start at the top and work your way down since the dust will fall. Begin dusting your house by wiping down your light fixtures and ceiling fans. This can be done using a clean, damp cloth or fiber duster.
 Lightly dampen a clean cloth with a spray bottle of water. Begin lightly dusting the doors and walls of your home. Pay extra attention to corners and crevices in the door, trim, or crown molding.
 Use a window cleaner, like Windex, and a clean cloth to clean the windows. Window cleaner is designed to leave glass streak-free. Use a squeegee to eliminate any streaks on the glass. Dampen a clean cloth with your spray bottle of water to wipe down the window sills., Remove any decorative items from surfaces like bookcases, countertops, and tables. Use a fiber duster to dust these surfaces. If the dust is caked onto the surface, you may need to use a damp cloth. Dampen a clean, microfiber cloth with a spray bottle of water., Dust all of the decorative items that you removed from the flat surfaces. These can be dusted with a fiber duster or damp cloth. Once you have finished dusting each item, return it to its original position.Do not dust these items while they sit on the surfaces. This will leave dust on your newly dusted surface.
 Remove any linens that can be machine washed, such as sheets, pillowcases, or curtains. These items also collect dust over time. Wash these linens with like colors. Dry them in the clothes dryer or hang them to dry on a clothes line.
 Now that you have removed most dust from surfaces, you can vacuum your furniture. This will help to pick up any dust that wasn’t removed when shaking out the cushions and pillows. Vacuum your couch and chairs in each room., A lot of dust will settle on the floor from the surfaces that you have cleaned. Use a clean mop and water to mop any hard floors, such as hardwood or tile., Remove any dust from carpets and rugs using a vacuum cleaner. Use a vacuum hand tool to get into the corners and hard to reach places., Your house may look dust free but you should check under and behind furniture to be sure. Move big pieces of furniture like couches, beds, and dressers and continue cleaning the floors.