 After the babies are born, continue to refill water bottles and food dishes for a week, but don't disturb the mother and her babies. Keep them as isolated from traffic and noise as possible — keep curious children, loud TV or radio sounds, and nosy dogs or cats out of the room.


Do not handle babies at all for 14 days after birth.
Do not clean the cage for those 2 weeks, either
Keep the room temperature around 70 F.
 However, they grow and develop very quickly. As they grow, keep these approximate landmarks in mind to make sure they're developing at a healthy, normal rate:


5-15 days: eyes and ears should open
7 days: they start to crawl around
7-10 days: they take an interest in solid food
10 days: hair starts to grow
10-20 days: they start to be able to drink from a sipper bottle

, The newborns' best chance of survival is if they have a mother with strong nurturing instincts. You job is to stand back and let her do all the work. If you upset or disturb her, she's more likely to turn on her young, so stay out of her way. With newborn hamsters in the care of a mother, less is definitely more.
 You can choose fresh foods like timothy grass, carrots, and other food, but you can still feed her hamster food.


Pelleted food suitable for rats or mice is preferable to hamster muesli. This is because the hamster can selectively eat the tastier bits of the muesli, leaving behind the less tasty but more nutritious bits.
 At around 7-10 days, the babies will be ready to get food and drink from a source other than the mother. Don't put a water bowl in the cage, as they may drown in it. Instead, place a sipper bottle with the nozzle about 1–2 centimeter (0.4–0.8 in) above the bedding. This is in addition to the mother's normally placed bottle — the babies' bottle will be too low for the mother to reach. The babies will begin snacking on their mother's food when they're ready. Once they start to eat solid food, make sure there's plenty to go around.
 You can leave dwarf hamsters together safely, but you should separate them by sex if you don't want them to mate. This should be done within 48 hours of weaning, which can be done around 21-28 days after birth.


Puberty starts around 2 - 18 days after weaning. Hamsters are ready to reproduce at this time.

