 It looks like a grey silhouette of a man.
 Your name will appear at the top of the contacts list with the label "My Card” below it. Your personal information will appear., This is in the top right corner of the screen. An edit menu will appear where you can change your name, contact information, home address, and other personal information., Some information like first name, last name, phone number, email, and home address are most likely to be used by Safari's autofill., This is in the top right corner of the screen. Safari will now have information it can use to complete personal information fields online., The icon will appear as a set of grey gears and is located on the Home Screen., It is about a third of the way down the menu., It is in the “General” section., A popup window will appear with a list of your saved contacts., Your name will appear in the list with the label “me” to the right of it. Safari will now automatically enter your information any time it completes personal information such as name or address., The icon will appear as a set of grey gears and is located on the Home Screen., It is about a third of the way down the menu., It is in the “General” section., A list of your stored credit cards will appear.

Make sure the Credit Cards slider is in the “on” position. It will be green. This will allow Safari to use your credit card information when completing payment information.
 A popup window will appear where you can add the name, number, and expiration date on your card.,

You can also take a picture of your credit card instead. Tap Use Camera to have the iPhone collect and save your credit card data.
 This is in the top right corner of the screen. Safari will save and automatically enter your credit card information anytime you are on a payment page.

Using saved credit card information will still require final approval from you before a payment is processed. Safari will never automatically process your credit card information.
You can edit or delete existing credit cards by tapping on a card in the Credit Cards list.

