 Depending how young your puppy is when you bring them home (eight weeks is usually the earliest breeders will allow), you may need to transition them from liquid to solid foods. Most of the time, this step will be done by the breeder when the puppy is between three to six weeks old. Ask your breeder if they’ve already made this transition. If not, add a quality canine milk replacer to their food to help them transition from a liquid diet to a solid one.If your puppy is not eating any solid food when you bring them home, start by mixing a 50/50 ratio of milk replacer to water. Dip their noses in this mixture two or three times a day until they are drinking it on their own. They will usually catch on within one to four days.If they have been eating some solid food, begin by adding enough milk replacer to make their food the consistency of soup. Crush the kibbles a bit or break up the canned food some to make it easier to digest. Over the next two to three weeks, gradually include less and less of the milk replacer every few days until they are eating only solid food.Use only a good quality canine milk replacer. Don’t use cow or goat milk, or any other type of liquid.;
, Gradually transition your Yorkie puppy from the food they were eating at the breeder’s to the new food you will be feeding them. This will help prevent digestive issues they might experience from abruptly switching from one food to another. If you also have to transition them from liquid to solid food, this can be done at the same time.


Feed them the same food they’ve been eating (find out from the breeder or pet store) for two weeks after you bring them home.
Once this two weeks is over, start mixing their food. Begin by mixing a 3:1 ratio of old food to new for five days.
Next, mix a 1:1 ratio for five days.
Finally, give them a 1:3 ratio of old food to new for another 5 days. Once this is complete, you are safe to feed them only their new food., The weaning age for puppies starts when they are between four and seven weeks old and goes up to three months. At this stage, puppies need to be free fed, meaning you should leave their food out all day long so they can eat whenever they need. This helps prevent hypoglycemia, or low blood sugar, and promotes growth., Most people choose to feed their puppy a manufactured food, in either a canned or kibble variety. Ingredients in manufactured dog foods must be listed in descending order on the nutrition label, so look for a brand in which meat is the first item listed.


Make sure the type of meat listed is a name you recognize, like chicken, lamb, or beef. Stay away from brands containing generic “meats” that don’t specify what kind is actually in the food.In addition, check the label to make sure at least one other type of meat is included in the first three to five ingredients. This can also include high-quality dairy products like eggs. Try to avoid brands in which the top five ingredients include mostly grains, like wheat meal and wheat middlings., Small dogs need a high-calorie diet because they expend a lot of energy throughout the day, and therefore burn more calories. Look for foods that are made specifically for toy breeds and small dogs. These foods will have a higher calorie content that those made for bigger dogs.Once your dog is older, you can look for a dry dog food specifically for Yorkies, like Royal Canin's Yorkshire Terrier Dry Dog Food or Eukanuba's Yorkshire Adult Dog Food. This breed-specific food provides a high protein content, is well-balanced in carbohydrates and fats, and includes omega-3 fatty acids to keep their coats looking and feeling silky. It also has an aroma that appeals to Yorkies, which are known for being picky eaters., Kibble is usually considered a better choice for Yorkies than wet canned food. Yorkies are known to develop dental problems and the dry, brittle texture of kibble will help clean their teeth. However, both are safe if they include quality ingredients. Much of your decision will depend upon which type of food your puppy prefers., If you choose a canned food, you can skip this step. However, if you are going with a kibble, be sure to pick one with small, bite-sized pieces. Doing so will make it easier for your Yorkie to digest their food.
 While most people choose a manufactured food for their Yorkie puppy, making your own food for them is also a good choice. Many argue it is a better choice since this eliminates the possibility that there are chemicals, fillers, and coloring in it. Your puppy’s food should be 1/3 protein and 2/3 vegetables and grains.If you choose to make your puppy’s food, ensure you include the following items:


Meat: You can use a variety of meats like lean chicken and ground beef, as well as turkey, lamb, veal, bison, and fish.
Vegetables: String beans, carrots, sweet peas, and spinach are all good choices.
Carbohydrates: These can include sweet potatoes or regular potatoes, white or brown rice, and pasta.
Fruits: Blueberries, raspberries, mangos, and bananas all work well.
Extras: For some additional variety, provide whole white yogurt, cottage cheese, and eggs., Growing puppies usually need 45 to 55 calories per pound of body weight per day. The type of food you decide to feed your puppy—manufactured or homemade—will impact the amount you need to give them.


If you’re feeding your puppy a manufactured food, check the label. Manufactured dog foods generally provide serving sizes according to your dog’s weight.
If you’re providing homemade food, you’ll likely need smaller portions because it is more calorie-dense than manufactured food., Once your puppy is weaned (usually around three months), you should start feeding them scheduled meals. Feed your puppy three to four small meals a day—morning, lunchtime, early evening (if you’re feeding them four meals), and evening. They should eat their last meal at least two hours before bedtime.


Continuing to free-feed at this age can make housebreaking much more difficult because you won’t know when your dog needs to go to the bathroom. Having a well-scheduled day also helps promote good behavior., Yorkies have very small stomachs so you must take into account how snacks and treats will affect their meals for the day. Generally, they should only be given as a reward for good behavior or when you are command training.


Stay away from brightly-colored treats, which often contain a lot of chemicals. Look for white or cream-colored treats instead.
Good homemade snacks include items like baby carrots or frozen blueberries.