 Where trust is absent, you might see increases in secrecy, withholding of important information, inefficiency, gossip and excessive blame. Whispering, closed-off body language and stonewalling are common in environments of mistrust.;
, In a work environment, employees may do sub-par work due to fears of revealing their skills deficiencies. A family member might refrain from discussing financial difficulties for fear of being labeled irresponsible or lazy.



Listen carefully to others. This is particularly important if you are in a leadership position as a manager, teacher or head of a household. Creating an environment where people can speak without being interrupted, dismissed or rejected will increase trust and sharing.
Encourage group members to share their feelings. If a person feels hurt and has the opportunity to express those feelings, it allows others to apologize and to repair relationships.
Share your challenges with others. A manager who is open about project struggles creates an atmosphere of openness that allows team members to contribute solutions. It also conveys the impression that no one is perfect, which removes the pressure of judgment that is often present in mistrustful environments.
Apologize for your mistakes. If you make a decision that negatively affects others or you use abrasive language, apologize immediately to keep mistrust and resentment from growing.
Establish regular check-in sessions. Schedule regular meetings for everyone to gather and discuss any issues, ideas and new developments. Frequently held meetings will prevent the festering of grievances and negative feelings.
 Develop a culture of trust by keeping your promises. If circumstances change preventing you from following through on your word, explain new developments to others so that they are continually informed.
 Individuals may withdraw when their opinions and contributions are dismissed. Practice open-mindedness and reserve judgment about others whose approaches are different from yours.
 Consider the impact of major decisions on each and every person involved. Avoid practices that allow leaders to exploit their power and subordinates to feel powerless or without recourse.
 Providing such encouragement helps people to feel valued. It increases their trust for the environment, the leadership and their value to the group.

