 Use a sponge and hot soapy water to scrub the wok. Rinse the wok and dry it with a clean cloth. Set the wok on the stove over high heat until the wok starts smoking. Taking care not to burn yourself, turn the wok so that all of it is exposed to the high heat. Dip a paper towel in oil and hold it between a pair of tongs. Rub the oiled towel over the wok.Uncoated carbon steel woks usually come with a light coating of oil to protect it from tarnishing or rusting. Scrubbing the wok will remove this coating before you're ready to use it.;
, Fill your sink with hot water. Once your wok has cooled a little, place it in the sink to soak for a few minutes (or up to 30 min if food is really cooked on). Soaking your wok will loosen any food debris, making it easier to scrub off.Avoid extremes in heat when cleaning your wok to prevent warping your wok. For example, don't place a really hot wok into a sink full of cold water or you could damage the wok.
 Take a kitchen sponge, scrubber or wok-cleaning brush to scrub away any food debris and remnants. You should be able to clean the wok using only hot water and a sponge. But if you prefer, you could use a little dish soap on your sponge while you scrub.Avoid using an abrasive sponge, like steel wool, since this could damage any protective layers of coating that have built up on your wok.
 Once you've scrubbed away any built on food, completely rinse the wok with hot water. Look at the wok again and check for any food remnants you might have missed.Very dirty woks might need another scrub and rinse at this point.
 You'll need to remove all moisture from the wok or it could rust. To dry the wok, put your wok back on the stove over medium-low heat. Keep the wok on the heat until all the water has evaporated. Let the wok cool before you handle it again.You can rub a light coat of vegetable oil over the surface of your wok before you store it.
If your wok rusts, you'll need to scour the rust away and re-season the wok like you did before you first used the wok.

