 If you're trying to find ways to deal with your friend's negativity, knowing more about why she's so negative might help. Usually negativity comes from one of 3 basic fears: the fear of being disrespected, the fear of not being loved, and the fear that something bad is going to happen.If you can, provide your friend reassurance to the basic fear that's underneath whatever she's complaining about.
Avoid talking directly about the complaint she mentions. For example, if your negative friend is complaining about the way her boss treats her, she might be concerned about her financial security (if she loses her job) and her pride or self-esteem (maybe she feels like her job isn't worthy of respect). Rather than engage in complaints about her boss, focus on the economic upturn in your local economy, or that her job has a lot of room for growth.
 Some people find it hard to talk about certain topics without quickly becoming negative. If you're trying to avoid negative people, stay away from those topics that are likely to deteriorate into complaints and self-pity. If a topic like this comes up, quickly steer the conversation into lighter ground.


Try talking about the latest movie you've seen, happy news, or your hobbies might help your friend be more positive.
Have compassion for yourself through this process. If you don't allow yourself to become derailed by self-judgment, you'll be more able to successfully navigate your friendship.
 If you realize that your friend is just offering her perspective, or not being intentionally manipulative, it may be easier for you to find the common ground in what she's said. Often, resistance and disagreement encourages negative spirals of conversation that can be avoided simply by identifying with something the person has said.For example, if your husband says, "Shut up, I'm not finished," you can choose to respond by saying, "I'm sorry, please go on." This response connects with his perspective (that you interrupted) and deflates the negative spiral.
On the other hand, if your husband says, "Shut up, I'm not finished," and you say, "I didn't interrupt, and you're a jerk," you'll only escalate the negative tension.
 In most relationships, research suggests that 60% of difficulties may be insolvable. The issue isn't the fact of the problem in the relationship, but the way in which the couple chooses to handle it.A professional counselor may be useful at helping you identify the patterns of your relationship or friendship, and to learn new ways of coping with your differences.
The belief that you and your friend or spouse should share the same point of view on most issues, large or small, is a myth that will ultimately create more difficulty coping with your differences. Recognizing that different perspectives are normal and healthy may help your friendship be more positive.
 Journaling, meditation, and yoga have all been shown to be effective tools in handling ongoing relationships with negative people. Using mindfulness exercises to bring your attention to your own response, rather than reacting to the actions of the negative person, have been shown to be successful in clinical research conducted by psychologists.Other beneficial practices included concentration meditation and training designed to promote empathy.
This research suggests that regardless of the actions of another person, it's possible to manage your own response and minimize the negative impact another person has upon your life.

