 Cardiovascular workouts gets your heart pumping and will help you burn fat and lose weight. Concentrate on these types of workout for quick weight loss. Follow this cardio workout every day to lose weight quickly.Cross jacks -- You will want to do this in between each of the following moves. To do a cross jack, stand with your feet hip-width apart with your arms at your side. Jump your feet wide as you cross your arms overhead. Then, jump feet together crossing one foot in front of the other as you cross your arms in front of your hips. Do this for 30 second to a minute, switching positions on each jump.
Single leg balance -- Balance on one leg, with other leg bent with foot slightly off the ground in front of you. Place your hands on your hips and lower into a squat, keeping foot off the floor. Maintain your squat throughout. Do 10 reps on each side.
Crawl -- Lower yourself into a push-up form. Step your foot forward, bringing your knee toward the elbow and reach forward with opposite hand. Switch sides and repeat. Stay in crouched position throughout and crawl for 30 seconds and then reverse movement.
Wall slide -- With your back facing the wall, lie on your left side and rest your head on your left hand. Put your right hand on the floor for balance. Placing your right heel on the wall behind you, slide foot as far up the wall as you can. Lower slowly. Do this for 10 reps and then switch sides.
Lunge to push-up -- With your feet hip-width apart, put your hands on your hip. Step forward with your right leg and lunge. Lean forward over your thigh and place your hands on the floor, over your right foot. Step foot backward so you are in a push-up position. After counting to ten, press up and return to lunge form. Switch legs and repeat for 10 reps.
Pendulum - Balance on your right leg and bend your left leg behind you. Place your right hand on your hip and lower into a squat on your right leg. Reach your left arm above your head and lean back slightly as you extend your left leg forward. Hold for ten seconds. Switch legs and repeat for 10 reps.
 To reduce risk of heart disease and help you lose weight, try and get get 10,000 steps in each day.You can track this with a pedometer or a fitness tracker. To get these steps try the following:


Walk to work if you can. If you can't, try getting off the bus at an earlier stop or park at the end of the parking lot.
Take the stairs. Avoid taking the elevator.
Take a two or three minute break every hour and walk.
 It is easy to just go through the motions with these workouts. However, you have to push yourself to feel the burn. Do not just do move through the steps; try and engage your muscles when you work out.

