 When deciding on a substrate, make sure to consider how healthy it is for the type of fish you have or want, as well as the practical advantages and disadvantages of each type.Eels and rays need sandy floors, for example, since they spend most of their time on the bottom. Avoid adding natural objects unless they have been properly cleaned and sanitized. Generally, you need 1-2” of substrate on the bottom of your tank, but research your individual fish to see what is recommended.Wood, rocks and shells found outside may have minerals that harm fish when leaching into the surrounding water. Any rocks used shouldn’t have sharp edges for fish to cut themselves.
Do not wash gravel or other materials with soap, detergent, or bleach. If not washed out properly, those products can poison a fish. Find a product made to clean non-aquarium specific materials to ensure your fish’s safety.
Sand is harder to clean than rocks or pebbles, especially if you want to perform gravel washes.Glass pebbles are pretty, but do not provide areas for good bacteria to grow on, which can improve the environment for your fish.
 Whether your chosen theme dictates a tank lush with flora or with one plant, using aquatic-friendly live plants adds natural beauty to your aquarium. Live plants look also help sustain healthy water quality in your tank and give them places to hide. They recycle nitrogen from fishes’ waste, keeping water cleaner, keep carbon dioxide levels from becoming toxic and provide oxygen for your fish to breathe.


You will need to pull dead leaves off live plants and watch for decaying matter that periodically falls off.Plastic or silk plants are more colorful and easier to care for, since they can’t die.
Make sure to buy plants specifically made for aquariums. Other hobby plants, like those made for train models, may contain substances that are harmful or toxic for your fish.
 Don’t put any painted objects or anything with sharp corners in your tank.Make sure to include places for fish to hide, but avoid overcrowding your tank or your fish will not have enough swimming room.


If you are using plants too, one or two cool accessories is probably enough.

