 A waffle iron, or waffle maker, is a small appliance that’s specifically designed to make waffles. Preheat the waffle maker to 365 F (185 C), or setting three or four.As the waffle iron heats up, you can make the batter.


Most waffle irons will beep when they reach temperature.;
, In a large mixing bowl, combine the flour, sugar, baking powder, and salt. Whisk everything together to remove lumps and combine all the ingredients.For some additional flavor and spiciness in your waffles, add ½ teaspoon (1.3 g) of ground cinnamon to the dry ingredients.
 Crack the eggs into a medium mixing bowl one at a time. Add the milk and oil. Whisk until all the wet ingredients are incorporated and the eggs are light and fluffy.


For even richer waffles, use melted butter in place of the oil., Slowly pour the wet ingredients into the dry ingredients, and mix the batter with a wooden spoon or rubber spatula as you pour. Once you’ve added all the liquids, stir the batter until all the ingredients are just combined.


Avoid overmixing, as this can develop the gluten in the flour and make for chewy waffles.
It’s ok if there are a few lumps left in the batter., For waffle irons that don’t have a non-stick coating, spray the inside with cooking spray or brush it with a thin layer of oil. Measure between ⅔ and ¾ cup of batter, depending on the manufacturer’s instructions, and pour the batter into the bottom plate of the preheated waffle iron.Close the lid, secure the latch, and cook the waffles for four to six minutes.
Some waffle irons will beep when the waffles are ready. For irons that don’t beep, cook the waffles until there's no more steam escaping from the waffle iron.
 When the waffle is cooked, unlatch the waffle iron and open the top. Use a rubber spatula or silicone knife to remove the waffle without scratching the iron. Transfer the waffle to a plate and serve warm.


Add more cooking spray to the iron, and repeat with the remaining batter until all the waffles have been cooked.
 There are a number of garnishes you can put on a waffle, but some of the most traditional are butter, maple syrup, fresh fruit, whipped cream, and confectioner’s sugar.You can top your waffle with any combination of these, and classic topping combinations include:


Spread butter over top of the warm waffle, and then drizzle maple syrup on top until the syrup runs down the sides of the waffle.Spread a layer of sliced strawberries or sliced bananas on top of the waffle, and then cover the fruit with a generous dollop of whipped cream.
Add some fresh fruit to the waffle and sprinkle a dusting of confectioner’s sugar over the fruit.
 In many places, waffles are served and eaten with a knife and fork. Pierce the corner of the waffle with your fork, and use the knife to cut off a small, bite-sized piece. Use the fork to pick up the piece and bring it to your mouth. Wait until you chew and swallow before cutting another small piece.


If the syrup drains off the waffle piece when you pick it up with the fork, dip it into the excess syrup on the plate before taking your bite.
If your waffle has toppings life fruit and whipped cream on top, pick up a piece of fruit and cream with each forkful of waffle.
 This method of eating works best for waffles that aren't garnished with fruit, cream, syrup, and other toppings that can fall off easily. Leave your waffle plain, or garnish it with some powdered sugar. Wrap the waffle in a napkin or piece of waxed paper, and eat the waffle by taking little bites at a time.


In Belgium, there are two main types of waffles, Brussels and Liege waffles. While Brussels waffles are eaten with a knife and fork, Liege waffles are generally eaten with the hands.
Liege waffles are sold as street food, and they typically aren't garnished the way other waffles are. Instead, Liege waffles have rocks of sugar in the batter, and the sugar melts and crystallizes when the waffles cook., Waffles are extremely versatile, and you can top them with any type of garnish you like, including a homemade cream cheese glaze. Simply drizzle the glaze over your waffle in place of syrup. To make the glaze, beat together in a mixing bowl:4 tablespoons (56 g) unsalted butter
2 ounces (57 g) of cream cheese
¾ cup (94 g) of powdered sugar
½ teaspoon (2.5 ml) vanilla extract

, Chicken and waffles is an American dish that combines a breakfast-style waffle with dinner-style chicken. The waffle is typically served with butter and syrup, and the chicken is deep fried and served with one or two dipping sauces.


When eating chicken and waffles, you can opt to eat the two components of the dish separately, or you can combine the chicken and waffle in every bite.
 Waffles don’t have to be a breakfast dish, and you can eat them with savory toppings like cheese, meat, and vegetables. In fact, you can use two waffles in place of bread to make a sandwich, such as a waffle Monte Cristo. To make this meal, or one like it, butter the waffles and make a sandwich using:Dijon mustard
Thinly sliced ham and turkey, or other deli meats
A couple of slices of Emmental or other cheese
Red currant jelly
A dusting of confectioner’s sugar

, Bread pudding is a tasty dessert that’s popular around the world, and you can make your own creative version using waffle pieces instead of bread. Bread pudding typically requires stale bread, and you can replicate this by leaving the waffles out and exposed to the air for a day or two.To make the bread pudding more like a traditional waffle dish, use maple syrup instead of sugar, and use heavy cream instead of milk to replicate whipped cream.
 Waffles make a great creative alternative to pizza dough, and you can make a customized waffle pizza with all your favorite toppings. To make the pizza, put fresh toppings on a pre-cooked waffle and heat it in the oven. Popular toppings to try include:Cheese
Tomato paste or sauce
Olives
Spinach
Pepperoni

, Stuffed waffles are a delicious variation on traditional waffles. To make a stuffed waffle, you cook the toppings right into the waffle rather than using them as garnish. Pour the batter, add your favorite toppings, close the lid, and cook the waffles. Toppings you can try include:Peanut butter and jam
Caramel or chocolate sauce
Fresh fruit or fruit compote
Chocolate-hazelnut spread

