 Make sure not to focus on the negative in every situation. Instead, try being positive about what you feel good about and are looking forward to in the future.Create a list of things you are grateful for. You may be grateful for your parents or maybe even your new jacket. Try to appreciate the good things in your life.
Write down one thing every day that you are looking forward to. This can help you appreciate the future and what it has to offer.
Imagine all the things that could happen in the future. Think about your future self and all the things you will accomplish.;
, Sometimes taking the focus off yourself can help you to be more optimistic. Help make others feel better and often you’ll feel better as well..


Share any encouraging thoughts if you have them. If you are impressed by someone’s ability in math or science class, tell them. Making others feel good about themselves can make you feel good too.
Give small, thoughtful gifts to your friends. People appreciate when others are thinking of them. Even something as simple as buying a friend a coffee can encourage them to stay positive at school.
Offer practical help if people seem to be struggling. Asking to help someone carry heavy or large items indoors can be a good way to encourage others by showing them you care.
 Though it may sometimes be difficult, it’s important to not get down when teachers offer you feedback. Take what they say and learn how to apply it to be better in the future.Breathe when you get any potentially negative feedback. Take a minute to calm down your initial response before you react.
Take your own notes about the feedback you receive. If it’s written feedback, write down what you think you need to do based on your teacher’s recommendations. If it’s oral feedback, write down what the teacher is telling you and verify that you’re understanding correctly.
Be thankful for feedback. Thank your teacher for giving you feedback. Consider it as an opportunity to improve yourself.
 Smiling can make you feel better. Even if you’re not feeling great, just the physical act of smiling improves your mood.

People will find you more trustworthy and approachable if you’re smiling. Smiling makes you look like an open and warm person that will listen and be friendly.
Smiling makes other people smile. It can be contagious if you see others smiling around you.
You are also more productive when you smile. Smiling makes you feel better, so you work harder and smarter.
 Some teachers may offer extra help either before or after school. Additionally, you can always find a tutor to help you on any subjects you’re really struggling with.Go to any before or after school tutoring that your teacher offers. Talking to your teacher more about your school work, especially areas where you are struggling, can be really beneficial.
Come to any tutoring sessions with specific questions. You can get the most out of your tutoring session if you have clear questions for your teacher. Stating, “I don’t get it” isn’t as useful as “I’m confused about…..”
Find an individual tutor. There may be tutors who are other students at your school. See if you can find any of these students who may be willing to help you out with your work.
 Not everyone is good at every subject. Emphasize the things you do well so you can do those that much better while you’re in school.Enjoy the classes that you do well in. Some classes may be easier for you than others, so make sure to really shine in those classes.
Feel a sense of accomplishment when you succeed. It’s important to feel good when you do something well. If you got an A on that test or really did well on that essay, recognize what you’ve done and feel good about it.
Find things that you enjoy outside of school. Pick up some hobbies or extracurricular activities. Enjoying these things can put school work into perspective.
 Optimistic people try to take a longer view. Don’t get impatient with yourself if you’re struggling in school.Catch yourself if you find yourself getting impatient. Recognize when you’re feeling impatient and end your thought process.
Relax your body from your head to your toes. Don’t get tense by being too impatient.
Focus on what you’re currently doing. Try not to think too far ahead, but instead work on this particular homework assignment or this particular test.

