 Locate a two quart or two liter saucepan. Whisk the salt, sugar, cornstarch, and cardamom together in the saucepan. Whisk these ingredients until they are completely combined., Once you have thoroughly combined the salt, sugar, cornstarch, and cardamom, you will add the milk and eggs. Whisk the milk and eggs into the dry ingredients until combined. Make sure there are no lumps in the mixture., Once you have whisked together the ingredients, bring them to a boil in the saucepan over medium heat. Whisk the ingredients constantly as you bring them to a boil. Keep whisking until the ingredients have thickened. This will take about one minute. Remove from stove., Transfer the filling to a bowl. Cover the bowl with plastic wrap. Place the filling in the refrigerator while you make the whipped cream., After you place the warm filling in the refrigerator, you will whip the cream. Place the heavy whipping cream and vanilla extract in a medium-sized bowl. Whisk the cream and vanilla together until stiff peaks form., Remove the filling from the refrigerator. Fold the whipped cream into the filling by running a spatula around the sides, and then the base, of the bowl. Then fold the mixture on to itself. Rotate the bowl 90 degrees and repeat until the ingredients are just combined., Once you have folded the whipped cream into the other ingredients, you will transfer the filling into a piping bag. First, fit the piping bag with a fluted tip. Then, transfer the filling to the piping bag., After you transfer the filling to a piping bag, you will need to chill it. Place the piping bag in the refrigerator. Chill the filling for two hours., You will be using your stand mixer to make the dough. Fit the mixer with a paddle attachment. If you do not have a stand mixer, you can make the recipe by hand., Place these ingredients in the bowl of your stand mixer. If making the dough by hand, place the ingredients in a large mixing bowl. Stir the ingredients together by hand., After you combine the milk, sugar, cardamom, and yeast, you will need to let the mixture stand. Allow the mixture to sit until it is foamy. This should take about 10 minutes., Once the milk, sugar, cardamom and yeast have become foamy, you will begin adding the remaining dough ingredients in batches. First, add the egg. Mix by hand or on the low speed of your stand mixer until just combined., If you are making the dough by hand, you will now add the butter to the mixture. Melt the butter and then carefully add it to the egg mixture. Use a spatula to combined the ingredients., After combining the egg with the milk, sugar, cardamom, and yeast, you will add the dry ingredients. Slowly mix in the flour, baking powder and salt on the low setting of your stand mixer or by hand. Mix together until a dough forms. This will take several minutes., If you are using a stand mixer, replace the paddle attachment with a hook attachment. Knead the dough on medium speed or by hand for 2 minutes., Slowly add the butter in batches while continuing to knead for an additional 3-4 minutes. Make sure each batch of butter is fully incorporated before adding the next.If you are kneading by hand and have already incorporated the butter, simply continue kneading for 3-4 minutes.
 Once the butter has been incorporated and/or you have kneaded the dough for an additional 3-4 minutes, you will finalize the kneading process. Continue kneading the dough for a final 4 minutes., After you finish the final 4 minutes of kneading, transfer the dough to a lightly greased bowl. Cover the bowl with plastic wrap and place it in a warm spot. Allow the dough to double in size. This will take about 1 hour., Locate 2 large baking sheets. Tear off two sheets of parchment paper that are roughly the size of each baking sheet. Place the parchment paper on the baking sheets., Transfer the dough to a work surface, such as a countertop or large cutting board. After the dough has doubled in size, divide it into 16 equal portions. Roll each portion into a ball. Place the 8 balls of dough on each baking sheet., Once you have formed the dough balls and placed them on the baking sheets, you will need to let them rise. Cover each baking sheet with plastic wrap. Place the baking sheets in a warm place. Allow the buns to sit until they are slightly risen. This should take about 30 minutes., You will be baking the buns in a standard oven. It is important that you allow the oven to properly preheat before placing the buns in the oven. Preheat the oven to 400 degrees Fahrenheit or 205 degrees Celsius., In a small bowl, combine 1 egg yolk and 1 tablespoon of heavy cream. Brush the egg wash on each dough ball using a pastry brush., Place the buns in the preheated oven. Bake the buns at 400 degrees Fahrenheit or 205 degrees Celsius for 20 minutes. The buns should be golden brown when done., Remove the baking sheets from the oven. Transfer the buns to a wire cooling rack. Allow them to cool until they reach room temperature., After the buns are cool, cut ½ inch or 1 ¼ centimeters off the top of each bun. Set the top aside and then pull most of the dough from the inside of each bun and discard. Pipe the filling into each cavity. Top with the bun lids, dust with confectioners’ sugar, and serve.