 You do not have to absolutely refrain from eating or drinking but try to shift your meal times to match your fasting schedule. Once your body becomes conditioned this way, abstaining from food and drink will become effortless when you are actually fasting and you will be able to concentrate on your studies.;
, It is pragmatic to start the air conditioning or cooling system well before time because in summer, it takes longer to get the room walls cooled. Keep the windows shut unless the air outside is cool; keep the blinds shut and the doors closed. Get used to the environment of the house.
 This idea may seem obvious but by breaking the syllabus/homework in small accomplish able tasks, you won't feel overwhelmed.
 Use this day as a diagnostic to tell you what changes need to be made. Improvise your schedule for better results.
 Keep as far away from the kitchen as possible, try staying in the coolest room of the house. If you are in the school try staying out of the sun. Staying cool is very important as it is the only way you can concentrate on your studies completely.
 Also if you complete all your tasks in the beginning you will feel more at ease. It is much cooler at sunrise and since most of the people are asleep, it is easier to focus.
 Try fitting them in between daily activities e.g 20 minutes of revision each hour etc.. This way it becomes easier for you to study and it keeps your mind occupied and off the hunger and thirst.
 In school, try to talk less, as you may lose essential energy. Find a cool and calm place during the break and read a book etc. Otherwise you can use this time to create a homework schedule.
 Just make sure no water enters the body or you may break your fast. This will considerably cool you down after a hot day at school.
 Try doing the written work first as it requires less effort than learning and you don't need to focus much.
 This will help you pass time quickly.
 After you break the fast, you get your energy back; this is the time to complete the rest of the tasks for the day. Drink lots of water between these times, water helps with concentrating. Make plans for the next day.

