 Crowding and inward overlapping of the teeth is caused by gentle, regular inward pressure on the teeth. One of the most common causes of this is sleeping on your stomach, which also places a lot of weight on your face and causes a significant amount of inward pressure on your teeth. This pressure is worsened if you put your arm or something firm under your head while sleeping on your stomach and face. Even if it is your preferred sleeping position, try to sleep on your back or side in order to prevent slowly repositioning the teeth inward., With many people working or studying at a desk for long periods of time throughout the day, this issue is a common result of poor posture. When you slump forward at your desk and rest your face in your hand, this causes a lot of persistent pressure on one side of the jaw. This pressure can slowly push the teeth inward, resulting in crooked teeth on one side of the face.To help avoid this, try to realign your posture by making sure you are sitting flat on your bottom instead of rolled back towards the lower spine. Aligning your lower body will help position your upper body better to avoid neck fatigue and needing to rest your face in your hands.
 In addition to constant inward pressure causing crooked teeth, you can also cause crooked teeth by putting outward pressure on the mouth. This is most common in children who suck their thumbs excessively; however, many teens and adults are also guilty of habits that cause outward pressure. Using straws, chewing on pens, and blowing bubbles with gum all use a similar pressure to thumb sucking and can cause outwardly crooked teeth. Try to break any habits that put outward pressure on the teeth.If you can’t stop using straws, then at least be sure to position the straw toward the back of the mouth and not resting against your teeth.
 While it is normal for baby teeth to fall out and make way for permanent teeth, losing permanent teeth as an adult can cause issues, including crooked teeth. Adults may lose teeth due to extractions, dental problems, injury, or permanent teeth never descending after the baby teeth fall out. The gap that is left from the missing tooth puts more pressure on the existing teeth due to an unequal force distribution when chewing takes place. This can cause them to shift and become crooked. Closing the gap with braces, dental bridges, dental implants, or partial dentures will disallow the existing teeth to shift and become crooked.Movement of teeth into existing gaps is also the result of a natural process called "mesialization" which means that teeth have the tendency to come forward.
 While some research shows that allowing your wisdom teeth to come into the mouth rather than having them removed does not cause other teeth to become crowded, this is not a universal truth for all mouths. If your wisdom teeth erupt in a different position than they should or your teeth are already crowded, wisdom teeth can quickly cause significant repositioning of teeth.Regular trips to the visit and x-rays of the mouth and jaw will reveal early on the likelihood of this happening to you, and you should get your wisdom teeth removed when your dentist says to. Putting this off will only result in pain (including infections and difficulty chewing) and the possibility of crooked teeth.
 It is important to pinpoint what you would like to change about the appearance of your teeth first so that you articulate your goals to an orthodontist. Some treatment options can only address certain dental issues, so having a clear picture of what you want your teeth to look like afterward is key.
 Dentists and orthodontists are different: in addition to dentistry, orthodontists are also training in the complex development of teeth and facial form. It is important to meet with an orthodontist to determine a treatment plan, not a dentist. It is also important that they are board-certified because it ensures that they are licensed with the highest level of comprehensive treatment and training.In complex cases, an orthodontist may require the help of an oral surgeon or maxillofacial surgeon in order to establish a full treatment plan.
 You may have done some research on your own, but the only person who can tell you exactly what your options are when it comes to dental appliances is your orthodontist. Sometimes braces are the only option for your dental needs. If they’re not, discussing the other treatments with them and listening to their advice is essential. Some helpful questions to ask include:What is involved in the proposed treatment plan, and what are some consequences if I choose to not move forward with one of these options now?
How do you determine the cost of treatment and what billing options are available? Also, what insurance plans do you accept?
What kind of post-treatment follow up is expected for this treatment option?
Do you provide patient references or any before-and-after pictures of your work?

, It is recommended that you get two to three opinions before moving forward with a given treatment plan, especially if it’s recommended that you get teeth extracted or if your case is a complicated one. Many orthodontists push braces even when there are other available options, but experts agree that there is usually no “one right way.” Meeting with a few orthodontists will help you find one you are comfortable with and can afford.
 Once you have chosen an orthodontist you trust, a post-consultation appointment will be scheduled. During this appointment the orthodontist will take a mold of your mouth and you will also have panoramic x-rays taken of your face and jawline. Using the mold and x-rays, the orthodontist will be able to determine exactly what needs to be done to fix your smile and can explain the details of various treatment options.Using this information, you can then consider your options and choose the best treatment for you.
 Clear aligners are a series of tight-fitting, custom-made retainers that slip over the teeth and slowly realign them. Because children’s mouths are still growing and developing, clear aligners are best for teens or adults whose mouths are no longer shifting. This treatment option is also typically used for patients with issues like mild to moderate crowding or spacing issues, and not for the treatment of severe underbites, overbites, or more complex problems. Treatment with clear aligners typically takes 10 – 24 months, and costs $5,000 – $8,000 depending on the length of treatment. Some other considerations include:One advantage is that clear aligners can be taken out, which makes it easier to clean them and maintain oral hygiene.
Another advantage is that the clear aligner is less obvious than traditional braces. If you are concerned with the appearance of traditional braces, this is a good option.
Clear aligners require patients to be extremely compliant with wearing them. Not wearing them enough will result in a longer treatment period.
 Lingual braces are similar to traditional braces except that they are placed on the back of the teeth. They use the same system of wires to gradually tighten and straighten the teeth, and are typically worn for anywhere from six to 24 months, depending on the complexity of treatment. This treatment option is best for people ages 10 and up who have moderate to extreme spacing issues. Like clear aligners, it is a great option for people who want a discreet option, because lingual braces are hard to see. They are much more expensive than traditional braces though, costing about $6,000 – $13,000 depending on the complexity and length of treatment. Also keep in mind:


One reason they are so expensive is because the material used is gold, which adapts perfectly to the inner shape of your teeth.
They can initially be rather uncomfortable and it will take some time to adjust to them. Many people experience irritation from contact between the brackets and the tongue.
Nonpermanent speech impediments and lisping is very common with lingual braces.
 Also known as a rapid maxillary expansion appliance or an orthodontic expander, palatal expanders are used to widen the upper jaw so that the upper and lower teeth fit together better. It consists of a screw attached to the teeth with bands, and when you turn the screw with a key the upper jaw is widened. This widening helps with overcrowding by creating space for the teeth to move naturally into their correct positions. It works best in children and teenagers younger than 15 years old because the bones of the upper jaw are still pliable. Palatal expanders tend to cost around $1,000 – $3,000, depending on the length of treatment. Keep in mind:Once the expansion is complete, the expander remains in the mouth for about three months to stabilize the teeth and palate (which has a weakened bone structure after expansion) before being removed.
Palatal expanders require frequent visits to the orthodontist, who uses a special key to expand the palate in increments.
Palatal expansion can be very painful at times and can sometimes cause nonpermanent speech impediments and mouth irritation.
 Retainers can be fixed or removable, and they are made for the upper or lower arches of the mouth to brace and straighten teeth. Typically retainers are used to maintain the position of your teeth after treatment with braces or clear aligners; however, retainers are also used sometimes to correct minor misalignments for patients of all ages.Retainers typically cost $500 – $2,500 depending on the complexity and length of treatment.
Fixed retainers are adhered to the back of the teeth so they are discreet.
Removable retainers are easy to clean in order maintain oral hygiene.
 Also known as porcelain veneers or lumineers, dental veneers are porcelain caps that are placed on top of your existing teeth. They are ideal for patients who have gaps between teeth, fractured teeth, crowded teeth, or discoloration. The orthodontist removes a thin layer of tooth enamel, and then affixes specially selected veneers to your teeth using light-sensitive resin. The procedure can usually be done in one sitting, so the results are immediate.


Veneers are very expensive, typically costing about $500 – $1,300 per tooth.
This option is rarely done for anyone other than adults, as the shape of the face often determines the appropriate veneer size, and children and teens are still growing.
 Also known as tooth reshaping, dental contouring is done by sanding away areas of tooth enamel or using tooth-colored resin to fix the shape of teeth. This is typically only for adult-age patients, as this option is a permanent contouring of teeth, which might not be appropriate for growing teens and children. Since this is considered a fine filing, dental contouring is only used to shorten teeth or to correct slightly crooked, chipped, or cracked teeth.Dental contouring is done in one procedure and typically costs about $50 – $500 per tooth depending on the amount of work needed.
Also keep in mind that contouring with composite resin is not as long lasting and may require re-contouring.
 This device helps in straightening teeth by correcting your jaw imperfections. The appliance has a metal extension which is attached to the molars develops the lower jaw in a forward direction which helps in correcting the bite. This allows the lower and upper jaw to meet which is needed to straighten your teeth.


You have to wear this appliance for one year to allow the lower jaw to shift into the correct position.
These appliances are not discrete and take time to give better results.
 Another appliance used to straighten teeth. This appliance places pressure against the upper teeth and jaw that helps in moving the jaw and teeth into position.


You have to wear the headgear daily for a specified number of hours for improved results.
 In this treatment, a tooth-colored resin material is used that is shaped and applied to your teeth using adhesives. It gives the appearance of straighter teeth.


This treatment is meant for minor or temporary correction of teeth defect.
It is also prone to staining.
 This treatment can drastically improve your smile. It raises and sculpts your gum line to showcase your teeth. If you do not have enough teeth, too much bare gum or asymmetry in the gum line, you can consider gum lifting.


This treatment is not suitable for everyone.
The cost can range from $300 to $600 per tooth for a simple procedure.

