 Get the emergency policies from the staff, so you know the correct procedures during a hurricane.Understanding the procedures in the case of an emergency can keep you safe, and the staff most likely already has a procedure to evacuate guests to safe areas.


Talk to the front desk before the hurricane hits so that you have an understanding for the safety and evacuation plan.
If there is an evacuation plan to somewhere safe, follow hotel staff as soon as possible.
 Going outside during a hurricane poses a variety of threats to your life. Flying debris or lightning could potentially kill you.It's important that the group you're traveling with stay together inside so that if an evacuation takes place, you can stick together.


During the eye of the storm there will be a moment of calm before the hurricane picks up rapidly in the other direction. Stay inside until you're sure it's safe.Communicate your safety knowledge with others in your group so they can remain safe as well.
 The elements from a hurricane can create flying debris that can penetrate the sides of a house or building. Stay in an interior room, closet, or hallway on the lowest floor of the building.The only time this wouldn't be the case is if the building you were staying in began to flood. In this case, you should seek refuge to a higher floor.


Keep clear of glass windows, skylights, and glass doors. The debris that's moved around from the incredible winds of a hurricane can easily shatter glass windows., Stay away from all plugged in electrical appliances during a hurricane. You can also be struck by lightning if you are in contact with things like plumbing, metal doors, window frames, or a corded phone. Stay away from any exposed wires and do not shower or bathe during the hurricane.Cordless phones are safe to use during a hurricane.
 The Emergency Alert System was created by the government to help people act in the case of a major emergency or environmental disaster like a hurricane. This requires satellite and cable providers to post alerts and evacuation instructions. Also, there is the Wireless Emergency Alerts that send the same notifications to your cell phone. Make sure to follow the emergency alert's instructions.Use wireless laptops, phones, and radios to update you during a hurricane.
The NOAA Weather Radio All Hazards is a network of radio stations that report on severe weather around the U.S.