 “Blue states” are those US states in which a given person is statistically more likely to vote Democrat, and “red states” are those states where more citizens vote Republican. A Gallup poll rates each state by voting record the year before, so the color designations change from year to year.Currently, the “red” states are: Alaska, Alabama, Idaho, Montana, Utah, Wyoming, North Dakota, South Dakota, Nebraska, Kansas, Oklahoma, Texas, Missouri, Arkansas, Mississippi, Tennessee, Alabama, Indiana, West Virginia, South Carolina, New Hampshire
Currently, the “blue” states are: Maine, Vermont, New York, Connecticut, Massachusetts, Rhode Island, Delaware, New Jersey, Maryland, Illinois, New Mexico, California, Oregon, Washington, and Hawaii.
The remaining states are “swing states,” or “competitive states,” where voters are evenly split between Democrat and Republican.
 When someone has a political bumper sticker on their car, they most likely hold those views. Be careful, though – this is not a 100% foolproof approach. They might be driving a friend's car.
 In official portraits, Republican state governors are eight times more likely to wear a small US flag pin on their lapel than their Democrat counterparts. They are also more likely to pose in front of an American flag., When you see someone sporting a Democrat or Republican T-shirt or wearing a partisan button on their coat, you can be fairly certain they belong to that party.
 There is a marked preference among Democrats for living in cities and towns with high “walkability” ratings (which measure how easy it is to walk from your front door to shops and restaurants.) In general, Republicans are more partial to the convenience and privacy of the suburbs., Although car preference is a very personal choice, some links have been made between overall preferences in red states compared to blue states. This won't tell you whether a person is a Democrat or a Republican, but it might give you a clue.Cars in Republican voting areas are more likely to be American-made and have V-8 engines.
Cars in Democrat voting regions are more likely to be foreign made and twice as likely to have a hybrid engine.
 It's nearly impossible to determine what a person believes without asking them, unless they are taking part in a political rally at the time. It's always safer to ask.It is a misconception that people usually belong to the same party as their parents. People often change their political views once they are out of the house and exposed to new ideas.

