 Would it just be you and your friend? If so, it's probably not a good idea. If you think it would really be successful, however, read on.;
, This can be done through e-mail or verbally. However you do it, make sure you're very mature and professional about it. Make sure they know that this is something that you really want to make happen.
 Ask around; without one, you can't do it. It is against school rules in every school district to have a school-sponsored gathering without an adult in authority to keep things under control.
 Keep in mind the age group and reading capabilities of your school; even if you love Shakespeare, that doesn't mean that the rest of your elementary school will. Try to find something modern and hip. Harry Potter is overdone, so why not try such books as Maximum Ride, Daniel X, Alex Rider, Artemis Fowl, Hunger Games, etc.? All these are series, to retain interest, and have a modernized, adventurous feel.


The Wind in the Willows by Kenneth Grahame.
Just William by Richmal Crompton.
The Adventures of Huckleberry Finn by Mark Twain.
Harry Potter by J. K. Rowling.
Little House on the Prairie by Laura-Ingalls Wilder.
Tracey Beaker by Jacqueline Wilson.
Alice in Wonderland by Lewis Carroll.
Jungle Book by J. M. Barrie.
The Famous Five go adventuring again by Enid Blyton.
Allan Ahlberg.
Roald Dahl.
The Chronicles of Narnia by C. S. Lewis.
Alex Rider by Anthony Horowitz.
 How long do you think it will take them to read your designated book? I recommend every one to two months, respectively; you don't want to rush or discourage them. Also, you don't want it to clash with other meetings or athletic practice. Keep it short, too; an hour or so.
 Don't just assume that they'll want to just talk about the developing relationship between Max and Fang; bring in themed treats, play games and do activities that relate to the books you're reading.
 Go way public. Put up posters around school and at your local library, add something to the school's morning announcements, send a mass e-mail. Emphasize what you'll be doing, and you'll be sure to find some loyal members. Also, make sure they know what book they need to have read.
 Make sure that this isn't just a social hour, it's a book club.
 You don't want people to show up at the wrong time, or not at all.

