 Another important decision to make is where the cook off will take place. If you feel comfortable hosting the cook off, it may be the most convenient location, since you will be able to prepare and set up in advance. You also can see if there is anyone else attending who would be willing to host.You may want to hold the cook off somewhere outdoors. Cook offs can be messy, so consider doing it outdoors if the weather permits. Some foods like barbecue can only be prepared outdoors on a grill.
You can also rent a space at a local venue to hold the cook off, but it will be quite expensive.
 Most cookouts have an entry fee, which can help you cover costs. This fee makes sense, since you are providing your guests with a hot meal. Make sure that the fee is appropriate for the type of cook off you are planning. For instance, if it is a small casual cook off, consider a fee of around $15. If it is a fundraiser or larger event, consider charging more.
 A cook off can be pricey. Calculate about how much it will be to hold the cook off. This includes equipment as well as cooking supplies. If you find that your estimate is higher than what you can afford, there are several ways you can cut the cost.


You can go to stores like Costco that sell ingredients and supplies in bulk, which can save you money.
Think about upping your entry fee if you are worried about expenses.
 Outdoor grills, crock pots and portable heat sources to cook on are among the most common equipment needed for cook offs. You can ask your guests to bring the equipment that they will need, such as a portable grill or a crockpot, so you don’t have to provide them all yourself., Either buy or ask your guests to bring any other things you may need for the cookout depending on your budget. These could include plenty of tables and chairs, paper plates, cups, utensils and napkins. These details can sometimes slip through the cracks but they are essential to the cook off’s success.Don’t forget to buy condiments like sour cream, ketchup, mustard or mayonnaise if needed.
You also may want to provide drinks like soda or alcoholic beverages. You may want to consider buying a cooler and ice if you are providing cold drinks.
 You will need to use outlets to plug in equipment like crockpots. If you are far away from a power source, either buy extension cords or ask your guests to bring them., Now that you have all the details finalized, send out invitations either by email or mail with the exact time, date, location and food that will be served. Include any information about what equipment your guests should bring. Also ask guests who aren’t cooking to bring snacks like chips, cheese and crackers and drinks.There are online sites that you can use to send invitations and keep track of RSVP’s.

