 A significant percentage of people wear shoes that don't fit, perhaps because their feet suddenly increased in size, or because the shoes were on sale super cheap, or because they were passed down from a relative or friend. Either way, always wear shoes to work that properly fit your feet while wearing socks. If you absolutely have to choose a pair that aren't your size, then pick a pair that is too big rather than shoes that are too small because cramped shoes often lead to blisters and foot cramps.


Get fitted for your shoes by a shoe salesperson later in the day because that's when your feet are at their largest, usually due to swelling and slight compression of your arches.Sacrificing style and fashion for practicality is the best strategy when shopping for work shoes.
 Women are often expected or pressured to wear high heels for many jobs, but heels more than 2 inches (5.1 cm) high can force the body to tilt forward, which creates a variety of imbalances from the feet to the low back. This situation can cause foot strain, Achilles tendonitis, tight calf muscles, knee pain and low back problems, as well as instability while walking.Wearing completely level shoes is not the answer either, because too much pressure is put on the heel, so wear shoes that are elevated in the heel by about 1/4 or 1/2 inch.
Most athletic or walking shoes with wide toe caps are good choices if you must stand for hours at a time at your job.
 High heels are often too narrow at the toe, which compresses the toes together unnaturally and increases the risk of painful bunions and unsightly calluses. Cowboy boots and some swing back sandals are also too pointy in the toe, especially if you plan on doing lots of standing. Instead, choose shoes that grip your heel tightly, provide enough room to wiggle your toes, and has enough interior support to prevent pronation (the rolling inward or collapsing of your ankle).


Pronation is much more common in obese people and often coincides with flat feet., Compression stockings provide support to muscles and blood vessels of the lower leg, which reduces edema / swelling and promotes better circulation.They are found online, at medical supply stores and sometimes at pharmacies or physiotherapist offices. Alternatively, wear supportive pantyhose or well-padded socks.


Compression stockings are particularly important for people who have venous insufficiency (leaky vein valves) or inflamed varicose veins.Thick, well padded socks are helpful if you experience heel pain while standing.

