 These might include unexplained stomachaches, headaches, or even panic attacks, in certain situations. Some of these symptoms may sometimes be ignored because teens think that they are caused by something else.;
, For many teenagers, they feel that substances are the only way out of their anxiety.
 This could include being unable to fall asleep because their mind is racing, waking up many times during the night or feeling tired throughout the day. Parents often put this down to teenagers being lazy and such, but sleeping problems are an important factor in recognizing anxiety.
 This is the first and most obvious symptom of anxiety is an intense fear or long lasting worry about events other people wouldn't think twice about.


Look at how they are acting. They may be unable to relax and enjoy themselves if they're always high-strung and worrying.
 In many, but not all, teens their social life is very important to them. Not wanting to participate in activities with their friends or making plans but then canceling them because they are too afraid are common signs of anxiety.
 Having extremely low self-esteem is a common sign of anxiety. Signs of this could be that the teen is using self destructive terms, being overly critical of their abilities or talking about how hopeless or pointless their life is.
 Mood swings and irritability can often show anxiety. Like many of the other symptoms, people can think that this is just part of being a teenager, but it isn't. Try to ask them how they are and work out how they're feeling.
 Don't try to criticism them, but a very teary or easily upset teenager could be suffering from anxiety, so look out for it.
 This may be things that have happened in the past or that they fear are going to happen in the future. They may avoid situations because of this.
 Struggling to concentrate or avoiding tasks they should be doing, such as studying is very common in anxious teens. This can lead to a decreased school performance. They may also be forgetful or easily distracted.
 Ask your teen's teacher, friends or whoever drives them to school if your teen shows reluctance to attend school or worries about having to participate in class. This could include class discussions, the fear of being chosen to answer a question, or other class-related worries.

