 Damage to your hair moves up the ends and can only be stopped if you cut it off in its tracks. Getting regular trims ensure hair health, from root to end.


Go in for a trim every 8-12 weeks. It may seem counterintuitive, but trimming even 1/2 an inch (1.25 cm) will give your hair a growth spurt.

If you see damage before 2-3 months, trim as soon as possible.


If your hectic schedule doesn't allow for constant trips to the stylist, invest in a pair of hair shears and make careful snips yourself.
If your hair is intensely damaged, you have to bite the bullet. Cut off all damage -- even if this means a good portion of your hair's growth. If there is any damage present at all it will not significantly grow.;
, Rinse in cool. Cold water seals your hair's cuticles and keeps the nutrients in, ensuring hair health. Hot water opens the cuticle up, allowing healthy enzymes to escape.


Hot water can actually weaken the hair and lead to it falling out.
 If your hair tends to get tangled out of the shower, use a wide-toothed comb. Brushing often pulls hair out prematurely.

Use a detangler to aid in getting rid of those snarls.






Make sure to hold the hair in one hand while brushing with the other. Stress on the scalp prevents maximal hair growth.
 Just like our brains need stimulation for growth, so do our scalps. When you're washing your hair, take a moment and massage those roots for 1-3 minutes.

If you have longer nails, try not to scratch! The scalp is very sensitive and any irritation can keep you from seeing the results you want.
 Accessories with metal edges that have tight spaces can catch on your hair, damaging and pulling it out. Not to mention hurting!


Rubber bands are a no-no for a substitute ponytail holder. Anyone who has tried it can tell you why: They tear out your hair and cut into your strands. If you committed the crime, cut it out with scissors.
Hair sticks and metal-less ponytail holders are generally safe choices. Anything you pull out that neither drags nor pulls anything out with it is generally a good choice.

