 A rash is a skin inflammation that causes discoloration to the affected area. There are many different types of rashes. Some cause discomfort, and some are more severe than others. Familiarize yourself with common rashes so that you will be able to knowledgeably treat your rash. Eczema (atopic dermatitis) is one of the most common rashes. It appears as small blisters or as dry, crusty patches of skin. Eczema is a chronic, inflammatory, itchy skin condition seen with increased frequency in people with environmental allergies. It is typically itchy and uncomfortable. The blisters may ooze fluids.
Contact dermatitis, which causes inflammation after contact with certain plants (such as poison ivy, poison sumac, and poison oak) is another common issue. The contact can be direct or airborne in smoke. The rash can spread if not immediately washed off the skin, clothes and any object that is touched. The rash is characterized by redness, swelling, and itching. Blisters also typically appear on the area where the rash is located.
Many people suffer from hives. Hives are itchy, red areas of raised skin. They can change size, shape, and location. They can appear suddenly on any area of the body. Most often, hives have an elevated raised red area, surrounded by an itchy, red rash.
Heat rash is also very common and is caused by exposure to sun and hot, humid climate. Symptoms of heat rash are red, raised spots on the skin. It may also feel like there is an itch underneath your skin.
Swimmer’s itch, also called cercarial dermatitis, appears as an itchy skin rash caused by certain parasites that penetrate the skin and cause a reaction. Animals and snails shed parasite eggs into fresh and salt water via their feces. The developing larvae may penetrate the skin of humans, but the resulting rash is self-limiting, as humans are not a good host for the larvae and they will soon die.
Shingles is a rash caused by the same virus that causes chicken pox. The first sign is a painful sensation under the skin, followed by a red, localized rash. The bumps will look like red blisters and often arranged in groups of fluid filled vesicles.
Many people suffer from a skin condition called psoriasis. If you have psoriasis, you will see red scaly patches of skin surrounded by red areas. Typically, this rash occurs on the scalp, elbow, and knees.
Rosacea is another chronic rash that causes persistent inflammation of the facial skin. An early symptom is a flushed appearance on your face.;
, When dealing with a rash, it is useful to pay attention to the appearance. Notice the types of inflammation and where the bumps or redness appear. Different types of rashes will cause unique reactions in your skin. You will also want to pay attention to other symptoms that accompany the rash, such as fever. There are many kinds of ordinary rashes that you can learn to diagnose at home. Just remember to always verify with your doctor.Shingles is a rash caused by the same virus that causes chicken pox. The first sign is a painful sensation under the skin, followed by a red, localized rash. The bumps will look like red blisters.
Many people suffer from a skin condition called psoriasis. If you have psoriasis, you will see red scaly patches of skin surrounded by red areas. Typically, this rash occurs on the scalp, elbow, and knees.
Rosacea is a chronic rash that causes persistent inflammation of the facial skin. An early symptom is a flushed appearance on your face.
 When you have a rash that you need to diagnose, spend some time thinking about recent your activities. For example, did you spend too much time in the sun? Those red bumps might be heat rash. Did you take a hike in nature? It's possible you brushed up against some poison ivy.Think about any recent changes to your daily life. Many times, rashes are caused by allergies. Maybe you switched laundry detergents, lotion, or shampoo, and you are reacting to a new ingredient.
Reflect on any changes to your diet. It is possible that your rash is caused by a food allergy that you didn't know you have.
 Many rashes will go away by themselves after a couple of days. Most respond well to treatments you can do at home; however, there are cases when you need to seek medical attention. If your rash continues to spread over the course of a few days, or if you are in severe pain, do not hesitate to call your doctor.Be prepared for your visit. Jot down notes about when your rash appeared, what you suspect the cause is, and any other information about your skin inflammation.
If your rash appeared after trying a new medication, you need to call your doctor immediately. Allergic reactions to medication are typified by irregular, raised, or flat red sores.
If you have red bumps that seem to bruise and are tender to the touch, call your doctor. These could be signs of a severe allergic reaction or an infection.
 If your rash is chronic, or your primary care physician seems mystified, it is time to consult a dermatologist. Dermatologists are doctors who specialize in treating the skin. Ask your doctor for a referral.Make sure your new dermatologist has your medical history. She will have questions about your medical history and even your family history. Ask your primary physician to send over your charts.
Ask your dermatologist to suggest possible treatment plans for your skin ailment.

