 Covering your face with a cloth shield can protect your skin from sunburn as well as windburn. You should wear one when doing activities such as riding a motorcycle or riding in a boat, as you are exposed to sun and strong winds.
 You can protect yourself from sun, wind, and dust by covering your mouth and nose with a face shield. Put it around your neck, then pull it up to cover the lower half of your face., Put the face shield around your head as you would a bandana, so that it wraps around your forehead. This will help keep sweat from running into your eyes so that you can have a clear view.

You can also use the face shield as a ponytail holder or a bracelet by wrapping it around your hair or wrist.
 Put the face shield over your head so that it sits around your neck. This can protect your skin from sun and wind., Fold the shield so that makes a cap. Place it on your head to keep you warm or prevent sunburn.

You can also use the shield as a scarf or headband, by looping it around your head or neck.
 Different sports require different kinds of face shields. Face shields also differ depending on what kind of materials you are working with, such as a welding helmet or a splash shield for liquids. Choose the correct face shield for the sport you play or material you work with., Ensure the face shield is correctly fitted to your head size. Put it over your head and make sure it covers your face and eyes completely. Check to be sure the visor is intact and that you can clearly see through it, if applicable., Adjust the face shield so that it fits properly. Fasten any snaps or straps snugly, such as a chin strap. Leaving these undone could result in the face shield coming off and/or you becoming injured. Be sure to follow the directions included with the shield., Hockey, lacrosse, and football players should wear face shields to protect them from pucks or balls, as well as collisions with other players. Softball and baseball catchers should also wear face masks to protect them from the ball or bat. Laws vary by state and league, but it is best to err on the side of caution., If you’re working with power tools such as saws and grinders, you should wear a face shield to protect yourself from flying debris as well as dust and other fine materials., When working with dangerous liquids that are corrosive or acidic, be sure to wear a face shield to protect your eyes and skin. If there is a possibility of coming into contact with chemical adherents or paint strippers you should also wear a face shield.You should also wear a face shield for infection control, such as when working near, around, or with bodily fluids., You should always wear a face shield when welding, handling a molten substance, or performing furnace maintenance. There are even face shields that have special coatings to protect against extreme heat., Electricians or others working with high voltage connections should always wear a face shield. It is important to choose one specifically designed to protect against arc flash in order to keep yourself safe.