 To ease your baby’s reliance on comfort objects, you may try removing them from their space over time. Start by removing one of your baby’s comfort objects and notice if they get upset or bothered. If they do not seem to notice, you may continue to remove more of their comfort objects until they are left with one to two objects.Be mindful about this process. Don’t throw the objects out, as you might want to utilize them later. But you should be sure not to place them somewhere your child will find them on his/her own, as regression can occur and they may cling to the object even more.
This process may be done over a longer period of time as your baby grows up. For example, you may allow your baby to have several comfort objects when they are eight to twelve months. At the twelve month mark, you may try removing several comfort objects until your baby has only one to two. Then, at the sixteen month mark, you may try reducing your baby’s comfort items to just one.
 When your baby is very young, it may be difficult for you to encourage them to view the comfort object in any way but an item they need close by. As your baby gets older, you may be able to get them to view the comfort item as something that stays in their room or their sleeping area. This way, the comfort item does not need to go everywhere with your baby and can be limited to one space.For example, when your baby is older, you may tell them that their comfort object lives in their bedroom. You may say, “Your bear lives in your bedroom and needs to sleep while you go to daycare. She will be in your bedroom when you come back from daycare and you can play with her then.”

, Though you may worry that your baby is too attached to their comfort object, remember that it is completely normal for your baby to have one. As a parent, you may find it easier to let your baby rely on their comfort object, especially when they are upset or anxious. This is an accepted practice among parents and can be healthy for your baby’s development.Comfort objects help children bridge the gap between the familiar and the unknown and between dependency and self-sufficiency. Many experts think comfort objects represent the child's parent and helps them slowly ease into being away from them.
If you are unsure if your baby has too much of a reliance on their comfort object, you may want to speak to your pediatrician or gynecologist about the issue. They may be able to provide some guidance and help you monitor your baby’s behavior to ensure it is normal.

