 Research suggests that changing the bacteria in your gut could limit your likelihood of relapsing. There are several foods that you should avoid if you have RA, and others you should consume more often.An anti-inflammatory diet may be able to help.Foods you should get more of include fish, whole grains, soy, healthy oils (like safflower oil, avocado oil, and walnut oil), fruits containing anthocyanins (especially cherries, raspberries, and blueberries), broccoli, green tea, citrus fruits (like oranges, limes, and lemons), beans, and garlic.
Food ingredients you should limit or avoid include sugar, saturated fats, trans fats, omega-6 fatty acids, refined carbohydrates (like white bread and refined pastas), MSG, gluten (wheat protein), and casein (dairy protein)., If you are overweight, you will be putting an extra strain on your joints, especially your knees. To prevent this, stay active. Doctors recommend at least 2.5 hours of exercise per week. If you can’t meet that benchmark, there are other ways to stay active.At the same time, avoid overdoing exercise. If you are feeling pain two hours after your workout, reduce your exercise next time.


Exercises you might enjoy to keep your RA at bay include yoga, walking, and bike riding.
If you are not in the habit of moving your body, start small and work your way up. For instance, start by walking 10 minutes each day. After a week or so, increase your daily walk to 15 minutes. A week after that increase your walk by another five minutes. Continue in this way until you’ve devoted as much time as possible to walking each week.
Ideally, you’ll be able to exercise regularly. But if you can’t try to incorporate physical activity into your day-to-day schedule. For instance, take the stairs instead of taking the escalator. Walk to the store instead of taking the bus. Use your push mower instead of your riding mower when cutting the grass.
Exercise can also help you sleep better and improve your mood.
Too much exercise can cause flares. If you are just beginning exercise, do smaller but more frequent sessions to help build up your strength. For example, do three ten minute walks instead of one thirty minute walk.
 If you smoke, you might be at greater risk of experiencing relapse.To quit smoking, set a date about two to four weeks away after which you will not smoke. Develop a plan to wean yourself off cigarettes slowly but steadily up to the day you plan on quitting.For instance, if you decide to quit smoking in 20 days, you should cut your cigarette consumption by 25% after five days, the cut it in half after 10 days. Five days before your quit date, you should reduce your cigarette consumption to just 25% of what it originally was. Then, after your last day of smoking, stop smoking entirely.
Use nicotine gum and patches to help you fight cravings if necessary.
 Periods of exercise must be balanced with periods of rest.If you begin to notice signs that your RA is relapsing, spend less time exercising and more time resting. This will take pressure and stress off your joints and reduce the odds that you will experience inflammation or damage your joints.The amount of time you should spend resting and the amount of time you should spend exercising depend on your particular health and energy level.
Generally, you should have short periods of rest interspersed with activity, rather than long periods of activity followed by long periods of rest.
 There are several tools that could help ease pressure on your joints. For instance, you might use splints on hands and wrists that ache, or use tools like zipper pullers and long-handled shoe horns. You might also benefit from using devices to help you out of bed or on/off toilet seats. Talk to your doctor or physical therapist about using such devices or enacting other changes to your habits of movement that might benefit your joints.If you choose to use splints, consult your physical therapist or doctor so they can show you how to wear it and ensure it fits properly.
 While there is no evidence that stress causes flareups or relapses of RA, stress can make living with RA even more difficult than it already is. In addition to exercise and other forms of physical activity, there are several things you can do to reduce your stress levels. Avoid situations that lead to anger, fear, or frustration, and connect with friends and family. Find time each day to engage in something you enjoy.For instance, you might enjoy reading a book, playing a game, or taking a walk with your friend.
Relaxation techniques, such as meditation, deep breathing, and progressive muscle relaxation, can help as well.
 Talking to your friends and family about your RA might make you feel better about it. But even if they are worried, they might not want to bring it up. Kickstart a conversation about your condition with them by saying, “My rheumatoid arthritis is in remission. I sincerely hope I don’t have a relapse.”, Support groups can help you connect with others who also have RA. Talking to others who are going through the same thing you are can help you feel less stressed, anxious, and alone. Check out http://www.arthritisintrospective.org/arthritis-support-networks for a list of arthritis support networks in the U.S., Since relapse is defined in part by the presence of swelling and pain, you should supplement drugs that reduce inflammation and combat your RA directly with drugs to help you manage your pain (analgesics). You might be able to manage your pain with over-the-counter meds like Tylenol, or you might need more heavy-duty prescription medications. Get a recommendation for pain relief medicine from your doctor.Your remission might not be entirely pain-free. Many doctors define remission as one or fewer tender or swollen joints.Let your doctor know if you’re having trouble managing your pain so that they can recommend something more substantial and/or provide prescription medication.
 Cold can numb certain painful areas and reduce muscle spasms. Hot packs can help painful joints and muscles relax.Additionally, you could benefit from the effects of heat by taking a warm shower or soaking in a warm whirlpool or hot tub at a spa.
Instead of buying a hot pack, you could wet a wash cloth or hand towel, place it in a freezer bag, and microwave it for 10 seconds or so. Wrap the bag in a towel and apply it to sore areas for 15 to 20 minutes.Instead of buying a cold pack, you could fill a resealable bag with ice cubes and wrap it in a towel, then hold it to affected areas for 15 minutes.

