 Teach your child to check her nails from time to time to make sure that they’re healthy, forming a good habit. Nails can show signs of certain kinds of health problems, like if they have dark streaks on them or become brittle. Both of these are signs that you should see a dermatologist.Start this with your toddler from a young age. Check her nails while explaining what you’re doing, i.e. “Daddy’s just looking at your finger nails to make sure they’re healthy. Sometimes, if something’s wrong, the nails try to tell you.”
You can teach children more about what to look for in healthy and unhealthy nails as they get older, like thickened or discolored nails or deformations in the shape of the nail.
 Teach your toddler how to properly care for nails once they’ve been trimmed, as well. This includes making sure that the hands and feet remain dry, which can reduce the risk of infection, and also that the nails and cuticles are kept moisturized.Apply some lotion to your toddler’s nails after a bath or shower, particularly when the air is dry. This can prevent nails from splitting and cuticles from cracking.
As before, explain what you’re doing, i.e. “Now we’ll just put a little bit of lotion on each nail. This keeps the nails healthy so they won’t crack.”

, A hangnail is small, torn piece of skin at the edge of a nail. They are common but can hurt and, if removed incorrectly, can lead to an infection of the nail or the surrounding skin. Check your toddler’s fingers and toes for hangnails and remove them safely.Always wash your hands and your toddler’s hands with soap and water before trying to get rid of a hangnail, to reduce the chance of infection.
Never bite or rip off a hangnail. Instead, cut away the extra skin with a small pair of scissors or a clean nail clipper. Apply some antibiotic ointment to the area afterward.
Talk to your toddler through this procedure, especially if she is anxious. Reassure her that cutting the hangnail won’t hurt and that it needs to come off, i.e. “Don’t worry sweetie. We just have to take this little tiny piece off – it won’t hurt at all.”

, There are a lot of bad habits that can damage finger and toenails. Picking at the cuticle, biting and chewing, or frequently sucking on a finger or thumb can cause infections or deform the nails. Try to model good habits by not doing any of these things while also teaching your toddler to avoid them.


Biting or picking at the cuticle can lead to deformation, especially when the nail root is affected. These nails will grow in ridged or wavy. Damaged skin around the nail from biting or sucking can expose your toddler to an infection, called paronychia. This occurs when bacteria enter into the body and can cause swelling, tenderness, and the accumulation of pus.

