 To ensure that your banana bread bakes evenly, your oven rack must be in the right position. Arrange it so it’s in the center of the oven to ensure that it receives equal heat from above and below.If you forget to adjust the rack until after you’ve preheated the oven, make sure to use potholders or oven mitts to handle it.;
, The oven must be hot enough to bake the cake when you’re finished mixing up the batter, so it’s important to preheat it. Set the temperature to 350 degrees Fahrenheit (176 degrees celsius), and allow it to fully heat.Pay attention to the oven so you know when it’s fully preheated. It will usually beep or flash an indicator light to alert you.
 For the banana bread, you’ll need a 9-inch by 5-inch (23-cm by 13-cm) loaf pan. Keep the bread from sticking to the pan by greasing the sides and bottom with a non-stick cooking spray.You can also grease the pan with butter or margarine if you prefer.
If you don’t want to grease the pan, you can line it with parchment paper.
 Add 4 overripe bananas that have been mashed, ¼ cup (59 ml) of vegetable oil, ¼ cup (59 ml) of honey, 1 teaspoon (5 ml) of vanilla extract, ½ teaspoon (2.5 ml) of almond extract, ¼ cup (59 ml) plus 1 tablespoon (15 ml) of milk, 4 tablespoons (60 ml) of heavy cream, and 2 eggs that have been beaten to a large bowl. Stir the ingredients until well blended.The easiest way to mash the bananas is with a fork.
You can combine the ingredients in a stand mixer or with a handheld electric mixer if you don’t want to stir by hand.
 In another large bowl, mix together 2 cups (480 g) of all-purpose flour, 1 cup (240 g) of spelt flour, 2 ¼ teaspoon (11.25 g) of cinnamon, 1 teaspoon (5 g) of baking soda, 1 ½ teaspoon (7.5 g) of baking powder, and ¾ teaspoon (3.75 g) of salt. Stir until all of the dry ingredients are well mixed.Spelt flour is a whole grain, non-wheat flour. You can substitute whole wheat flour or even an additional cup of white flour if you prefer.
 When the dry ingredients are fully mixed, slowly add them to the wet ingredients. You don’t want to overmix the batter, so stir until they are just combined.Overmixing can lead to tough, chewy bread.
Make sure that there are no dry lumps in the batter when you’re done mixing.
If the batter appears too thick, you can add an additional half of a mashed banana or 2 tablespoons (32 g) of applesauce., Nuts are traditionally added to banana bread, so you can add 1 cup (125 g) of coarsely chopped walnuts to the batter. You can also choose to omit them if you prefer or mix in another type of nut, such as pecans., Once you’ve finished mixing up the batter, pour it into the greased loaf pan. You should fill the pan so it’s approximately ¾’s of the way full.If you prefer, you can pour the batter into a muffin tin and make individual muffins instead of a loaf of bread.
 Place the loaf pan in the preheated oven, and allow the bread to bake until the top becomes golden brown, which should take approximately 1 hour. Insert a cake tester into the center of the bread, and make sure that it emerges clean before removing the bread from the oven.If you don’t have a cake tester, you can use a toothpick or even the tines of a fork.
 Allow the bread to cool in the pan for approximately 10 minutes. Next, remove it from the pan, and let it cool for an additional 30 minutes before slicing the bread and serving it.