 Lantana will grow fairly slowly. Non-creeping varieties usually grow to a height of about 1.5 meters (4.9 ft).


Trailing varieties only grow to about 20 inches (50.8 cm) in height but spread by several feet.
 Lantana prefers a moist but well drained soil in full sun.It will benefit from being fed regularly during the growing season, which occurs in spring and summer.


Lantana prefers to be kept moist even over winter.
 Start by digging the soil over and incorporating some well-rotted manure or compost to enrich the soil and improve drainage. Consider incorporating a slow-release fertilizer.
 Put your Lantana in and fill the hole with soil, pressing it down with your hands. Give the plant a good soak and continue watering the plant twice a week (unless it’s very rainy) until the plant is well established; this usually takes a few months.


Try to water the ground rather than soak the foliage.
 Established Lantana plants don’t require much attention although they will appreciate a feed in the spring.


Don’t over feed them but try to apply a weak liquid feed with a general purpose fertilizer (avoid those high in nitrogen relative to other ingredients) once a month during the growing season.
 Apply a thick layer of mulch when the ground isn’t too cold; this will help conserve moisture and protect the roots. Once a year, remove the old mulch and reapply a fresh layer.
 Cut the top inch or two from the stem tips, always cutting just above a leaf set. Remove any dead or damaged growth.


Give it a good prune in the early spring before it begins growing again; cut it back to within about a foot of the ground,

, Lantana will be affected by a few pests and diseases. Mildew may be a problem if the plants don’t get enough light. Whiteflies and lace bugs may also affect the plant.


Try using a spray insecticide to control these pests if they emerge.
 If you are in a zone cooler than zone 9 (where temperatures drop below 20 degrees Fahrenheit or -6.7 degrees Celsius), you’ll need to bring your plant indoors in the fall. Water it occasionally through the winter.


Move your plant outside again when the temperatures improve.

