 Hair color sold in department stores contains aluminum, which coats the hair and prevents the color from holding well. Also, stylists pretty much know what they are doing; red is the trickiest color to keep up with. You want to make sure you have someone who knows what they are doing.;
, This ensures that the color looks real.
 This may seem hard, but you can get a shower-cap to wear while bathing, or just use baby wipes if you don't want to risk it. (Oh, the sacrifices we make for beauty...)

, If you can't bear to take a cold shower, simply rinse with cold water after you've shampooed and conditioned your hair. Alternatively you can keep your hair dry in the shower and wash it in the tub or sink in cold water after your shower. This prevents your whole body from being cold and makes the cold water more bearable.
 This conditioner is a great one to use about once a week to keep color vivid and bright. This shampoo will stain your hands so you may want to use gloves, or wash your hands right after application. This does not have conventional fragrance; it does not stink.


Place generous amounts of this conditioner in your clean hair. Have a dance party for as long as you want.
Wash the conditioner out. The longer you leave it on, the better the color. Leave it in for 20-30 minutes but you can do up to an hour.
Enjoy the brighter redness.
 It will lighten the hair up. If you must be in the sun a lot, use a UV protectant spray or mask on your hair. Some brands have a UV hair spray protector.
 Baby powder is your best friend. No, really. It keeps your hair smelling fresh, and because you shouldn't wash your hair every night (every other night-or even every 3 nights for those who are willing to go the extra mile on this) it keeps it from feeling oily and gross, and also makes the roots look slightly fuller. Another option is using a specific brand of shampoo for oily hair and scalps.
, For times between coloring (for bright unnatural reds) brands such as manic panic are good to stain the hair and keep it bright.

