 It is possible to design and create in the oddest of spaces. If you have several options, take the following factors into consideration:


Space. A space the size of an average bedroom will do, as long as you can easily store your supplies.
Ventilation. Many art and craft projects require the use of strong products that affect air quality. Choose a space that is properly ventilated through large windows or an exhaust fan.
Comfort. You'll work best at a comfortable temperature, away from damp and must, and in a private space seldom used by other people.
Easy access to a sink.
 The ideal studio has plenty of natural light from north and east windows (south and east if you are in the Southern Hemisphere). Complement this with "full spectrum" lighting (often sold as grow lights), which mimic natural light better than other options.You must have excellent lighting from all direction to avoid casting shadows on your work.
 Carpets and hardwood will quickly stain or suffer water damage. Stone and tile are preferred, though you will still need to wipe up spills quickly to prevent damage. You may need to lay down a canvas drop cloth, or old rugs from a thrift store.
 Your projects and work methods will determine exactly what you need, but the following list is a good start for painters and many other artists. When possible, avoid wooden tables, which inevitably warp from water damage.


One large table (or drafting table) with room to draw designs and lay out current projects
One small table for current supplies (or cart if you move around your studio)
Space for permanent storage (shelves, cupboards, etc.)
One comfortable chair, preferably adjustable
Easel, if required. Most painters prefer wood, but metal is a good lightweight option if you want to move it around. Beginners often start with a tabletop easel.
 Now you can fill the shelves and drawers with your tools and supplies. Keep your go-to supplies you use often lined up in easy reach. Save space when storing less important supplies by putting them in crates and baskets. Creative small storage options include drawer dividers, spice racks, take-out containers, and mason jars.


Use a heavy container for water to prevent tipping.
Remember that most metal containers rust. Store wet brushes in plastic cans instead.
For gesso, texturizing gels, and other liquid media, get containers wide enough to dip a spoon or brayer into, such as a plastic shoe box.
Keep a tray or two around so you can easily transport supplies you are actively using., Get some lint-free rags to wipe down projects without introducing dust and fibers. Keep more rags or paper towels near your supplies so you can wipe down lids and bottles whenever necessary. Add a trash can in a convenient location, along with a reuse/recycle can for paper and supplies you might repurpose.


If you use turpentine or other flammable materials, make sure you have a fireproof, closed-lid trash container, as well as a fire extinguisher.
Never store any supplies or artwork near a heat source, including a hot air vent.
Keep the door locked (or install a lock) if there are children or pets in the house.
 Artists use a huge range of supplies and methods. You'll discover many of these on your own, if you haven't already. If you are a beginning artist, here are a few ideas you may not have thought of:


Keep files of reference pictures. These can be instructional art books (which are also good reference sources), or your own collection of photographs, found images, and so forth.
Mini canvases to experiment with colours, textures, drying times, and so on (if painting)
Notebook for quick sketches
Eyedroppers for precise colour mixing

, Painters may need drying racks or a heavy clothesline to dry wet paintings. Once dry, you'll need a space to store paintings without them touching, or at least where you can lay them back-to-back. Laying the surface of a painting directly against another object may cause scuffing, and acrylic paints may lift off the canvas if they haven't dried completely.


Oil paintings can take weeks to dry. Finding drying space that doesn't interfere with your next project is a must.
 Hang artwork you admire on the walls, both your own pieces and those of artists you admire. If you enjoy listening to music as you create, include a radio, computer, or mP3 dock in your studio.

