 Another way to teach patience is by not responding to questions and requests immediately. Just like when your child is whining, you can wait to do something for them or answer them. This helps your child understand that they may also have to wait when they’re not upset. It also helps them realize they are not the center of everything.If your child comes into the room and asks you to come see something, calmly say, “I will be there in a few moments.”
If you are cooking dinner and your child asks for something, nicely explain that when you and others are busy, they have to wait. Try saying, “I am cooking dinner right now, which means I cannot do that for you. I will help you with that as soon as I am finished.”

, Small children don’t really understand the concept of time, so saying “ten minutes” may not help them understand how long they need to wait. You can use sequences to help them understand the process of waiting.For example, instead of saying “dinner is in 10 minutes,” try saying, “dinner will be ready after the chicken is finished cooking.”
You can also say, “We will go to the store, then have lunch, and then you can play.” This gives the child a sequence of events so they know what they are waiting for.
 Having the request met after waiting is important for teaching your child patience. You want to teach them that being patient has positive rewards. This reinforces positive behaviors with your attention and help as their reward. If they don’t get any reward for their patience, it will teach that patience doesn’t result in anything.For example, if your child plays patiently until you get off the phone, make sure you go see them and find out what they needed while you were on the phone. If you told them you would get them a juice box after you finished dinner, make sure you follow through.
 Many parents will do something for their child if they start whining or complaining. This reinforces instant results instead of patience. Instead, try to avoid dropping everything when your child whines, interrupts you, or says that they are bored.For example, if your child interrupts you when you are on the phone, don’t get off the phone or stop your conversation. Instead say, “I am on the phone. Wait until I get finished.”

, Kids learn by watching others. If you are patient, then they will pick up on your habits. Try not to snap at your children when you are impatient. Listen to your child when they talk and don’t get impatient and start doing other things. That models negative behaviors.Try to be patient with your child when they are in the middle of doing something. If you can, let them finish an activity before requiring them to do something else. For example, you may allow your child to finish coloring a page they are almost finished with before they get ready for bed.
Try to avoid doing more than one task at a time. By avoiding multitasking, you are showing your child how to focus and complete one activity at a time.

