 (Or you can click on the image at right.) Right click on the image and select "View Image" (for Macs, CTRL click and click "Open Image in New Window"). From there, print out the image on a heavyweight paper, like cardstock or construction paper.
 Right click or CTRL click again to see the image in a separate window, and from there print out the pop-up pieces for the cake on another sheet of heavy paper., Do this on the center of the card with the rounded end of a paper clip (or a ballpoint pen that has run out of ink). Use a ruler as a guide. Go all the way from the top to the bottom of the card.,, Follow the solid, black lines., Follow the solid, black lines. Do not cut the dotted lines - those are fold lines you'll use later., Don't color the cake yet., Fold away from you, along the center dotted line., After you've creased it, return the tab to its original position., After you've creased it, return tab to its original position., While holding the lower section still with your right hand, fold back the top section with your left.
 The two candles in the center are pushed back away from you while the two candles on the ends are coming towards you., This is so that you do not see any of the black dotted lines on the finished product.,, Lay the cake down flat and carefully fold the right tab up along the dotted line and crease. Leave the tab in this position., Leave the tab in this position., Leave the tab in this position., Fold it up along the dotted line and crease. Leave the tab in this position.,,, Don't use too much glue or it will show through. Apply it first to the left angled area closest to the center of the card.,, Press the candles' tabs into the glue. Make sure that the center dotted line on the candles matches the center dotted line on the card. Let the glue dry for 2 or 3 minutes., You may need to help the candles fold down for this first time.,,, Press the tabs into the glue. Make sure that the center crease line matches the center dotted line on the card. Let the glue dry for 2 or 3 minutes., You might have to help the cake fold in the first time. Open and close the card a few times to test the pop-up.