 For this method, you'll need designs that have already been printed on paper with water-resistant ink. You can use shiny magazines or books, or you can experiment with the ink your printer uses to print out designs from your computer. If you are printing pictures, make a test copy to get a little wet before you try to make a print sticker.Cut out pictures and words you like using a pair of scissors.









When choosing pictures, think about the width of the packing tape. Each sticker should be able to fit on one strip. The picture can be the size of the packing tape or smaller.
If you want a larger sticker, you will have to place two pieces of packing tape stacked on each other. This can be tricky. You will have to align the tape so that they overlap just a little bit so you have no paper peeking through. This can mess up your sticker. You will have a seam where the two pieces of tape meet.
 Cut a piece of clear packing tape large enough to cover an entire cut-out design. Place it on the front of the design that you cut or printed out. Press down so that the tape adheres to the design.









When placing the tape on the sticker, make sure to carefully place the tape over the design. Moving the tape after you have started to adhere it can tear the picture. Also, try to not have any bubbles or wrinkles in the tape when you apply it.
Consider using double-sided tape. Double-sided adhesive comes in many forms - rolls, sheets or even sticker maker machines such as Xyron
Consider using Washi Tape. Washi Tape is similar to packing tape; it's great to use for stickers because it sticks when you want, and easily peels off when you want. If you are looking for a stronger sticker, you could even use duct tape. Washi Tape is available in various colors and patterns.
 Use a penny or your nail to press on the front of the stickers and rub the surface, so that the tape starts to bind with the ink on the paper. Continue for a couple of minutes to ensure that the ink and the adhesive become one.
 One at a time, run them under the water with the paper side facing the stream of water until it begins to fall apart. The ink won't wash away, but the paper should completely dissolve. You can help it along by scratching some away.









Make sure you get all of the surfaces of the tape wet instead of only focusing on one spot. If you focus on only one part, only that part will be visible.
If the paper won't come off, continue running it under warm water.
An alternate way is to submerge the sticker in a bowl of warm water. Place the sticker completely in the water and allow it to soak for a few minutes.
 Once the paper is gone, let the stickers completely dry so that the tape's adhesive will become sticky again. Use scissors to trim away any extra tape around the design, then stick the stickers to the surfaces of your choice.








