 For example, any spoof of the Blair Witch Project should be using hand-held camera work to replicate the shaky look of the original. Shooting a Game of Thrones parody? You better have lots of low camera angles on the power-players and dramatic, sweeping shots of your location (which can humorously reveal things as you turn the camera).


Not all movies have an easily discernible visual style, but they all have common pieces. While romantic comedies are shot in a straightforward manner, you definitely need a "happy music" montage of the couple falling in love.
The other idea is to go as far from the actual movie as possible, shooting instead in a comically different location, like the aforementioned ending of The Holy Grail.
 The best spoofs play off of the original movies from script to stage, and your actors are a key factor. Show them the characters they are spoofing in their "natural habitat" so they everyone is on the same page. Find the major motivation or parody of the character ("the pompous hero," "the bumbling sidekick"


Use these characters as baselines, especially for big moments. Instead of starting from scratch on a rakish, sleazy pirate ship captain, you can say "act like Han Solo, but way creepier and more flirty."

, Looking at the camera, laughing, or acknowledging that this isn't how things normally are is called "breaking the 4th wall." You're basically reminding everyone that they're watching a movie, which can work in small doses (see the film noir spoof Kiss Kiss, Bang Bang for a wonderful example), but most jokes should be told "straight." That means your actors accept the lines and events as if they were real life. To your characters, the world they live in is the only world they know, no matter how wacky.


Check Leslie Nielsen, star of famous spoofs from "Airplane!" to "The Naked Gun" for a masterclass in straight-faced comedy., It may seem counter-intuitive to ape the movie you're making fun of, but this level of detail will make the jokes far funnier. Great spoofs could, at quick glance, be the very movies they are making fun of. This sucks the audience in. The surprise of your twists and jokes are much funnier because they are juxtaposed against a more "serious" backdrop.
 The TV show Community's now-famous action movie spoof, "Modern Warfare," had more visual jokes than most full-length spoofs. From the general, such as a trickle of green paint sliding ominously down the wall (spoofing blood) to a character's slow-mo dives, flips, and machine gun fire calling up images of The Matrix and Scarface. An attention to visual humor will wring out a lot of laughs.


Adjust and play with your props. Making a fantasy-spoof? Try changing the emblems on the shields or coat-of-arms to something ridiculous or funny.Don't be afraid to "steal" famous shots and do something funny with them. "Airplane!" begins with the plane cutting through the clouds set to the music from Jaws, re-creating the shot in a new light., This seems counter-intuitive, but remember the old rule of "tragedy + time = comedy." If you put your characters in somewhat legitimate danger, introduce real consequences, and live in the world you're spoofing, then it will be that much funnier when everything blows up in the character's faces. A good spoof still respects and pays attention to the classics, and is a better movie for it.


While any movie in this article could fit this step, Sean of the Dead is a particularly good example. It actually owns up the horror elements in a few key scenes, playing like a traditional zombie movie, which leads to an enormously funny and satisfying payoff in the end., Comedy, in general, is a quick-moving art form, as surprise and speed are key to getting laughs and stringing them together. Spoofs are often even faster because they rarely have original plots that the audience needs to think of. Try to keep the jokes rolling quickly -- if one fails, there is another one right behind it -- and let the plot stay simple.


Most spoofs are on the shorter end, usually 90-100 minutes, as there is always a danger of the movie overstaying its welcome if it doesn't have anything original to say.

