 Generally Zelda is depicted as a blue-eyed, blonde young woman wearing an ankle-length pink or white dress. She has a jeweled diadem, wears golden pauldrons (shoulder armor) with a gold chain suspended between them like a necklace, and has a banner with the Triforce falling from her hips held up by a golden belt. She may also wear gold Triforce earrings.;
, This will provide detailed front, back and side character and costume sketches. Below are the important main details of each Zelda.


The Legend of Zelda and Zelda II Zeldas only appear briefly. Atop their permed blonde hair is a simple gold chain with a suspended red jewel that lies directly over the forehead. They also wear a red bead necklace, and a pink dress with long sleeves and puffed shoulders. Zelda II's Zelda has a white ribbon and bow trim along the hem of the dress.

Link to the Past Zelda wears a red beaded necklace, spiked golden diadem and Triforce earrings. Her white dress has short sleeves striped with two thin teal lines, a pink torso and a single thick teal stripe near the hem of her dress. She also has a pink apron like-garment that overlaps her skirt. The apron is pink, bordered in orange, and features a red Triforce design. This Zelda wears small golden pauldrons linked by a chain that runs across her collarbone, and extended gold cuffs that cover her arm from wrist to mid-forearm. Her red and gold belt is thick, and has two crests with golden tassels on her left and right hip. Her blonde hair falls freely, except for two pieces that lie in front of her ears.
Zelda from the Ocarina of Time has two versions: a young version and an older version. Young Zelda wears a white dress with sky-blue long sleeves, puffed to the elbow, and has a pink sleeveless over-tunic that bears the Triforce. A golden chain belts her waist, while simple gold bangles adorn both arms. She also wears a gold necklace with a red jewel in the center, and a simple white and pink head cloth with a Triforce medallion on her upper forehead. Her hair is completely tucked under this head cloth. Older Zelda wears a sleeveless dress with a two pink stripes, one thick and the other thin, near the hemline. Her pink over-tunic no longer extends past her waist; the familiar Triforce banner hangs from the gold chain instead. She also now wears opera-length gloves and linked pauldrons, and her strawberry blonde hair resembles that of Link to the Past Zelda.

Oracle of Ages and Oracle of Seasons Zelda wears a sleeveless, Mandarin-collared pale pink dress. The upper portion (torso) is a darker lilac color that dips in the back like a shirt-tail hem tunic. Her dress has a lilac stripe border near the hem, and she wears a white cape. Her accessories are similar to previous Zeldas: Triforce apron (in red, blue and gold), opera-length pink gloves, golden diadem, gold pauldrons with chain, golden belt and Triforce earrings. Her hair is the same as previous Zeldas.

Four Swords Zelda is very similar to the Oracle Zelda, except for her hairstyle and pauldrons. She has a ponytail with a small gold comb at the base, along with two red bat-ear like additions flaring from the comb. The pauldrons are absent, however, the golden chain still remains as an adornment for the neckline of her dress.

The Wind Waker, Minish Cap and Spirit Tracks Zeldas all share a similar design. Their dress is dark pink on the torso portion, has a lilac skirt, and is sleeveless. A hint of a white undershirt shows at the sides of the dress near the underarms, and a jagged dark purple stripe runs near the hem of the dress. The Triforce hangs from a chunky golden belt, and while the pauldrons are absent the collarbone-skimming golden chain is present and anchors a lilac cowl. Opera-length white gloves, two triangular hair ornaments evoking the wind behind each ear, a thick red beaded necklace, and a red-jeweled diadem are the main accessories. These Zeldas' blonde hair flows freely, and also has two frontal sections lying over each ear.

Twilight Princess and Super Smash Bros Zeldas are blueish grey-eyed brunettes with white ribbon-wrapped front hair and a partial French braid. They wear a sleeveless white dress embroidered along the bottom with the royal crest and hemmed with gold. Like many other Zeldas a purple tunic-like garment covers their torso, and a Triforce banner hangs from their hips by a gold belt. The accessories are also similar to past Zeldas but more ornate in detail: opera-length gloves (with subtle embroidery details on the back of the hand and cuffs), jeweled golden pauldrons with chain, and a jeweled belt and diadem. The earrings appear to be thick iron rings, with a small gold triangle on the bottom. They are commonly pictured holding a sword.

Skyward Sword Zelda, unlike previous games, is not a princess. She is pictured wearing a pink long sleeve dress that hits below the knee, topped with a white shawl. The dress has a rectangular yellow border along the hem and sleeves, and the neckline has yellow polygon-like details. In the center of her dress' bust is a blue diamond. She wears a gold medallion chain and brown wrap belt around her waist, and a blue Triforce banner edged with a sky blue border sits on her right hip. This Zelda wears practical knee-high brown boots with a fold-over top, and gold bangles on both arms. Her hair is blonde, with the two front sections and the low ponytail part wrapped in blue ribbons.

