 These crafts can incorporate pumpkins, fall leaves, nuts, harvest symbols, and seasonal colors. Some ideas include (click on highlighted links for instructions):


Pumpkin favors
Candy corn crispy treats
Squash displays
Carved apple people
Sweetcorn drawings.;
, Draw pumpkin shapes on orange cardstock. Use online pumpkin templates if you're not good at drawing the shape freehand. Use the cut-outs as follows:


Stick them on your front door, walls, mirrors, etc. using double -sided tape or poster tack, for decoration
Attach them to a long string or ribbon, spacing them at even intervals, to form a garland.
 Work from a wreath base, such as a foam/twig or metallic wreath ring.


Purchase artificial leaves in fall colors. These can often be found in bags in craft stores and dollar stores during the fall season. Also purchase some small artificial pumpkins and squash and find some small pine cones.
Arrange the artificial leaves all the way around the wreath, gluing them in place. Overlap them to ensure complete coverage.
Attach a small artificial pumpkin or squash here and there. Do the same with a few small pine cones. Leave the top of the wreath free for attaching the ribbon.
Attach a wide burlap ribbon to the top center of the wreath. Knot in place and leave a long piece intact for creating a hanging loop from.
Done. You can now hang the wreath from your front door.
 Work from a wreath base, such as a foam/twig or metallic wreath ring.


Find a selection of Halloween colored ribbons. Orange, black and white make a good color combination. Different patterns on the ribbons work best for this wreath, such as spots, stripes, designs, etc., so be sure to vary the ribbons used.
Wrap the whole wreath in a plain colored ribbon. This covers up the wreath base, so that the color shows through wherever there are any gaps in the wreath.
Cut out lengths from the ribbon. Each piece needs to be the same length, and it must be long enough to go around the wreath, be tied in a knot and have a decent length still sticking out of the edges.
Tie each piece onto the wreath. Use a square knot to tie the first piece to the wreath, adding each piece closely next to the last tied piece, until all of the wreath has been covered by ribbon pieces. The edges of the ribbons should be facing outward, away from the wreath.
Cut the ends of the ribbon pieces to neaten and prevent fraying. Either cut a diagonal edge or a V-edge.
Tie a hanging string to the top center of the wreath. It's now ready to hang up.
 There are plenty of delicious treats to be made that rely on pumpkins, apples, squash, nuts, sweetcorn, etc., that do not require spooky features.
 Use delicious candies. Add a label that brings positive messages, such as "You picked a sweet treat from my bowl and here is a sweet treat for your soul." This is in contrast to the more ghoulish and macabre candy bags out there.
 Use the usual shapes but use bright frosting and edible glitter to make them fun and quirky. When making the cookies, pierce a small hole in each one, then thread the cookies through a long piece of ribbon or string. Hang the completed cookies up as a cookie garland.
 You could also make candy corn crispy treats or use candy corn on a variety of toppings for cupcakes, cakes or cookies.
 A cupcake isn't scary, at least not these designs:


A ghost cupcake. This is such a simple cupcake and the kids will love it. Make basic cupcakes. Simply pipe a large amount of white buttercream frosting in a cone shape on top of each cupcake. Add two small chocolate chips for eyes on the ghost. That's it. You can add a third chocolate chip for the mouth, but it's not essential. Make as many as you want, they look great on display together.
A spider-in-the-web cupcake. Make basic cupcakes. Frost each one with a layer of basic orange frosting. Pipe black frosting onto the top of each cupcake to form a web over the whole top. Then add a large black candy jujube in the center for the spider's body. Add eight "legs" from licorice or similar candy lengths.
Make a candy corn cupcake. Make orange colored cupcakes (use food coloring or orange juice for the color). Frost with white buttercream frosting and top each cupcake with a candy corn. This looks even better if you can match the cupcake case with orange white and yellow colors.
 Purchase disposable gloves, the ones that are slightly see-through. Fill each glove with candies and tie off with a ribbon. Then slide a Halloween plastic ring onto one finger, such as a ghost, spider or witch ring. This is Halloween-themed rather than spooky.
 Focus on the light, happy, and positive elements of Halloween. Make your pumpkins smile and equally, make all crafts focused on smiling, carrying positive messages, and relying on bright colors.
 Bring lots of light into your Halloween with these lovely jars.


Choose some Mason jars. Clean them and allow to thoroughly dry.
Cut out templates for Halloween designs on the jars. These could include a pumpkin, a cat, a leaf, etc.
Attach the template to the Mason jar. Use double sided tape or poster tack to hold it in place, especially around the edges.
Spray paint the rest of the Mason jar. You can use a bright color or a transparent color, whatever you like.
Remove the template. Leave this portion of the jar paint-free.
Tie some raffia or ribbon around the mouth of the jar.
Place a tea light or votive candle in the base of the jar.
Light the candle with a long-stemmed match. Place it wherever you'd like a pretty glow.
 Some ideas include:


Decorate orange and/or white balloons. For orange balloons, use a black marker to draw on pumpkin face designs. For white balloons, draw round eyes and a round mouth, for ghost balloons.
Make paper chains from orange, white and black paper or gift wrapping. Hang them around the house for decoration.
Make a hanging sign using cardboard letters that spell out the words "Boo" or "Happy Halloween". Hang either vertically or horizontally, and jazz up with ribbon or sparkles.

