 When the body’s immune system senses foreign bodies, substances that cause fever (pyrogens) are released and travel to the hypothalamus (part of the brain which regulates body temperature). The pyrogens now bind to the receptors in the hypothalamus and the body’s temperature starts to rise. By making the body hot, the immune system makes it more difficult for microorganisms to survive.;
, Infection can alter the normal eating habits of a person. When higher body temperatures occur, such as greater than the normal value of 98.6 degree F, the enzyme’s function in a person’s taste buds stop and therefore cannot send messages to the brain because they are able to work only in an environmental temperature of 77 to 98.6 degree F. Without sense of taste, the person’s appetite is lost.
 The muscles become inflamed whenever infection is present; as the body secretes inflammatory chemicals as a reaction to infection. This makes the person feel tired and weak.
 The kidneys are located at the back of the abdomen. When it gets inflamed because of infection, pain receptors at the site send pain signals to the brain and it is felt at the back. The pain may be described as sharp, dull or excruciating.
 The kidneys remove waste products from the blood. One of these is a toxic substance called urea. If the kidneys’ function is impaired because of infection, then urea will accumulate in the brain and this can lead to mental changes such as confusion.
 The presence of blood in the urine may be associated with infections that can damage the kidneys and their surrounding structures. A break in a structure can result in the leakage of blood that may be visible in the urine.
 Upon urination, the microorganisms that cause infection may be excreted. These make the urine cloudy and foul-smelling.
 A sharp, dull or excruciating pain may be felt when urinating. This is because the increased pressure in the urinary tract which allows urine flow out of the body, can compress the inflamed areas in the kidneys or its surrounding structures.
 Kidneys control the production of urine. If they are damaged, overproduction may occur and this can lead to increased episodes of urination.
 This procedure is done to determine the presence of infection. A urine sample is collected and is submitted to a laboratory for analysis. The presence of white blood cells and bacteria in the urine suggests infection.
 This is done to identify the type of bacteria that causes the infection. Generally, a part of the urine sample is placed in a tube or dish which contains certain substances that stimulates growth of any bacteria present. Results may be obtained after a few days later once the bacteria has multiplied.
 This is a device that releases wavelengths to produce detailed images of the structures within the urinary tract. The procedure is done by a trained technician and results are interpreted by a radiologist (a doctor that specializes in reading and interpreting medical images).


The test can reveal any obstruction in the urinary tract that could contribute to the development of a kidney infection. This is usually indicated for individuals who do not respond to any treatment within 72 hours.
 A combination of X-ray and computer technology is used in this test to produce a three-dimensional image of the urinary tract to identify any obstruction.


It commonly involves the injection of a special dye (contrast medium) that outlines or highlights the structure being examined. During the procedure, the patient is advised to lie still on a CT scan machine where pictures are taken by a technician.
Images created are also interpreted by a radiologist. This test is typically recommended if patients do not respond to any treatment within 72 hours.
 An image of the bladder and urethra is taken while the bladder is full or during urination or voiding. This can be done in a hospital facility or in an outpatient center by an X-ray technician. Results are interpreted by a radiologist.


The introduction of anesthesia is typically not required although in some cases sedation may be used. A contrast dye is injected until the bladder and the urethra is filled up to make the structures more visible on the x-ray images.
The test may reveal irregularities in the internal structure of the urethra or the bladder.
 This is a physical exam of the prostate which is done in a medical facility. Anesthesia is not required.


During the procedure, the patient is asked to lean over a table or lie on his side while holding his knees near to his chest. The examiner will then insert a gloved and lubricated finger into the rectum and looks for the prostate gland which is located in front of the rectum.
An enlarged prostate may obstruct the bladder which can lead to kidney infection.
 A small amount of radioactive material is injected into the patient’s vein which then moves through the body and into the kidneys. Special cameras and computers are used to generate images of the radioactive material as it travels through the kidneys.


The areas in the kidney where damages are present are highlighted by the radioactive material as seen in the images produced. It can also show the extent of kidney damage such as scarring.
The procedure is done in a medical facility by a technician and results are interpreted by a radiologist. Anesthesia is not required and since the dose of radioactive material injected is very limited, chances of causing damage to cells are also low.
 These can be given to lower and control the body’s temperature and relieve pain. Examples are paracetamol and aspirin.


They work by inhibiting the production of prostaglandin E2 which causes the cells in the hypothalamus (part of the brain that regulates temperature) to fire at a rapid rate, therefore increasing the body’s temperature.
These medicines also work by blocking specific body chemicals that send pain signals to the brain. For adults, the dosage of paracetamol is usually 500 mg oral tablets every 4 to 6 hours.
 Your doctor will prescribe antibiotics to eradicate the cause of infection. One recommended antibiotics is ciprofloxacin.


Ciprofloxacin works by entering the cells of the bacteria and inhibiting the enzyme called DNA-gyrase, which is responsible for replicating and repairing the DNA or genetic material of the bacteria. If this enzyme malfunctions, the bacteria cannot multiply or repair themselves – this eventually kills the bacteria.
The recommended daily oral dose for adults is 500 mg every 12 hours for 1 to 2 weeks.
 This antibiotic works by interfering with the ability of bacteria to create cell walls. The cell walls keep unwanted substances from entering the bacterial cells and stop the contents from leaking out.


Co-amoxiclav weakens the bonds that hold the bacterial cell wall together. As a result, holes appear in cell walls and kill the bacteria.
The recommended daily oral dose for adults is 375 mg tablet every 8 hours or 625 mg tablet every 12 hours for 1 week.
 This is a medical intervention that replaces lost fluids in the body by inserting a sterile needle into the vein, which is connected to a tube and fluid bottle.


If fever is present because of infection, the increased body temperature also increases one’s metabolism. This means that all the biochemical reactions in the body needed to keep us alive speeds up. In order for the body to do this, it needs both water and oxygen.
We are able to breathe faster because the body supplies more oxygen. As you breathe faster, more moisture is expelled along with carbon dioxide. The body makes use of more water, thus resulting in dehydration.
Also, if you have a fever, the increase in temperature causes you to sweat more because the body tries to regulate temperature by making the stored water evaporate through sweat to cool us off. More sweat leads to dehydration.
 Lectin, which is a substance in aloe vera, stimulates the production of macrophages – the cells responsible for fighting foreign bodies by ingesting them. This can help eradicate the cause of kidney infection.


Aloe vera is available in the form of juice which you can drink. 50 ml of aloe vera juice is recommended daily.
 Garlic is known as a natural antibiotic. The active ingredient in garlic called allicin has the ability to stimulate the body’s immune system by stimulating the activity of a type of white blood cell called macrophages which engulf foreign body that causes kidney infections.


For best results, you should eat a clove of garlic every 4 hours.
 Peppermint tea which is brewed from the plant's leaves contains phenolic constituents. Derivatives of phenol called phenolics damage the bacteria’s lipid-containing plasma membranes.


This results in the leakage of the cellular contents of the bacteria. Without those cellular contents, the bacteria cannot survive and eventually dies.
Allow the peppermint leaves to steep in a cup of hot water for about 2 to 3 minutes before drinking. Drink 3 to 4 cups a day.
 Carctol is a mixture of 8 Indian herbs that includes, Hemidesmusindicus, Tribulusterrestris, Piper cubeba, Ammanivesicatoria, Lepidiumsativum, Blepharisedulis, Smilax china and Rheum emodi.


Carctol eliminates acids from the body which results in the creation of an alkaline environment where most infectious agents cannot survive. A standard recommended daily dosage of Carctol for adults is 4 to 8 capsules.
In some cases, carctol can cause constipation so it is recommended that you increase your fluid intake (more than 8 glasses of water a day) while taking it.
 Turmeric contains a powerful antioxidant called curcumin, which inhibits the growth of bacteria and keeps them from binding to the host cells.


Turmeric is available in liquid extract form, of which the recommended dose is 30 to 90 drops per day.
 Water flushes harmful microorganisms out of the body in the form of urine. In case of kidney infection, drinking more than 10 glasses of water each day can help flush out infectious agents that lead to kidney infection.


Also, this will help replace lost fluids. Because of fever, the increased metabolism in the body makes use of more water and the body tries to regulate the temperature inside by making the stored water evaporate through sweat to cool us off.
These all lead to dehydration, thus, drinking more than 10 glasses of water a day is recommended in order to replace the lost fluids.



Fruits and vegetables rich in vitamin C are blackberries, broccoli, cabbage, cauliflower, grapefruit, lemon, mango, orange, melon, papaya, pineapple, potato, spinach, strawberries, tangerine and tomato.
Eat at least one of these vitamin C-rich foods with each major meal. The recommended daily intake of this vitamin is 65mg.
 Carotenoids - which are a derivative of vitamin A - enhance the activity of the immune system’s cells and improves cell-to-cell communication to easily identify foreign bodies and inhibit their growth.


Foods rich in carotenoids are carrots, sweet potatoes, tomato, pumpkin, cantaloupe, apricots, spinach and broccoli.
The recommended daily intake of vitamin A is 0.9 milligrams daily for men and 0.7 milligrams daily for women.
 An infection is usually associated with weakness and a feeling that you do not want to get out of bed. During sleep, the immune system releases cytokines, which are protein molecules that the cells of the immune system use to send signals to one another.


When you have an infection or inflammation, certain cytokines increases. Cytokines help to fight off infections by aiding the immune system in identifying which specific viral cells or foreign bodies it should be attacking.
It is recommended that you get a proper sleep of at least 8 to 10 hours a night to aid your body in fighting infection.
 To ensure that the body will not receive additional harmful microorganisms that can aggravate the kidney infection, it is vital to check if that your water source is clean and not contaminated. Contaminated water is one of the ways in which an infectious agent can be transmitted. To ensure safety of water supply, the following methods may be used:



Boiling: Water should be brought to a boiling point for at least 15 minutes before removing it from the fire. This ensures that microorganisms in the water are killed.

Chemical Disinfectants: Substances like chlorine and iodine are dissolved in water to remove parasites. However, this does not give 100 percent efficiency, thus filtering or boiling should still be utilized.

Portable Filtration Devices: Contains a pore size of less than 0.5 microns to filter viruses. It should be used in combination with either the boiling method or a chemical disinfectant.

Bottled Water: Alternative to water purification but the seal must be checked for any signs of tampering to ensure water safety.
 To ensure food safety, the following must be done:


Wash hands frequently with antimicrobial soap and clean water.
Avoid eating street foods.
Place food in sealed containers.

