 Separate 4 egg whites and yolks. To ensure that you don't get yolks in the whites, crack the eggs into two separate bowls. Use your fingers or the shells of the eggs to scoop out the yolks and place them one bowl. Place the whites in a separate and completely clean large bowl. Beat the egg whites with a hand or stand mixer on high speed until the whites start to look frothy. This should take about one minute.You can discard the egg yolks or save them for another recipe.;
, Turn the mixer down to low speed and gradually stir in powdered sugar. You should plan on adding 8 cups (1 kg) of powdered sugar, although you may need more. Keep adding and beating the sugar until the royal icing becomes thick.Keep the mixer on low until the powdered sugar is incorporated. Then, you can increase the speed to thoroughly mix the icing.
 Pour in 1/4 cup (60 ml) of lemon juice. Use the mixer to beat the juice into the icing. The lemon juice will make the icing thinner and easier to spread. If the icing still seems too stiff, you can add a little more lemon juice.The royal icing should be thin enough that you can spoon it onto a cookie and it will spread a little. This will help to give the appearance of melting snow.
 Once you've made the royal icing and set it aside, you'll need 24 baked and cooled sugar cookies and 24 marshmallows. The cookies can be a traditional circular shape or you can cut them out in unusual shapes to get a puddle effect. It's also fine to purchase the cookies, if you don't feel like baking them.You could also try other flavors of cookies to get some variety. For example, chocolate or peanut butter cookies make delicious melted snowmen cookies.
 Take two cookie sheets and place a sheet of wax paper over each. Set 12 cookies on each sheet so that you leave 1-inch of space between each cookie.The wax paper will make it easier to remove the finished melted snowmen. You could also set down a silicone baking mat.
 Take a spoon or offset spatula and scoop a tablespoon or two of the royal icing onto each cookie. Use the back of the spoon or the offset spatula to spread the icing over the cookie. Push the icing to the edges so it can drip off the sides of the cookie.If you like, you can leave some parts of the cookie exposed so it looks more like snow is melting off of the cookie.
 Spray a microwave-safe plate with baking spray and place 1 marshmallow on it. Microwave the marshmallow for 20 to 30 seconds or until it begins puffing up. Remove it from the microwave and set the marshmallow on the edge of one of your iced cookies. Do this for each marshmallow and cookie.The icing should still be wet when you place the marshmallows. This will help it set better.
Avoid microwaving several marshmallows at once or they may puff into each other.
 You can use the black, green, red, and orange decorating gels to pipe arms, eyes, mouths, and noses on your snowmen cookies. Keep in mind that these won't flavor your cookies and they're fast to use.If you make these cookies a few days in advance, the colors may start to bleed into the royal icing. Consider decorating them with the gel on the day you plan to serve them.
 Instead of piping gel for the coal buttons or scarves, place small nonpareils, red hot candies, or mini chocolate chips. These will give your snowmen cookies a little texture and extra crunch. You can also cut miniature peanut butter cups in half to use as snowmen hats.

It may help to place the small candies with a pair of tweezers.
 Try placing mini pretzel sticks on the sides of the snowmen to look like arms. Arrange them so they look like they're arms that have melted off the snowmen and fallen onto the cookie ground. You can also use small cookies to place on the snowmen's heads to look like hats.

For example, dab a little royal icing on a mini chocolate sandwich cookie and stick it on the marshmallow snowman. This will act as the small hat.
 Use a piece of candy vine or candy ribbon to wrap around each marshmallow snowman instead of piping a gel scarf. You'll need to select a candy that's thin enough to wrap around just the base of the marshmallow.

You can also cut the candy down to size if the vines are too long or thick.
 Once you've finished decorating the snowmen cookies, you'll need to serve them. Cover your serving tray with white flaked coconut and place the cookies on the coconut. This will make it look like the cookies are setting on snow.You can also dust the snowmen cookies on the serving tray with powdered sugar. This will give the appearance of freshly fallen snow.

