 For this step you will need two watches.


Remove the watch faces from the bands.






Wrap a band around a watch face. Check it for fit.






Glue the watchband around the watch face.






Repeat so that you have two wheels with tires.





;
, For this part you will need two flexible watchbands.


Remove the bands from the watch faces.






Wrap the band around in a flattish circle shape and glue it.






Leave the cylinders to dry sitting on the end of a peg/ clothes pin. This will help keep their shape.
 For this part you will need two watch faces and the cylinders made in the previous step.


Place glue over the watch face.






Press down the other watch face onto the face with glue on it (face to face).






Add glue to the side of the dried cylinders.






Press each cylinder onto the side of the "engine", right next to each other (see image).
 For this step you will need two stiff watchbands.


Remove the bands from a watch with a stiff metallic band. On one side, however, leave half of the band intact still.






Add glue to the inner side of the stiff band (see image).






Glue two small metal tabs on the underside that will sit on the tire. Add glue to these small pieces (see image).






Glue the fender to each tire.
 For this step, you will need a watch with a flexible band and a rectangular or square shaped watch face and watch backing.


Pull the back out of a square/rectangular watch.






Spread glue on the back.






Glue the back onto the watch back from which it was removed (see image). Ensure that the watch piece still has a band attached either side.
 This step picks up using the watch as glued from the previous step.


Push a small sturdy copper wire piece through one end of the watch where the flexible band meets with the watch (see image).






Bend the wire into handlebar shapes. Make sure that one of the watchbands has been snapped off most of the way. Adjust the handlebar until it sits well. You might need to use pliers in this step (and the following step).
, Make sure that everything is in the position as shown in this image and that all pieces are dry and sturdy.
 Using the pieces assembled above, make sure that everything will fit in place easily prior to gluing by mock assembling without glue. Now is the time to make any necessary adjustments before following the gluing steps that follow. Here are the checks to make:

Push the back wheel toward the engine. Wrap a small part of the band still attached to the back wheel over the cylinder.






Push in the front wheel to the engine and bring down the handlebar section to the engine as well.






Bring the light to the front of the handlebars. Use an old watch battery for this piece.






Bring the U-shaped piece to the back of the bike to sit on the fender as the backrest of the bike seat.
 Once you are certain that all the pieces fit well and you have made any adjustments necessary, it is time to put the bike together with glue. Follow the images and video carefully here.


Glue the back wheel to the cylinder.






Glue the back rest to the back wheel fender.






Glue the handlebar/gas tank piece to the front wheel fender.






Glue the battery "light" to the piece extending down from the handlebar to the front wheel fender.






Glue the front of the bike to the unglued cylinder (the back of the bike is already attached to the other cylinder).
 Small plastic tubing used to cover electrical wires is best, or you could wrap black tape around if preferred. These make the holding pads of the handlebars.
 This serves as the exhaust pipe.


Shave the paint off the pen (if needed).






Check the positioning of the pen.






Glue the pen into place.
 Make any adjustments as needed. It should look somewhat similar to these views:

Other side view.






Rear view.






From the front side.







