 Some fungal skin infections, such as athlete's foot, may result in the formation of blood blisters on the feet (and less commonly, the hands or groin). To prevent fungal skin infections, it's important to keep your skin clean and dry. Wear a new change of clean, dry clothes every day.Change your socks often to keep your feet dry and clean if you perspire heavily. In public areas such as gyms, bathrooms, or swimming areas, wear flip-flops or stand on a clean, dry towel instead of walking around barefoot.
Avoid sharing jerseys and other clothing with other people.
If you have athlete's foot, wear sandals or open-toed shoes whenever possible to help your feet to stay dry. Don't allow the skin to get too dry, however, as very dry, cracked skin gives the fungus an easy entry into your body.
 Any time you scrape your skin, you risk getting a blood blister. If you're in a situation during which you could fall and scrape your elbows, knees, or other body parts, it's best to protect yourself by wearing proper clothing and padding.


For example, wear knee pads and elbow pads if you're going rollerblading or participating in another activity during which you could fall.
Prevent the likelihood of accidents in your home by clearing out hazardous items that may cause you to trip and fall.
 Too much grinding and rubbing up against rough surfaces increases the chances of a blood blister forming. Abrasions can also occur when continuous scratching occurs, so be mindful of how much you scratch your skin.


Avoid scratching too much or too hard when it comes to insect or bug bites and dry skin. Use a medicated or over-the-counter topical cream (such as such as 1% hydrocortisone cream) that will help alleviate excessively itchy skin. If you have excessively dry skin, see a dermatologist to discuss remedies that can help.
Abrasion can also occur when you wear ill-fitting clothes. If your skin tends to chafe between your thighs or in other areas, protect your skin there with coconut oil or another balm.
 Since frostbite may cause blood blisters to form on some areas of your body, wear clothing that covers your bare skin and also provides both ventilation and insulation from the cold.


Since substantial heat loss occurs through your scalp, cover your head with a warm hat or cap. You may also want to wear thick mittens or gloves, as well as thick or layered socks.
Remember to wear socks that wick moisture away from your skin.

