 If you want to get that unkempt cool swag in your style, try out some jeans with well-placed rips. Carefully take a razor to the knees of an old pair of jeans and cut some well-placed holes in them and you'll be screaming "rocker." Or, just wear the heck out of a pair of jeans you've already got and wait until they distress themselves for a more authentic tattered look. Loose-fitting or slimmer styles both look cool with distressed holes and tattered rips.


Brand-new looking clothes aren't very rock-n-roll. If you want to get more of a vintage look in new clothes, wash them a couple times, and drive over them in a car, or leave darker clothes out in the sun for a couple days to fade. They'll start aging quickly and look a lot more worn-in.;
, If you want to look like a rock-chick, band shirts are the way to go. Get some cool-looking black vintage tour shirts from your favorite bands, or look for classic rock icons like Black Sabbath, Pink Floyd, and the Stones for an easy go-to.


One popular rock option for girls is to cut the sleeves off, or cut the neck-hole up to make the shirt more like a tank-top than a boy's t-shirt. Wear a white sleeveless undershirt to keep yourself covered and go for an off-the-shoulder look.
 Boys' over-shirts look totally rock-n-roll on girls. Grandpa sweaters might not seem super-cool, but they'll look stylish when paired with that sick Sabbath shirt you scored and ripped-up jeans. It's a cool, semi-ironic way to dress that totally screams rocker.
 An easy way to get a rock look but also keep the girly clothes you've already got is to think about opposites. A baby-doll dress or a nice summer sundress isn't super-rock, but with combat boots you'll look like you're ready to hop on stage and start making noise. Punk up your regular look with little accents like combat boots or holy jeans and you'll master the rock style.
 If you want to wear make-up, rocker make-up is relatively simple. Don't go overboard. Some simple black-eyeliner and bright red lipstick can help give you a dramatic but totally rock-n-roll look that'll match well with your new style.



Betty Page make-up is still super-popular among rock girls, and could be a good inspiration for make-up styles.
 Rocker girls usually have one extreme or the other: long hair, past the shoulders, with bangs that come down past your eyebrows are a popular look for lots of different styles. Start growing it out, if you want to get that look. Otherwise, the shorter the better. What's more rock-n-roll than a super-short punk cut? Or a faux-hawk, even?


In general, rock hair has a reputation for being pretty much unkempt, all the better for head-banging in the front row. But, that doesn't mean you have to have a tangled bird's nest on top:

, As a rocker, you can get away with a lot of cool jewelry. Focus on getting cheap vintage stuff that looks like it came from another time, rather than fancy new jewelry that's expensive. Accessories can make the look. Bandanas, chunky rings, and piercings are all super-common rocker chick additions. Wearing lots of rings--multiple on each hand--screams rocker.


Layer necklaces of different styles for a busy rock look. Think Steven Tyler-meets-Janis. While it's possible to "over-do" it in terms of accessories, it's pretty difficult. Rock and roll, in general, is a look that's almost ridiculous, but super-cool at the same time. Be willing to go extreme.
 Who better to find your style inspiration from than rockers themselves? Rock women with great style include:


Janis Joplin
Madonna
Courtney Love
Annie Clark (St. Vincent)
Chan Marshall (Cat Power)
Paz Lenchantin

