 What problems remained unsolved by previous research? Demonstrate why the question needs to be answered, and how it has not been answered, or has been only inadequately answered in the past.


For instance, you might write, “Livingston (2009) has demonstrated the efficacy of nucleotide reparation in E. Coli UBPs.”

, After stating the background or inspiration to the research, state your own research goals and hypotheses. This emphasizes your honesty and objectivity as a researcher up front. Be direct and succinct when stating your goals and hypotheses.


For instance, you might write, “Our hypothesis was that medication X was superior in treating epilepsy than medication Y.”
Some medical abstracts do not require a background section. In an abstract without a background section, you will start the body of your abstract with information on the goals and expectations of your research., If you utilized a common procedure or technique, simply say that you used it, do not go into great depth about the technique or procedure itself.There are several areas related to your methods that you should address, including:Setting — Where did you conduct your research?
Sample size —How many individuals participated in the research? How were they selected? This includes animal populations as well.
Design — How were measurements and statistics recorded?
Variables — What were the specific variables you looked at? How did you account for them?
Interventions — How did you intervene to manipulate the variables?

, Use specific numbers and statistics when reporting your findings. For instance, you might write, “Use of the medication resulted in a 30% decline in mortality rate.” Support all of the findings with hard data and, if appropriate, brief narratives about experiences or outcomes.


Do not provide interpretation of your results in this section. Interpretation and analysis should be saved for the conclusion.
Do not include tables or charts in your abstract. These should be included in the main body of the paper.
 Connect the results of the study to the methods used to attain them, and to the original research question. This is a place to discuss whether your hypothesis was correct and whether the original purpose was achieved. You should basically be addressing the question, “Did your research and findings produce the answer you expected?” Summarize significant implications your research may have and recommend further research, if necessary.

