 As discussed in the previous method, with the variety of chocolates available, it's safe to assume that all kinds bake slightly differently. Here's a few basics:


Melting chocolate is clearly best (hence why they call it melting chocolate).
White chocolate and milk chocolate sometimes don't handle well. If you're new to the melting game, start with something easier.
A good percentage of cocoa is around 70-75%. Much more and it gets bitter and is better for baking.
 The best part about this method is that it prevents scorching. Wahoo! The microwave is much quicker but it's rather precarious; with the double boiler, unless you're cursed, your chocolate should be fine.


In the bottom of your double boiler, place enough water until it hits about an 1⁄2 inch (1.3 cm) below the upper pan. Put the double boiler over low heat, heating the water.
 The smaller your bits of chocolate, the faster it'll melt (and with the double boiler method, you're already looking at 15-20 minutes). Fill the top of the double boiler (the level not touching the water) with as much chocolate as you need. And keep stirring!


This is perhaps the most important note of all: do not let the chocolate come into contact with even a single drop of water. If you do, it'll get grainy and, quite frankly, disgusting. So watch out!
Don't be tempted to up the heat. Keeping it on low will result in a smooth chocolate that has a glossy sheen when it's cooled.
 You want to bring the chocolate to around 100-105°F (38°C), but not higher. Once it hits that point, remove the bowl from the heat and add in the rest of your chocolate, which should knock down the overall temperature to about 90°F (32°C). Keep stirring. When it's all melted, you're ready to start molding!


If you don't have a candy thermometer, you'll probably be just fine. Just take the chocolate off the heat when it's thoroughly melted and all stirred up. Give it a second to cool before you place it into your molds.
If you're using white chocolate and would like to color it, add a few drops of oil-based food coloring at this stage.
 Take a spoonful and place it on a bit of wax paper. Let it cool -- is it smooth and shiny? It should be! That means it's perfect and ready to go. If it doesn't look right, just cool it and temper it again. That's the great thing about chocolate -- it can take just about anything!

, With your melted, tempered chocolate, start pouring it into your molds. Silicone or metal will be fine, but be careful with plastic -- it can warp if it gets exposed to extreme temperatures for too long. Be sure to tap the molds once full to even out the chocolate and get rid of any air pockets.


Alternatively, you can spread the chocolate onto a baking sheet lined with wax paper. Shake it a bit and tap it to remove any bubbles and allow it to chill in the fridge or on the counter. Then you simply heat up your metal cookie cutters over your gas stove or carve out your shapes however you like.

You can take your pan of chocolate and use posterboard as a stencil! Then just cut around it. What are your fine motor skills like?



, Once the molds are chilled and misty with the cold temperatures, they're probably ready to go. Just give them a few taps and the chocolate should pop right out.


And then you'll be left with delicious chocolate and some dirty molds. Once you're done eating, clean the molds with soap and water. Easy as pie!

