 The first step in combating pet obesity is to make sure your pet is not suffering from a medical illness that either contributes to obesity or is a complication from being overweight. In dogs and rarely in cats, hypothyroidism, or low thyroid hormone levels, can cause a pet to gain weight. Hypothyroidism can also cause a dog’s hair to thin or fall out in patches. The dog may also become less playful and energetic.


Increased secretion of hormones from the adrenal glands or from an insulin secreting tumor can also cause obesity. But by far the most common cause of obesity is eating too much food without an increase in exercise to compensate.;
, Pets can become underweight for a variety of reasons, including problems with the intestines, stomach, pancreas, or liver. Hyperthyroidism in cats leads to over secretion of thyroid hormone, which can also cause your pet to be underweight. Being underweight can also be caused by intestinal parasites, especially in young animals, as well as infections or tumors.


Intestinal problems and internal parasites can also cause vomiting, diarrhea, and loss of appetite. Hyperthyroidism can make a cat ravenous and have very loose stools. Infections and tumors can cause a variety of symptoms, including fever, loss of appetite and energy, or occasionally no specific symptoms., Diabetes is a severe consequence of obesity in pets just as with humans. An animal with diabetes can lose weight rapidly, urinate more frequency and in larger volumes, have an increase in thirst, and be more susceptible to infections, especially urinary tract infections.Extra body weight can also stress the bones and joints in the body, leading to arthritis. It can also harm internal organs leading to a decrease in lifespan for the overweight pet.
Being underweight can make a pet more susceptible to infectious illnesses. Young animals that are underweight due to parasites can have intestinal problems well into adulthood and after the parasites are destroyed., You will first want to determine if your pet is obese, underweight, or at her ideal weight. Your veterinarian is your best source to help you to determine this. The vet can also point you in the right direction for a suitable diet to help your pet gain or lose weight safely. If you want to try to figure it out at home, you can determine it based on a condition score. Because of the vast variety in dog breeds, and to a small extent cat breeds, there is a wide variation in what is normal taking account the pet’s age, frame size and breed. To find a body condition score for your dog and cat, you need to do a physical examination. The condition is rated on a scale from 1 through 5 as follows:



1. Emaciated: Ribs, spine, bony parts of the body are plainly visible. Little muscle mass. No body fat.

2. Thin: Ribs are easy to feel, bony parts of the body are visible. Abdomen (waist) is “tucked up” from the side and “sucked in” from the top view. Little body fat.

3. Ideal: Ribs are felt with a little body fat between the ribs. The abdomen is “tucked up” from the side. Good muscle mass.

4. Overweight: Ribs are felt with more fat covering. Abdomen tuck is present, but not as discernible.

5. Obese: Ribs are covered in a heavy layer of fat. Abdomen is rounded. Has fat around the neck, limbs, and tail.

