 Your head can move violently when you vomit. Try to support it as best as you can.


You may want to pull your hair back loosely if it is long. This will keep it from getting in your face if you vomit again.;
, Pillows on a couch can be used to prop you up while you recline. Moving around or lying down flat may make you feel worse.If you are bedridden, lie on your side so that you do not choke on your vomit.You are also more likely to choke on vomit if you are lying flat.Do not lie down after eating, as this may trigger more nausea.
 Vomiting can quickly lead to dehydration. However, drinking too much too quickly may provoke another bout of vomiting. Drink slowly in small sips. Aim to consume about 30 ml/½ cup of fluid every 20 minutes or so.Sucking on ice chips or popsicles may help prevent dehydration. Because these melt very slowly, they may also help keep you from feeling nauseated again.
Try lemon water, ginger tea, or mint tea.Clear liquids, such as broth, apple juice, and sports drinks, are usually helpful.If you have been vomiting for some time, you may have an electrolyte imbalance, Drink an oral rehydration solution or a sports drink formulated with electrolytes.Avoid milk, alcohol, caffeine, carbonated beverages, and most fruit juices. Milk may increase feelings of nausea. Alcohol and caffeine can dehydrate you. Carbonated beverages may make you feel more nauseated. Fruit juices such as grapefruit or orange juice are too acidic and may provoke further vomiting.Eat foods with a high water content, such as watermelon. These can help you stay hydrated., Too much food on your stomach may trigger more nausea and vomiting. Try to nibble throughout the day, rather than eating larger meals.Eat bland foods, such as crackers, toast, potatoes, and rice. Bananas and applesauce are also good options. These do not tend to upset your stomach.Baked chicken or fish can be good protein sources, but do not season them.
Avoid greasy and spicy foods, such as sausage, fast food, and potato chips. Fried foods and overly sweet foods are also not a good idea.Avoid dairy products. Vomiting can make your body temporarily lactose intolerant, even if you usually do not have a problem eating dairy.Eat slowly. Don’t force yourself to eat too much at once. Stretching your stomach may worsen nausea and cause vomiting., Vomiting may be induced by certain triggers, particularly in individuals who are very sensitive to fragrances.The smell of greasy foods may trigger nausea.If the smell of food is a trigger, ask someone else to do the cooking. This is very common in early pregnancy.
Strong smells, such as cigarette smoke and perfume, may trigger nausea and vomiting in some people.
 Medical treatments for vomiting often include medical-grade oxygen treatment.This type of oxygen treatment may not be available to you at home. However, getting some fresh air by sitting near a window or taking a brief outdoor walk can also help you manage nausea and vomiting., Nausea and vomiting may be caused by many things. In many cases you can treat them at home. If you have not been able to eat or drink anything for 12 or more hours, or you've had recurrent nausea and vomiting for more than 48 hours, you should see a doctor. If any of the following symptoms are present with nausea and vomiting, seek emergency medical assistance:Severe abdominal pain or cramping OR severe chest pain
Blurred or double vision
Fainting before or after vomiting episodes
Confusion
Cold, clammy, pale skin
High fever
Stiff neck
Severe pain or headache
Signs of dehydration (excessive thirst, lethargy, dry mouth)
Vomit that is green, resembles coffee grounds, or contains blood
Fecal material in the vomit
Vomiting after a head injury