 Measure out 2 cups (240 g) of flour and 1/4 teaspoon of salt. Place the dry ingredients into the bowl of a food processor. Cover the processor and pulse the dry ingredients to combine them.If you don't have a food processor, you can make the rugelach dough in a mixing bowl. Just whisk the dry ingredients together.;
, Cut 8 ounces (226 g) of cold cream cheese and 1 cup (230 g) of cold unsalted butter into cubes. Add them to the dry ingredients in your food processor. Cover the processor with the lid and pulse the mixture 10 to 12 times. The cream cheese and butter should turn into large crumbles as they mix with the flour and salt.If you're using a mixing bowl instead of a food processor, let the butter and cream cheese soften. Use an electric mixer to combine them with the flour and salt.
 Place one egg yolk into a small bowl and beat it with 1 teaspoon of vanilla. Pour it into the butter and flour mixture in the food processor. Cover the processor with the lid and turn it on. Let the processor run until the rugelach dough starts to clump together.If you're using an electric mixer, just beat the egg yolk and vanilla into the butter and flour mixture until the dough starts pulling away from the sides of your mixing bowl.
 Dump the dough mixture onto a counter or work space. Use your hands to form the dough into one large ball. Take a sharp knife and carefully cut the dough into four equal parts. Shape each portion into a 1-inch (2.5 cm) disk and wrap each of them in plastic wrap. Refrigerate the dough for a minimum of 2 hours.You can chill the dough for up to three days or freeze them for up to three months. If you freeze the dough, thaw it in the fridge before you roll it out and fill the rugelach.
 If you'd like a decadent chocolate filling, finely chop 6 ounces (170 g) of bittersweet chocolate and place it in a mixing bowl. Add 1 tablespoon of granulated sugar, 1 tablespoon of light brown sugar, and 2 tablespoons of cocoa powder. Stir the mixture to make the chocolate filling.To save time, you could substitute the bittersweet chocolate with miniature semi-sweet chocolate chips that you don't need to finely chop.
 For a crunchy nut filling, blitz 1 cup (125 g) of walnuts and 1 cup (125 g) of pecans in a food processor until they're finely chopped. Transfer the nuts to a mixing bowl and stir them with the remaining nut filling ingredients. You'll need to add:1/4 cup (55 g) of melted butter
1/4 cup (85 g) of honey
1/4 cup (50 g) of granulated sugar
1 teaspoon of vanilla

, For a traditional apricot filling, you can simply warm jam and stir in dried fruit. To make any flavor of fruit filling, just warm up 1/4 cup (80 g) of marmalade or jam until it turns liquid. Stir in 1 tablespoon of sugar and let the sweetened jam cool. Stir in 2 cups (10 ounces or 400 g) of finely chopped dried fruit (like apricots, cranberries, cherries or currants) until the fruit filling mixture is combined.Consider using a food processor to finely chop the dried fruit. This will ensure that the pieces of fruit are small and uniform.
 Turn on the oven to 375 degrees F (190 C). Get out a few baking sheets and lay parchment on them to prevent the rugelach from sticking to the pans as they bake. Remove the disks of chilled rugelach dough from the refrigerator and let them set out for a few minutes.

You should have your filling(s) ready and set aside before you roll the dough out.
 Remove the plastic wrap from one of the dough disks. Sprinkle your counter with powdered sugar to keep the dough from sticking. Use a rolling pin to roll the disk out into a large circle. The circle should be about 1/8-inch (3 mm) thick.You can sprinkle more powdered sugar if the dough sticks.
The circle of dough doesn't have to be completely neat. It's fine if there are cracks around the edges since you'll be rolling the dough into crescents.
 Take the prepared filling of your choice and place a quarter of it onto the dough circle. Use an offset spatula or the back of a large spoon to spread the filling evenly across the dough. The filling should come to the very edges of the circle so that it's completely covered.If you want, you can use more than one type of filling for a circle of dough. Just place half of one type of filling on one side of the circle and use the other type for the rest of the circle. This way, you can make two flavors with one disk of dough.
 Use a pizza cutter or sharp knife to carefully cut the circle of dough into long, thin triangles or wedges. You should get 16 wedges. Use your fingertips to gently lift up the wide outer part of a wedge and roll it towards the thin center. This will form a crescent. Place it on your prepared baking sheet so the tip or seam is on the bottom.Roll up every wedge and place the crescents on the baking sheet.
 Once you've rolled out a whole disk of dough and placed the crescents on the baking sheets, place them in the refrigerator to chill for at least 20 minutes. This will help them hold their shape as they bake and you can roll out the remaining disks of dough while you wait.Consider using a different filling for each disk of dough. This will give you a greater variety.
 Bake one sheet of crescent rugelach at a time to ensure even cooking. Place one sheet in the preheated oven and bake the rugelach for 20 to 25 minutes. They should turn golden brown once they're finished. Let the rugelach cool on the baking sheet for 5 minutes after you take them out of the oven.You can store the cooled rugelach in an airtight container for up to a week.
 Turn on the oven to 375 degrees F (190 C). Get out a few baking sheets and lay parchment on them to prevent the rugelach from sticking to the pans as they bake. Remove the disks of chilled rugelach dough from the refrigerator and let them set out for a few minutes.You should have your filling(s) ready and set aside before you roll the dough out.
 Unwrap one of the disks and sprinkle your work space with some powdered sugar. This will keep the dough from sticking. Use a rolling pin to roll the dough out to a rectangle that's 12-inches (30 cm) wide by 7 to 8-inches long (17.5 to 20 cm).Keep the wide side of the rectangle towards you so you can easily roll it into a log later.
 Take the prepared filling of your choice and place a quarter of it onto the dough circle. Use an offset spatula or the back of a large spoon to spread the filling evenly across the dough. Leave 1/4-inch (6 mm) edge bare on the side that's closest to you. This will help seal the dough together when you roll it up.You'll need about 2 to 4 tablespoons of filling for each log.
 Hold the edge of the rugelach that's closest to you. It should be the long, bare edge. Use your fingertips to gently roll the dough over the filling. Continue tightly rolling the dough to make a log. Pinch the ends together to form tight seals. Set the log on a baking sheet in the freezer and chill it for 10 to 15 minutes.Chilling the log will make it easier to cut.
Roll out and fill the remaining logs of dough once you've finished the initial portion of dough. Consider filling each log with a different flavor of filling.
 Remove the logs from the freezer and cut away the ends of each log so they're neat. Use a sharp knife to cut each log into 10 to 12 pieces, depending on how thick you want them. Place the rugelach slices cut-side down on the prepared baking sheets. Ensure that there are a few inches (5 cm) of space between the rugelach. Bake the rugelach for 20 to 25 minutes. They should turn golden brown.Giving the rugelach space will prevent them from baking into one another.

