 Go through the unloading process as usual, even if you believe the gun to be empty already.


With the gun pointing in a safe direction, turn it over and look for the elevator--a lever that moves up and down, located at the receiver.
Use your dominant hand to hold the elevator in the up position.
Use your non-dominant hand to simultaneously push back on the slide. Any round inside the magazine should naturally eject from the gun through the bottom of the receiver.
 Make sure that the bolt of the shotgun or the breech face of the gun is closed before you try to measure it.


The length of the barrel for this type of gun does not include the length of the entire barrel piece. Instead, the length is a measurement of the distance between the muzzle end of the barrel and the face of the bolt or breech face when that portion of the gun is closed.
Close a bolt by pushing it forward and down.
Close a non-bolt breech face by pushing the slide forward.
 Insert a dowel into the muzzle end of the barrel, pushing it down into the barrel until it stops against the bolt or breech face.


Use a dowel rod with a diameter that is smaller than the diameter of the barrel.
If the barrel has a permanent choke tube attached, include that in your length measurement. If it has a removable choke tube attached, remove the choke tube before sliding the dowel into the barrel and do not include the choke tube in your measurement.
 Draw a line on the dowel rod, placing it just above the muzzle of the gun.


You can use a pencil, pen, or marker to do this. Regardless of the instrument you use, keep the line as close to the muzzle as possible.
If the gun is not already lying flat on a working surface, you should lay it down while marking the dowel rod. Doing so will likely make the process easier and safer.
 Slide the dowel back out of the barrel. Set it down in front of you on your work surface.


Set the gun aside. Make sure that it is pointed in a safe direction.
 Measure the distance between the line on your dowel rod and the end of the dowel rod previously inside the shotgun barrel.


This distance is the length of your gun barrel.

