 Select File → New from Template if the option is present. On some versions of Excel, just selecting File → New opens a pane where you can choose between templates.;
, The family tree template is not pre-installed, so you will need to be connected to the internet to find it. Search for "family tree" to find two options available for free download. If you don't see a search bar, look under "Microsoft Office Online," "Office.com," or "Online templates," depending on your Excel version.Select the "Personal" subsection, then browse for family tree templates.


If you're using Excel 2007 or earlier, you may not see these options. You can either search online for unofficial templates, or skip to the sections below for other options.
 The "Family tree chart" template is a simple spreadsheet with colored cells to outline a family tree. There is only room for yourself and four generations of direct ancestors. This makes it a good choice for school projects, but not extended genealogy research. To use it, just click on the colored cells and type in the name of your family members.


To add cells for your siblings, copy-paste "your" cell onto another cell in the same column to turn it the same green color. Similarly, you can copy-paste your parents' cells into the same column to make lighter green cells for your aunts and uncles.
 If you're working on a more complex tree, select the "Family tree" template instead. This uses the SmartArt feature, which requires Excel 2007 or later.You can still click the squares and type in your relatives' names, but you've got many more features as well:


Click anywhere in the document to make the Text Pane appear. This lets you edit the family tree through a simple, compact list. To add another relative, press the + button at the top of the pane. With the new cell selected, use the → or ← buttons to move it between generations. Click and drag to move it below the name of its son or daughter.
Above the document itself, the SmartArt ribbon menu has many visual options. For example, click the Hierarchy icon to see a selection of ways to display the data.

