 Before buying any wedding dress, it's important to determine your budget. You should figure out the total cost of everything involved in the wedding and figure out how much you can set aside for a dress. If your parents or spouse's parents are paying for the wedding, discuss a reasonable budget with them.Keep in mind you can always rent a dress if purchasing one is out of your budget.;
, In general, most modest wedding dresses include some kind of sleeves. There are many different sleeve options for a wedding dress, so think about what kind of sleeves you want.If you want less in terms of sleeves, go for cap sleeves. These sleeves cover your shoulders but not your underarms.
If you want more than cap sleeves but not full sleeves, a short sleeved dress can be great. It can also give your outfit a light romantic vibe. Short sleeved is considered any sleeve that's cut above the elbows.
If you want a very long sleeve, go for an elbow length sleeve or a full sleeve.
 Modest wedding dresses come in a variety of textures. Select a texture that meets your needs as a bride.Lace is the most common texture for a wedding dress. It matches well with cap sleeves and can give your dress a vintage look.
If you're looking for a dress that flows slightly, go for chiffon. It is also lightweight, which can help with comfort on your wedding day.
If you want a bouncy or puffy wedding dress, tulle works well.
Silk is a popular cut, but it is generally used for dresses that that are more fitted. If you want a modest wedding dress, you may not want a cut that's clingy.
 If you want a modest dress, you probably don't want something that's low cut, short, or very fitted. There are many options for a great cut for a modest wedding dress.Go for a longer dress. Something that's at least below your knees is great for a modest wedding dress.
A ball gown gives a fairy tale vibe to your wedding and is generally not too revealing. If you want something that highlights your figure more, without being overly revealing, try a mermaid cut.
If a mermaid dress feels too revealing, a fit and flare dress can be a great in between. It shows off some of your figure without being as clingy as a mermaid cut.

