 Ribs have a thick membrane that needs to be removed before cooking - otherwise it gets tough and chewy. Slide your fingers under the membrane and work it off, or use a knife or screwdriver to help it come loose. Discard the membrane once it is removed.


Be sure to get every last shred of membrane, since you don't want bits of chewy membrane on your ribs.
You can ask the butcher to remove it for you.;
, You can use a rub and let the seasoning seep into the ribs overnight, or skip this step and mop the beef with barbecue sauce during the cooking process. Some chefs contend that brining overnight with a rub improves the flavor, while others prefer not to infuse the beef with spices and salt. Either method will result in fall-apart ribs that are tender on the inside and crispy on the outside.


If you're using a rub, you need to plan ahead so you have time to let the ribs brine overnight. Just rub your dry spice mix over both sides of the racks, wrap them in plastic wrap, and refrigerate overnight.
Make a homemade rub with the following ingredients:

3 Tablespoons salt
2 Tablespoons chili powder
1 1/2 teaspoons black pepper
1 teaspoon cayenne pepper
1 teaspoon smoked paprika
1 teaspoon dried thyme
1 teaspoon garlic powder



, Beef ribs need to be cooked low and slow, and you can do it either in the oven or on the grill. Preheat to 225 degrees Fahrenheit (107 degrees Celsius).


If you're cooking on the grill, you can smoke the ribs by adding applewood chips to the coals. Choose hickory, pecan, sweet maple or cherry.
 Wrap them well in several layers of aluminum foil, making sure there are no holes for the juice to leak out. You can place the wrapped ribs on a baking sheet if you're worried about getting juices in your oven.


Wrap the ribs so that you'll be able to open the foil from the top to check whether they are done. You don't want to have to completely unwrap them, since you'll get drippings everywhere if you do so.
 Put them meat side down in the oven or on the grill and close the door or lid. Cook the ribs for 3 hours without disturbing them. During this time the juices will start to flow and the meat will become succulent and tender.


Make sure the temperature stays constant at 225 degrees. If your oven tends to run hot or cold, you might need to adjust it during the cooking process. If you're cooking on a grill, monitor the temperature and adjust the gas as necessary.
 After about 3 hours, carefully unwrap the top of the foil and poke the ribs with a fork. If the meat easily falls off the bone, they're ready. If it resists, replace the foil and let the ribs cook for an additional 1/2 hour before checking again.
 When they've reached the fall-apart stage, take them out to get them ready for the next step. It's time for the final stage of cooking, which will ensure the ribs have a crispy exterior.
 If you treated your ribs with a rub, you can skip the barbecue sauce, but either way it adds a flavor burst to the ribs. Paint the top of the ribs with a liberal amount of barbecue sauce.


You can whip up your own barbecue sauce by simmering the following ingredients together for 30 minutes beforehand:

1 1/2 cups ketchup
1/2 cup brown sugar
3 garlic cloves, minced
3 tablespoons apple cider vinegar
3 tablespoons Worcestershire sauce
1 teaspoon freshly ground black pepper
1/2 teaspoon salt



, Let them cook for an additional 10 minutes under the broiler, until the tops of the ribs turn brown and crispy.
 Place them on a plate to cool for a few moments.
 Barbecue beef ribs are excellent with potato salad, macaroni salad and extra barbecue sauce.

