 Goat cheese can be used as a substitute for cream cheese in many ways. For instance, spread it on toast or bagels for breakfast. You can even use goat cheese as a healthier alternative in recipes that call for cream cheese, such as dips., Goat cheese is more flavorful than sour cream, and can serve as an enjoyable alternative. For instance, use goat cheese on tacos in lieu of sour cream and/or other cheeses., Instead of yogurt or feta cheese, goat cheese makes a great companion to many fruits and fruit salads. For example, make a fruit salad with peaches and apricots, and top with a small pieces of goat cheese. Similarly, use goat cheese to top a sweet-corn salad.Relatively crumbly versions of goat cheese, such as Crottin and Bûcheron work well in sweeter side salad dishes.
The tangy flavor of goat cheese pairs especially well with bitter fruits, such as grapefruit.
Finally, watermelon and goat cheese pair very well. Toss them together in a vinaigrette and season with one or two of your favorite herbs.
 There a handful of ways to bake gluten free foods, and goat cheese makes for a particularly delicious option. To make two dozen bite-size cheesy “biscuits,” you’ll need 2 cups all purpose gluten-free flour, 2 teaspoons baking powder, 1 teaspoon granulated sugar, ½ teaspoon each baking soda, kosher salt, and black pepper. You’ll also need ½ stick unsalted butter, 5 ounces crumbled goat cheese, ½ cup diced dill, and ¾ cup buttermilk.Whisk the flour, baking powder, baking soda, sugar, salt, and pepper together. Work small pieces of butter into the mix incrementally, followed by the goat cheese and dill. Add the buttermilk last, stirring until the mixture is combined.
Spread the dough onto a floured cutting board, pressing it until it’s roughly an inch (2.5cm) thick. Cut the dough into squares that are roughly 1x1in (2.5x2.5cm). Place the squares on a baking sheet covered in parchment paper.
Bake the biscuits for roughly 15 min at 400 degrees F (204 degrees C). The biscuits are finished when the tops turn golden brown. All the biscuits to cool to a safe temperature before serving.
 Seasoning and softening goat cheese can turn it into an incredibly tasty spread for crackers, bread, and more. In a mason jar or similar container, place 5 ounces of goat cheese, fresh garlic, cloves, parsley, peppercorn, thyme, and bay leaves. Add enough olive oil to submerge the other ingredients. Seal the container and allow the cheese to sit for a few days in your refrigerator.Notably, this dip will be relatively much healthier than many other dip recipes that call for ingredients high in fat and sodium.
 You read that right - you can indeed make ice cream with goat cheese. Believe it or not, it tastes a lot like cheesecake. To make about a quart of chocolate ice cream, you’ll need 8 ounces of goat cheese at room temp, 2 cups heavy cream, 2 cups whole milk, ¾ cup sugar, ⅓ cup unsweetened cocoa powder, 1 tablespoon corn syrup, and 2 ounces of chopped up milk chocolate.Whisk soft, room temp goat cheese for a few minutes, or until creamy.
Heat the heavy cream, milk, sugar, cocoa and corn syrup in a large pan over medium heat. Whisk the mixture until the sugar is completely dissolved, and reduce heat to low once the mixture begins to boil. Whisk in the milk chocolate as well.
Pour the heated mixture over the goat cheese, whisking it all together until the goat cheese is completely melted. This will likely take a few full minutes. No chunks, however small, should remain.
Cool the mixture in the fridge for a few hours, and churn it with an ice cream maker (or blender attachment) for 25 minutes. Cover in a freezer-safe container and freeze for at least 4 hours before serving.

