 Abrasive agents are common ingredients in many different types of toothpaste. They are used to help scrub away debris, plaque, and stains on your teeth.Calcium carbonate and silica-based ingredients are often used as abrasive agents in toothpaste.
If you have a sensitive mouth, the abrasive agents could potentially cause friction-based irritation to the inside of your mouth.
Try avoiding toothpaste with abrasive agents like calcium carbonate and silica. Your symptoms should improve after a few weeks.
 Many people experience pain after using whitening toothpaste.In addition to using abrasive components, many whitening pastes also use chemicals that are meant to break down stains and remove plaque off your teeth.Whitening toothpaste has been known to cause painful reactions in some consumers' mouths, either due to the abrasive components or the whitening chemicals.If you notice any soreness in your gums, cheeks or tongue, stop using the toothpaste.
Avoid whitening toothpaste for a few weeks and see if your condition improves.
 Flavorings added to toothpaste are one of the major causes of allergic reactions.Because mint and cinnamon flavorings in particular are so prevalent in toothpaste, it may be difficult to find a toothpaste that does not contain these chemicals. If you believe you have an allergy, it's best to use a non-flavored toothpaste. Some of the most common flavorings that cause problems include:


Spearmint
Peppermint
Menthol
Carvone
Cinnamal
Anethole

, Numerous other additives in your toothpaste could be responsible for your mouth pain. Many people experience allergic reactions to the following toothpaste additives:Propolis (an antiseptic)
Hexylresorcinol (for plaque prevention)
Azulene (an anti-inflammatory agent)
Dipentene (a solvent)
Cocamidopropyl betaine (a surfactant)
Parabens (a preservative)
Fluoride salts

, If you believe that your toothpaste is what's causing your pain, you may want to try an all-natural toothpaste.Natural toothpaste shouldn't have any of the additives that are common in most toothpastes, meaning your teeth will be just as clean without any of the unpleasant side effects of other types of toothpaste.


If your mouth pain is caused by an allergic reaction or contact reaction to toothpaste additives, most natural toothpastes should be safe.
Check to make sure the toothpaste is not too abrasive, either — avoid toothpastes with rough, large particles of salt, for example.
You can ever make your own toothpaste using natural ingredients.
Patch test on your external skin when in doubt. This will help you determine whether you will have an allergic reaction to a brand of toothpaste so that you can avoid exposing your whole mouth to it.