 One way to help curb obsessive behavior like licking is to reinforce a different, incompatible behavior. An incompatible behavior in this situation would be any activity that occupies your dog's mouth and keeps her from licking you.


Start a game of fetch or tug-of-war as soon as s/he begins licking. This will distract him/her from whatever anxiety was causing the obsessive licking, and you will make it physically difficult for him/her to lick you while playing with a toy.Try taking your dog for a walk whenever s/he licks you. This may condition him/her to lick you whenever s/he needs to go out, and it may become less of a compulsive behavior.
 A vigorous workout can help tire your dog out, relieving stress and reducing his/her desire to lick you., If your dog is licking you because s/he wants your attention, then give it to him/her while s/he is behaving appropriately. Rewarding good behavior should take place immediately after your dog has acted responsibly, in order to maximize his/her association of that action with your reward. Rewarding your dog in this manner will teach him/her that calm, “normal” behavior is desirable., This will help teach your dog that licking is only acceptable when you initiate it.Choose a word to initiate licking. It can be "lick," "kiss," or any other word you want your dog to associate with licking.
Hold out your hand while saying the command word you've chosen. You can use a small dab of peanut butter on your hand to prompt licking in the early phases of training. However, this option should only be taken if you know your dog is not aggressive with food.
Issue an end command, such as "stop," "no more," or "no kiss." Wait to see if your dog responds on his/her own. If s/he stops licking, even for a few seconds, reward him/her. If not, repeat the command and move your hand away.
Praise your dog when s/he licks and stops on command. Praising your dog's good behavior is crucial in training him/her to respond to your commands.
 If you want your dog to stop licking you, you must commit to stopping the behavior altogether. You cannot praise your dog for licking you one day and scold her for the same behavior the next. Doing so will only confuse your dog, making it harder for him/her to understand what you want from him/her. Remember, any type of training requires patience, dedication, and consistency.