 If you initiate change just for the sake of change, it will be challenging for you to get support from your leaders, employees, and clients. Have a good reason for each change and be able to explain those reasons clearly to your organization.


Keep your whole organization in mind. It is easy to think about making a change in one department without realizing the effects it will have on all the others. Explore all the potential consequences of organizational change before announcing it.
Get feedback from leaders in the organization, as well as from others outside of the company. Different perspectives will help you make a well-informed decision.
Make role changes for a specific purpose. Organizational change often leads to an adjustment in roles and responsibilities. People are moved from one department to another or from one location to another. Do your best to handle these changes sensitively and intentionally.;
, This is vital to helping your organization transition and move forward with the changes you would like to implement. The more you can engage and include those in your organization, the better.


Explain the reasoning behind organizational changes instead of just announcing the change itself. People are more likely to support you if they understand why you made a particular decision.
Start with the senior leadership team. If your leaders do not support you, it will be difficult to get the support from the rest of the organization.
Include all employees. Everyone on staff needs to be committed to the new vision, mission, or whatever the change might be. Work to earn their support and dedication. Invite employees to help formulate the wording of the new vision statement.
 Inform employees of changes before they hear it from somewhere else. Utilize company email, all-staff meetings, newsletters, or whatever form of communication is most beneficial for the news you are sharing.


Share major changes face to face and then follow up with an email. This makes your announcement more personal. It also gives employees a chance to ask questions or clear up any confusion.
Communicate early and often. Keep employees informed throughout all aspects of your organizational change so they can be on your side when the change actually takes place.
Encourage feedback. Give employees the opportunity to ask questions or provide suggestions as your organization moves toward change.
 Change takes place in several stages. There are also different emotions attached to the idea of organizational change.


Some workers will immediately accept announced changes, while others may deny the need for it, prolong the change itself, or actively resist it. As your company encounters change, keep an eye on how employees are responding.
Do not expect behavior to change all at once. It will take time for your employees to get used to doing things differently. Do what you can to support them during the transition.
 Employees often take the lead from their supervisors. Set the example by displaying a positive attitude about upcoming changes, supporting your own leaders, and helping your team make changes. If you have any disagreements about potential changes, keep that within the leadership team.

