 You should know the length and width of the area before you go to the home improvement store.;
, Pegboard is usually sold in two by four, four by four and four by eight foot pieces. If you want an exact size, buy the larger size of pegboard and ask the large home improvement store to cut it to size.


Most box stores will do this free of charge or for a nominal fee.
You can also install several pegboard sections in tiles along your wall.
 Cut them to the width of your pegboard.A frame will allow you space between the wall and board to connect hangers. It will also support the pegboard and avoid damage to your wall.
 It is sold in white or brown and can be left unpainted if you choose. In order to make a camouflaged pegboard for a craft room or kitchen, paint your pegboard the same color as your walls.You can also use spray paint to create a contrasting pegboard installation.
 Painting in advance will reduce the smell of the paint. It will also mean the paint is cured before you hang anything.
 If you can’t find the studs and you are hanging the pegboard on drywall, install wall anchors every 16 inches so that the pegboard is adequately supported.Drilling into studs is preferable, since pegboards are often used to hang heavy tools or kitchen pots and pans.
 Hold them horizontally across the wall and place a level on top. Adjust until it is level, and then ask a friend to hold the strip while you drill long wood screws through the furring strips and into the studs or wall anchors.


For a small pegboard, two horizontal furring strips should be adequate. For larger installations, use three or four.
Drill pilot holes through the furring strips before you place them against the wall and after you level it, so that you can match the strip with the wall anchor.
 Ensure it is level and then get ready to mount it with help from a friend.
 Screw the pegboard in at regular intervals, such as six inches apart, in a horizontal line. Repeat with remaining furring strips to secure the pegboard to the wall.
 Make sure it matches up to the pegboard interval of the board you purchased. Pegboards are available in 1/4 and 1/8 inch (0.6 and 0.3cm) holes.
 Experiment with the configuration by placing the tools, craft supplies or kitchen supplies next to the hanger.
,