 Washing your face will help get rid of all the dust, dirt, grit, and oil that gets on your skin during the day. Washing your face too often, however, will get rid of all the oil. This will cause your skin to produce even more oil to compensate.In turn, this will lead to even more breakouts and acne.


If your skin gets oily during the day, try blotting the oily spots with blotting papers. You can find them in most beauty shops.
Avoid using hot water when washing your face. Hot water can be very drying. Use warm water instead.Always wash your face and remove your makeup before going to bed. If you leave makeup on, you may clog your pores and end up with a breakout.;
, There are different types of cleansers available, and some are meant to help certain problems, such as acne, oiliness, or dryness. When choosing a cleanser, avoid anything that is heavily perfumed or colored; it can irritate your skin. Try finding a cleanser that is also exfoliating; it will help buff away the dead skin cells, and reveal the bright skin underneath.If you have dry skin, look for something that says "hydrating" or "moisturizing."
If you have oily skin, look for something that is oil-free, or is labeled "for oily skin"
If you have acne or blackheads, try using something that says "deep cleaning." These products will flush out the dirt inside your pores.
 This is especially important for those battling acne. The more you touch your face, the more dirt and bacteria you get into your skin. This will lead to more acne and breakouts.Fight the urge to pop any pimples that show up. This could lead to more redness, or worse: scarring. Try using a sulfur-based pimple treatment instead., Toners help re-balance your skin's pH and tighten pores. Moisturizers help hydrate your skin. They are great for all skin types, including oily skin.


If you have oily skin, try to use a light-weight, oil-free moisturizer.
 Some foundation can make your skin not only look worse, but also feel worse after you take it off. Sometimes, the way you put on your makeup will also make a different. Be sure to use a foundation suitable for your skin type. Also, try using a face primer before putting on foundation. They help fill in any pores and impurities, and make your skin appear more smooth.


If you have oily skin, try to use oil-free, mineral-based makeup. Stay away from cream-based foundation, and reach for the powder or liquid kind instead.
If you have dry skin, skip on the powder foundation, as this can make your skin look flaky. Instead, use liquid or cream-based foundation. Try to find something that is also moisturizing.
 It may sound tedious, but dirty makeup brushes can spread bacteria onto your face. This may lead to acne, breakouts, and pimples.Clean your brushes a few times a week using soap and water or a makeup brush cleaner.
 Sunlight is not a bad thing, because it gives you Vitamin D, but too much of it can do your skin a lot of harm. Aim for about 20 to 25 minutes of sunlight a day.Too much sunlight can lead to skin cancer and wrinkles. Here are some tips on how to keep yourself safe from the sun's harmful rays:Wear sunscreen with at least 15 SPF.
Try to avoid the sun between 10am and 2pm. It is the strongest during the time.
If you are going to spend a lot of time out in the sun, be cause to cover yourself with long sleeves and hats.

