 You can direct these real people to your website if they are interested in listening to new music.;
, Don’t even think about trying this on dial-up.
 You need a way to get your live music into your computer. You can also stream pre-recorded content, but the live performance is what people come to hear. You can use the same gear you use to record -- a small mixer, a nice preamp/compressor chain for a large diaphragm condenser mic. Play your guitar through your regular guitar processor into the mixer along with the microphones: one for your voice and another to pick up live acoustic sounds from your guitar. The mixer output plugs into your computer’s audio interface.
 Once the audio is in your computer, you need to send it out to a server that is connected to Second Life. This server is the responsibility of the venue in world. But to send your audio to their server you'll need software. A program called Simplecast from Spacial Audio will stream whatever you have going through your sound card’s output directly to any servers you are connected to. It is kind of expensive ($60 US), but you can get a discount by asking for a coupon through their site’s contact link. This software has level meters on it which is the only way to tell if you're streaming audio is clipping. There is a 20 to 30 second lag from the time you transmit and the time you are heard in world. This lag makes it hard to monitor your output to the web, leaving you with just those meters - so stay out of the red.
 You will need an account to do that. You will need an account to talk to venue owners to set up your gig. It is just like real life, You need to get face time with owners and managers. Give them a demo, usually your Myspace account. If they like your music, they might set you up for an audition where they give you stream information and stage time to test your stuff.
 Would you step on a stage to play a gig without your guitar or keyboard? Of course not. If you are playing for tips, don’t forget your tip jar. These things you can buy in world. The people listening to you aren’t just passively listening. They are chattering in the chat window watching your avatar, talking about what they like/dislike about your performance. They expect to see someone on stage playing an instrument. If they like what they hear, they might want to give tips and check out a link to your website. They expect that, so be ready for it.
 Your stream will be available on the internet for non-Second Life users. Once you have your server log-in info you can build a link to that stream that anyone can plug into their media player of of choice and listen. Be sure to send links to your friends.

