 These are usually presented between 5 am and 9 am. Be very wary and careful on which term they advertise with. Hotels in the UK define "continental" as a simple hot coffee, toast, and juice. "Complimentary" breakfasts in the United States usually consist of hot items, for example eggs or waffles, along with cereal, juices, fruits, and coffee. Always call places in advance and ask what is typically served. If you're not even up to par with eating breakfast, take a trip anyway and grab some food to take back to your room.;
, Kitchenettes offer a huge relief in hotel rooms during a fairly long stay in the city. Call the hotel to see if they provide them, a refrigerator, microwave, or utensils. Be prepared to be innovated on how you prepare food or store leftovers if there's no availability. Cooking in a hotel room saves you a lot of money instead of finding yourself in restaurants for every meal. A simple coffee machine provided by the hotel can serve as a great way for hot water used in instant oatmeal, noodles, and other quick meals.
 Farmer markets tend to have a variety of fruits and vegetables (depending on the season for each produce), breads/pastries, canned jams, meats, and fish.
 Social networking and online local directory services are becoming more popular than ever. Take it to your advantage and seek out where the "cheap eat" spots by locals are. Be very open to this option when traveling to a new city; you might find a local sandwich shop to be cheaper than a national chain restaurant.
 Having a light and healthy breakfast can get your through the morning, but at least think about swaying into a late lunch/early dinner habit while you're out and about. Many restaurants offer similar things between their lunch and dinner menus, but you'll find lunch costs to be a lot cheaper. Even if you order something big and can't finish everything, you're guaranteed to have leftovers if you get hungry later on.
 On a typical basis, meals that do not have an "all you can eat" special attached to it, can be shared between people. Ask for extra plates and experience different kinds of food instead of choosing your own meal for a higher price. Call in advance to see if the specific restaurant offers any "Kids Eat Free" specials as well.
 Healthy cooler ideas include trail mix, breakfast bars, juice pouches, and graham crackers. Avoid plugging in any caffeinated beverages or junk food. Try to keep the cooler on the floor of back seat or passenger seat, as enclosed spaces like the trunk can heat food and drinks faster.
 If you need extra necessity items, such as plastic forks/paper plates, or a replenishment on snacks, it's best to get them in bulk for a cheap price.
 Check sites like Groupon, Living Social, Amazon Local, and others that offer discounts on food, services, and more. Not only will these sites help you save money, but paying for the deals in advance will help you stay within your vacation budget.

