 If you choose to have a custom home built, the contractor will be building a home with dimensions and specifications that they have never tried before. It is possible, in such an instance, that the actual costs will exceed the original estimate.


Stock plans are customizable, too, within certain limits. Talk to your contractor or construction company about special modifications you might be able to incorporate into your stock plan home.
 If you have a 3,000 square foot house spread across a single story, you’ll have a larger roof and a wider foundation than if you chose to build a house with two 1,500 square foot stories. Multistory houses have lower roofing and foundation costs than houses of similar square footage that is spread out over a large, single lot.


However, keep the height of your home less than 32 feet.Building your home taller than 32 feet -- excluding the basement -- can put pressure on the limits of your home’s architecture, and will require special roof trusses. If you want a larger home, build it wider, not taller.
Keep in mind that in some cases, building up may be your only option.
 If you adopt a rustic aesthetic for your home, you’ll be able to leave walls of simple wood unfinished, and could even leave roof beams exposed. A modern, industrial look could also work to keep your costs low if you, for instance, chose bare concrete floors. Both styles would save on construction and materials costs.Avoid investing in high-end finishes, expensive millwork, and fancy decorative components.
Reject landscaping requests. Just before completion, the builder may offer to do the landscaping for you. They will usually charge far more than it would cost for you to do it yourself.
Keep in mind that you should negotiate any extras with the builder when you are developing the contract. For example, if you want to have landscaping done at the same time the house is built, then you would need to include this in the contract. In some cases, the builder may be willing to landscape the yard at no charge.
 If you build a massive house but only spend time in two or three rooms, you’ve wasted a lot of square footage and money.


Meet your needs, but don’t add space that you might not use.
Visit a display home to get an idea of the house you want and what you can afford.
 House prices are determined primarily by the prices of other nearby homes, not by the amount of money you put into it during construction. Look at the other homes in your area and ask your Realtor what they’re worth. Don’t spend more than the average cost of a house in your neighborhood.


A Realtor may be able to provide you with much more information than you can find on your own, such as the average cost of homes in the neighborhood per square foot, the average selling price, and how many days homes in the area have been on the market.

