 Especially if you are a busty girl, this step could mean the difference between the plan working or failing. Do not use an Ace bandage (as these are designed to get tighter and may lead to breathing difficulties). A sports bra can be used for smaller breasts (A-B), sometimes multiple ones must be layered (but again be careful as too tight a fit can cause problems with your health which may lead to you being discovered). A binder can also be used (such as one from "Underworks") but this may be too expensive for a prank. Small breasts may not need binding, a loose shirt or hoodie may hide them.;
, Some guys have long hair, and it's becoming more and more popular, but that doesn't mean your current hairstyle will ever look boyish. You could get it cut short, but, if you're just doing this for a day or two, you might try hiding it under a baseball cap or pulling it back very low on the nape of the neck. If you have a darker complexion, you might consider cornrows, braids, or dreads.
 Most guys aren't into that sort of thing, and will think you are weird if you don't fit in.
 The outfit you choose depends mostly on the type of guy you are trying to "be". Hip hop guys are going to dress differently than jocks, who are going to dress differently that punks, goths, emos, nerds...you get the idea. Look around to get an idea of what guys are wearing. Hats are popular.
 Find a pair of bigger shoes (skate shoes are blunt and wide, which helps give the effect of manly feet) and stuff the toes with soft napkins or toilet paper; you don't want your feet crackling with every step.
 Girls have very different legs than guys, and they are usually shaved. Try a pair of really baggy jeans to hide your curves and maybe a loose belt slung low on the hips. Couple this with a really big t-shirt, and you can fit in almost anywhere.
 They will help protect your identity from anyone who might have seen you before or might see you again later.
 Guys don't wear lipstick or eyeshadow. No makeup whatsoever, no matter if your eyes are covered up or not.
 Girls don't usually have Adam's apples, but most guys do. It could be a major tip-off if you don't have one.
 But if you are going through puberty, and guys your age haven't changed voices yet, your regular voice shouldn't need much altering.
 Most guys don't have a problem with it, and you might be looked at oddly if you don't comply.
 If the guys you're hanging with start to go girl-watching or begin flirting with the cuties at the bowling alley or wherever, just tag along, but don't participate. If someone asks you why, just say you have a long-distance girlfriend, and you don't want to be disloyal.
, Say that your family is just passing through town on a business trip, or that you're moving, and you just stopped by to stock up and continue your drive across the country. This way, when you go back to "being a girl", you don't have to cover up for 'that mysterious guy that was around for a couple of days'.
 If someone calls you, and you have to talk in a normal voice or disclose what you're doing, it could mess up your plan.
 'Alexa' to 'Alex', for example. I wouldn't change it completely (like 'Jessica' to 'Thomas') because you might not respond if one of the guys says a name that's way different from your real one.
 These will work as great conversation starters. Also, if you know something about them, you won't be so lost when the topic switches to them.
 They will see through you in an instant.

