 When your mind is filled with obsessive thoughts, you might notice your breath becoming labored and your heart beating fast. Box breathing is a technique developed by Navy Seals to promote relaxation and return to proper breathing.Sit someplace comfortable with your back against a chair or wall. Close your eyes. Inhale deeply through your nose for about 4 counts. Hold for 4 counts. Then, exhale through your mouth for 4 counts. Hold. Repeat the “box” for several cycles until you start to feel calm and in control.
 One helpful strategy for controlling OCD obsessions is to soothe yourself with compassionate language. Instead of using stress-inducing or belittling words, talk to yourself the way you would a friend.Instead of repeating “I can’t do this” or “I can’t handle this,” say things like “Relax. Just take it one step at a time.”
Work on developing a willingness to experience uncertainty without trying to control it. This can help you feel more at peace.
 Try to diffuse this by questioning yourself with the words “so what?” For example, “So what if I can’t touch the door knob, again?” Keep asking this question whenever new compulsions come up. You’ll learn that even though you feel uncomfortable, ignoring your normal rituals won’t harm you., Stress can aggravate OCD symptoms. You can soothe yourself by taking time out daily to purposely relax. When you create a regimen for relaxation, you will be able to turn to these techniques in the heat of anxiety. Try out several techniques before choosing one or two to do regularly.

Choose a time where you can practice without disruptions. Set a timer for about 10 minutes. As you develop your practice, increase your time to 20 or 30 minutes.
Start with deep breathing and then add in another technique like meditation, yoga, or progressive muscle relaxation., Physical exercise has long been associated with decreasing stress and anxiety. Researchers say that aerobic exercises like running or swimming are especially effective at lowering tension and helping you sleep. Getting in just 10 minutes of activity can fend off anxiety symptoms and dramatically improve your mood.Help yourself cope with OCD-related habits by making exercise a part of your routine. Aim for at least 30 minutes on most days. If you can only squeeze in 10 minutes, however, do what you can.
 Oftentimes, not getting enough sleep can worsen anxiety conditions like OCD. In fact, studies show that improving your sleep hygiene can help you treat OCD, minimize a relapse of symptoms, and decrease your risk of developing comorbid conditions.Build better sleep habits by shutting off your electronic devices at least an hour before bed. Create a soothing ritual such as lighting a candle, completing a crossword puzzle, or listening to soft music before bed. Increase your chances of getting quality sleep by avoiding caffeine and alcohol.

