 You may want check out the temperature of Lanzarote before packing and remember to pack anything that may make your trip more interesting or easier, such as a book about Lanzarote's history and culture.;
, This is a great place see about 300 craters and volcanoes on the Timanfaya, the fire mountain while taking a camel ride. Visit the green lagoon at El Golfo, the salt pans of Janubio and stop for lunch in a typical Lanzarote village, followed Malvasia wine tasting in the unique wine district of Lanzarote, La Geria.
 Go and see the famous Jameos del Agua, designed by the genius César Manrique, where he transformed the lava tunnel and the cave into subterranean walkways, an auditorium and a volcanic museum. Visit the César Manrique Foundation, where the artist adapted five volcanic bubbles into rooms of his house. Also see a collection of his paintings and architectural designs exhibited there.
 One of the oldest markets of the island with over 2000 stalls selling everything from hand crafted local products, souvenirs and more. Enjoy live local Canarian music and street performances along with some traditional food and wine.
 The Carnival in Puerto del Carmen with "The Enchanted Forest" theme starts before Lent. You can enjoy watching amazing floats, extravagant costumes and masks, music, dance and utter fun and excitement. On Ash Wednesday don't miss the burial of sardines, a very old Spanish tradition.
 Museo Atlántico, still under construction, will be Europe's first underwater museum, hopefully ready by 2015. The British sculptor Jason deCaires Taylor and his team are working on arranging Taylor's ensembles on the seabed off Las Coloradas Beach, near the popular resort of Playa Blanca. The artworks made of cement are designed to attract plant life, flora and fauna and colonies of sea. Visitors can view the sculptures and the sea life around it from a submarine or a glass-bottomed boat, or swim and snorkel around the sculptures.
 At Cine 6D you can view 3D movies with dazzling 3D graphics, flight simulation technology, in-theater special effects and world class digital sound to make you feel like you’re really there. You go and sit in a mini theater, strapped to a chair and your feet dangling, but that's not scary, that's fun. You can choose from 10 movies to watch and can experience everything from a dinosaur about to bite into you, wind blowing in your face, water splashing on you, weightless roll and even snow.
 A good place to go to is the Museo del Vino de El Grifo (El Grifo Wine Museum), situated on a volcanic rock which has old wineries built in 1775. See the barrel-making workshop by Rafael Corujo de León, taste wine and cheese in the Wine Tasting Room or El Salón de la Cata, or even enjoy learning how to taste wine. Visit the local wineries (called bodegas) in the La Geria region or the wine valley of La Geria and see the locals cultivate their wine in an ingenious way.
 Lanzarote is a paradise for watersports which can be enjoyed all year round due to its warm waters. You can surf, kite surf, learn basic windsurfing, sail, swim, scuba dive, fish, parascend, or go on submarine safaris or marine excursions.
 The Ironman 70.3 also known as the Half Triathlon Marathon is a popular sporting event which happens sometime in September in Lanzarote. The race includes a 1.2-mile (1.9 km) swim, 56-mile (90 km) bike ride, and 13.1-mile (21.1 km) run.
 Rancho Texas Animals Park, is where you can enjoy the live Bird of Prey Show, the Parrot show and the Cheeky Sea Lion Show where you can swim along with the Sea Lions.
,