 Water hydrates your skin and improves elasticity to result in smoother, tighter skin. Aim to drink at least eight glasses of water per day, and swap out soda, coffee, and sugary juices for water.
 Smoking accelerates the aging process by breaking down collagen and elastin and depriving your skin of oxygen. Stop smoking as soon as possible, and consult with your healthcare provider about available smoking cessation methods.
 Healthy whole foods such as fruits and vegetables are loaded with antioxidants and vitamins that naturally tighten skin by repairing elastin and collagen. Improve your diet by consuming more fruits, vegetables, nuts, lean sources of protein, and legumes.
 Sleep is vital to your body’s skin cell growth and reproduction, and helps turn over damaged, dead skin cells that contribute to loose, sagging skin. Aim to get about eight hours of sleep per night to improve the appearance of your skin., Olive oil contains vitamins and antioxidants that naturally moisturize your skin to make it firmer and tighter.Massage olive oil into your face for one minute, then rinse off using water.
 Commercial brands of facial masks often contain chemicals, irritants, and other formulas that strip your skin of its natural oils and worsen fine lines and wrinkles. On the other hand, natural ingredients contain the nutrients your skin needs to tighten and firm itself naturally.


Mash a ripe banana using a fork, apply the banana evenly to your facial skin, then rinse away after 20 minutes.
Mix together an egg white and two to three drops of lemon juice, apply the mixture to your face, then rinse off after the mixture dries completely.
 Exposing your face to direct sunlight for more than 15 or 20 minutes breaks down collagen and strips your skin of its natural oils and moisture, resulting in wrinkles and fine lines. Limit the time you spend in the sun, or wear a hat to protect your skin.
 Treatments such as laser therapy and face lift surgery help tighten face skin and reduce fine lines and wrinkles. Visit a day spa or speak to a cosmetic surgeon to learn more about your options for face-tightening treatments.