 Place the rice in a large bowl, cover the rice with water, and allow it to soak for a few minutes. Then, strain the rice through a strainer, rinsing it with clean water as you do so.Some rice is very starchy, and rinsing it before cooking can help to remove the starchy coating on the outside of the rice.
It’s not always necessary to soak or rinse rice, but it can be important for rice dishes where you don’t want the grains sticking together.;
, For Chinese-style fried rice, the rice is always boiled before it’s fried. To cook the rice, place it into a medium saucepan. Add a pinch of salt and the water, put the lid on, and bring it to a boil over medium heat.When it comes to a boil, turn the heat down to a low simmer and continue cooking the rice for about 15 minutes. The rice is ready when all the water has been absorbed and the rice is soft.Remove the rice from the heat and leave it to sit for at least five minutes, with the lid on.
 When the rice has had a few minutes to rest after cooking, pour it out onto a cookie sheet greased with a thin layer of oil. Spread the rice out as thin as possible and set it aside to cool.Give the rice 15 to 30 minutes to cool. When the rice is cool enough to handle, put a bit of oil on your fingers to prevent sticking. Use your fingers to break apart the grains and remove any clusters or clumps of rice., In a wok or large frying pan, heat 1 tablespoon (15 ml) of the oil over medium heat. Add the onions and cook them for about 10 minutes, until they become a light golden brown.


Use a slotted spoon to remove the onions. Place them in a bowl and set them aside.
Some of the best oils for fried rice are canola, peanut, vegetable, and coconut., Add another ½ tablespoon (7.5 ml) of oil to the hot wok. Add the tofu cubes and cook them for one to two minutes. Flip them and cook for another minute. Continue flipping until the tofu cubes have been browned on every side.Remove the tofu from the wok using the slotted spoon. Place the tofu into the same bowl with the pre-cooked onions.
 In a small bowl, whisk the egg together with the sesame oil and 1 teaspoon (5 ml) of the soy sauce. Add another ½ tablespoon (7.5 ml) of oil to the wok and heat it over medium heat. Pour in the egg mixture and swirl it around in the wok until the egg sets.


Flip the egg over when it begins to puff up. Cook it for another minute before removing it from the wok.
Transfer the egg to a plate or cutting board and cut it into small pieces.
 Add the final tablespoon (15 ml) of oil to the wok and give it a moment to heat up. Add the peas, carrots, and the pre-cooked onion and tofu.


Fry the vegetables and tofu for about two minutes.
 You don’t actually have to use any of the vegetables mentioned in the recipe, and you can add or remove ingredients as needed to include your favorite vegetables and spices. The recipe needs about 1¾ cups of vegetables, which can include:


One to two cloves of minced garlicA half-inch (1.3 cm) of freshly grated ginger
Red peppers
Mushrooms
CabbageAsparagus
Corn or baby corn
Bok choy
Broccoli
Celery
Tomato

, Finally, add the cooked rice, the green onions, and the bean sprouts to the wok. Toss all the vegetables together and let them cook for about three minutes.After three minutes, add the pre-cooked egg and the remaining 2 tablespoons (30 ml) of soy sauce. Toss gently to coat everything in the soy sauce, being careful not to break up the egg too much. Cook everything together for about a minute, until the soy sauce is heated through.
 When the rice is ready, serve individual portions with additional sauce if desired. Before serving, you can also garnish the rice with ¼ cup (30 g) of roasted and crushed peanuts.