 Being fashionable is important. Note that this doesn't necessarily mean "trendy". Try to read more fashion magazines to learn what kinds of clothes go well together. Try teen magazines like Teen Vogue and Seventeen for starters, and if you want to, move on to adult fashion magazines like Elle and In Style.


Try mixing and matching the clothes in your closet. The results may not always be great, but you're bound to discover new and cute combinations. Once you have built up a wardrobe filled with girly girl staples, it will be easy to experiment with different looks.
Remember that it's often better to have a clear idea of your own personal style than to always be chasing the latest fad look. You could waste so much money on clothes just for them to go out of style a few weeks later.
 Pink is a typical girl color, but don't shy away from blacks and blues, as they can also look very cute! A typical girly girl wardrobe should be full of skirts! It should also have a selection of colored tank tops, some pretty dresses, and cute pastel-colored bras and underwear.


You should also have at least three comfortable pairs of shoes: one pair of workout sneakers and a couple of pairs of cute shoes such as heels, moccasins, flats, sandals—take your pick! Also have a pair of hiking boots ready. Yes, girly girls can hike! Don't go hiking in heels. Ultimately, a girly girl can never have too many shoes.
Don't feel like you have to follow a girly girl dress code, as if you were wearing a uniform. Feel free to experiment with your style and express your personality through your clothes. Don't wear anything that you don't feel comfortable with—it's very important to be yourself.
 The most important thing about buying clothes is making sure that they fit. Clothes that don't fit properly will make you feel uncomfortable and self-conscious, and girly girls need to feel fabulous and confident! Don't worry about trying to fit into a particular size or feeling like you have to go for a particular size - go for what feels right and looks good on you.


Resist the temptation to wear skirts that are too short - your aim should to look (and feel) demure and pretty.
The same goes with shirts. Not tight, not baggy. If your shirt is so tight you can see your bra or you have trouble getting your shirt off of your back, then it's too tight.
To see if the shirt is too small, raise your arms up. If your stomach shows when you do this, then the shirt is excessively short!

, Brands are just status symbols designed to make people feel superior. Don't get caught up in that behavior, because you really don't have to spend a lot of money to be girly and look good. Just make sure you choose clothing very carefully.


On the other hand, if you like something that is affordable and it's a brand name, don't feel like you shouldn't buy it either!

