 When you have time for more than a hot shower, create a steam treatment to relieve congestion. Steam treatments have been a staple of sick, congested people the world over for centuries.


Bring 3 cups of water to boil. When it has come to a boil, remove the water from the stove top.
Let some chamomile tea steep in the water while it is cooling (optional).
When the steam is cool enough to pass over your hand without burning it, pour the water or tea into a bowl.
Being mindful of the warm steam, place your face over the bowl, cover your head with a towel, and breathe in deeply. If you cannot breathe in through your nose at first, breathe in through your mouth.
 Drink water or juice as much as possible. For quick relief from congestion, drink 6-8 cups of water. This helps build up the immune system and shrink swollen nasal passages.
 Humidifiers (and steam in general) are recommended as treatment for congestion because dry air irritates the membranes in the sinus, causing the symptoms to be more pronounced.Therefore, wet air is recommended by many doctors.


If you don't have, or don't want to buy, an actual humidifier, you can build a rudimentary one yourself using commonplace items around your home. Boil enough water to fit in a large pan, remove from the heat, and place the hot water in a safe part of your room. The steam coming from the water will humidify the room. Repeat as necessary.
When using a humidifier, a little goes a long way. You don't want conditions to get so damp that your room becomes a tropical jungle. A little moisture in the air, just enough to turn it a bit moist, is all you need.
 Salt water can serve as unmedicated saline solution. Add one teaspoon of salt to one cup of water, stirring to dissolve. With an eye dropper, deposit a few drops of the saline solution into one nostril while your head is tilted back. Blow the solution out of your nostril and repeat in the opposite nostril.
 For some, nasal irrigation may bring quick relief of sinus symptoms without the use of medications.The neti pot works by thinning out mucus and flushing it out of the nasal passage.


All neti pots come with their own set of instructions that should be followed. Typically, however, one first prepares an irrigating solution made up of 16 ounces lukewarm (and sterile) water, along with 1 teaspoon of salt. Fill your neti pot with the saline solution.
Tilt your head at a 45 degree angle and bring the tip of the neti pot to your top nostril. The saline solution will go into one nostril, travel through your nasal cavity, and come out of the other nostril. If the solution drips into your mouth, just spit it out. Blow your nose and repeat the process on the other side.
How often should you irrigate with a neti pot? People suffering from severe sinus problems or allergies found relief irrigating daily.Once symptoms get better, the recommended usage is three times per week.
In some parts of the world, water may be contaminated with naegleria fowleri, an amoeba that, if inhaled through the nose, can cause a usually fatal brain infection. The CDC recommends boiling water for at least one minute (three minutes at higher elevations) before using it in a neti pot rinse solution, or buying sterile water from a store., Although it's the last thing you want to do, moving around helps your body refresh. An easy way to clear congestion fast is to do twenty push ups, only breathing through your nose. Your brain knows its in need of more air, so it will help to stop nasal swelling and thin mucus levels.
 Certain essential oils help loosen mucus and clear the sinuses. Fill the bathtub with warm water and add ten drops of eucalyptus oil, rosemary oil, or tea tree oil. Rest in the bathtub until your nasal passages are clear and breathing becomes easier.
 While it might seem overrated, take off from work or school to stay home and sleep all day. This gives your body time to heal and begin fighting your cold. If you have trouble sleeping because of congestion, try medication, Breathe Right strips, or breathe through your mouth. (Use chapstick if you breathe through your mouth, because it could dry out your lips.)

, Stress slows the immune system down. The more stressed out you are, the longer it will take to clear out your sinuses.

