 Her head is high and body straight. Learn how to build or strengthen your confidence. Remember: We all have flaws, even Angelina herself. Not only would having more confidence make you look more like Angelina, but you will also instantly seem more attractive.


Angelina has a strong sense of who she is. This carries through in her posture and overall appearance. You have to believe in yourself.
Because she is confident, Angelina has a consistent and unique style that is all her own. Although you can follow tips to look more like her, if you don’t let some of your own natural beauty and personality show through, you’re not really going to capture her free spirited, confident vibe. So have enough confidence to stay true to yourself.
 Angelina has had many tattoos over the years. Usually, these are strategically placed on her arms. And they always tell a story.


Make sure your tattoos have meaning. She has tattoos of the coordinates of her children’s birth, for example. She used to have a tattoo that said “Billy Bob” in the name of her former husband. One of her tattoos is a Japanese kanji symbolizing death, but she said she got it to remind herself to live life to the fullest. She is fascinated with death, and used to wear a vial of blood on a necklace.
She also has tattoos on her stomach and wrist. One was to honor her brother and another was a Tennessee Williams’ quote.
 Part of Angelina’s appeal is that she isn’t a vapid celebrity who seems to only care about herself. She is always involved in a cause that is bigger than her own ego.


Angelina loves children. Obviously, she has adopted several children from countries around the world, as well as having children of her own. She is often photographed with a child in tow. The mixture of wild child with mother figure has given Angelina a very earthy appeal.
Angelina has causes. Whether it’s helping people suffering in war-torn countries or those who don’t have enough to eat, Angelina embraces causes and charities and she’s not afraid to roll up her shirt sleeves and go to dangerous or troubled countries on her own. This is a key part about her image. She really cares.

