 Planting it in a container controls its spreading, which many aquatic plants do very quickly.


Some aquatic plants can completely take over a smaller water feature within a few years and have to be controlled with chemicals or pulled out by hand.;
, These plantsgrow well in USDA Hardiness Zones 7 to 10. But they will not survive temperatures below 0 °F (−18 °C).If planted in a pond, these plants must be taken out in the fall and stored in a cool, dry area where they will not be exposed to frost during the winter.
 Unlike terrestrial plants that should be planted in containers with drain holes, aquatic plants do not need a container with holes as the potting soil can wash out through the holes.
 Fabric pots are ideal for aquatic plants. The fabric allows water to soak into the potting soil but keeps the soil in and the flexible fabric on the bottom makes it easier to keep the plant level.Fabric pots are a bit more expensive than plastic pots, though, and harder to move when the plant is taken out of the water.
 Smaller containers keep plants smaller while larger containers let them grow larger. Certain species of aquatic plants also grow better in smaller or larger containers


Hardy water lilies like the “Comanche” (Nymphaea “Comanche”),which grow well in Zones 4 to 10, and Cannas should be planted in containers that are 10 inches deep and 15 inches wide.Tropical water lilies like the “Director George T. Moore” (Nymphaea “Director George T. Moore”)which only grow well in Zones 10 and 11, should be planted in containers that are 10 inches deep and 20 inches wide.
Smaller plants like the “Katie Ruellia” (Ruellia brittonia “Katie”), which grows to 5 to 10 inches tall and grows well in Zones 9 to 11, can be planted in a 5-inch deep, 8-inch wide pot to keep it them smaller or a 5-inch deep, 12-inch wide pot to let it grow a little larger., They will be able to tell you which size pot will work best for each plant.
 If the soil in your yard is naturally loamy clay, it can be used for the aquatic plants., You can use a brand like PondCare Aquatic Planting Media.This mix contains kiln-fired clay pieces, provides plant nutrients and anchors the aquatic plant securely in its container.
While sandy soil may keep the plant anchored, it will not hold enough nutrients to keep aquatic plants healthy.
 It is too light and will leach into the water.
 Then, put two to four aquatic plant fertilizer tablets on the soil spaced evenly around the container 2 to 3 inches in from the edge.


The number of tablets required varies, depending on the size of the tablets and the size of the container.
There should be 1 to 2 ounces of fertilizer for each gallon of soil.Fertilizer tablets with a 12-8-8, 10-6-4, 20-10-5 or 5-10-5 ratio are fine., Do this until the container is ⅔ full.
 These rhizomes are actually thickened stems that resemble sweet potatoes.


The growing end of the rhizome with growth buds or “eyes” should be placed at the center of the container with the “eyes” facing up and buried deeper than the other end so that the whole thing is sitting at a 45 degree angle.
The growth buds or “eyes” look very similar to the “eyes” on a potato.
This placement gives the hardy water lily room to grow in the pot.
 The higher end should be just above soil level and the lower end should be covered.
 Their “eyes” should be facing up and the top of the rhizome should be above soil level.Lotuses grow well in Zones 4 to 10.
 Then, cover them with 2 to 3 inches of soil., Then, hold the plant in the center of the container and add more damp soil until the roots are covered.
 This will help to keep the soil in the container and keep fish from displacing the soil.
 The soil should be wet.
 Aquatic plants that get only four hours of sunlight or less will grow very slowly or may not grow at all.
 Aquatic plants such as hardy water lilies and lotus do well in these conditions.
 Cannas and tropical water lilies will do well in these conditions., This will then allow sunlight to easily reach them. Bricks or overturned clay pots can be placed beneath the aquatic plant container to raise it up if the water is too deep.


Deeper water will not let the sunlight reach the plant rhizomes or roots to trigger new stem growth.
Hardy water lilies grow best with 1 to 1 ½ feet of water covering the container.
Tropical water lilies do fine with 6 to 12 inches of water over the container but lotus grow in 4 to 6 inches of water.Cannas grow well up above the water.They should be placed so that the top of the container is 6 to 8 inches deep.
 Adjust this to 6 to 8 inches if the pond gets more than six hours of sunlight.


Lotus should be submerged to a depth of only 2 inches until they begin to grow.
After the aquatic plants reach 4 to 6 inches tall, they can be moved into deeper water.
 They will break. Instead, lift the container by grasping it at the top with one hand on either side to hold it level or grasp it at the top on one side, tilt it just enough to get a hand underneath and move it with one hand on the bottom and one hand at the top of the container.
 This will keep the gravel from spilling over the side of the container.

