 Symptoms of conversion disorder usually occur after experiencing a stressful event.This could be living through a natural disaster, going through a horrible divorce, or having a medical emergency. You may feel overwhelmed by stress or unsure of how you will get through the difficult situation.


Stress differs from person to person. You may feel a great deal of stress after an event when others around you may not. It’s okay to feel stress.
Think about what stressful events have occurred recently in your life and how they could contribute to a conversion disorder.;
, If you’re suffering from a conversion disorder, you may lose one or more bodily functions. You may experience pain or difficulty with movement. This can include losses or problems resulting in:Paralysis or weakness
Seizures or convulsions
Abnormal movements, such as tremors or shaking
Difficulty with balance or walking
Numbness

, Sometimes the senses are affected when you experience conversion disorder. This can affect your vision, touch, hearing, etc. Look for the following symptoms:Inability to speak
Vision problems such as double vision or blindness
Hearing problems, deafness
Numbness, loss of the sensation of touch

, Although dissociative symptoms are not required for a diagnosis of conversion disorder, many people experience feeling detached at the onset of conversion disorder.You may remember feeling out of touch with yourself or the world. Some common dissociative symptoms include memory loss, feeling detached from yourself, having a blurry sense of identity, and feeling as if the things around you are distorted or unreal.For example, you may feel like your life is a dream, or that you are not fully in your body. It can be scary to dissociate, so reach out to loved ones for support.
Dissociation may be so great that the symptoms did not bother you at first, even if they felt debilitating. Once the dissociation ends, the symptoms may cause more distress.
 The body reacts to stress in certain physical ways – increased heart rate, adrenaline, and depressed appetite among other things. The body’s natural stress response can cause a cascade of physical changes but is not the same as conversion disorder, where you show emotional stress in physical ways .Your body’s natural stress response is meant to protect you from threats and usually only lasts as long as the perceived danger. Once the danger passes, the body should return to normal.
Sometimes stress responses go haywire, though. Chronic stress can keep your body constantly on edge and lead to things like anxiety, depression, digestive and sleep problems, head aches, and memory issues.
It might be hard to tell symptoms of conversion disorder from normal stress responses, acute or chronic. Both start in stress, after all. You might need to talk to a medical professional for help.
 Discuss your symptoms with a medical professional and obtain a medical exam. Your medical doctor may do a thorough physical examination and run some medical tests. You may take certain tests to rule out a neurologic disorder related to your symptoms.Tell your physician when the symptoms occur and where in your body they occur. Talk about the intensity of the symptoms and how they are affecting your day-to-day functioning.
A medical doctor may observe your symptoms, then create a distraction. If your symptoms cease when distracted, this can indicate conversion disorder.
 A psychologist can perform an in-depth evaluation to assess you for conversion disorder. You may respond to a series of questions or fill out self-report questionnaires to determine the existence of conversion disorder.Tell your psychologist that you’re experiencing symptoms that are causing you distress. Talk about when they occur and how they affect your life. For example, you may experience pains at work to the point that you’ve cut back your work hours or have been laid off from your job because of the symptoms.
You can also work with a psychologist or therapist to help you treat conversion disorder through therapy. Psychodynamic therapy and cognitive behavior therapy are preferred treatments for conversion disorder., Conversion disorder occurs most often in women.You may be at a higher risk for conversion disorder if you have a medical illness (such as a chronic condition), a dissociative disorder, or a personality disorder.Disclose any known medical illnesses or psychological diagnoses to your treatment provider.


If you’re not sure whether you have a psychological disorder, make an appointment with a psychologist to receive an evaluation.It’s okay if you have a co-occurring disorder, and having conversion disorder doesn’t make you “crazy.” The important part is that you get a proper diagnosis and thorough treatment. Treat any co-occurring psychological disorders with therapy.
 Some medical doctors may confuse conversion disorder and malingering and tell you that your symptoms are not real. Malingering is when someone presents false or extremely exaggerated medical or psychological symptoms as a way to receive attention, avoid work, or receive some kind of external benefit.Unlike malingering, your symptoms in conversion disorder are in fact real.


Symptoms of conversion disorder cannot be turned on or off at will and they cause considerable distress.If your symptoms do not provide a benefit for you (like missing work or receiving affection from family) yet your medical doctor suspects you are malingering, you may want to switch providers. It’s important to receive proper treatment.
 The symptoms of conversion disorder can be disruptive to you and your life. Symptoms can be severe enough to interfere with functioning and cause distress, such as problems at work or at school.You may lose your job, be unable to perform daily activities, or fail at school. These losses do not serve a purpose and do not help you in any way.


Have your symptoms interfered with your ability to be a student or do to your job well? Have symptoms affected your relationships?

, Symptoms of conversion disorder are not intentional and are not attention seeking.Unlike malingering, there is no secondary gain for the symptoms. The symptoms do not serve any purpose and are experienced as negative and distressing.


If you have conversion disorder, you want the symptoms to go away. You do not enjoy the symptoms or the attention you receive from having symptoms and feel stress from how they affect your life.
If you are malingering, you may enjoy the visits from friends and family you receive as a result of your illness, and may prolong the symptoms to keep getting attention. In conversion disorder, you may be annoyed by outside attention or want it to go away.

