 Pair “Pastor” with the pastor’s full name for leaders of Protestant denominations in everyday correspondence. Casual communication such as emails and quick handwritten notes don’t require the etiquette and formality of event invitations. This is a polite and effective way to speak with your pastor.If you were writing a casual thank you note, you might begin, “Pastor Molly Mitchell.”

, Use the title “Reverend” with the priest’s full name in informal correspondence. This will ensure that you’re showing respect, but this more casual form of communication doesn’t require the ceremonial “the” that appears on formal envelopes.If writing an email, you might start, “Reverend John Smith.”
There are fewer rules regarding very casual correspondence. If you know the priest well, it may make sense to use the more casual address “Father.” So for example, “Father John Smith.”Marriage is uncommon in the Catholic Church. If you’re in doubt as to the faith leader’s denomination, but know they are married, assume they are Protestant., If it suits you and the message you’re writing, you can abbreviate reverend to “Rev.” and pastor to “Pr.” Pair these abbreviations only with the pastor or priest’s last name. This is a very casual way of addressing the clergy, and it might make sense if you were sending a quick follow up email about a previous matter, for example.For example, you could address Reverend Max Dunt as “Rev. Dunt.” Similarly, you could address Pastor Lindy Reese “Pr. Reese.”

, Use abbreviated everyday titles, such as Mr., Mrs., Ms., and Dr. with the spouse’s full name. There is no need to include academic degrees after the name or branches of the military, if applicable.For example, you would address a Protestant pastor and his wife of the same last name as “Pastor Mike Huff and Mrs. Rita Huff.” If Mrs. Huff were a doctor, you would address them as “Pastor Mike Huff and Dr. Rita Huff.”
If the congregation were one that uses the “First Lady” terminology, you might address them as “Pastor Mike Huff and First Lady Rita Huff.”

