 A good way to tell if a guy wants to kiss you is to pay attention to where he's looking. If he's looking at your lips or staring into your eyes, he's probably thinking about kissing you.

He may even comment on your lips while he's looking at them. If he compliments your lips, or your eyes, he's ready for the kiss.His eyes are a great indicator, but so are his facial expressions. Pay attention to the faces he makes when you are together.;
, If your boyfriend starts to get clumsy, or fidgety, he could be getting nervous about kissing you. Don't take it as a sign of boredom, he's probably just waiting for the chance to make his move.

He may start to play with his hair, touch his face, or even bite his bottom lip.Distance is a great indicator of desire as well. If he keeps finding ways to get closer to you, you should feel comfortable kissing him., Don't just listen for compliments, though. Listen to the way he's talking to you. If his voice gets softer, and he starts whispering things to you, he's ready for a kiss.

Whispering also requires him to move in closer to you, making it easier to kiss.Speaking in a softer tone is an especially good sign if the two of you are in public. He's trying to get your attention and hold it, to make you feel like you two are the only people in the room., If he starts to get quiet, or there are more pauses in the conversation, he may not be losing interest. If he's maintaining eye contact, even if he's quiet, he's still trying to tell you something.
 All guys flirt in different ways, but a few things you can count on are touching and joking. If he's stroking your arm, or your lower back, he's trying to tell you he's into you. The same goes if he's laughing at your jokes, or making his own.

He may also wink at you, which is almost definitely a sign that he's thinking of kissing you., If you think your boyfriend is ready to kiss you, get close to him. Touch his arm or his face gently to let him know you're ready for a kiss.

Don't cross your arms. Crossing your arms may give him the impression that you're not ready for a kiss. Instead, keep your body open and facing his.Smile at him to let him know you're comfortable. If you're relaxed, then he'll feel less anxious about making a move to kiss you., Kissing releases oxytocin, a chemical that makes us feel happy and relaxed. If you're worried about someone watching you, or an being interrupted, try moving to a new spot.

Once you start kissing, you may want to keep kissing for a while, so it's important to be in a spot where you feel safe., Look into your boyfriend's eyes before you kiss him, but also try opening your eyes during the kiss. Eye contact is a great way to build intimacy, especially while kissing.

It might feel a little awkward at first, so don't stare too long while kissing. Just take a moment to look at your boyfriend while kissing, and then shut your eyes.Take a break between kissing to re-establish eye contact with your boyfriend., Don't shove your tongue down your boyfriend's throat, and don't cover his mouth in spit. Open your mouth wide enough to let your tongues touch and go from there.

Relax and work together. Try not to think about anything other than the kiss. If you get tense, the kiss will suffer.Don't breathe through your mouth and into his. Breathe through your nose when you kiss., Keep your hands around his back or neck. Hold him close while you kiss.

Don't get carried away if it's just your first kiss. Take some time to appreciate the power of a kiss on its own. Keep the touching simple and affectionate., The best thing you can do to make sure your guy knows he can kiss you is to relax when he's around you. If you make him feel comfortable, he'll be more willing to let his guard down and move in for a kiss.

Laugh at his jokes, smile at him, do anything you can to put his mind at ease. Making a move, even if it isn't the first, is risky. Guys don't always like to take chances with their egos and self-esteem. Do what you can to encourage him to make a move., Brush your teeth and practice good hygiene. Likewise, encourage him to do the same. Offer him a piece of gum if you're planning on kissing him. He may even take that as a sign that you're in the mood to kiss.

If you have chapped lips, use some lip balm. Make your lips appealing so he'll want to kiss you., Tell him you're cold. Ask for his jacket. Make him hug you. Guys respond pretty well to direct orders like this. If you can get him close to you, and hold him tight, he may not be able to keep himself from kissing you.
 If nothing else, just tell him you want to kiss him. Pull him close, look him right in the eyes and tell him right out that you want him to kiss you. Chances are he'll respond with a kiss.

