 With their non-hitting hand, kids should toss the ball in the air slightly in front of them. Their tossing hand shouldn’t move too much and the ball shouldn’t go too high. If the ball is thrown very high, then it will be moving faster and more difficult to hit. Aim for about 2ft (.6m) above the head and about 2ft (.6m) in front of them.The key to a good serve is to keep it simple. It should all be one smooth, fluid movement.
 Kids need to take a large step forward in the direction that they wish to hit the ball. This will help them to generate enough power to hit the ball over the net. They should step forward with the foot on the same side as their hitting hand., Their hitting arm should be extended above their head and they should hit the ball with the heel of their hand. This will help the ball to go the furthest without spinning. The arm should follow through after hitting the ball until the hand is down by their thigh.The hand should be completely open when hitting the ball.
The ball should be hit as it is descending from its toss. The kids should reach up towards the ball to make sure their arm is fully extended.
 They can stand several feet away from a wall and practice serving the ball against the wall. They can form pairs with one child on each side of the net and practice hitting it over. The key to getting a good serve is lots and lots of practice.The toss, step, and hit should all happen in one fluid motion.
Some kids won't be able to serve across the full court. You can have them stand closer to the net so that they can practice hitting the ball over.
 To serve the ball underhand, they can toss the ball and step forward, but they will move their hitting hand down by their side and then swing it forward instead raising it up in the air. They will hit the ball over the net with their fist. This method is the easiest for making contact with the ball.An underhand serve is easier for younger players, but they should still be practicing the overhand serve so that they can learn it and be able to do it eventually.

