 Click the Start/Orb button at the bottom left-hand corner of the computer screen, and select “Control Panel” from the Start menu.;
, Click on “Programs and Features” or “Uninstall Program” from the Control Panel window, and a list of all the installed applications on your computer will open on a new window.
 Scan the list of applications, and look for these three applications: WebCake, BrowserDefender, and Delta Chrome Toolbar.


Most antivirus programs have traced the roots of the Mediaplex virus from these three applications. To remove, highlight the name of the application from the list of installed applications, and click the “Uninstall” button on the upper portion of the Programs and Features window. Do this one at a time for each of the three applications.
While you’re at it, go ahead and uninstall other applications and browser plugins that you don’t remember installing yourself, and which might have been installed by other suspicious applications.
 Double-click the browser’s icon on your desktop to open it.
 Click its menu button on the top right-hand corner of the window to open its menu.
 Click on “Extensions” from the slide-out menu, and a new tab will open showing all the plugins currently installed within Chrome.
 Delete anything that you don’t remember installing yourself by clicking the trash bin icon beside every plugin that you want to uninstall.
 Click the Chrome’s menu button again, and select “Settings” from the drop-down list.
 Move down the Settings tab, and click the drop-down list under “Search.” Select the search engine you want to use as the default from the drop-down list, and exit the Settings tab by closing it.
 Double-click the browser’s icon on your desktop to open it.
 Click its menu button on the top right-hand corner of the window to open the browser menu.
 Click “Extensions” from the left menu panel, and a new tab will open showing all the plugins currently installed within Firefox.
 Delete anything that you don’t remember installing yourself by clicking the “Remove” button beside every plugin that you want to uninstall.
 Click the search bar on the upper right-hand area of the Firefox window, and choose from the drop-down list the search engine you want to set as the default. The changes will be automatically saved once you make your choice.
 Double-click the browser’s icon on your desktop to open it.
 Click “Tools” from the menu bar at the upper left-hand section of the browser window, and a drop-down menu will appear.
 Select “Internet Options” from the drop-down list to access the Internet Explorer settings.
 Click the General tab, and select the Settings button under the Search field. The “Manage Add-ons” window will then open.
 Select “Search Providers” from the left menu panel, and choose the search engine you want to set as the default from the list displayed. Click the “Set as default” button on the bottom right-hand corner of the window to confirm your choice.
 Click “Toolbars and Extensions” from the left menu panel to view all the currently installed plugins inside Internet Explorer.
 Delete anything that you don’t remember installing yourself by selecting all the plugins that you want to remove, and clicking the “Disable” button on the bottom right corner of the window.
 Click the “Close” button to exit the Manage Add-ons window, and then click “OK” on the Internet Options window to save the changes you’ve made.

