 To begin your search for bankruptcy attorneys, ask friends or family members for recommendations. You also might want to use online legal directories or the website of your state or local bar association.You may have seen advertisements or commercials on television for bankruptcy attorneys in your area. However, while these advertisements may give you names of attorneys in your area, you shouldn't rely exclusively on commercials to choose an attorney.
Look carefully into the background of each attorney whose name comes up. Your state or local bar association's website can be helpful with this, but you also should dig deeper.
In addition to looking at each attorney's website, look for independent reviews made by each attorney's clients or former clients.
While anonymous internet reviews may not be entirely reliable, they can give you a sense of the general issues people face with that attorney.
 Bankruptcy attorneys typically offer free initial consultations, so it shouldn't cost you much if any money to speak to more than one attorney. More than one legal opinion can help you ensure you're making the correct decision regarding your financial future.You typically want to schedule your consultation within a week or two of the time you contact the attorney's office.
If an attorney doesn't have an open time slot for you within that time, they may be too busy to give your case the attention it needs.
You may want to schedule more than one consultation on the same day. However, if you do so, make sure you leave at least two hours between appointments so you have time to complete your discussion with one attorney and get to your next appointment.
 For the attorney to accurately assess your situation and provide advice on whether you should file for bankruptcy, they must have detailed information about your debts and general finances.When you schedule your initial consultation, the attorney may have a form or checklist of documents they need from you to accurately assess your case.
Make sure you get this information to them as quickly as possible so they have time to review your information.
If you've already gathered information and documents, either for your own review or for credit counseling, you typically can provide copies of these same documents to the attorneys with whom you've scheduled consultations.
Include copies of your credit reports if you've received those. They will be invaluable to any attorney evaluating your situation.
 An experienced bankruptcy attorney will be able to help you better understand the impact bankruptcy would have on your debts and your overall financial picture.Given that you haven't yet decided to file for bankruptcy, how each attorney works with their clients may not be a major concern for you.
However, if that's the case, make sure each attorney understands that you are still in the process of trying to decide whether to file for bankruptcy or pursue other options.
Not only can an attorney provide you with information about how you could benefit from bankruptcy, they also can explain whether you should file Chapter 11 and Chapter 13, and the difference between these two types of bankruptcy.
An attorney also can look at your debts and assets and help you figure out which of those debts could potentially be discharged in bankruptcy, which assets you would be entitled to keep, and how your financial picture would look after bankruptcy.
 Based on the information you've learned from the attorneys you interviewed, you should be able to make an informed decision on whether bankruptcy would improve your financial situation or you should peruse other options.Keep in mind that bankruptcy should be a last resort. If there is any option that would enable you to get out of debt and pay your debts down without filing bankruptcy, you should attempt to pursue those options.
If repayment plans don't work or put too much of a strain on your finances, you can always file bankruptcy at that point.
However, the situation is different if you are facing an imminent lawsuit or wage garnishment. If that is the case for you, it may be time to consider bankruptcy.

