 To legally change your name or your child's name, you will need to complete and file a name change petition and proposed order. The name change petition can be completed either online or by filling out a hard copy of the form. In either case, keep in mind that you will still need to gather the remaining documents and file the petition in court.


To complete the name change petition online, visit the following link: http://www.nycourts.gov/courts/nyc/civil/int_adultnamechange.shtml. Click on "Go to the Adult Name Change Petition Program." The program will guide you through a series of questions. To fill out the name change petition by hand, pick up a hard copy of the name change petition and proposed order at your nearest courthouse or print out online at https://www.nycourts.gov/courts/nyc/civil/forms.shtml#namechange.If you file your case in Supreme Court, you will additionally need to prepare and file a Request for Judicial Intervention to have a judge assigned to your case.Respond to all questions on the name change petition, including the reason you wish to change your name or your child's name. You will be asked additional questions, and for supporting documentation, if you or your child has ever been convicted of a crime or bankruptcy, involved in a lawsuit or if you pay child or spousal support.Print out the completed form if using the online program. Sign in front of a Public Notary.;
, In addition to obtaining a name change order, proposed order and, if necessary, a Request for Judicial Intervention, you will need to gather the following documents:


Original or certified copy of birth certificate for you or your child.If you are a parent or legal guardian seeking to change your child's name, you will need a notarized consent form signed by any other parent or legal guardian and a separate notarized consent form signed by your child if he is 14 years of age or older.If you or your child has a criminal history, you will need a certificate of disposition for each conviction.If you or your child is a victim of domestic violence and you wish to avoid the requirement that your name change be published in a newspaper, you will need an Order of Protection or other proof that you suffered domestic violence., When you have the court papers and other documents ready, you will need to go to the County Court or Supreme Court of the county where you live to file them. You will also need to pay a filing fee. If you live in New York City, file your paperwork and fees with the New York City Civil Court.Locate the County Court or Supreme Court nearest you by using the court locator function at http://www.nycourts.gov/courthelp/NameChange/basics.shtml.
Pay the correct filing fee: $210 for Supreme and County Courts, $65 for New York City Civil Court.If you cannot afford the filing fee, file a fee waiver to request that it be waived., Once you have filed the necessary paperwork with the court, a judge will decide whether to approve your petition. If your petition is approved, you will be given a photocopy of a Name Change Order signed by the judge. In some cases, a hearing is required to determine whether or not a name change request should be granted. If this is your case, the court will notify you when you need to appear in court.
If there is no hearing in your case, the order will be sent to you in the mail.
 If the court approves your petition, you must notify the public by publishing your new name in a local newspaper.


Contact your local newspaper to arrange for the publication of your new name within 60 days of the issuance of the order. You will need to submit the photocopy of the court order as proof of your name change.Obtain proof of publication (Affidavit of Publication) from the newspaper that published your name change and file with the County Clerk or Court Clerk (depending on where you filed your name change petition) within 90 days of the issuance of the order.If you miss either the 60 day or 90 day deadline, file a "nunc pro tunc" form with the court, asking the judge to accept your proof of publication despite your failure to comply with the deadline. Include an explanation for why you missed the deadline. If you wish to avoid the publication requirement because you believe that publication of your new name could endanger either yourself or your child, explain your reasons in the name change petition filed with the court and ask that the court "seal" the record of your name change., Once you have submitted proof of publication with the court, your name change is complete. At this point, you should request a certified copy of the name change order from the court., A certified copy of your court order will serve as proof that you legally changed your name. However, to ensure that government agencies recognize your name change, you will have to present the order at each agency and request that your name be changed.Visit your local Social Security Office Administration to notify them of your name change. This will allow you to use your new name at work so that you can continue receiving credit for all of your earnings. Take a certified copy of your court order and your birth certificate.
Visit your local DMV office to change your name on your driver's license. Take your current driver's license and a certified copy of your court order.