 A good pen and notepad will become the greatest spy equipment you can use. The key of being a spy isn’t about fancy equipment and high tech gear; it is all about your brain power. Investing in a good quality pen will encourage you to write more. You should also have a portable notepad for all your thoughts on the go.You could use a larger notepad, but you might find it more effective to use a pocket-sized notepad.;
, Portable recording devices are very useful for spying on subjects. Plant the recording device in a room, or conceal the device on your body to capture a conversation. You can find cheaper digital “voice memo” devices that you can use for recording people.


You can also use a smartphone’s recording function to record conversations. You probably wouldn’t want to plant your smartphone in a room to pick up a conversation, but you could.
Voice recorders can be found at most office supplies stores and other generalist stores.
 Once you begin spying you might find that you need a long distance listening device. This type of spy equipment is available in most spy kits or sold separately. The devices sold separate from spy kits are usually higher quality than spy kits.


There are bird watching and other nature tools that include long range audio devices. You might be able to find a cheaper device by looking at outdoor and nature stores.
 Your school probably has a policy against cameras at school, but you may be able to maneuver around this rule. Acquire a small portable camera, or a “spy camera,” that can be easily concealed. For more money, you can even buy a real spy cameras like a camera pen, or a dog tag necklace camera.You might already have a suitable device like an iPod mini or a GoPro that could work. Both these devices have video capabilities that can be useful in the field.
If you get a small camera, you should also find a way to conceal the device. You could cut out a hole in your pencil box, or cut a hole in a tissue box.
Hiding your camera depends on what rules your school has and what type of camera you have. Teachers will probably confiscate your camera if they find it.
 One of the best resources for how to be a spy is in detective novels. If this is a true passion you wish to follow, read as many spy novels as you can. Start with the classics like “The Purloined Letter” by Edgar Allen Poe, and move into reading Sherlock Holmes books by Sir Arthur Conan Doyle. Here are some other essential detective novels you can read:


The Hardy Boys by Franklin Dixon
A Coffin For Dimitrios by Eric Ambler
The Maltese Falcon by Dashiell Hammett
Murder on the Orient Express by Agatha Christie
Fade out by Joseph Hansen, The first step in becoming a good spy is to prove your credibility as a spy. One way to do this is keep your ears open in the hallways at school. Actively listen out for opportunities that you think you could work on. For instance:


You hear that a lot of janitors and teachers are frustrated by a graffiti tag in the boys locker room. Once you find a lead, chase it down until you find the culprit.
You find out that a girl from school likes someone, but she can’t be certain that he likes her back. This is a matter of gossip, but you can work it as a professional.
The football team is missing the championship trophy. This could be a good opportunity to blow the truth wide open., Once you’ve been put on the job for something, you should learn everything there is to know about this person. One way to learn about this person at school is by following them around at a distance. Find out their schedule for the day and who they surround themselves with.


Once you begin to learn their group of friends, you can interview some of the friend group. Don’t ask if you can interview them directly, but instead ask them some questions you’ve been building.
Be careful not to overstep your bounds in the school environment. You’ll probably be forced to do some detective work outside of school.
 Eavesdropping is a major aspect of spying. This is the way you can acquire information without interviewing reluctant subjects. You’ll always need to watch your back, or have an accomplice watch your back. People don’t like to be spied on, so you’ll need to keep your guard up.


A safe way to eavesdrop is by planting a recording device where you know your subjects will be congregating. Be sure to conceal the device before the subjects come to the meeting place.
 The best way to develop spy work is by recording all the information you’ve gained. Even if the information seems minuscule, you should include the information in your notepad. Once you start reviewing your notes, you might find that a small detail connects the larger pieces you overlooked.


Keep all the information you record organized by keeping track of the date and time of each detail.
Lots of detective work is all about tracking information about a small time slot that happened weeks ago, A key to being a spy is being stealthy. Your work is about secrecy and your methodology should reflect this. You can become a social chameleon by acquiring different clothes to fit into different friend groups. You should also know the schedule of classes at your school and when the hallways will be open.


You can accomplish a lot in a three minute window while the hallways are clear.
You can mask your identity by wearing a wig. Get a wig that is a different color than your hair. If you have blonde hair, get a brown wig.
Use a newspaper or a book to conceal your face while spying. Open the book or newspaper so that it covers your face.
 There are different types of detective work you can become involved in. You can try to go after social cases that involve information about other schoolmates. Other work you can do is exposing the identity of someone who vandalizes school property. You don’t need to be restricted to one type of detective work over another.


It might help you to define your spy vision while you're getting started. This will help you decide if you want to include other members into your spy work.Think about what needs your classmates have.
Consider working with a group of students that regularly gets misrepresented in school.
 Take a bit to reflect on people or groups in your school, from the past year or months, that could benefit from a spy.It might help you build your portfolio if you spy on cases that are relevant to your school. Try talking to employees of the school to see if they agree on an area of need. Don’t present yourself as a spy looking to build cases.


Some people may be alarmed if they find out you are an aspiring spy.
 You don’t have to work on cases from clients, or fellow classmates and school employees. The spy work you conduct could be a personal activity that you do for fun. You can also develop a network of contacts who can benefit from your work as a detective.


You can even plan a consultation conversation for potential clients. You can get a list of questions that you could ask every new client like: “What’s your current issue?”, “Is anyone upset with you that you are aware of?”, and “What is your timeframe?”
You probably won’t get any money working in your school, but at least it is a start. If you’re interested in becoming a private investigator when you grow up, practicing amateur spying will teach you a lot.
Some people might give you things like candy or baked goods for your work. They might just say, “I owe you one,” which can help you out in your future spy work.
 If you are having trouble getting clients, you may have to be proactive in acquiring them. You can make business cards explaining what type of detective work you have done in the past, and what you’re comfortable doing. Another way to get the word out is to post flyers advertising your services.


Don’t put your name or picture on the advertisements. This way you can keep an anonymity while working different cases.
 Once you start working as a spy, you may find that you need help. Include some of your trusted buddies to help you develop and improve your spy work. They need to be told that secrecy is the utmost priority, especially when it involves a classmate’s personal information.

