 It is very important that you are warmed up before you attempt to do the splits. This will help you to avoid injury and allow you to stretch deeper. It will also help you to get your splits quicker. You can warm up by jogging on the spot for 5 minutes, by doing some star-jumps, push-ups, sit-ups or by dancing crazily to your favorite song - anything that gets your body moving!









As part of your warm up, you can then begin some gentle stretches such as touching your toes in straddle or pike, butterflies, lunges, or anything that will get you used to spreading out your legs.;
, You'll never accomplish the splits if you only stretch for two minutes at a time, once or twice a week. You need to commit to a routine that involves at least 15 minutes of stretching, every day.









Pencil these 15 minutes into your daily schedule and don't forget them, no matter what. If you're tight for time - multitask! Do your stretching exercises while watching TV, learning multiplication tables for school or waiting for the pizza delivery guy. It doesn't matter.
Remember that the more you stretch, the faster you will achieve the splits. If you're really serious about achieving your splits as quickly as possible - whether it's for gymnastics, dance class or karate - consider stretching for 15 minutes every morning and 15 minutes every night. This will really speed up the process!

, When practicing for the splits, you should feel a good, intense stretch in your leg muscles, but you should never feel any pain.









If you do feel any pain, you should stop what you're doing immediately, as pushing yourself too hard can cause serious muscle injuries.
If you pull or damage your muscles in any way, these injuries may prevent you from ever achieving the splits!

, Sit on the floor and spread your legs out in a big v-shape. If it helps, place your feet against a wall in order to get a deeper stretch.









Keeping your back straight, lean to the right and grab your right foot with both hands. Hold the stretch for 30 to 60 seconds, then repeat with the left leg.
Next, stretch your arms straight out in front of you, as far as you can. Try to get your chest to touch the floor. Hold this stretch for 30 to 60 seconds.
 Sit on your bum with your legs stretched out in front of you, feet together, and reach for your toes.









If you can't quite reach your toes, grab your ankles instead. If you can touch your toes easily, reach around the soles of your feet.
Remember to keep your back straight.
Hold this stretch for 30 to 60 seconds.
 Do the exact same as last time but standing up! Standing with your feet together and your legs straight, lean down and try to touch your toes.









Remember not to bend your knees, and try to keep most of your body weight on the balls of your feet, rather than the heels. Hold the stretch for 30 to 60 seconds.
If you're really flexible, try to put the palms of your hands flat on the floor.
 Sit on the floor and bend your knees until the soles of your feet are touching. Push your knees towards the floor, using your elbows if necessary. Hold for 30 to 60 seconds.









Keep your back straight as you stretch and try to pull your heels as close towards your body as possible.
For a more intense stretch, try leaning over and placing your hands on the ground, as far in front of your legs as you an manage.
 Kneel down onto your knees and extend one leg out in front of you, making sure that it's completely straight.









Place a hand on either side of your extended leg and lean down into the stretch. Hold for 30 to 60 seconds, then repeat on the other side.
For a more intense stretch, place your extended leg on a raised surface, such as a pillow or mat.
 One of the best ways to stretch for the splits is to actually practice the splits! Practice doing a right split, a left split and a center split, or just choose one.









Practice doing each type of splits slowly, gently easing your legs as far down as possible. When you've reached your limit, try to hold that position for 30 seconds. Then give yourself a break before trying again. Attempt to push yourself a little further down each time.
A couple of things you can do to get further down into your splits include asking a friend or family member to push down on your shoulders or legs while your stretch -- just make sure they will stop immediately when you ask!
You can also wear socks while you stretch (rather than stretching barefoot or in shoes), as this will help your feet to slide easier, especially on wooden or linoleum covered floors.

