 A similar bottle would work as well, but one liter water bottles are ideal because they are long and narrow, and often have flat sides which allow them to sit undisturbed. You could substitute a two liter bottle as well. Whatever type of bottle you choose, ensure it is transparent and composed of thin, pliable plastic.
 If the bottle were standing up, you’d be cutting in a long horizontal line around its circumference. Do not cut the top completely off; rather, cut approximately 90% of the way around the bottle with a scalpel or extendable blade.


When finished, the bottle should be flexible at the “hinge” (the 10% of the top and body of the bottle you did not cut).
 With a black marker, mark two points on the side of the bottle approximately one centimeter from the place where it has been cut, one on the left side of the cut and one on the right side of the cut. The marks should be located half a centimeter from the top edge of the bottle. Rotate the bottle 180 degrees along its horizontal axis and place symmetrical marks on the other side.


If you’re using a round bottle rather than a bottle with roughly rectangular sides, it is more difficult to gauge where to place the marks. Try to place the marks about 90 degrees apart from each other around the circumference of the bottle, two on one side of the cut and two on the other.
 Take two five-inch wooden skewers of the kind used to grill shish kebab or construct various arts and crafts projects. They should be only a millimeter or so in diameter. Press the two skewers through the bottle from one set of points to the other using the marks you made.


The skewers should pass through it in two parallel lines which run perpendicular to the normal orientation of the bottle if it were to stand on its base.
Insert a third skewer, half as long as the first two, into the end of the bottle (the base the bottle would stand on in a standard vertical orientation). Stick a piece of cheese on the end of the skewer which is inside the bottle.
 With your bottle oriented so that the hinge is on the surface of the table, you should now have a bottle with two skewers through its upper part (one just to the left and one just to the right of the place you made the cut). Turn the bottle over so that the hinge is on the top. Unscrew the cap and place a string as long as the bottle approximately one inch down through the mouth. Screw the cap back on tightly with the string still partway inside. Give the string a slight pull to ensure it is snugly in place beneath the bottle cap.
 Rubber bands about one centimeter in diameter  are ideal. If you have trouble finding a band that small, try using some elastic hair ties. With the hinge on the upper side of the bottle, loop one band around the two skewers on the left side of the bottle and another band around the skewers on the right side of the bottle.


When you pull up on the cap of the bottle while it’s laying on its side with the hinge oriented above the skewers, the bands should pull back with slight resistance.
Tie the other end of the string in a loop around the skewer sticking out the far end.
 Place it in areas like along a wall or a high-traffic area near a mouse hole. When the mouse enters the bottle to eat the cheese, pull back on the string looped around the skewer sticking out of the bottle’s bottom. The bottle will snap closed on the mouse, trapping it within.


If you have a skittish mouse, you may need to modify the closing mechanism so that rather than pulling the looped string up from the skewer in the bottle’s end by hand, you pull from a distance away with another length of string. Doing so could increase the trap's effectiveness, but will require more patience on your part.
 Wear sanitary gloves and carry the bottle in an upright position at least five to ten miles away from any human habitation.Open the trap in a meadow or forest, allowing the mouse to go free. Dispose of the sanitary gloves and bottle trap.


This type of trap is perfect for a brave or arrogant mouse who thinks he has the run of the house. If mice have become accustomed to human activity and brazenly scurry about even in the presence of many people, you’ll be able to snap this trap closed on them with little trouble.

