 Locate the app on your device and tap on it. The app icon has a white background with the Pinterest (P) logo on it.

If you don’t have the app yet, it’s available for both Android and iOS devices for free.
 If this is your first time using the Pinterest app, you will be asked to log into your account or to sign up. To log in, just enter your registered email address and password, and tap “Sign in” to proceed. You can also tap “Continue with Facebook” or “Continue with Google” to sign using either of these social networks., The Home Feed contains recent pins made by people or boards you are following. Swipe up on the screen to view more pins., The pin will expand on the screen. Here, you’ll find a “Read it” button to the bottom right of the expanded image. If you click this, you will be directed to the pin’s source website using your device’s default browser., If you like the image, pin it to your board by tapping the red “Pin it” button. A list of your boards will appear, tap one and the pin will be saved there. If you want to create a new board, just enter the new board’s name in the field at the top, and tap “Create.”, Depending on your device, it can be at the top toolbar (Android) or bottom (iOS). This will bring you to the Search screen., For example, if you want to search for anything related to Star Wars, you can type “Star Wars” there., Photo titles matching your search will be displayed. Scroll through these to see if you can find what you’re looking for here., Similar to the Pinterest website, there are related topics buttons at the top, below the search field. Swipe left on the related topics bar to see more options. You can tap on any of these buttons to filter the results and add to your search.

For instance, if you searched for “Star Wars,” related topics that may come out might be “Food,” “Movie,” and “Crafts,” to name a few. After you’ve selected a topic, the results will refresh with new pins. Check out the filtered results to see if what you’re looking for is here.
 If you’ve searched your keywords and still you did not find what you’re looking for, you can further filter the results by Pinners or Boards in order to see other related pins already collected in sets by other pinners in their own boards.

Browsing by Pinners—Tap the controls button on the right side of the search box to view more filter options. Here, tap “Pinners.”
Browsing by Boards—Tap on the controls button on the right side of the search box, but instead of “Pinners,” select “Boards.”

, Tap on the name of the pinner or board from the results. If you’ve selected a Pinner, you will be brought to his profile screen. If you’ve selected a board, you will be brought to the board., Tap the “Follow” button on the top right corner. New posts will appear automatically in your feed. The Pinners and boards you’ve followed will appear under your profile screen so it will be easy to find them again later., You can browse and view photos collected by the pinners or boards you follow. Tap the photo you want and it will be shown in full screen. You can still pin these photos to your own boards., This will open the search page. On the page will be the search bar at the top, and below are lists of categories you can browse through., Since Pinterest is a place where varied pins of interest are stored, there will be several categories listed in alphabetical order. Swipe up on the screen to see more. You’ll find topics from “Animals and Pets” to “Holiday and Events” to “Women’s Fashion.” Tap on a category to view pins under it., If you think that the category you selected can be filtered down to something more specific, swipe left on the related topics bar at the top and then tap on a specific topic you want to view pins on., Swipe up on the screen to view all pins under the selected category. If you find something that interests you, tap on it to view the image in full. From here, you can view the source website of the pin or pin the image to your own board.