 Gallstones are composed of about 80% cholesterol. A saturation of cholesterol in the bile leads to solidification, which causes gallstones.A diet high in saturated fats is associated with higher cholesterol levels. Therefore, you should cut saturated fats out of your diet to reduce your chances of forming gallstones. Some foods you should keep to a minimum are:Red meats like beef
Sausages and bacon
Whole-fat dairy products
Pizza
Butter and lard
Fried foods;
, Although saturated fats contribute to the formation of gallstones, poly- and monounsaturated fats help prevent them. These are usually known as "good fats."Good fats help keep the gallbladder empty, which reduces the formation of gallstones in bile. Include foods high in good fats in your diet to help prevent gallstones.Olive oil. This is a source of good fats, and helps reduce cholesterol. Some studies indicate that regular consumption of olive oil- about 2 tablespoons daily- reduces the risk of gallstones.
Avocado. Not only is avocado a great source of good fats, but it also helps your body absorb other nutrients more effectively.
Seeds. Pumpkin, sunflower, and sesame seeds especially help lower cholesterol.
Nuts. Nuts such as walnuts deliver beneficial fats to your body, and can also help lower cholesterol.Fatty fish. Fatty cold-water fish such as salmon, tuna, and mackerel contain high levels of polyunsaturated fats and omega-3 fatty acids, which promote overall health.
 Studies show that people with high-fiber diets are at less risk of developing gallstones. Fiber is also beneficial for your overall digestive health because it keeps food and waste flowing smoothly through the GI tract. Include the following foods in your diet for a boost to your digestive health.Fresh fruits. Leave the skin on all the fruit you eat, as this will give you the highest amount of fiber. Berries with seeds (raspberries, blackberries, strawberries) are especially high in fiber.
Vegetables. Leafy and crunchy vegetables usually offer the highest amount of fiber. For potatoes, leave the skin on to get the most fiber.
Whole grains. White or "enriched" products have been bleached and lack many of the nutrients found in whole grain products. Switch to whole-grain bread, pasta, cereal, and oatmeal to easily increase your fiber intake. Barley, steel-cut oats, and whole wheat pastas are good choices. In addition to containing fiber, whole grain products help reduce your body's cholesterol level.
Beans. You can easily incorporate beans into soups and salads to get a high dose of fiber. Split peas, lentils, and black beans are very high in fiber.
Brown rice. Like white bread, white rice doesn't offer many nutrients. Convert to brown rice to add more fiber to your diet.
Seeds and nuts. In addition to being sources of "good fats," sunflower seeds, almonds, pistachios, and pecans are good sources of fiber.
 Water is an essential nutrient that hydrates your body and helps flush out toxins in your system. There are various recommendations for daily fluid intake, but the 8 eight-ounce glasses rule remains popular. Your fluid intake should be enough to keep your urine light yellow or clear.