 When it comes to pork terminology , the word "loin" doesn't mean the same thing as it does for humans. The loin is a long strip of meat near the pig's spine that runs the length of the pig's back. In general, cuts of meat from the loin are some of the leanest, most tender cuts on the pig, so they're an excellent choice not only for those looking for soft, juicy pork, but also for a nutritious source of lean protein. Some common loin cuts are:Butterfly chops
Sirloin roasts
Sirloin cutlets
Loin chops
Loin roasts

, The tenderloin (sometimes called the "pork fillet") is a small subsection of the pig's loin that arguably produces the most tender pork of all. The tenderloin is a long, narrow, lean strip of muscle running along the upper insides of the animal's ribs. Because it is exceptionally juicy, tender, and lean, it's often one of the most expensive cuts of pork.Tenderloin is often sold:


On its own
In sliced pieces or "medallions"
In a wrapped-up "roast"

, A pig's rib cage extends from its spine down around to the edges of its belly and offers a variety of delicious, meaty cuts that vary in texture and flavor based on which part of the rib cage they're taken from. Rib cuts from the top of the rib cage (near the pig's spine) can resemble loin meat in that they're naturally somewhat lean, juicy, and tender. Cuts from the lower sections of the ribs (near the pig's belly) can also be quite tender when cooked correctly but are usually fattier and require longer cooking times to reach the perfect level of tenderness. Rib cuts include:


Baby back ribs
Spareribs
Country-style ribs
Rib chops

, As its name implies, pork belly is a very fatty, boneless cut of meat that's taken from the area over a pig's stomach. Many people are familiar with pork belly from eating bacon, which are thin slices of pork belly meat. Because it's so fatty, pork belly usually requires long, slow cooking in the oven or on the grill to become edible, but the results can be deliciously juicy and tender.Beside bacon and related products like pancetta (Italian bacon), pork belly often isn't sold at standard chain grocery stores. You may need to visit a butcher or specialty grocer to get a suitable cut of pork belly for your cooking project.
 Some of the most tender cuts of pork (especially from the loin) can be expensive. If you're shopping on a budget, you shouldn't feel any need to break the bank just to get deliciously tender pork. In fact, cheaper, tougher cuts (like those from the pig's shoulder region) can usually be made mouth-wateringly tender with slow, low-heat cooking methods. Below are just few cheap cuts of meat that can be made tender if cooked correctly:


Picnic shoulder
Shoulder roasts
Butt steaks
Boston butt

, If you're willing to experiment, certain less-well known parts of the pig offer the opportunity for tender, juicy pork dishes. These cuts may be somewhat uncommon in modern Western cuisine, but often are central to older recipes or traditional cooking styles. If you feel adventurous, talk to your butcher about getting your hands on these specialty cuts. Just a few non-conventional pork cuts that can be made tender (often with low-temperature slow cooking) are:Cheeks
Hocks
Trotters/feet
Tongue
Organs (liver, heart, etc.)

