 Digitizing important archives and documents will not only let you cut down on clutter and move forward in going paperless, but it will ensure the security of those documents for the long term.


Doxie and Neat are new brands of scanner that are specifically designed to make scanning lots of documents quick and easy. They’re hand-held and sleek, making it a good investment if you don’t already own a scanner. If you do, though, standard scanners on printers are fine for the job.
Scan at a quality low enough so that the files aren't huge, but high enough so that your printout will be useful as a copy of the original document. Usually 300dpi is adequate unless you're archiving photos. Use grey scale scanning to save even more memory.
 After you've scanned your important, sensitive, or personal documents, you don't have to print them to keep them secure or to keep them copied. Instead, choose "Print to PDF," which will create a secure, high-quality file that can't be edited. Name the file and keep your important documents organized neatly.
 Name your documents something specific and keep them organized so that your computer desktop doesn't become as cluttered as your real desktop.


For every scan you add to your database, use keywords that mean something to you, like "house payment July 08" or "laptop receipt 12/23/2008 Best Buy" or "car insurance statement 20090201." This will allow you to do a search of keywords to locate a document if you need it for something.
If necessary, you might consider using a database program that uses keywords to help you organize your scans. Doxo, FileThis, and Neat all offer this type of service.
 Invest in an external hard-drive for your computer and back up your information regularly to keep a copy of the things you'd be heartbroken to lose. Make at least backups of your most important data, and keep one backup in a different location from your computer: a bank safe deposit box, a friend's house, and an online backup service are several options.
 If you're afraid of somebody potentially taking control of your computer and stealing all your digitized documents, then store them on an external USB hard drive or USB flash drive, keeping it disconnected from the computer. This is a process known as "air gap," and it can help to keep your most sensitive information secure. However talented, no hacker has ever learned how to steal data from a drive that is not connected to anything.
 If you've got your info backed up to the great hard-drive in the sky, you don't have to worry about anything being corrupted, lost, or damaged in a fire. Upload your sensitive information to the cloud and you'll always have it.

