 If your clock fails to work, there may be an issue with one of the connections between the potatoes or the clock. Make sure that each connection is tight and that there isn’t any material separating the metal from the alligator clip from the galvanized nail or the piece of copper. You also need to ensure the connections are made in the correct order: wires should connect negative to positive. The nail on one potato should connect to the copper on the next and so forth.Try replacing pennies with strips of copper to ensure a strong connection.
Make sure each alligator clip is firmly attached where it belongs.
 If everything is connected properly but the clock is still not working, it may be because your potatoes aren’t producing enough voltage to power the clock. You can use a multimeter or voltmeter to check the amount of voltage being produced by your potato batteries if you have them, or you can try adding another potato to your battery chain to increase the amount of power it produces.Connect an additional potato just as you connected the first ones: run an alligator clip unit from the copper of one potato to the galvanized nail on the next, then from the copper on that potato to the clock or the next potato.
If another potato still does not make the clock work, there is either an issue with the connection or the clock.
 Soaking the potatoes overnight in Gatorade can increase their conductivity and help ensure your potato powered clock works. Gatorade contains electrolytes that can help conduct the electrical current through each potato, but you’ll need to soak the potatoes overnight in order to ensure the electrolytes reach the center of the potato.Gatorade also contains phosphoric acid, which adds to its conductive properties.
 If you cannot make your potato powered clock function, you may want to try swapping the potatoes out for another conductive fruit. Lemons and oranges both work as great replacements for potatoes when conducting this experiment. Place the nail and copper into the fruit just as you did the potato.Rolling the fruit on the table first can help break down the interior of the fruit, allowing fluid to travel more easily, and as a result, the electrical current too.
 Using the incorrect materials can make it far more difficult or even impossible to correctly assemble your potato clock. Look over your materials and the packaging they came in so you can make sure you have exactly what you think you have.


Make sure the package you purchased the nails in says they are galvanized. While most nails are, this experiment will not work if they are not.
Ensure the clock you purchased runs on 1-2 volts and takes a traditional “button-type” battery. You can see how many volts it requires on the product information on the package.