 The easiest way to communicate with "M" is through the Facebook Messenger app. You can find this app in your device's app store, and can log in with your Facebook account.


You can also access Messenger from www.messenger.com or the Facebook website on your computer.;
, You may be able to find it in your Recent tab, or you can start a new conversation with M:


iOS - Tap the "New Message" button in the Recent tab. Search for "M" and select it from the "Bots" section.
Android - Tap the "+" button in the Recent tab and select "Search." Search for "M" and select it from the "Bots" section. You may have to scroll down to see this section in the results.
M is currently only available as part of a limited beta. In order to join, you'll need to be either invited directly by Facebook, or you'll need an invite from someone else already using it. Availability is expected to increase in the future., M is designed to interact with you like a real person would, using natural language. You can ask M questions, look something up, ask for recommendations, and more. Just send M a message like you would anyone else in Messenger. With M, you don't have to worry about phrasing your question in just the right way so that the computer understands it. Because M is powered by both AI and human helpers, you can converse with it naturally.For example, you can type "Hi M, how are some ways that you can help me out?" M will respond with some suggestions on how to get started using M for your daily needs.
 M can provide recommendations on where to go, what to eat, how to travel, and more. Tell M what you want and ask for the some recommendations and let M do the rest. M may ask for some clarifications, such as your location or price range.For example, you could ask M, "Where's a good place to get fish tacos near my work?" M may respond, "Just for clarification, where is your work?" You could then respond with your work address, and M will find restaurants in your area that serve fish tacos. M will remember your work address for later requests.
 Treat your conversation with M like you would a help line or information desk. After getting a response from M, you can ask follow-up questions. For example, if you asked for restaurant suggestions and M responded with a few to choose from, you could text, "Send me the Yelp page for Restaurant" or, "I'd like to see the happy hour menu for Restaurant."


Use M to perform research that you would normally do across multiple browser tabs or phone calls. M can track down information or perform tasks for you in the background while you take care of whatever you need to.
 M can perform a variety of tasks that you would normally do online or over the phone, freeing you up to do what you want.For example, to place a reservation, you could text, "M, place a reservation for two tonight at 6:30 at Restaurant."
You can have call customer service lines for you. For example, you can type "M, have my power company send me a copy of my last bill." M may ask for some additional information, such as your address or account number, and then will place the call for you.

