 You will pay fees for accepting credit cards to either your merchant account or your payment gateway provider. The fees include base fees and markups. Base fees are the fees the credit card companies charge for accepting their cards. These are non-negotiable and are the same no matter what merchant account or payment gateway you use. The markup fees vary and may be negotiable.Base fees include interchange fees, which are paid to the card-issuing banks, and assessments, which are transaction fees paid to Visa, MasterCard, Discover, and American Express.
Markup fees are the fees you should compare when shopping for a merchant account and credit card payment processor. They include transaction fees and flat fees. You pay transaction fees every time you complete a transaction. Flat fees include terminal lease fees, payment gateway fees, compliance fees, annual membership fees, monthly customer service fees, reporting fees, minimum fees, and early termination fees., The pricing model is the method the merchant account or payment gateway uses to pass along the cost of the base fees and the markup fees to you. They will use one of two models. The first is called “interchange plus pricing.” The second is known as “tiered” or “bundled.”The interchange plus pricing model is also known as interchange pass through pricing. This is a simple and transparent model. The base fees are clearly separated from the markup fees. They are itemized for you on your monthly statements.
The tiered or bundled model categorizes credit card transactions into three tiers known as qualified, mid-qualified, and non-qualified. The fees you pay depend on which tier your transactions fall into. Qualified transactions are charged the lowest rates, and non-qualified transactions are charged the highest rates. The problem with the tiered model is that there is no consistency that regulates how transactions are routed into the different tiers. That makes it very difficult to understand your monthly statements and to compare different merchant accounts.
 Try to find a merchant account or payment gateway account that uses the interchange plus pricing model. Since base fees are non-negotiable, look for the lowest overall markup fees. However, expect to pay higher fees for simpler services. While simpler pricing models are easier to understand, the more complicated models are generally more competitive.