 The U.S. Department of Justice (DOJ) provides the Certification of Identify Form as a way for an individual to request all records in the U.S. Department of Justice system related to him or herself. Complete the fillable form by typing in all requested information.


You can save the completed form as a PDF or print the completed form.
 If you prefer to draft a letter request instead of using the Certification of Identify Form, the DOJ will also accept a letter. You letter must include the following information:


The full name of the requestor.
Your citizenship status and social security number.
Your current address.
Your date of birth and place of birth.
You must also include the following oath: I declare under penalty of perjury under the laws of the United States of America that the foregoing is true and correct, and that I am the person named above, and I understand that any falsification of this statement is punishable under the provisions of 18 U.S.C. Section 1001 by a fine of not more than $10,000 or by imprisonment of not more than five years or both, and that requesting or obtaining any record(s) under false pretenses is punishable under the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 552a(i)(3) by a fine of not more than $5,000.
You must print your name, sign, and date the document., You can submit your form or letter via mail, fax or email.


You can mail your letter to: Federal Bureau of Investigation, Attn: FOI/PA Request, Record Information Dissemination Section, 170 Marcel Drive  Winchester, VA 22602-4843.
You can fax your letter to: (540) 868-4391/4997
You can email a scanned copy of your signed letter or signed form to: foiparequest@ic.fbi.gov.
 The FBI processing center will send you a letter that includes your requested materials and if applicable, a list of reasons (exemptions) justifying why certain materials were not released to you.


You can check the status of your request by calling (540) 868-4593, or if you have a FOIA request number, you can check the status of your request online at: https://vault.fbi.gov/fdps-1/@@search-fdps.