 Many of the serious strains of bacterial infections can be prevented with immunizations. Seasonal flu shots and pneumococcal vaccines will likely help reduce ear infections.You and every member of your family should also get a flu vaccination every year. Vaccinating yourself will help keep both you and your family safer from infection.Experts recommend that you use the PCV13 pneumococcal conjugate vaccination for children. Ask your pediatrician for advice., Wash your child's hands, toys and play surfaces frequently to reduce the likelihood of infection., Pacifiers can be vectors for bacteria, including bacteria that causes ear infections., Leakage is more likely to occur in bottle-feeding than it is in breastfeeding, making the transmission of bacteria higher.


Breastfeeding also boosts your child’s immune system, helping him or her to fight off infections easier.If bottle-feeding is necessary, place the child in an upright seat so that liquids drip down instead of possibly into their ear.Never give a baby a bottle while s/he is going down for a nap or to sleep at night., Do this both for the sake of preventing ear infections and for general health and safety.
 Prolonged usage of antibiotics can leave certain bacteria in your body or your child's body resistant to the effects of certain drugs. Only use antibiotics when prescribed by your doctor, or when other options aren't available., These facilities put your child at a 50% greater chance of developing an ear infection due to the common transmission of infections both bacterial and viral.If you cannot avoid sending your child to daycare, teach him or her a few tactics to help avoid the spread of infections such as colds, which can cause ear infections.Teach your child not to put toys or fingers in his or her mouth. S/he should avoid touching the face with his or her hands, especially mucous membrane areas such as the mouth, eyes, and nose. S/he should wash hands after eating and after using the bathroom., Eating a wide variety of fresh fruits and vegetables, whole grains, and lean proteins helps your body stay strong and healthy. Some research also suggests that "good" bacteria such as probiotics may help protect your body from infection.Acidophilus is a commonly studied strain of probiotic. You can find it in many yogurts.

