 A responsive partner is not only in tune with their own emotional experience, but their partner’s as well. You can show your concern for your partner’s well-being by acknowledging their feelings, even when you are disagreeing.For example, if you shout or speak harshly to your partner, acknowledge their feelings before continuing the discussion. You might communicate concern by saying something like, “I didn’t mean to come off as harsh” or “I can see you’re hurt maybe we should postpone this conversation.”

, “I” messages, as opposed to “You” messages, help facilitate communication and conflict resolution. This happens because you are able to take ownership for your own thoughts, feelings, and experiences without shifting blame onto your partner. “You” messages often spark defensiveness.An “I” message might sound like, “I feel confused by your reaction to what I said. I want to be there for you, but I’m not sure how.” This is better than, “You are acting strangely. I don’t understand you.”

, Responsive partners care more about the relationship succeeding than winning an argument. That’s why the focus is on arriving at terms that both partners can agree on. Sometimes, the mutually beneficial solution may be to just drop the subject. In other times, it may require compromise from both parties.To compromise, determine how important the issue is to both of you. Then, brainstorm viable solutions that allow both of you to get some or most of your needs met.
For example, if you are planning a vacation, but it doesn't matter where, you might allow your partner to choose the destination. But, you might compromise and each pick two activities that you'd like to do.
 Responsiveness often comes down to being the one willing to give in or apologize first. During a disagreement in a romantic relationship, you and your partner may temporarily forget that you’re on the same side. If you have the courage to take an emotional risk, you may be able to bring the argument to a swift close.


For example, both partners may be hurting, yet pretending not to be. Simply stating your vulnerability, “My emotions are raw right now. I really need you” can help break down barriers between you., The worst thing you can do is end an argument with a gaping chasm between you. Healthy relationships require that you two be able to return to a state of connection in order to move forward after conflict.For some partners, this may translate to “makeup sex.” For others, it might be a gentle caress, a hug, or a light-hearted joke after a disagreement. It doesn’t matter what you do, as long as you restore the emotional connection.

