 A magic ring is a basic technique used in crochet. To create a magic ring, loop the yarn around your fingers twice, and then slide this ring of yarn off of your fingers. Begin to single crochet into the center of the ring and around the edges. Crochet five stitches and then pull the loose thread to bring the stitches together and close the circle. Slipstitch to connect the last stitch to the first stitch.Another option for creating a ring is to make a chain of four stitches and then connect the ends into a ring. Then, single crochet around the ring by inserting the hook in through the center of the ring. However, this method will result in a gap in the center of your pansy.;
, To continue your pansy, you will need to crochet six stitches around the magic circle. Insert your needle in through the center of the circle and crochet around the edge, not through the stitches.To single crochet, insert the hook through the stitch, then yarn over, pull the yarn through the stitch, yarn over again, and then pull the yarn through both stitches., For your next round, you will be alternating between two single crochet and one single crochet stitch all the way around. Start by crocheting twice into the first stitch, and then single crochet once into the next stitch. Repeat this pattern for the whole round.At the end of the round, you should have nine stitches in total.
 Pansies have two large petals and two smaller petals. To start your large petals, chain two stitches and then double crochet three times into the same stitch.To double crochet, yarn over, insert the hook through the stitch, yarn over again, and pull the yarn through the first loop. Then, yarn over, pull the yarn through the first two loops, yarn over again, and then pull through the last two loops., For the next two stitches, you will also be double crocheting three times into each one. This will begin to increase the width and build the petals., To finish your first of the two large petals, chain two stitches and then slipstitch into the circle again.This will complete your first petal. Repeat the sequence again to make the second larger petal.
 After you complete your second of the two large petals, slipstitch over to the next single crochet stitch. Then, chain two stitches., Next, double crochet into the first stitch twice to begin building up the petal. This one will be smaller than your first two, so you will only need to double crochet twice into the stitch., For the next stitch, double crochet three times into the same stitch. This will be the central part of the smaller peal., Finish the smaller petal with two double crochet stitches into the same stitch. Then, slipstitch to finish the petal.Repeat the sequence again to make the second smaller petal.
Cut the yarn and tie off the end to finish the flower.
 To enhance your pansies, you can double crochet around the edges with a contrasting color to make a pretty border. For example, if you made your petals yellow, then you could add a purple border to your pansy petals.


Adding a border will also make your pansies appear larger.
 If you want your pansy to have a central accent, then try sewing a button into the center of your pansy flower after it is finished. Choose a small decorative button that will look like the center of a flower.


Another option is to stitch a contrasting color into the center of the flower., Some pansies have streaks extending from their centers, and you can simulate this with yarn. Try stitching a few streaks of yarn outwards from the center of your flowers.Use a darning needle and yarn or thick thread to make these streaks. Choose a yarn or thread in a dark color, such as black, dark blue, or dark green.
 If you want to enhance the flowery appearance of your crocheted pansies even more, then you can also try adding some leaves to them. To crochet a simple leaf, make a chain of three stitches, and then single crochet across the chain. For the next row, increase by double crocheting twice into the first and last stitches of the row. Repeat this until the leaf is the desired width, and then decrease by double crocheting two stitches together on each end of the row until the leaf ends in a point.

