 As mentioned above, dehydration is the main cause of hangover symptoms. To head off dehydration in advance, pour yourself a large glass of water as soon as you get home, and drink it all before going to bed. Also remember to bring a glass or bottle of water with you to leave on your night stand and sip whenever you wake up throughout the night. You may need to get up to relieve yourself at 4 a.m. but you'll feel better for it in the morning.


The next morning, regardless of how you feel, drink another big glass of water. Drink it at room temperature if water from the fridge is too hard on your stomach.
You can also rehydrate and replace lost electrolytes by drinking energy drinks or coconut water. Flat ginger ale will help soothe an upset tummy, while orange juice will give you energy.
Avoid caffeine the morning after drinking,as this will only dehydrate you further. If you absolutely need a hit, limit yourself to just one cup of coffee or have something less intense, like an iced tea.
 A moderately healthy, but hearty breakfast after a night's drinking can work wonders. The food will settle your stomach, while also giving you energy. Try some toast topped with a little butter and jam, or better yet, some scrambled eggs. The toast will soak up any excess alcohol left in your stomach, while the eggs contain proteins and B vitamins perfect for replenishing your body's natural resources.


You should also eat fresh fruit to get the benefits of their high vitamin and water content. If you're on the go, try a fruit smoothie - healthy and satisfying!

, When you go to bed drunk, your quality of sleep that night typically isn't very good, leaving you feeling tired and groggy the next morning. After getting up, drinking some water and having some food, allow yourself to go back to bed for a nap, if possible.


It will take your body several hours to metabolize the alcohol, so you might as well sleep through a couple of them and hopefully you'll feel much better when you wake up!

, The pain of a hangover can feel much worse if you just sit around stewing in it. It might be tough, but force yourself to get up, get dressed and go outside for some fresh air. A stroll around the park or a walk along the beach might be just what you need. If that sounds like too much work, try watching a movie, doing some reading or call a friend so you can piece together exactly what happened last night...


Some people even advocate exercise as a great hangover cure, so if you're up for it, try breaking into a run and sweating out the toxins. Not for the faint of heart!

, If your head is hurting, try taking a couple of painkillers such as aspirin or ibuprofen to ease the pain. Always take these pills in the morning, rather than the night before when you still have alcohol in your system. Alcohol is already a blood-thinner, and the painkillers will only thin your blood even further, which can be dangerous.



Never take acetaminophen-based pills when you have alcohol in your system, as mixing these two substances can be very dangerous.Drinking the next day can have the effect of making you feel better, but remember that your body will have to metabolize all of the alcohol in your system at some point, so drinking more is simply prolonging the pain of recovery.

