 If your doctor prescribed medication for your depression, take it at the dose and frequency recommended. Do not stop taking your medication without talking to your doctor.


If you are trying to become pregnant or are pregnant, it is important to talk to your doctor about your medicines. Some antidepressants can pose a significant health risk to your unborn child. You need to work with your doctor to design a course of treatment that is best for both you and your baby., Psychotherapy, also known as talk therapy, counseling or psychosocial therapy is a key treatment in the fight against depression.Psychotherapy can help you regain a sense of satisfaction and control in your life, while easing the symptoms of depression. It may also arm you to better deal with future stressors.


During counseling sessions, you will explore your behavior and thoughts, relationships and experiences. This time will help you better understand your depression and your choices. You will also learn better ways to cope and solve life's problems, and set realistic goals. All of which can lead to a more empowered, happier self.
Go to your therapy sessions even if you do not feel like it. Regular attendance is very important to their effectiveness., Admitting to yourself that you are depressed is hard. Telling someone else can be even harder, but it is important. Seek out trusted friends, relatives or faith leaders. You need an ally, or even better allies, in this fight. Tell them in no uncertain terms that you are dealing with depression, and ask for their support. Your support group can help rally you in your day-to-day battle with depression.


You are not the only one that benefits when you talk about your depression. Too often depression is suffered alone. You can help end that by talking about yours.
You can also attend structured support groups hosted at community mental health or religious centers. Reaching out to others who are experiencing the same struggle can give you hope and strength to continue in your fight against depression., In your therapist's office, this may be referred to as cognitive behavioral therapy, and is one of the most commonly used therapies against depression . It is the conscious effort to identify your negative beliefs and behaviors; and choose to replace them with healthy, positive ones. After all, you cannot control all unwanted situations, but you can always control how you approach and think about those situations. Positive thinking begins with being able to identify your negative thoughts. On days when you are feelings particularly low, listen to what you are telling yourself. Take a particularly negative thought and try to challenge it. Is there any evidence that can refute this thought? Can you put a more realistic spin on it?
To become your best at practicing positive thinking, seek out the help of a counselor or therapists, who can help you identify negative situations in your life and empower you to envision them in a positive light.
 Physical activity reduces the symptoms of depression, so get moving.Find something you enjoy enough to do regularly (a few times a week), such as:


Walking
Jogging
Team sports (tennis, volleyball, soccer, football, etc.)
Gardening
Swimming
Weight training

, Practice meditation, yoga, or tai chi. Create balance in your life. Cut back on obligations if you have to. Make time for self care. After a three-month study, women who practiced yoga reported a reduction in perceived stress, anxiety, and depression and improved energy and well-being., Adequate sleep is very important to your overall physical and mental health. Lack of sleep can cause you to be irritable and restless, and even exacerbate the symptoms of depression. On the contrary, regular, good quality sleep (i.e. uninterrupted and lasting between 7 and 9 hours), can improve well-being and functioning.If you are having trouble sleeping, talk to your doctor.
 When you are depressed, you may have a tendency to stay inside alone. Getting out and about may be the last thing on your mind, but it is important not to become isolated from others, and it's also significant to get a change in scenery. Make an effort to go out and do things, and stay in touch with friends and family.


Research reveals that participating in a group nature walk can result in lower depression and stress and improved mental health and well-being., Being aware of your thoughts and how your thoughts influence your mood is important to effectively fighting your depression. Consider keeping a journal to document and work through your thoughts.Use your journaling time as a time to challenge negative thinking.
Share your journal with your therapist.
 Abusing alcohol, nicotine or illicit drugs is a risk factor for depression . Depressed persons often turn to drugs or alcohol as a form of self-medication. While the use of these substances may temporarily mask depression symptoms, in the long run they can actually make depression worse.If you need help quitting, contact a local drug rehab facility.
 Eat healthy and take your vitamins. The foundation to a well mind is a well body. Some researchers have concluded that individuals who eat a poor quality diet - high in processed, refined, or sugary foods - are more likely to report feeling depressed.Enjoy a diet rich in fruits, vegetables, fish, lean meats, and whole grains for greater overall health and an improved mood.
 Complementary and alternative medicine practitioners believe that there must be harmony between the mind and body for enhanced well-being.Techniques designed to strengthen the mind/body connection include:Acupuncture
Yoga
Meditation
Guided imagery
Massage therapy

