 As soon as you believe you are having problems with your debts, you need to begin to take action.An important first step is to check your credit reports. Your credit reports will tell you what debts are outstanding, late, charged off or sent to collection agencies. You need to understand the full picture before you begin negotiating or settling any debts.


You are entitled to a free copy of your credit reports once a year. If you need a copy more frequently than that, you request one for a small fee.To get copies of your credit reports, contact the three reporting companies as follows:

Experian 1-888-397-3742, www.experian.com
TransUnion 1-800-916-8800, www.transunion.com
Equifax 1-800-685-1111, www. Equifax.com

;
, Ignoring debt collection notices can lead to problems. You need to gather all correspondence you have received, including monthly payment statements and late notices. You cannot ignore anything and just wait for it to disappear. Collection demand letters should inform you if a creditor is planning any legal action in the near future, or if any deadlines are approaching. If so, you may want to act more quickly on those particular debts.Create a system for yourself. Group the correspondence by type of debt or collateral, and then by date. It is usually best to review the most recent notices first, and then work backward.
 You need to prepare an overall financial statement that lists your debts, assets, cash-on-hand and income from earnings or investments. An organized statement like this will help you prioritize your next steps. When you organize your debts and assets in this way, you should be able to see which debts need your immediate attention and which can wait. You will also generate a realistic view of your ability to pay.Make a list with three columns. In the first column, list your income and any assets that you might be able to liquidate to raise cash. You probably don’t want to sell your only car, for instance, but you might sell off a second car, a boat, or anything like that. In the second column, list the debts you owe, including monthly living expenses, food, utilities and so on. In the third column, list any past due debts, credit card balances or loans that you owe.
A financial statement like this is not only useful but will probably be necessary when you begin negotiating with creditors. Many creditors will want proof of your financial need before they forgive part of your debt., It is important that you decide what you can afford before you begin settlement talks with any creditors.Review the financial statement that you prepared. Compare your monthly income with your monthly living expenses. Any excess income each month can be used to pay down your accumulated debts. Additionally, decide how much money you have available in bank accounts or other assets.


Make some preliminary notes that show what you can afford to pay to each outstanding creditor. This will help as you begin negotiating settlements.
 A simple, true, and understandable explanation will help you. If there were circumstances beyond your control, explain what they were. On the other hand, if you simply overspent and are trying to get out of financial trouble, you can say that. Be consistent, sincere and truthful.When contacting a creditor, you might open by saying, “I am calling to see if we can settle the amount I owe on my credit card. I realized recently that I have built up more debts than I can afford, and I am trying to avoid bankruptcy if I can.”

, The statute of limitations is the state law that sets a time limit on a creditor’s collection efforts. If a debt is too old, the creditor will not be able to take legal action to collect it. If you are nearing a time limit for collection, that creditor may be more willing to accept a low settlement.The statute of limitations on collection actions generally ranges from three to six years. A handy list of time limits is available at http://www.bankrate.com/finance/credit-cards/state-statutes-of-limitations-for-old-debts-1.aspx. You may wish to consult with an attorney, because identifying when a statute of limitations begins and when it expires can be complicated.
 In some cases, filing for bankruptcy may be the best choice to deal with your debts and give you a fresh start. You can file for chapter 7 or chapter 13 bankruptcy. Keep in mind that filing for bankruptcy does not discharge all types of debt (these are called priority debt and include things like alimony and recent income tax) and it will destroy your credit, so you should look at all your options before considering bankruptcy.Not just everyone qualifies for bankruptcy. There are certain eligibility requirements. To file for chapter 7 you must pass the "means test" to see if your income is low enough to make you eligible, and to file for chapter 13 your debts must not exceed certain limits.
You will also need to consider things like how much property you own (if any), if you are facing a lawsuit from your creditors, and what you hope to achieve by filing.
 If you have received a monthly statement or a demand letter, that correspondence probably contains a telephone number for you to contact about the outstanding debt. For a credit card, you can call the customer service number that is generally printed on your card. For a mortgage or car loan, you will want to call the lending office. Whichever number or office you call, make it clear right away that you are calling in an effort to negotiate a settlement of the debt. You may need to be transferred to a special collections or negotiations office., Even if you are trying to avoid bankruptcy, you should mention it in the conversation. Creditors realize that if you file bankruptcy, they will likely receive nothing, or very little, from the amount that you owe. A settlement now is in their best interest, instead of a bankruptcy filing later., Keep the conversation on a factual, professional level. Even though your financial troubles may be very personal for you, settling a debt is a business deal. You need to have your financial notes in front of you and have a plan for the conversation. If the creditor becomes threatening or demanding, try to steer the conversation back to the facts. Focus on your ability to pay, and your effort to avoid bankruptcy. If the creditor becomes demanding, or if you find yourself becoming emotional or defensive, you may just need to end the conversation and call back another time.If you find yourself losing control of the conversation, or losing control of your emotions, just say, "I'm sorry, but I need to go now. I will call you back to continue this conversation soon."

, Ask some questions to confirm that your information is correct. You need to know how much you owe on the particular account before you can make a settlement offer. If the creditor reports to you that the balance is much different than you thought it was, you need to ask questions to find out why this is so. Ask for dates of recent charges, penalties or interest. Find out if there are any parts of it that are incorrect, which may help you reduce the balance without a settlement., If you have already worked out what you can afford to pay, you should now be ready to make an offer. Start low, because the creditor will likely try to get you to pay more. Leave yourself some room to negotiate. For example, if you have a balance due of $4,000 and you think you can ultimately afford to pay about half, make an opening offer of $1,000. For some debts, collecting 25% may be satisfactory. If not, you have room to negotiate up to your figure of $2,000.
 Most of your negotiations will probably be by telephone. You should keep notes of the time and date of your call, the person you speak with, and the stages of your negotiations. You will need these notes in case you have to call back again, or to write a final settlement agreement.For example, a good page of notes for a settlement conversation may look something like this: “7/28/16, called 1-800-555-1234, spoke with John Smith in collections. I offered $1,000. He asked for $3,500. I offered $1,500. He agreed, payment in full by August 15.”

, Before you end the conversation, make sure that you have an agreement, and make sure that you know what it is. Check your notes and read them back, if necessary, to be sure you have the deal correctly. You need to know when any amount must be paid. If your settlement is to set up a new payment plan, make sure you know which day of the month the payments are due, how much each payment is to be, and how many payments you are making.You should wrap up your discussions by saying, “I’d like to verify my understanding of our agreement. I will pay BankCard $1,000 by the first of next month, and then $1,000 a month for the next three months, and that will settle the full debt. Is that right?”

, After you reach an agreement with a creditor, you must get confirmation in writing. The creditor may send you a new notice that includes the agreement. It is better if you write the agreement yourself. This does not need to be any special form. You can write a simple letter that refers to your conversation and contains the terms of your agreement.For example, a simple settlement agreement letter would look like this: “Dear ____, I am writing to confirm our telephone conversation from July 28, 2016. I offered to pay, and you offered to accept, a single payment of $1,000, in full satisfaction of my debt on credit card number 5555-1234-5678. As we agreed, I will pay this amount by August 15, 2016. If I have misstated any part of our agreement, please contact me right away. Please sign and return a copy of this letter to me right away.”
It is important to include the phrase “in full satisfaction of my debt.” This is the phrase that will prevent the creditor from continuing any collection efforts for the remainder of your debt.
 A few weeks after you have settled any particular debt, you need to check your credit report to ensure that the debt has properly been reported as settled. Some creditors may neglect to report the settlement. This leaves the appearance that you still owe the debt.


If you find that a settlement has not been reported, you should contact the creditor directly and ask them to report the settlement right away. You can also contact the credit reporting company and dispute the particular item on your report. The reporting company will investigate and try to resolve the matter as well.To dispute an item on your credit report, you need to send the reporting company a letter, along with copies of your settlement agreement and proof of payments.
 If, by settling a debt, you succeed in getting any one debt reduced by $600 or more, you will have to pay income tax on the forgiven amount. The IRS treats forgiven or settled debt the same as income. Reporting forgiven debt is a simple process.You can learn more about reporting settlements on your taxes at Report Canceled Debt Taxable Income.


As an example, suppose you owed $4,000 on a credit card, and you managed to negotiate a settlement so that you only have to pay $1,000. The forgiven balance of $3,000 is considered to be income, and you will have to pay taxes on it. If you are in a 25% tax bracket, for example, this settlement will cost you $3,000 x .25 = $750 in taxes. This is still a big discount over the original $4,000 debt, but you will need to consider the tax obligation when you are settling., You can try to settle your debts on your own, but many people find that working with an attorney is beneficial.If you have started to receive collection demands, either by telephone or letter, you should meet with an attorney. An attorney can help you respond appropriately to collection demands. The attorney can also explain the possibilities that are open to you, including settlement, consolidation or even bankruptcy, if necessary.In addition, if the negotiations do not succeed and a creditor decides to sue you, an attorney can also help you handle the lawsuit and can defend you in court.
Try contacting the bar association in your area to ask for a referral to a legal aid society or other source for free or reduced fee legal service.
 A financial adviser or credit counselor can meet with you, often for free or at a low cost, to help you review your debts. Meeting with a credit counselor is a requirement for any one who is considering filing bankruptcy. In many cases the counseling services can help people avoid bankruptcy. Credit counseling can help you set a budget, organize your debts, and make a plan to pay off your debts. If you decide that you still need to settle some debts, a credit counselor can help you decide how much you can afford to pay., If you run a simple search online for “debt settlement,” you will quickly find a long list of companies offering to help you get out of debt. Be cautious about any companies that make bold promises. You will usually get better advice from an attorney or accountant than from a so-called debt settlement company. Watch out for these warning signs:Debt settlement companies often charge high fees
Be skeptical of a company that encourages you to stop paying your debts. Many companies will tell you to stop paying, as a first step toward settling your debts. Stopping payment will only add penalties, late fees and interest to the amounts that you owe.
Many creditors will not negotiate with commercial settlement companies. As a result, the company you choose may not be able to help you at all with some of your debts.
The tactics of some debt settlement companies can actually hurt your credit score.

