 This is a great way to find other people who have common interests. You don't necessarily need to have a lot of common interests with people in order to make friends with them. In fact, some of the most rewarding friendships are between two people who don't have much in common at all. However, if you like a specific topic, try searching for a location where you can meet people who share that interest.A church, Mosque, temple or other house of worship is a great place to start since you at least have a religious faith in common. However, if you do enter a religious building, remember to be respectful in the house of their God.
In addition to church activities, you can join the science club at school, the marching band, a knitting group, or any other shared-interest activity.
If you play instruments or sing, try joining a band or choir.;
, A common misconception about this is that you have to be really good at playing a particular sport in order to make friends with others on the team. But not all teams are so competitive. As long as you enjoy the sport and support your teammates, joining a local team with a laid-back attitude could be a great way to make new friends.Spending time together at practices and games is a great way to bond with others and make new friends.
 Volunteering is also a good way for people of all ages to meet others. By working together, you build bonds with people. You may also meet others who have a passion for changing things the way you do (a common cause).Donate your time at a local nursing home, a hospital, or a non-profit organization.
 If you want to make friends, you first need to put yourself out there somehow in order to meet people. If you just sit alone, friends might come to you – but that's not likely. If you're still in school, sit somewhere with other people. It doesn't have to be a crowded table, but one with at least two other people.


Remember, friends seldom come knocking on your door while you sit at home playing on your laptop.

