 Use a whole, uncooked chicken with the gizzards and other innards removed. This method can be used on a chicken of any size, but you'll have the best results with a three to four pound chicken.


If you're using a chicken that was previously frozen, let it thaw overnight in the refrigerator so that it's completely de-iced before using this method.
As an aside, did you know that raw chicken doesn't need to be rinsed before cooking?Rinsing unnecessarily sprays your sink and counter with bacteria that will get killed when you cook the chicken.
This method can also be used for any other type of poultry, such as Cornish game hens or doves.;
, Start cutting right next to the tail, with one point of the shears inside the chicken's cavity. Use the shears to slice through the tiny bones alongside the backbone. Keep cutting until you've cut clean to the neck.


Make sure the shears you're using are quite sharp, or it will be difficult to cut through the meat and bone.
Be sure not to cut through the spine, but right alongside it.
 Locate the backbone by feeling it with your fingers; it's right down the center of the bird. Start on the other side of the tail, with one point of the shears inside the chicken's cavity, and cut clean through to the neck. Now you can lift the backbone out of the chicken and set it aside.The backbone makes a great base for chicken stock, so you may want to save it instead of discarding.
 Turn it over so the breasts are now facing up. Standing over the chicken, push down on the breasts with your hands to flatten the chicken. You should hear the breastbone crack as it gives under your weight. The chicken has now been spatchcocked!


As an alternative, you can use a sharp knife to crack open the breastbone.
If you want to ensure that the chicken stays in a flat shape while cooking, insert a skewer crosswise through the right breast and the left thigh. Insert a second skewer crosswise through the left breast and right thigh.
 Spatchcocked chicken is commonly roasted in the oven, where it's almost guaranteed to turn out delicious. You can also grill or fry the chicken according to the recipe you're using.