 GTA V literally takes you straight to a heated situation when the game begins. The game will then put you through a series of mini instructions how to control your character. This includes the usual movements such as walking, running, aiming, shooting, and other basic stuff you’d probably know already if you have played previous GTA titles.;
, One of the most unique additions to GTA V is the Character Switch feature. This feature enables you to switch from one active character to another in real time. Since GTA V has 3 protagonists (Franklin, Trevor, and Michael), this feature makes a lot of sense. It surely adds a new flavor on how you handle missions especially those that includes coordination with all 3 characters.
 The 3 protagonists in GTA V have all unique personalities. Not only that, they also have different abilities that you can use in different cases.


Michael is good with guns. His special ability is activating a “bullet time” effect that slows down everything around you but your shooting speed stays the same.
Franklin has the steadiest hands when it comes to driving. His special ability is somewhat similar to Michael but only while he is driving. This makes him the best driver in the game.
Trevor is the pilot in the group. He can maneuver aircraft with super ease. His special ability is going into “rage” mode. While in rage mode, he inflicts more melee damage and takes less damage from enemies.
 You can visit shops to buy your characters clothes, pants, or shoes. You can even buy them accessories so they can have the look you want them to have. You can also go to barber shops to change their hairdo a bit.


Just like your characters, you can also customize all your owned vehicles such as cars and motorcycles.
 Los Santos is a huge place. It is even bigger than GTA IV and Red Dead Redemption map combined! That being said, familiarizing yourself with the map is very crucial to your in-game survival.


Take note of map icons. There are several map icons that will be available on the map. There are icons for mission, special events, shops, and even where your other characters are at while you’re playing. Take note of these icons so you’d know where to go when you need to reach a certain location.
You can also pin a location anywhere in the map and the game will produce the shortest path from your location to your pinned destination. Really comes in handy.
 GTA V has now increased the penalty for road kills or destroying anything while you are in your vehicle. That means that with just a slight mistake of running over a pedestrian – the police will immediately be on you! You will instantly earn a one star wanted level so be careful.


You should also take precautions even outside a vehicle. If a pedestrian sees you doing something inappropriate – police will be contacted immediately. Same as if you do something stupid in front of a police officer.
 Your first mission will be with Franklin. A bit of tutorial will take place while you venture on this first mission. After successfully finishing the mission, you are now free to roam Los Santos and take missions at your own pace.
 The mobile phone feature is back. This feature is important in progressing through the game for it connects you to all your contacts that sometimes give you jobs. The mobile phone also allows you to access the internet which even broadens the scope of what you can do in GTA V.
 As you take on more missions, you will then earn lots of cash. You should learn to spend it wisely if you want to finish missions with higher success rate.


Most of the jobs you will be having are usually dangerous and involves shooting. That being said, you will need to upgrade your weapon once in a while. You can buy weapons and other combat related stuff from Ammu-Nation.
You should also need to upgrade your vehicles, or at least the one you always use as a getaway vehicle. I can’t stress enough how many police chases you will encounter in GTA V so it is in your best interest that you get yourself a dependable vehicle.
 Since you have 3 characters, missions are well distributed among these 3 characters. There’ll be times that you will run out of event missions. If that happens, that is the time to switch on to another character. By doing this, you will never run out of things to do.


The 3 characters follow a color scheme. Michael is Blue, Trevor is Orange, and Franklin is Green. This means that on the map, missions with orange icons belongs to Trevor and if you approach that icon while you’re using Franklin or Michael, that mission will not trigger.
 To get the most of GTA V, it is advisable for you to take all the missions available before you take on the main story missions. These side missions will not only improve your characters’ stats, they are also rich in story and full of deep personalities. If you are planning to finish the game in 100%, this is the way to go.
 After you have taken all the small jobs and finished the side missions – you are now ready to complete the game once and for all. You can do this by taking main story missions only if you are sure that no other missions are present on all 3 characters.
 On the last few story missions, you will notice that the tasks are getting harder and harder. This is the time that you unleash all the experience you have learned throughout the game.
 GTA V enables players to save anytime as long as you are not currently engaged in a mission. Since the final missions are really hard – make it a habit to save. You can choose to save to a separate slot so you can have different save states stored into your hard drive.


GTA V also has an auto-save feature so don’t worry if you forgot to save and failed a mission.
 All good things must come to an end. Same thing applies with GTA V as you finish your last mission. It will not be a walk in the park and it will even test your decision-making. Well, without spiking anything, let’s just say that after you complete the final mission – you will surely agree that GTA V is one of the best games out there.


After officially finishing the game, you can still roam around and look for easter eggs that are scattered in GTA V. The most popular ones are locating UFO’s and hunting down Bigfoot, or you can even explore the FIB Building! Go ahead, grab some heat, and have fun!

