 The term "public administration" applies to a wide variety of work. What ties this field together is an emphasis on public service.Public administration jobs range from studying traffic patterns to managing budgets, from helping organize programs for the homeless to working in an embassy overseas..;
, Spend some time online looking up public administration jobs. Many of these jobs are with federal, state, or local government


Common government jobs in public administration include city and county planners/managers, human resources specialists, tax inspectors, accountants and budget analysts, and even prison wardens.You can search government job websites like USAjobs.gov to see listings of jobs currently open in this field. USAjobs is the official job site of the US government., Keep in mind that not every in job public administration involves working for the government. Non-profit organizations can be involved in the work of implementing government policies, often by administering aid of some kind.Non-profits are often looking to hire grant administrators, fundraisers, event planners, and marketing and advertising workers, among many other positions.
 It may sound odd, but some public administrators work in the private sector, often as consultants that work closely with government agencies or non-profits.These consultants typically advise other organizations about how to meet deadlines, budgetary restrictions, and the like.
Some public administration consultants work freelance, while others work for consulting firms.
 You may be thinking: "Serving the public sounds great, but can I make a living on this?" Take some time to research what these jobs pay and how stable they are.


Over 8 million people work in public administration. The number of jobs available in this field is expected to remain more or less stable for the foreseeable future.This means you should neither expect mass layoffs nor a hiring boom anytime soon.
The median salary for a government-employed pubic administrator is about $56,000 per year.Salaries tend to be a bit higher for private sector employees, and a bit lower for those working in the non-profit sector.