 Don’t show up at someone’s doorstep with a suitcase, but call ahead of time. Ask if you can stay with them for a little bit. Give them a deadline when you anticipate moving out.

For example, you can say, “Mom, I need to come home. Is that okay? I’ve only got a few hundred saved. But if I can stay with you for two or three months, I’ll be back on my feet.”

, You can’t sleep on someone’s couch forever, so cut all unnecessary expenses and take on a part-time job if possible. Build up enough money to afford a security deposit on a small apartment.

A part-time job might be ideal since it will keep you out of the house. Check Craigslist for part-time gigs such as dog walker, Uber driver, or bartender., People are doing you a huge favor by letting you crash with them for a little while. Make things easy on your host by keeping your space clean, not making noise, and being respectful when your host has guests.Wash dishes or prepare meals without asking. This will relieve your host’s stress.
Avoid draining your friend’s electricity by charging up your computer and phone on their dime. Instead, find a public café or recharge while at work.
Keep complaints to yourself. Do you think the sheets are scratchy? Consider yourself lucky to have a place to stay., Your friends might have rules that seem weird to you. That’s not the point. You need to follow them if you don’t want to get kicked out. Ask about anything that seems unclear.Some rules are unspoken. Pay attention to your host’s habits. For example, if they only watch TV with the volume down low, do the same.
 You should prepare your own meals so that your host doesn’t feel like they have to wait on you.Ask your friend where the nearest grocery store is and load up on food. Make sure there’s enough room in the refrigerator., You can build goodwill by volunteering to buy food or paying other bills. For example, pick up a large pizza on your way home from work and invite your host to share., Someone might need you to leave before you want to. Gather your things and thank them. Then call up other family or friends to find a place to stay.

Remember to clean up after yourself. Remove any trash and wash the sheets or vacuum the sofa you slept on. Don’t leave anything behind.