 A skinny dollar bill bow tie gives you a more old fashioned looking bow tie that is long and thin and has a small, square center. To begin making this design, take a dollar bill and place it on a flat surface with the front of the bill facing up. Fold it horizontally in half “hotdog” style, then unfold. Then fold it top to bottom “hamburger style” and unfold.
 Take all four corners of the bill and fold them over in small triangles whose inside edges almost touch the central fold.
 Take the top long edge of the dollar bill and fold it over towards the central crease of the dollar bill so that the edge almost touches the crease. Repeat on bottom edge, folding it up so that the edge nearly touches the central crease.
 You should now have a long, skinny folded over bill with a crease running horizontally through it and triangular points at each end. Fold the bill in half so that the points touch, then unfold the fold you just made to make a vertical crease.
 The dollar bill should now be folded in a long, skinny shape that lays horizontally. Create a backward lowercase “r” by folding the right side of the bill down, making a diagonal crease at the center point of the bill. Unfold this fold and repeat on the left hand side, this time making a lowercase “r” shape by folding the left side of the bill down at the central point to make a lowercase “r” shape, then unfolding.
 After making the two x-shaped folds, turn the bill over to the unfolded side. You will see the “x” shaped creases in the center. Use your fingers to “squish” the top and the bottom triangles of the x in on themselves, which folds the bill in half into a diamond shape.
 Hold the diamond shape by the end that is not connected to the crease and fold it over the other side so that it is hanging further than the crease. Turn the bill over and repeat on the other side.
 You should now have a folded bill that looks like a “z” shape when viewed from the side, with one end sticking to the left, the central folded area in the middle as the base, and the other end sticking over to the left. Take the one end of the bill and fold it 90 degrees under so that the ends are now parallel to each other, with their folded sides facing outward.








Each end of the dollar bill should roughly be in a pentagon shape.
 Take the bottom edges of the pentagon shape and fold the corners in towards the center fold in triangle shapes. Turn the folded bill over and repeat on the other side.
 Take both pointed ends in each hand, with one finger against the back of the pointed fold in the center. Gently pull each end out while using your finger to gently push the central crease in towards you.
 Your bow tie is almost complete, with the central square of the bow tie still looking a little folded. Hold the bow tie on both sides right next to this central square and pull. The square will expand, then flatten to create a perfect, skinny bowtie!