 Soften 1/2 cup (113 g) of unsalted butter and place it in a mixing bowl. Add 1/2 cup (100 g) of granulated sugar. Beat the mixture together using a hand or stand mixer. Cream the mixture until it's light and fluffy.You'll need to beat the mixture for several minutes and scrape down the sides of the bowl occasionally.
 Slowly mix in 1 teaspoon of vanilla extract, 1 tablespoon of milk, 1 1/3 cups (166 g) of all-purpose flour, and 1/4 teaspoon of salt. Keep mixing until the dough comes together and the flour is incorporated.Don't worry about over mixing the dough, since you won't be baking it.
 Chop 16 ounces (453 g) of white chocolate or get out white chocolate candy melts. Place the chocolate in a microwave-safe bowl and heat it for 30 seconds in the microwave. Stir the chocolate and continue heating the chocolate for 30 second increments until the chocolate melts.You could also set up and melt the chocolate over a double boiler on the stove, if you prefer.
 Get out a cookie sheet or rimmed baking sheet. Lay waxed or parchment paper on the sheet and scoop half of the melted chocolate onto the sheet. Spread the chocolate to make an 8 x 10-inch (20 to 25 cm) rectangle.Ensure that whatever pan you choose will fit in your refrigerator.
 Take the sheet out of the refrigerator. Scoop out large portions of cookie dough and flatten them using your palms. Set the flattened dough on the melted chocolate in the pan. Keep doing this until you've used all of the dough and the chocolate is covered with cookie dough.You can also try rolling out the cookie dough in between two sheets of waxed paper. Use a rolling pin to roll the dough out to the size of the rectangle of chocolate.
 Pour the rest of the melted white chocolate over the cookie dough and use a spatula to spread it evenly. Sprinkle the top of the sugar cookie bark with your favorite sprinkles., Put the sheet in the pan and refrigerate the bark until it's hard. This could take a few hours. Once it's set up, you can use a sharp knife to cut the bark into pieces.Store leftover bark in the refrigerator. Before you're ready to serve the bark, remove it from the fridge and let it sit out until it's at room temperature.

