 Choose a preppy first name (this should be more feminine/masculine than any of the other names), preppy middle name(perhaps the name of a college many people in your family have attended), second preppy middle name (hopefully a family name), a third if you wish, and of course their surname.Go directly to http://www.allnewbabynames.com/ivyleaguenames.html is a good list of preppy names. Be careful not to pick a trendy name, if it is too trendy, it may become overused , out of style and no longer preppy.;
, A true prep attends prep school. End of story. Make sure you look into several schools, and take your child's opinion into account, too. You may want to consider sending them to boarding school for high school, or even junior high. In some states, such as Minnesota, you can consider sending your child into college early with the Post Secondary Enrollment Option, which gives them a head start for more advanced college at a younger age or you may consider taking college classes in high school. It's a wonderful experience, and will prepare them for college nicely. Outside of school, teach them useful languages such as French, Latin, and Spanish from an early age(about seven years old, the younger the better). Always make sure they do their homework, but don't hover over them. It will be a catalyst for a child and his or her rebellion.
 Understated clothing make the biggest mark. Polo shirts, oxfords, khaki anything, and lots of grosgrain ribbons. Don't lay out their outfits for them past age, but suggest these things, and take them shopping in stores such as Ralph Lauren, Lacoste, Tommy Hilfiger, Brooks Brothers, Vera Bradley, J.Crew, Martha LeWren, etc.
 If your child wants to develop his or her own style, allow them to pick a few items from the store of their choice., Teach them to wash their faces and brush their teeth at least twice a day, shower every morning, and keep their hair nice. It really is important, and developing these skills early on will save both you and your children a lot of trouble later on. Do not make fun of brand names lesser than the items you purchase usually, you want to be an example for your child.
 Make sure they are always polite, always say 'please' and 'thank you', always have good table manners, etc. In addition to the proper manners... Teach your children how to be friendly, outgoing, and bubbly. Make sure they socialize with other children, and make lots of friends. However, even if someone is not in their inner circle, teach them to respect them anyway.
 Choose places such as Nantucket, Martha's Vineyard, Cape Cod,The Hamptons, and Sun Valley. Take lots of pictures, and try out lots of activities while you are there. Preppy childhood memories are essential.
 Try to sign your children up for at least one of the following sports per season; Field Hockey, Lacrosse, Golf, Tennis, Soccer, Swim, Crew, etc. The Ivy Leagues love well-rounders, and they need to stay healthy and fit.
 In addition to sports, sign your children up for some other extra curricular activity, anything they are interested in. Instruments , Debate Teams, Recycling clubs, The Arts , anything that will make them a well rounded child in the future. Let your child develop skills on their own time, leave a piano or a violin in the house with music notes, have art supplies stacked into the house but do not push them toward it. Your child will more than likely gravitate to this pieces from curiosity. The more well-rounded, the better, and they can make lots of friends by doing things after school.
 Having preppy children, does not mean having spoiled children who depend on their parents for everything , money , clothing etc. Have your child get a job to enforce the meaning of responsibility and good work aesthetics. Clothing stores , cafes , tutoring for both males and females are great places for a teenager to get a job.

