 After your dog has recovered from respiratory signs, sickness, and diarrhea, your dog might develop neurological problems like seizures, twitching, and paralysis. A common symptom of an oncoming seizure in your dog is an aura. If your dog is experiencing an aura, you will notice a change in your dog’s behavior. This period can last for seconds or hours.For example, your dog may become more vocal, like whining or barking, shy away at nothing, become nervous, or salivate.
 If your dog is beginning to seize or experience auras, do not stress out. Instead, talk to your dog in a soothing, reassuring voice. This will comfort both you and your dog.You can say for example, “It’s ok. I’m here. I won’t let anything bad happen to you. I will be right next to you.” While you are saying this, reassure your dog by petting it.
 Your dog will not be able to control its movements during a seizure. Therefore, remove potentially sharp or dangerous objects away from your dog to prevent it from hurting itself. Also, do not put your hand in your dog’s mouth to hold down its tongue. Your dog could accidentally bite you if you do this.Time the duration of the seizure with a watch or your phone. This will be important information that you can report to your vet. If the seizures last a long time, this can be very dangerous.
 When the episode is over, comfort your dog immediately. Your dog will be confused and disoriented. Comfort your dog by petting it and talking to it in a soothing voice. Have your dog lie down in its bed to prevent it from walking and bumping into things.Say in a soothing voice, "You're ok. I am here for you. You'e a good girl. Everything will be ok. Don't worry."

, Tell your vet that your dog just had a seizure. They will most likely ask you to bring your dog into the office. Relate to your vet what happened during the seizure and how long it lasted. A long seizure is a seizure that lasts for one minute or longer. Your vet may prescribe a medication, or discuss other options to prevent any future seizures.You can say, "Hi, Janice. My dog had a seizure yesterday afternoon around 2:30 p.m. Before the actual seizure, my dog began to act frightened and confused. She was whimpering. By the time I went over to see what was up, she had collapsed on her side. While on her side, her feet were moving in a circular motion. This went on for about six to eight seconds. Afterwards, she seemed very confused."

