 When buying hair wefts at the beauty supply store you are usually faced with two options: human or synthetic.


Synthetic hair is the cheaper option, which is good for people who are on a budget, or who need a large quantity of hair. However, it's important to be aware that synthetic hair cannot be styled using heated appliances like flat irons or curling tongs -- so if you have curly hair you will need to buy pre-curled synthetic hair, or be prepared to flat iron your hair each time you want to wear your extensions. Synthetic hair can't be dyed either, so it's important that it closely matches your natural hair color.
Human hair tends to be more expensive than synthetic hair, but is usually of higher quality. Human hair can be dyed to match your natural (or colored) hair and can be styled with flat irons, curling tongs and hair dryers, making them very versatile. With human hair, you usually have a choice between virgin (unprocessed, undyed) hair, and hair that's been treated, colored relaxed, etc.
 It's pretty obvious that the closer the color of your extensions are to the color of your natural hair, the more natural they will look.


To ensure you get the right color, take some time to browse around and find the right color for you. Ask a representative from the beauty supply store to help you match the extensions to your hair -- they have a lot of experience and will be able to recommend the best color for you.
Even if you have highlighted or multi-toned hair, you should be able to find something that matches. Many hair wefts combine two or more colors to cater for people with dyed hair.
You should go shopping for hair extensions during the day and match the extensions to your hair in natural lighting conditions -- artificial light can be deceptive and may cause you to choose the wrong color.
 Nowadays, many girls are making their own hair extensions and the beauty supply industry has started producing products to cater for this.


It is possible to buy hair extension clips in a number of different colors -- red, blonde, brown, black, etc. -- so no matter what color extensions you wish to make, you can find clips to match. This is important as black clips could be really obvious on blonde hair extensions, and vice versa.
You can also find bonding glue in a couple of different colors, so the color of the dried glue is not visible through the hair. For example, you could use white bonding glue on blonde hair, but you would need a darker colored glue for black or dark brown extensions.
When sewing the extension clips to the hair wefts, you also want to find a thread color that closely matches both the color of the clips and your hair.
 Another obvious yet important thing to mention is that both your natural hair and your hair extensions will need to be styled in the same way in order to blend into one another. There's nothing more obvious looking than straight extensions in wavy hair, or vice versa.


Most hair stylists advise women to curl their hair if they're going to put in their own extensions, as this allows the hair to blend more easily. In other words, it's harder to see where the natural hair ends and the extensions start when the hair is curled.
Another tip is to curl (or straighten) your extensions before you put them in your hair. This makes them easier to work with and allows you to achieve the style that you want. Remember that you can only use heated appliances on human hair, synthetic hair can only be styled using no-heat methods, such as hair rollers.
Blend the hair and the extensions together. Once you have applied the extensions to your hair, you can make them less noticeable by using a wide-toothed comb or brush to gently brush your hair, combining your natural hair with the extensions.
 Keeping your hair extensions in good condition will help them to appear more natural and last longer.


Just like natural hair, your extensions will need to be washed and conditioned. Wash them after you have worn them once or twice, especially if you used a lot of hairspray. However, you shouldn't wash your extensions more than twice a week as this will simply dry them out.
Avoid brushing your extensions too roughly as this can cause hairs to fall from the track, thinning the extensions. Use a little leave-in conditioner to help loosen tangles and brush from the ends of the extension upwards, as this causes the least damage.
Allow extensions to air dry after washing, rather than drying them with a hair dryer. Don't attempt to towel dry them or wring out moisture by twisting them, as this only damages them. You can also prevent human hair extensions from becoming damaged by spraying them with heat protectant before straightening or curling.