 If you start to get the feeling someone is becoming more of a roommate and less of a visitor, set some ground rules as soon as possible. This gives you something to stand on when you eventually need to kick them out -- you can point back to the concrete rules laid down earlier instead of getting emotional.


Set your expectations within the first week. Do they need to pay rent? Do they have to be pursuing job interviews? Have clear benchmarks for them to meet if they want to stay in the house.
 Before formally asking them to leave, sit down and ask when they plan on moving out. Put the ball in their court, which makes it easier to stick to this move-out date as it approaches. If they don't a timeline in mind, you should make one together. Come up with something concrete, such as "when they get a job," or "after 6 months."


If they need a job, work together to come up with specific goals to reach for -- applying to 1 job a day, rewriting their resume, etc. Make sure they are actually trying to get a job and not just enjoying the free bed.
If you aren't sure whether or not they should move in, make a trial period. Tell them when they move in that they have 2-3 months, at which point you're not sure if they can stay., If your friend or relative is breaking the rules, being disrespectful, or going back on their promises to you, right down the incident along with the date and time in a small notebook. Again, this gives you specifics to bring up when you talk to them about leaving, instead of vague generalities or emotional appeals.


Keep this as impersonal as possible. Asking them to leave doesn't have to ruin a friendship, especially if you base your reasons in facts instead of feelings.
 Some people will get out on their own with a bit of careful nudging. Read over their resumes and cover letters as they apply to jobs, visit open houses with them, and encourage them to spread out and become independent. If you can help someone become self-sufficient, they may leave without causing a conflict.


Review their goals and promises together regularly, working together to make them a reality.
If you can help finance their new move, this may be all they need to get going.