 When you are shaving your underarms, make sure to use a manual razor rather than an electric razor. Manual razors give you more control and can be used in the shower. Also try to use a razor with a pivoting head, because it can follow the contours of the underarm region.Also make sure to use a sharp, new razor. This will give you the closest shave.
 Raise up the arm you are shaving and touch the back of your neck with your hand. This keeps the skin of underarm area taut so that you have a flatter surface to shave., Use the razor to slowly shave downward. Make sure not to press too hard, as this can irritate the skin and won’t improve your shave. Start from the highest point where your hair starts and shave in a straight line down to the end of your hair., Look down at your underarm. You should see that there are still hairs that haven’t been shaved off by your downward sweep with the razor. Because your underarm hair grows in several ways, you will need to shave in multiple different directions to target all of the hairs. Shave across the patches of hair that are still there to remove them.Make sure that the areas you are shaving are still covered in shaving gel. If they are not, redistribute the gel or add more.
If you notice hair building up in your razor, give it a quick rinse to get the hair off.
 Shaving upward goes against the grain of most of the underarm hair, and it can give you the closest shave. Shave any remaining hairs by shaving upward.If you have very sensitive skin, don’t shave upward, as this can irritate sensitive skin.
 Shaving your underarms will take several strokes, but try not to go over the area more than five times. Doing this can irritate your skin, cause razor burn and increase the chance that you’ll nick yourself with the razor.
 If you see a hair or two in a hard to reach place that the razor didn’t shave off, use a tweezers to target it. Tweezing the hair removes the entire hair shaft, meaning that the hair will take longer to grow back.