 When someone has Body Dysmorphic Disorder, they are unable to see beyond their disorder. They may be selfish, self-involved, and difficult to be around. But it’s important to remember that no one is to blame for BDD, least of all the person who has it. You are also not to blame for this disorder and you did not cause it in the person. BDD is a genetic disorder that only gets better with treatment.You may find it challenging to be around someone who has BDD, even as you try to help them. Try to be patient and generous with the person who has this disorder. Do not shame or blame them, as this will often make the issue worse.
For example, you may say to the person, "I don't think your disorder is healthy but I am still trying to support you because you are important to me and I care about you.";
, Another way you can provide emotional support for the person with BDD is to be a good listener for them. Try to be there for them as they struggle with their BDD. This may be especially important if the person with BDD appears depressed or anxious due to their disorder. Do active listening with the person where you listen attentively to what they have to say and respond to them in kind.


For example, you may listen to the person talk about how much they dislike the size of their body. Nod and make eye contact with the person while they speak. Then, respond by paraphrasing what the person just said to you. You may say, "What I'm hearing is that you feel you are overweight" or "I believe what you are saying is that you think your body is too heavy or large."
Once the person with BDD agrees with your paraphrase, respond to them. You may respond by recommending that they seek professional help or by noting that they may have BDD and need help from someone trained in BDD treatment.
 While it is important that you try to listen and sympathize with the person, you should not try to reassure the person that they look good or normal. Don’t argue with them about their feelings about their appearance. This will only lead to conflict and the person will likely not agree with what you have to say.For example, you may say to the person, "I'm so sorry you're struggling with this. I'm wondering if it's best that we don't talk about these issues? It might be better for you to talk to a professional."

, Though you do not want to shame or blame the person, you also do not want to participate or encourage their disorder. Do not adapt your behaviors to accommodate the person’s BDD. Avoid taking on their responsibilities or making excuses for their BDD habits. This will only make the issue worse and complicate your relationship with the person.People with BDD have a distorted view of their bodies and may use cosmetic enhancements or surgery to feel better about their bodies. Do not pay for the person's cosmetic surgery or diet medication, as this will only make their BDD worse. A person with BDD will always think there is something defective about their bodies, no matter how many cosmetic adjustments or enhancements they try.
For example, you may say to the person, "I love you, but I do not love your disorder. I want to support you but I don't feel comfortable being a part of your disorder or your hurtful habits."

, Talk to the person about getting professional help for their issue. Getting help from a counselor or a therapist is the only way a person with BDD can get better and address their disorder head on. Suggest that they seek treatment from a counselor or a therapist, especially if their condition is not improving.Ask the person if they want to get better and address their disorder. For example, you may say, "You seem to be struggling. Do you think it's time to get some professional help?" or "I'm really worried about you. Do you think you're ready to get help?"
If they say “yes,” provide a list of therapists or counselors in your area by searching online. Get a recommendation for a therapist from the person’s primary care doctor.
BDD can be treated with cognitive-behavioral therapy (CBT) as well as antidepressant medications. Weekly therapy sessions and support groups can also be useful for those with BDD.
If the person does not want to seek professional care, tell them that you are not able to support their BDD habits and routines. Remind them that the only way they are going to get better is through professional help.
 If the person agrees to seek professional help, be their cheerleader and support their recovery. Encourage them to keep going to their therapy sessions. Support them if you notice they are trying to shift or change their BDD habits and routines. Talk about their treatment program with them and do all you can to support them as they recover.For example, you may say to the person, "I am so proud of you for getting help for your disorder. I am here to support you in your recovery."

