 One symptom of codependency is low self-esteem. If you have low self-esteem, you don’t think highly of yourself. You are negative about yourself, criticize yourself, and always focus on your flaws. You never feel good enough.You may compare yourself to others and their achievements.
You might feel like you’re unlovable. You may feel a sense of guilt or feel like you need to be perfect.
 People who are codependent feel like they have to please others. They often feel like this will make people accept or like them. They often agree to things they don’t want to because they have trouble saying no. They will go out of their way to do something for someone else.A codependent person will feel bad or like a victim if they do not receive approval.
 If you are codependent, you don’t have good boundaries between you and other people. This means you may have trouble separating yourself and other people. This includes feelings, problems, and material things. You may think other people’s problems are your fault.When someone says something, you have trouble realizing it’s just their opinion. You either get defensive or believe them. You take what they say to heart.
You may take everything someone says or does personally., People who are codependent often try to help others as a way to feel good about themselves. You feel like you have to solve other people’s problems and give everyone advice, even if no one asked for it. If you are codependent, you expect people to follow your advice and get upset if they don’t., Codependent people often need to be in control of situations or people. Having things be in a particular ordered way helps them feel better. If there is chaos or uncertainty, in people or events, codependents feel upset.Often, pleasing people and helping others is a way to gain control. This is a type of manipulation.
If you’re codependent, you may have been described as bossy by others.
 Codependent people are not always truthful with their feelings, thoughts, and wants. This stems from the need to please people and not upset them. Because of this, you may say one thing, but manipulate the person into doing what you want because you can’t just come out and say it.You may even start lying about your own behavior, feelings, thoughts, and wants.
 You may feel that you need other people to be happy. You need others to like you and accept you to find self-worth. You may even obsessively think about people or relationships. Some codependent people need to always be in a relationship to feel good, and they often won’t end the relationship when it needs to be ended.You may get irrationally upset if you believe you’ve done something wrong or made a mistake with another person.

