 You'll want to get as comfortable as you can with the piece(s) before the audition. Two weeks is good enough for someone who's experienced in memorizing; three is better if this is your first time. Sometimes there is a choice of pieces to choose from, sometimes you will have to find your own. Make sure that for whatever play it is, you will enjoy being more than one character just in case.;
, It's the foundation of your audition. You can't act if you have the script in your hand, so why the audition piece? If you know your part by heart, it'll be a lot easier to act it out on stage, as you won't be nervous about the specifics. Make copies and have them at places around the house, or in your pocket, so if you have nothing to do, you can practice. Also remember to be able to say it in your sleep, the more you say it the easier it comes out.
 If the play you're auditioning for is a classical play written in verse or an older form of English (Shakespeare or non-contemporary writers), it can be difficult to actually know what you're talking about; find someone who understands the piece(a teacher, for example) and/or look up words you don't know in dictionaries. Understanding the piece will also aid in getting into character. Never say a line that you don't understand, as you will end up giving the director a reason to reject you.
 It's not just an old adage; it works, especially in the theater. If you get in, you're going to have to rehearse anyway, right? You may as well get used to it. The more you practice, the easier it will come on the day of the audition. Rehearse for friends and family, and make sure that they give feedback.
 Butterflies in your stomach are normal, but don't let nervousness take control. Take deep breaths. Meditate. Do yoga. You can check this article for more ways of relaxing. If you have memorized correctly, then don't even think about your piece before you go up. If your school auditions where everyone sits together, then just ignore your part and get absorbed into the others pieces, enjoy where you are. If you are stressing about you audition, then you won't be able to see what the director doesn't like from other people to make quick changes.
 Focus on a point past everybody's head(something on the wall, for example) and use that as your line of sight. Remember, as a character, you're not supposed to see the audience. If it is dramatic, look at things such as exit signs or a light booth in the back and stare at something, particularly only stare at that. Dramatic pieces can also work for sitting in a vulnerable position with your knees toward each other and slightly slouched over. Comedic auditions, you should usually move around just a little bit to look more inviting.
 It will play against you if all the audition hears is mumbling. Keep your head up, your shoulders back, and speak in a clear, louder-than-normal voice. Enunciate and work on breath control. If you can't control your voice out of pressure, then you can't control it during pressure.
 Keep your head high and don't mumble to yourself about how you sucked, or how you were awesome. Stay into character until you're back into your seat. No matter what, act as if you were the most amazing person that ever walked onto that stage. Acting is about taking on a character and acting as someone else.

