 Burpees will sculpt your entire body while burning fat. They work your arms, shoulders, chest, legs, and core. You can adjust burpees to any fitness level and intensity.Start with your feet shoulder-width apart. Lower into a squat. Then, bend over to place your hands flat on the floor. Jump your legs behind you so you are holding yourself up on your palms and toes in plank. Then, jump both of your feet back in towards your core. Then, raise up back into a squat. Jump up with your hands above your arms.If you need to modify the exercise, extend your legs behind you and pull them back in one at a time.
Repeat for 45 seconds. You can increase the time as your fitness level improves.
 A plank row helps to sculpt your entire body, especially your arms and back. It also works your core and your legs. You need hand weights for this exercise. Try five to 10 pounds.Get into a plank. A basic plank is where you are holding yourself up by your palms and toes. Lie on your stomach and curl your toes under. Push yourself up onto your palms. Make sure your hands are directly beneath your shoulders. Your body should be a straight line angled down from your head to your feet. Try not to arch or dip your back or raise your butt in the air.
Wrap your hands around the hand weights on the floor beneath you. Pull your arm back like you are doing a row by bringing your elbow towards the ceiling. While doing the row, lift the hand weight to chest height. Lower and repeat with the other arm.
Try to keep your body stable with only your arms moving.
 Plank-ups are a great arm sculpting workout. In addition to working the arms, shoulders, and back, they also work the core, the legs, and provide cardio.Start in a high plank position, with your palms flat on the floor under your shoulders, your toes resting on the floor. Your body should be in a straight line.
Move from a high plank to a low plank by bending your arms and lowering yourself to your elbows. You should keep your body straight from head to toe.
Push yourself back into high plank by pushing yourself back onto your hands.
Do this for 45 to 60 seconds, increasing as you get stronger.
 High Intensity Interval Training, or HIIT cardio, is a way to boost your fat burning process. In between your sculpting moves, try adding 30 to 60 seconds of these cardio moves.Try jumping jacks.
Sprint or jog in place.
Try high-knees. To do high-knees, lean back slightly and push your knees up as high as you can as fast as you can. High-knees feel like running in place while kicking your knees up to your hips.
Do butt-kickers. To do butt-kickers, kick your feet up until your heel hits your butt. Do this as fast as you can as high as you can. If you can’t touch your butt, hold your hands down to kick your hands.

