 LinkedIn is very good at helping you:


Find candidates with very specific skill sets
Target people from specific companies
Reach out to people who are not currently looking for a job. (Passive job seekers.)
Hit up contacts of contacts. It is good for helping find friends of current employees.
 You won't do as well using LinkedIn to find people with:


Very general skills.
New college graduates
Hourly employees

, When you contact someone via LinkedIn, it will be natural for them to check out your company profile first thing, so you want them to find the information there helpful and putting the company in the best light.


Search LinkedIn to see your current company profile. For example, the wikiHow entry is here: https://www.linkedin.com/company/wikihow. Look at the "Careers" section in particular.
If the company profile is not to your liking, ask the right person at your company to update it. Your marketing people may have specific thoughts as to the content, so you want to keep them in the loop.
If there is no company profile, set it up from the Companies>Add a Company. You can then follow the prompts to verify your identity and fill out the sections for Overview, Careers, Product Pages, Employees and Statistics. Obviously, the part you want to flesh out is the "Careers" section.
 You can simply pay to list a job on LinkedIn without a recruiter account. It is not cheap, but will get you applicants. The quality of the applicants will be somewhat better than what you can find on Craigslist.


Similar to Craigslist, a job posting will be not as effective to recruit people in very high demand.
It will be effective if you have a specific skill set that lends itself to keyword search. As an example, if you want to hire a copy-editor in Sydney, you will find people can find you easily and apply. You have to ask yourself if you will get too many applicants (Salesperson in London) or no applicants (actuary in Marfa, Texas.)

, Recruiter accounts are very effective if you are trying to reach out to specific people. They are rather unmatched if you are trying to find people who are not currently looking for a job.


Recruiter accounts are expensive. The most powerful version approaches USD$10,000 per year.
You can find just the right person you are looking for, and contact them with a "LinkedIn InMail." InMails are opened most of the time; much more frequently than regular emails. Some people don't check their LinkedIn, though, so you probably want to follow with a regular email or phone call.
Reaching out to people who are not looking for a job can be amazingly effective in finding highly qualified candidates. Naturally, it will take longer, but you may find better people.
You also will see who viewed your profile, so you can tell which candidates are interested and you can follow up with them.
The hillbilly version of using LinkedIn for cheap is to find the person you are looking for on LinkedIn search, but then to contact them off of LinkedIn. LinkedIn is making that harder by hiding the family names of the people you are searching for. With a recruiter account, you see the person's full name and can contact them directly with an InMail.
 You will be amazed how quickly you can find people who know any candidate.


Check up on the references your candidate provided, to ensure they are who they are who the candidate said they are.
Find "backdoor" references using LinkedIn. Search for people with similar jobs at the company your job candidate came from, and you can find and reach out to people who can give you the true scoop about him or her.
Ignore the recommendations about your candidate on LinkedIn. They are useless; in fact, glowing recommendations mean nothing more than the candidate has been trying to get good recommendations.
The skills and expertise section is rarely helpful. It can be inaccurate, it might give you clues only if the candidate is stressing a skillset they don't really have.

