 Before you decide to ask your girlfriend's parents for their daughter's hand in marriage, consider what you know about them and if this is something that they will expect or even appreciate. This is an old tradition that some parents might see as essential, while others might not expect at all.


If you are unsure about whether or not your girlfriend's parents will appreciate this gesture, then try asking your girlfriend what she thinks. You could say something like, "Are your parents pretty traditional when it comes to marriage?" or "How did your parents get engaged?"
Conduct research into your her parents’ values if necessary. For instance, if your girlfriend’s parents are from India, you might need to investigate Indian marriage traditions to figure out whether or not asking a girl’s parents for her hand in marriage is a standard part of the marriage process. Use internet search engines and your local library to discover more about the specific cultural norms of your girlfriend’s parents.;
, This is different than proposing to your girlfriend. Inquire generally what she imagines in your shared future. Ask, for instance, “Where do you see us in three to five years?” If she brings up marriage, you can safely proceed with the process of asking for her hand from her parents.


If she does not immediately mention marriage, ask her specifically if she’d ever like to get married to you. For instance, you might ask, “Do you think we would be happy if we were married?” If she says yes, go forward with the process of asking her parents for her hand in marriage. If she is uninterested in marriage or unsure if she wants to marry you, don’t pressure her into it.
 Is now a good time for you two to get married? Are there any reasons you shouldn't? Think about it through your girlfriend's parents' eyes: would they want their daughter marrying you? If you have only known one another for a week, you may want to hold off on proposing marriage.


It is wise to date someone for at least two to three years before deciding to marry.Think about your and your girlfriend’s financial situation. Not only will the actual wedding be very expensive (the average wedding costs over $26,000), but other things like wedding rings and the honeymoon can quickly sink your financial ship. While you will probably not get married immediately after being granted your girlfriend’s hand in marriage, you should have enough cash to cover everything when the marriage occurs (usually six to twelve months after proposing to her).
 Do they look favorably upon the relationship, or are they skeptical of it? Ask your girlfriend from time to time what they think of you. Ask her to be specific.


Does her father-in-law, for instance, have only mild reservations which would be leveled at any suitor? In this case, you can feel confident about receiving approval. On the other hand, does he have concrete, specific concerns about your ability to provide or remain committed to your girlfriend? In this case, wait until you’ve secured the trust of your girlfriend’s parents before asking them for her hand in marriage.
While it might seem like cheating, going into the situation with the answer a foregone conclusion is in fact the best way to ensure you don’t waste your time or that of your girlfriend’s parents.

