 If you buy a betta at Petsmart of Walmart or anywhere make sure to check its quality. Young bettas are brightly colored and have long, flowing tails; as they get older, the colors dull. Choose a younger, brighter, healthy-looking fish in order to keep it alive for longer.


When purchasing a betta fish be sure to examine its tail. If they are bitten off of and ragged it means that the fish was most likely injured in a fight at some point and might be less healthy and hardy.;
, Bettas originated from Asia where they lived in the rice patty fields. Consequently, they prefer tanks that are more spacious rather than tall and deep. When choosing at tank, be sure to buy a filter or a heater with it. Your betta fish can survive for some time without these, but they will make your fish happier and help you take better care of your betta.
 Bettas can be picky eaters and you should buy three or more different kinds of food. This way, your fish can choose between the ones that it likes and dislikes. A good way to know what your betta likes and dislikes is give him/her a little piece. If they don't eat it or spit it out, it's possible that they don't like that kind of food.
 Bettas are called Siamese fighting fish for a reason, they are very territorial and will fight to the death. If you are considering keeping more than one betta in a tank, make sure it's at least 15 gallons (56.8 L) and heavily planted.


Do not under any circumstances keep a male betta with a male betta. No matter how big the tank is, they will kill each other.
You can keep females with females as long as there are more than five together. They will establish a pecking order and if you don't have enough, the lowest ones will be bullied to death. With more fish, the bullying is distributed enough to keep them all safe.
You can keep one male with five or more females, but it's best to separate them to keep them from harming each other.
 If you don't have a filter, change the water every week or two weeks at the most. With a filter, you can wait a little longer in between changes, but to keep bacteria from building up and affecting the health of your fish, it's better to change the water often.
 Water conditioner can be bought at your local pet supply store. It helps the water get rid of bacteria and other harmful diseases.
 Checking on your fish's scales is important because it could give you the hint that your fish is sick. If your fish has white spots it means it is sick and you should consult with your pet store or research online for a remedy.
 Train it to do tricks such as jump out of the water to take food, swim through a hoop, of follow your finger. Bettas can recognize faces and they become very attached to their owners.

