 Tell your child how much fun it is to ride a bike. Set a good example by riding your own bike and having a good time. Make sure you always wear your helmet! When your child gets on the bike show them how fun it is. Tell them not to put their feet on the ground and show them how to pedal.;
, Make sure each time your child practices with his/her bike they are wearing safety gear. This teaches good safety habits.
 Training wheels make learning to ride much easier and safer.
 Help them into the seat. Make sure the height is set so that they can keep their feet on the ground while sitting on the seat. For the first bike ride with training wheels, keep your hand under the seat behind them, or on the bike to comfort your child. Stay near your child until they feel more comfortable with the bike and come to enjoy the ride. After a few weeks, you may move on to the next steps that are more specific toward teaching your child to ride a two-wheeled bike.
 The first two-wheeled bike ride will be a bit intimidating to your child, so speak words of encouragement along the process.
 Continue to hold the bike upright. You may wish to do this and the next few steps for the first time on grass to ensure a soft landing for the inevitable first fall.
 Don't let go yet!

, Reassure them that they are doing fine. Tell them you are going to let go of the bike and they'll keep going on their own.
 Continue to offer encouragement and support, but don't try to correct them.
 Make sure they aren't hurt without scaring them. Help them back onto the bike to try again.
 There are going to be many, many falls, and your child may want your help.
 Wrap a large bath towel around your child's waist and twist the ends to form a large soft "rope" behind him/her. Do NOT twist the towel too tightly. Hold the towel rope firmly by the ends and jog along behind the bike while your child rides and balances on the bike by him/herself. Do not hold the bike or your child, but use the towel to gently keep their balance as they pedal along. This method is much more effective than you holding onto the bike as your child must find the correct balance almost exclusively on their own while the towel provides a "safety net" they can lean against should they start to tip over.
 This can initially be used as a handle to keep the bike upright while they are learning to balance. As their balance skills grow, you can let out more slack in the rope, yet still have the ability to catch them and keep them from falling by pulling the rope tightly upward.

