 This app modifies the Minecraft PE app on your Android device. There is a free version and a pro version. You can use the free version to load mods, so there's no need for the pro version unless you want the extra features.


You can download this app from the Google Play Store.
 You'll need to download a mod file to use in Minecraft PE. There are a variety of sites that host mod files for you to download. Popular sites include:


http://mcpehub.com/mods
http://mcpebox.com/minecraft-pe-mods/
http://mcpedl.com/category/mods/

, There are hundreds of different mods available for Minecraft PE. These mods range from small tweaks to your inventory system to complete overhauls of the game and mechanics. Browse through the sites to find a mod that you want to download.
 Once you've found a mod you want to use, follow the download instructions for it. These will vary depending on the site you're downloading from. Note that many sites will force you through several ads before you can download the file. Be careful not to tap on any misleading ads.


Mod files are generally quite small, and will usually download in just a few moments.
 BlockLauncher will load Minecraft PE for you, so you'll be using BlockLauncher instead of the Minecraft PE app when you want to use mods.


Start the BlockLauncher app, then tap the Wrench button in the BlockLauncher menu.
Tap "Manage ModPE Scripts."
Tap the "+" button in the lower-right corner and select "Local storage."
Select the "Download" folder and then select your mod file.
Press the Back button on your device to return to the main menu.
 You can load an existing save file or start a new world. Tap the "Play" button to get started.
 Depending on the mod you've downloaded, you may be able to see the effects immediately, or you may have to meet some in-game requirements first.
 There are several reasons the mod you have may not be working. Check the following to see if you can determine the problem:Tap the Wrench button at the top of the screen while you are playing and ensure that the mod is enabled.
Make sure that the mod supports your version of Minecraft PE. The mod version must match the Minecraft PE version.
Try disabling all but one mod and then adding them back one by one to see what breaks.

