 Flat hair will lay close to your scalp and will emphasize your bald spots because your hair will separate, and bald spots will shine through. Therefore, styling your hair to maximize volume will help your hair look thicker. Voluminous hair also appears more youthful.


Use a volumizing shampoo. Many shampoo brands offer volumizing formulas that prevent product-buildup, which can weigh down and flatten hair, and which contain ingredients that plump individual hair strands to make hair look fuller. Look for labels that say "volume" or "volumizing" on the shampoo bottle. After you wash with volumizing shampoo, the effects should last until your next wash.Use a blow dryer and round brush to dry your hair. Use a small amount of volumizing product in your hair. Then blow dry your hair, gently using a round brush to pull your hair up and away from your scalp. This will help your hair dry with fluffy volume and will make your hair appear thicker. Pulling your hair to one side while drying and then brushing it the opposite direction afterward also adds volume.Avoid using hair gel or heavy products that contain silicone. Gel causes hair to stick or clump together, which will cause your scalp to show through. Silicone weighs down hair, counteracting your attempts to get more volume. Stick with lighter products that specifically say they add volume, like texturizing sprays/lotions or mousse.
 Many companies produce colored microfibers that bond to your existing hair. These come in spray or in powdered form.This is the most convenient way to cover thinning hair.Shake or spray the fibers onto your hair. They are electrostatically charged, so they will bond with your hair shaft and make it look fuller.These products usually stand up to sweat, wind, and rain and will remain until your next shampoo.Make sure you choose a color that matches your hair or is slightly lighter. Darker microfibers and colors that do not match your skin tone will look artificial and will draw attention to your hair, which is not what you want., This is an FDA-approved topical treatment for hair regrowth, and many companies sell over-the-counter hair growth products that contain Minoxidil. Follow the directions on the product label, and use the product consistently for at least 8 weeks. Some people will see dramatic results with Minoxidil, while others may not.Products containing Minoxidil come in either lotion or foam form, and they are available without a prescription. Most pharmacies in the United States sell hair growth products that contain Minoxidil.Minoxidil takes time to work. Hair growth usually occurs after the medicine has been used for several months and lasts only as long as you continue to use it. Hair loss will begin again within a few months after you stop using Minoxidil.Minoxidil works best in younger patients with a short history of hair loss. The treatment has not been studied in people over the age of 65, so it may not work for age-related baldness.Follow all directions on the packaging of the Minoxidil product. Do not use more than directed or use a blow dryer to dry your hair immediately after applying the Minoxidil, as it may make the treatment less effective.Do not use Minoxidil if you are pregnant or breastfeeding.