 Your doctor needs to know all medications you take. This includes medication you have been prescribed from other doctors. You should also share any over-the-counter medicines you take, such as pain relievers, supplements, or antacids.Certain medications can interact with one another. Your doctor needs a full picture to be able to appropriately prescribe something for you.
Your doctor may recommend you stop taking certain over-the-counter medications if they interfere with your medications or cause negative side effects. Your doctor may also find alternative medications based on other prescriptions you take.
Remember that vitamins and supplements can also have negative interactions with other medications. Don't forget to tell your doctor about these as well.
 Your doctor needs all the facts. Your doctor cannot accurately diagnose you, treat your condition, or know if the medication is working without all the facts. Make sure to answer your doctor honestly when asked if you are taking your medication as directed.Your doctor needs to know if you forget to take your medication, if you take more than the prescribed amount, if you skip it sometimes, or if you have stopped taking it all together.
You should tell your doctor if you don’t take the medication as directed. For example, if you are supposed to take it in the morning but you take it at night, tell the doctor. If you are supposed to take the medication with food but don’t, make sure to mention that.
 In addition to telling your doctor all of the medicine you take, you should list all alternative and herbal medications you take. This gives your doctor a better overall idea of your health. Plus, some herbal remedies can have side effects.Tell your doctor if you take herbal remedies for anything. Just like you may tell your doctor that you take over-the-counter pain relievers or antacids, tell your doctor if you take herbal or alternative medicines for any condition.
Tell your doctor about any vitamins you take. For example, if your doctor thinks you have a vitamin D deficiency, but you take vitamin D daily, it may be another condition.

