 This is a useful starting point for making a password that's complex and difficult to guess while easy for you to remember. Also remember that your password should ultimately be lengthy (at least eight to 10 characters) and include a wide variety of character types (upper and lower case letters, numbers, spaces or underscores, etc.). While you should stay away from personally relevant information that others could easily identify, it's still convenient to create a password that you can recall without much trouble. Crafting a statement or sentence that will stick with you can serve as a useful basis for your password.


One example of a mnemonic device is the Person-Action-Object (PAO) method developed by Carnegie Mellon computer scientists. Simply select an image or photograph of a memorable person performing an action with or to an object—and then put them all together to construct a phrase (however amusing or nonsensical). By selecting characters (e.g. the first three letters of each word) from said phrase, you can develop a password that's readily recalled.
 By taking certain letters from your phrase, you can assemble a password that's easy to remember (e.g. by using the first two or three letters from each word in your phrase and putting them together in order). Make sure your statement or sentence includes upper and lower case letters, numbers and special characters.
 You can use a phrase or series of letters that is seemingly random but nevertheless easy to remember. The easily memorized series of letters can form a "base word" to which you should add symbols or numbers.


If your children are Jessie, Cassey, Michael and Jenny, your base word might be "jecamije"—the first two letters of each name combined. If your first house was on Spooner Street, a base word might be "houseonspooner."

, So you could add an underscore (or other random punctuation) and numbers to create "jecamije_." Or you can add a symbol to the word to make "houseonspooner#1500."

, For example, a sentence like "My mother was born in Kansas City, Missouri on January 27th" might become a password like MmwbiKC,MOoJ27. Or a sentence like "The radio show begins at 9:10 AM on Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays" could become "Trsb@0910oM,W&F."

, Windows can find these options under the Start Menu by clicking All Programs, clicking Accessories, clicking System Tools and finally selecting Character Map. Mac users simply need to select Edit at the top of their browser menu and subsequently select Special Characters at the bottom of the Edit menu. You can then replace some of your letters with special symbols to make your password more difficult to guess.


These symbols can replace more commonly used characters, but it's worth noting that some sites' password system won't accept all of the available symbols. By way of example, "ЅϋΠЅЂιηξ" could be used to replace "Sunshine."
Remember that you'll have to actually re-enter this password when attempting to access a website or application, so consider the difficulty associated with repeatedly accessing your character map when entering passwords. You may decide it's too much of a hassle.
 You shouldn't be using the same passwords across your various logins, and you shouldn't use the same password for more than a few months at a time.

