 If you want to switch from an actively managed fund to a more passive index fund, you must first liquidate or sell off the assets you want to use, which typically triggers tax liability.Depending on how long you've invested in the fund and the type of account you have, you may also be assessed a penalty, which can be costly. In this case, it may be better for you to wait and switch several years down the road, when the cost will be less.
Many financial advisors and wealth management firms have calculators that will figure out the tax cost for you – all you have to do is answer a few questions about your investments.
If you spread out the tax cost over the projected life of your investment, you may find that it isn't cost-efficient to switch because the expense of switching eats up any benefit you would achieve through lower investment fees.
 While index funds have a reputation for lower fees than actively managed funds, some index funds have higher costs than others. While you won't be paying the management fees, there may be other costs.As many as 20 percent of index funds have higher costs than the average in their categories, so it pays to look not just at specific funds but also at others that are similar.
When you look at fees on index funds, keep in mind that they may use different terminology than that with which you're familiar. While you can ask your broker or financial advisor to explain these to you, in general, the terminology doesn't matter. If it looks like a fee and is charged like a fee, it's a fee.
 If you've decided you want to switch all or part of your portfolio to index funds to lower your investment fees, your broker or financial advisor may have some recommendations for you.In some cases you won't have to move your investments to a different brokerage firm to invest in index funds, particularly if your broker works in a relatively large firm. However, keep in mind that your personal broker may not handle index funds.
If you plan on keeping your assets with the same firm, your broker may be able to introduce you to a colleague who can handle your index funds, or advise you on other steps you'll need to take first.
 When you invest in an index fund, all of that money is fully invested in that fund and you have no freedom to build up cash when the market is volatile or sinking. For this reason, it may be a good idea to keep a portion of your assets in an actively managed fund even though you'll pay higher investment fees.If the fees on your actively managed fund are especially high, you may want to divest some of the money in it (if possible), and keep your holdings there as low as possible. This will help lower your investment fees. Keep in mind that the larger the investment, the higher the fees.
Investing in several different types of index funds is a good way to diversify and rebalance your portfolio so that your investments are more resistant to changes in the market.

