 There is no harm done to your furniture if you let it fade to a light brown, and eventually to an aged silvery color. If you enjoy this appearance or the low maintenance, just dust your teak furniture regularly, and wash it occasionally if dirt or moss builds up.


During the initial weathering, your teak furniture may look uneven in color or slightly cracked. This should even out over time., You may scrub the furniture with a soft-bristled brush and warm soapy water to temporarily restore a slightly brighter color. Avoid hard bristles or high-pressure hoses, which may damage the teak.
 A specialized cleaning product, called teak cleaner, can be used if soap and water is not enough to remove dirt or brighten the furniture's color. There are two major types of teak cleaner available:One part teak cleaner is safe and easy to apply. Scrub it in with a soft-bristled brush, for approximately 15 minutes. Gently rinse with clean water, using an abrasive cleaning pad or bronze wool to open up the pores of the wood and remove the cleaner. Avoid steel wool, which may discolor the teak.
Two part teak cleaners are harsher on your teak's lifespan and texture, but operate faster and may dissolve tough grime. Apply the first part, an acid, and wait according to the instructions on the packaging. Scrub in the second part, which neutralizes the acid, making sure to cover the furniture thoroughly.
 If your teak furniture is heavily used or kept in an area with energetic activity, you may wish to protect it from stains in advance. A clear, protective sealant can be applied anytime the teak is dry to form a hard layer over the teak's surface. The name and application method of these products vary between brands. Look for "teak protectors" or "clear coat" for teak, and follow the instructions on the packaging.


The use of a sealant and oil at the same time is controversial, as some believe them to have negative effects in combination. Some cleaning product manufacturers, however, recommend both.
 One of teak's attractions is its extreme durability, which makes protection usually unnecessary. However, a porous cover such as canvas may make cleaning easier. Never use a plastic or vinyl cover, which traps moisture on the furniture.
 Some stains, such as red wine or coffee, may be difficult to remove by washing. Remove the top layer of wood instead with medium-grain sandpaper, then create a smooth surface with fine-grain sandpaper once the stain is gone.This will likely brighten the furniture's appearance where sanded, as the interior of the teak still contains natural oils.

