 Before you figure out how you will travel from Miami to New York, you will need to decide when you want to leave, when you want to arrive, when and if you plan to return, and what you can budget for the trip.;
, Unless you have a fear of planes, flying is the quickest and easiest way to get from Miami to New York. Depending on how close to the date of departure you book, flights can cost from $200 roundtrip to over $600 if you book late.


Check discount airline ticket sites online such as Orbitz, Kayak and Expedia, or call the airlines directly. Major airlines flying in and out of Miami and New York include American, Delta, Continental, U.S. Airways and United.
Choose a direct flight from Miami International Airport (MIA), Ft. Lauderdale-Hollywood Airport (FLL), which is about 30 miles (48 km) from Miami, or Palm Beach International Airport (PBI) which is about 60 miles (96 km) from Miami. Fly into either of the 2 major airports in New York, JFK, which is outside of the city in Queens, or LaGuardia (LGA), which is also in Queens. Direct flights to other parts of New York can also be found. Nonstop flight time is approximately 3 hours.
Choose a flight that connects somewhere else if you prefer to fly in shorter segments. Atlanta is the quickest connection city on the Miami to New York route. Flight time with a connection starts at around 5 hours, but can be longer depending on the length of your layover.
 Amtrak runs train routes called The Palmetto and The Silver Service between Miami and New York, and you will likely have to change trains in Washington, D.C. Some trains do travel direct, and those trips last from 28 to 31 hours. Sleeper and dining accommodations are available. Tickets cost around $130 for a one-way ticket.
 For about the same price as a train ticket, you can take a Greyhound bus from Miami to New York. The trip takes about 32 hours, and you can go direct or stop in a city such as Richmond, Virginia or Orlando, Florida. If you book 3 weeks or more in advance, you can get a one-way ticket for under $100. Otherwise, a trip will cost around $130.
 If you like to travel at your own pace, and enjoy sights and scenery along the way, consider driving from Miami to New York. The driving distance is 1,277 miles (2,055 km), and you will want to head north on Interstate 95. Depending on traffic and how often you stop, the trip will take from 18 to 20 hours. If you rent a car, be sure to rent with unlimited mileage.

