 Are you naturally inclined to favor David over Goliath, never mind the odds? Do you feel more kinship with that plucky, ragtag Rebel Alliance than you do with the exalted institution known as Starfleet? Do you savor the journey more than the destination? Then follow your instinct by backing a team whose victories are always hard-won. Reward your devotion by sharing in triumphs that amount to more than just gimmes.
 Are you addicted to winning? Do you value consistency? Then pick a proven contender. Find a team that finishes strongly season after season, like the Yankees, Cardinals, or Dodgers.Do your homework, though, to make sure you choose a team that has shown itself to be dependable time and time again, rather than simply picking last year’s champs, who may have only been an underdog team that won by chance.
 If no one team calls out to you, forget them altogether. Consider individual players. Do you already have a strong familiarity with those who have achieved star status?Does a particular team member embody your personal ideals and philosophies in terms of sportsmanship? Follow your gut and root for them regardless of what team they play for or where they are based.
 Are you having trouble forcing yourself to “like” a team you happened to pick? Do you feel like you would have the same trouble forging a bond with any other? Then go the opposite route. Ask yourself: “Is there a team out there that I absolutely loathe?” If so, find out who their rivals are. Throw your support behind them so you can at least feel uplifted if and when they trounce that other team you hate so much., If you find that you just don’t care that much about location, players, or status, pick a team whose uniform pleases your eye. Choose one based on your favorite color, or go by their mascots. Do you think marlins are the most beautiful fish out there? Support Miami. Do you love to sail the open sea? Then follow the Seattle Mariners., If your immediate family, friends, neighbors, etc. all support one team, root for the same one. Stoke your own enthusiasm by siphoning off theirs! Take part in the group atmosphere in order to feel more invested in the game. Make forging a bond with your new team that much easier by linking it with bonds that you already share with other people in your life.


Conversely, if you love to be the contrarian in the group, root for anyone but their favorite team–especially their rival, if they have one.
 If you are following an interscholastic league, whether it be college, high school, or younger, root for your current or former school's team. Rely on your personal connection with that school in order to foster a new connection with their baseball team. Feel closer to the players on the field by playing Six Degrees of Separation between them and yourself.
 Were you a baseball fan as a kid? If so–even if it was only a passing fancy or to please your friends or family–fall back on your favorite team from back then, regardless of the reason why you chose them all those years ago. Although this is more true for men than women, studies suggest that you are more likely to feel true kinship with your childhood team than any you might pick later in life, even if your most recent choice is a wiser pick than the one you made as a kid.