 Experian and the other two nationwide credit-reporting companies are legally required to provide you with one free credit report each year. These companies have set up a shared website from which you can download a free report from each company.


You can download your free Experian credit online.In order to access your report, you will need to provide: your name, address, Social Security number, and date of birth. If you have moved in the last two years, you may have to provide your previous address.
Each company may also ask for additional information, such as the amount of a mortgage payment or previous address.
Once you provide the information, you will be able to view the report online and download a copy for yourself.;
, If you feel uncomfortable sharing your personal identifying information online or if it is more convenient, you can also order your Experian report over the phone or by mail.


If you choose to order by mail, you must complete an Annual Credit Report Request Form, which is located on the Federal Trade Commission’s website in the section dedicated to consumer information.You can mail your completed form to: Annual Credit Report Request Service, P.O. Box 105281, Atlanta, GA 30348-5281.
You can also request your report via phone by calling: 1-877-322-8228., In addition to your free yearly report, you are also eligible for a free report if a company takes an adverse action against you based on information on your report. An adverse action may include denying your application for credit, insurance, or employment.


If you receive a notice of an adverse action because of your credit report, you must request a credit report within 60 days of receiving the notice.
The notice will provide the name, address, and phone number of the credit company.You can order your report directly from Experian’s website or by phone at: 1-888-397-3742., Ensure the report lists your name correctly, along with your address and telephone number. Pay particular attention to the accounts and payment histories listed on your credit report. Verify that all of the accounts listed are accounts that you opened yourself. If you see accounts that you did not open you may be the victim of identity theft.
 As you read through your report, you should begin creating a list of any inaccuracies that you find. This will make it easier for you to report the inaccuracies and determine what type of information that you need to dispute the incorrect information. You want to make sure that any accounts that you closed are marked as closed.


You should also verify any negative reporting information, such as late or missed payments.
If correct, this information can stay on your report for 7 years. If it has been more than 7 years, Experian must remove the negative report.
Bankruptcies stay on your report for 10 years., In addition to drafting a dispute letter, Experian has an online form that you can use to file a dispute. You will be asked to provide identifying information. You will then be shown an online version of your credit report and you will be asked questions describing the inaccurate information.


You will be asked to click on particular items in the report to see more details.
If you see inaccurate information, you will click on the dispute button and then you will be prompted for additional information.
You will be asked to select a reason why you feel the information is inaccurate.
You will also be provided with a space to further explain your position and provide additional facts.
After you have made all your requests, you must access the Cart using the Navigation bar at the top of the page, and then click on the Submit button.
You must provide your email address to receive notification when the results of your investigation are ready to be viewed.
You receive the fastest response by submitting your materials on Experian’s website through its online dispute system., Once you have compiled a list of the inaccurate information, you want to draft a dispute letter to Experian. You must also include copies of any documents that support your position that the information is inaccurate. Your letter should include the following information:


Your full name including middle initial.
Your Social Security number. If you do not have a social security number, you must include a statement that explains that you have never been issued a social security number.
All addresses where you have lived during the past two years.
One copy of a government issued identification card, such as a driver's license or state ID card.
One copy of a utility bill, bank or insurance statement.
A list containing each item on your report that you believe is inaccurate, the account number, and the specific reason you feel the information is incorrect.
A request that the disputed information be removed or corrected.
In addition to the information above, you should consider including a copy of your report with the items in question circled.
Keep a copy of your letter and supporting documents.Experian's mailing address for dispute requests is: Experian’s National Consumer Assistance Center, P.O. Box 4500, Allen, TX 75013.
You can also upload your written dispute and supporting documents on Experian’s website as part of its dispute center.The FTC has sample dispute letters online., Credit reporting agencies are required to investigate all dispute claims unless they find the dispute to be frivolous. Once it receives your dispute, Experian will forward your dispute and evidence to the organization that provided the information, known as the information provider. This could be a student loan company, credit card company, or some other financial organization. The information provider will investigate and then report back to Experian.


Experian tries to complete its dispute process within 30 days., Experian allows you to check the status of your dispute and view its report on its website.Experian sends a notification of the dispute findings when they are viewable online. You will need your Experian credit report number from a current copy of your personal credit report and Social Security Number to view this information online., Once it has completed its investigation into your dispute, Experian must provide you a copy of the results of its investigation in writing. It must also provide you a free copy of your credit report if your dispute results in a change on your report. This report does not count as your annual free report.


If an item is changed or deleted, Experian is prohibited from putting the information back in your file.
If an information provider verifies that the information is accurate, despite your dispute, Experian is unable to remove the information from your report.
If an investigation fails to resolve your dispute with the credit reporting company, you can ask that a statement of the dispute be included in your file and in future reports. You may have to pay a fee for this service.
Experian’s report must include the name, address, and phone number of the information provider., If Experian cannot resolve your issue because of the information provider, you should contact the information provider directly. You should draft a letter notifying them of the disputed item, providing copies of documents supporting your position, and request that the information provider correct the inaccuracies.


You can send the letter to the address provided to you by Experian.
If for some reason an address wasn’t included, you can send your letter to any business address for that provider.The FTC provides sample dispute letters to information providers on its website., If the information provider continues to report the disputed item to Experian, it must notify Experian of your dispute. If you were correct about the disputed item, the information provider must notify Experian and tell Experian to update the item with the correct information., If the information provider fails to correct the disputed information after you have clearly shown the information to be incorrect, or it fails to notify Experian of the correction, or if it advises Experian of the correction and then later reports the incorrect information again, you can file a complaint with the Federal Trade Commission (FTC).


You can file a complaint online with the FTC.You can also submit a complaint by phone at 1-877-382-4357 or by mail at FTC Consumer Response Center, CRC-240, 600 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW, Washington, DC 20580.
If the creditor is a large financial institution, you can submit your complaint online to the Consumer Financial Protection bureau.