 The things to consider include:


What sort of coverage your organization or agency will have––local, national or international?
Who will belong to your spy organization or agency? You'll need at least one friend willing to be a fellow spy with you, and perhaps at least one friend willing to play villain. You could consider including a sibling or two if they are interested.
What sorts of investigations will your organization undertake? Local detective work, international espionage, theft of artworks, solving kidnappings of famous people, missions impossible? Work out what sort of spying you'll get involved in.
How long will your investigations take? You could role play a spy investigation in an afternoon or set up a game that lasts many weeks or even months before finally solving it.;
, Use a name that is cool sounding. Even better if it can be abbreviated. If you can't make it an abbreviation, you could you use a number code- A is 1, B is 2, and so on.
 Use fonts on the computer and print it out or hand write and draw it then scan it into your computer.
 Pick people who has what it takes and who are trustworthy and stealthy. They also need to be keen to spend the time setting up the back story, clues, etc. to make the spying games worthwhile and interesting. You also might want a tech member. Instead of just asking people to join send them an anonymous letter telling them your spy team wants them.
 You could decide these names on your own, but it's usually best to let each member have a hand in deciding their code name.
 Here are some suggestions for possible positions to choose from:


Agent-in-Charge: The leader
Secret Agent: Works with the target (enemy) to gain information but doesn't do to much interaction
Special Agent: Works with the target to gain information and does a lot of interaction
Scout: scouts out the territory first before the team moves out. The team only moves out when this person signals them to.
Wheel Artist: Is the person that supplies transportation. This person also plans the escape routine
Stealth Master: is a small, quiet person who can fit in tight spaces and can move around unnoticed
Social Engineer: is basically a person used to distract the target
Techie: work in the Surveillance group with computers, phones, etc.
Tracker: Observes the Targets habits, routine, and every action.
Disguises Chief: supplies disguises to the team when needed
Announcer: Controls the meeting and announces a mission
Secretary: Works with all the files and other paperwork
Trainee: also known as a newbie in training
Code Master: deals with code related intelligence.
 Make it somewhere safe where you can make your plans and keep your gear. It should be a secure and hidden location. You can add things like a table and chairs, disguise material, and all of your gadgets.


Treehouses or just a platform in the tree works well, as does a bedroom or home study.
The best bases are ones that you can hide and observe from.
Make sure your spy base has easy exits, hiding places and observation devices like binoculars within easy reach.
The hiding places need to fit both people and documents, gadgets and anything else you might have or need.
 The must-have gadgets include: a computer, a clipboard with plenty of paper and a pen, binoculars and any device with a camera and camcorder on it (iPod touch, phone, digital camera, video camera). Some useful and cheap ideas are as follows:


On the back of a portable camera device with a solid back (iPod touch or phone), stick small squares of paper with tape and a tiny pen with blue tack so you can take notes on the go.
Get cardboard boxes of all shapes and sizes - these are so useful for hiding cameras in, hiding yourself and other members of your team in and making a base/HQ.
Use some kind of communication. Walkie talkies are really good but they're loud, so try a Nintendo DS with Pictochat but it only spans about twenty metres away so maybe have some Facebook chatting on their iPod touch/phone or MSN.
You don't need a computer in your spy base but if you have one handy, the best would be a small laptop with Word (or you can just create text documents) or an iPad or other tablet.
Have a clipboard with paper and a pen that won't run out. This will be used to write down anything you see.
Carry a bag of some sort with all the essentials packed safely away.
 Here you should record everything that you and your fellow spies have gathered during the investigation.
 Your team members need training to stay fit, so here are some activities they might like to try:


Sit-ups, pull-ups, crunches, push-ups, squats, dips and jumping Jacks
Running, jumping, parkour, walking and running silently
Trying to controlling breathing
Learning how to read a target's emotions; learning to lie and detect lies
Learning to see better in the dark; building up senses to understand the surroundings well
Reading lips and learn how to eavesdrop in different ways
Learning codes
Tracking and tailing people
Learning how to use the gadgets.
 Here are some codes to train your team members in:


Pigpen code
Numbers for letters
Reversed alphabet
Sliding scale alphabet
Writing each word backwards.
 Form the scenario for the spying operation. Have a meeting with all members to develop the spy game you'd all like to play. Something like the following: Go up to a window and, using binoculars, spy on someone in your house without being seen.
,


Wherever you go make sure you know all the emergency exits and make sure you know things like the squeaky floorboards/doors.
Learn awareness so that it is easier to notice things and people coming towards you.
, Keep a spy journal to write down information about your target.

