 As your child grows up and hits puberty, they will more than likely start self-criticizing themselves. They may spend more time at the mirror or do extra grooming activities. Help them stop criticizing themselves by providing acceptance, understanding, and positive reassurance.For example, your child may say things like, “I hate my nose,” “I’m too short,” or “I’m ugly.” Reassure them that these things are not true or there is nothing wrong with the way they look. Help remind them not to compare themselves to others and value their uniqueness.
Try to teach your child how to talk back when they have these kinds of thoughts. For example, you might tell your child something like, "I know how you feel when you say you don't like a part of your body. Did you know that sometimes our brains can be too over-critical and a lot of the time those types of thoughts aren't even true? When I find myself saying my nose is too big, I remind myself that my nose is just my nose, and I tell my brain to hush about my nose because there are so many more fun things for me to focus on."

, To help your child learn healthy body image and self-discipline, you should help them set boundaries where their personal grooming is concerned. Allow them to spend time on their hair, makeup, and clothes, but help them refrain from obsessing about it.For example, you may allow them a certain amount of time in the bathroom each morning, but help them understand that they should share the space with others. Allow them to buy new clothes occasionally, but help them not spend all their money obsessing about buying clothes and accessories.
If your child is too obsessed with their looks or spending excessive amounts of time in front of the mirror, talk to them about balancing their life. Help them realize that their looks are only one aspect of their personality.
If you believe your child has a problem, such as Body Dysmorphic Disorder, you should take them to see a doctor or psychologist.
 Your child may think that they have to look or act perfect. They may look at people on television or in their classes and believe they are perfect. Help them realize that there is no such thing as a perfect person, body, or look. Let your child know there is no one way for people to look or act.For example, your child may believe that the popular kids in their class are perfect, or that actors in movies are perfect. Remind them everyone has things that they don’t like about themselves or feel insecure about, and that is okay. However, reassure them that no one can be perfect and that trying to be perfect is an unachievable goal.
Tell your child, "No one is perfect. You shouldn't try to be perfect. Even though you may think someone is perfect, remember, everyone has flaws, and that is okay."

, Gender stereotypes can negatively affect a child’s body image. Teaching your daughter they should only like dolls and pink and your son that he should like sports and not show emotion can create unrealistic and harmful expectations for your child. Instead, talk to your children about how they can like or do anything no matter their gender.For example, some girls like trucks and sports and some boys like dolls and the color pink. Eliminate gender constraints on your child so they can learn to be confident in themselves no matter their interests or likes.
Hypermasculine images that depict men as aggressive with large muscles can teach young people incorrect assumptions about men and masculinity. Hyperfeminine portrayals of women in skimpy clothes with large breasts, or acting helpless and unintelligent sends the wrong message to young people. Limit your child’s exposure to these images, and if they see them, help them understand that those stereotypes are not reality.