 It encompasses skills relating to becoming more aware of your surroundings, considering your options when in danger, practicing assertiveness, and attempting to de-escalate a potentially threatening situation. In reality, fighting back may actually make this guy more angry and result in you getting hurt. Sign up for a local self-defense class in which you can learn how to deflect violence and protect yourself in such situations.


In a tight situation, your ultimate goal is to get to safety. If you have no choice but to use physical violence, aim for the body parts in which you can inflict the most damage - and, therefore, have time to run away. Try to jab, punch, or kick the attacker in the eyes, nose, throat, crotch or knees., Using alcohol or drugs in situations with people who you are not totally comfortable can leave you in a compromising position. Your defenses are down at these times, and you are less likely to be able to read your environment and anticipate threats. If you are just hanging out or beginning to date a new person, keep alcohol and drugs off the table.


A guy who does not want to take no for an answer wants to be in control. If alcohol and drugs are in the picture, you may mistakenly be giving this person more control to potentially drug you or coerce you into sex or other activities., Many social media profiles display phone numbers and emails, which may be an opening for a creep to contact you. In the future, change your privacy settings so that your personal information is displayed only to those you trust (or no one at all). Also, be mindful of what you are posting online. Someone who means you harm has an easier time of locating you if you regularly tag yourself at different locations.
 Make sure someone else knows where you are at all times. If you can, try to set up a group or double date so that other friends are with you.
 It is his responsibility to act like a decent human being, not yours to be perfectly wary and watchful at every moment. If things go terribly wrong and someone does hurt you, it is not your fault. You have the right to say no, and it is his fault if he does not respect that.

