 Whether you’re telling a story at a cocktail party or a job interview, it should follow a logical structure. A good structure allows the audience to easily follow along and has a rhythm that engages them in the action. To stick to a clear structure, you should:Start with an introduction to set your story’s scene.
Describe the inciting incident, which presents the challenge or conflict.
Raise the stakes and add a personal connection by adding context and detail to the challenge.
Proceed to the climax, or your story’s main event
Finish with the resolution, which is when you can reflect on the moral of your story.
 There’s no ideal story length, and the appropriate length will depend on the time and place that you're telling the story. However, you should generally limit your stories to a few minutes. Stick to your story’s structure, avoid getting too verbose or complicated, and try not to go off on tangents.For example, if you pass by a coworker and tell them a story, you'll probably want to limit it to around a minute. Imagine if someone in an elevator with you started telling a long story, didn't finish it when the doors opened on your floor, and held you up until they were done.
On the other hand, guests at a dinner party are there to socialize and talk, so you can make your stories longer and more engrossing.
 A good opening will grab your audience’s attention. Start off on the right foot by telling your best joke, asking them a question, or introducing your moral or message. When concluding your story, bring it back to the beginning to help the audience understand the journey you’ve described.Suppose you're telling some friends about the time your boss took you out to lunch and, on the way to the restaurant, drove through a puddle that soaked you through your open window. You could open by saying, "Have you ever wondered what your boss really thinks of you? One rainy afternoon, I found out the hard way that I'm a lot less precious than a leather auto interior."
Wrap your story up by saying something like, "And there I am, shivering like a wet dog and soaked in dirty, side-of-the-road water, and all my boss can say is, 'Quick! Grab something to wipe the seats!'"

, The right details will capture your audience’s interest, place them in the action, and bring your story to life. However, make sure you don’t bore them by providing tedious details in each sentence.For example, “That evening, deep in summer’s dog days, was thick with muggy Coastal Georgia heat,” is a more engaging detail than, “It was uncomfortably hot and humid on the night of August 26, 2016.”  

, Great storytellers might seem like they’re improvising on the spot. However, telling a great story is an art form, and practice makes perfect.Try saying the story to yourself first. Then tell it to various groups of people and work on parts that didn’t seem to go over so well. Just make sure you don’t tell the same story to the same people!