 Professional organizers are hired by clients to tackle organization problems that require an outside perspective to solve. Some projects, such as de-cluttering a home office or facilitating a family's move to a new home, have a definite end date, while others, such as working with a business to implement a new filing system, may require ongoing attention. As you prepare to become a professional organizer, think about what type of organizing you are best at, and consider the following services you might offer your clients:


Spatial organization. Some professional organizers excel at making clients' homes more livable. They are able to look at a room and intuit the best way to maximize space and increase its functionality.
Systems organization. Professional organizers often help clients see a new system to organize their finances or files. In a business setting, the organizer's goal is to help the company increase productivity and profits by becoming better organized.
Planning and goals organization. Professional organizers are adept at seeing the big picture when their clients cannot. They teach people new ways to organize their life planning and meet life goals, whatever they may be.;
, Professional organizers are exceptionally organized, yes, but just as importantly, they love working with people. Professional organizers are called upon when their clients need help. The ability to listen carefully to people's concerns and be truly invested in helping them solve problems is essential. Part of professional organizers' job satisfaction is seeing that their work has tangibly improved their clients' lives.


Teaching, or coaching, is often central to a professional organizer's work. Professional organizers may reorganize a person's home, but they are also responsible for teaching that person how to stay organized.
Treating clients with respect and helping them feel heard is one of the best ways to get new client referrals; being personable and leaving a lasting good impression is an important part of professional organizing.
 Some professional organizers work for professional organizing companies, but most work independently, building their business through networking and client referrals. They often find their niche in the field by specializing in a certain type of organization, such as working exclusively on estate organization or reorganizing office spaces for businesses. Like other small business owners, they are adept at marketing themselves and staying on the cutting edge of their field by attending conferences and trainings.

