 Your goal is for the front derailleur to sit comfortably above the chains, with the outside plate 2-3 millimeters above the largest chain ring. It will be aligned so that it curves parallel to the chain rings. It should sit parallel with the chain. If the derailleur is rubbing up against a ring or is caught on something, do not ride the bike. Instead, move on to "Resetting your Front Derailleur" below., Flip the bike over so it rests on the seat and handlebars. Shift the front derailleur up and down while pedaling with your hand. Can it get to all 2-3 gears? Is there clicking, rubbing, or grinding? Make a note of any problem areas and remember them as you move through your adjustments.


If you have a bike stand then use this for your adjustments -- it makes repairs much easier.

The rear derailleur needs to be correctly adjusted before continuing, so check it if it is shifting incorrectly.
 Make sure the chain is on the middle cog at the back and the smallest chainring in front. This ensures that the chain isn't stretched diagonally and loosens the derailleur cable so that it is easier to manage.
 Right above the derailleur is a thin cable, clamped in place by a bolt or screw. It is usually attached to the bike frame (the metal skeleton of the bike). Grip the top of the cable and pull up on it, then loosen the bolt. Pull the cable up so that it is tight, then retighten the bolt again. This will clamp the bolt down on the cable so it can't move.


This may move the derailleur slightly, but you'll be adjusting it again in a minute. Right now you want to make sure that your derailleur cable is tight so that the whole thing functions smoothly., There are two small screws on the top or sides of your derailleur, one labeled "L" and the other "H." They are likely not entirely screwed in, and poke slightly up and out of the derailleur. These are your Low and High limit screws, and they control how far to the left or right your derailleur can move. They are adjusted with a normal Phillips ("star" or "plus sign " "+") screwdriver.The L controls how far towards your bike the derailleur can go. The H controls how far out and away from your bike it can go.
If your screws aren't labeled, you can easily test them out. Shift into your smallest ring up front. Turn one screw a full turn in each direction, watching the derailleur. If it moves, this is the Lower (L) limit, if it does not, try the other one. When this one moves, mark it with an L for future reference., Shift into the smallest chainring in the front and the largest in the back so that the chain is completely to the left. Turn the L screw so that the derailleur has 2-3mm of space on either side of the chain.


You should see the derailleur move as you turn the screw.
 Pedal the bike and shift the front to the biggest cog and the back to the smallest gear. The chain should be complete to the right on the bike. Turn the H limit screw until the derailleur is 2-3mm on either side of the chain so that it has plenty of space to move., Shift the back gears to something in the middle so that it doesn't pull your chain either way as you shift. Then, pedal the bike and shift up and down through the front derailleur, making sure that you don't have any issues. Adjust the limit screws as necessary, and have fun riding.Setting your limits too far to either side can cause the derailleur to slip off, but you should be able to see if it is this far before you start testing.

