 If the carnival’s staff is skipping out on basic maintenance, they might be cutting corners when it comes to safety. Check the grounds for excessive litter and for unhealthy conditions at areas where they serve food. If you see a staff member pass by a piece of trash, they might not be concerned with ride maintenance or other safety issues., Notice rusting and other signs of wear, especially at critical areas that seem to be load bearing or essential to the ride’s operation. Avoid rides with cracks in any surfaces or improperly welded joints. Steer clear if you notice anything that looks like a quick fix, like a patch of metal that doesn’t match the rest of the ride’s structure., Make sure the ride moves the same way every time it operates. Look for both smooth, repetitive motions in addition to a particular section where it jumps, halts, or does something that seems wrong to you.Keep in mind the differences between how rides are built. A wooden roller coaster is built with a bit of flexibility to account for the wood framework, so it’s okay for it to sway a bit. However, a steel coaster’s structure should never sway at all.
 Typically, you shouldn’t be able to hear grinding, screeching, or other signs of improper lubrication or poor maintenance. If you hear something that concerns you, try to pay attention to what the ride is doing at the time.Does a screech seem to indicate bad brakes as a cart comes to a stop?  
Do you hear metal-on-metal wearing that might be compromising the ride’s integrity?
Ask a ride operator about your concerns. Ask them when the ride was last inspected. If they can’t give you any adequate explanations, ask them to direct you to park management.
 Pay attention to the ride operators, and try to evaluate their level of competency. Do they seem professional, or are they reading a magazine while the ride is in motion? If you bring any safety concerns to their attention, do they show concern or shake off your question?Do they thoroughly check that every rider is properly restrained before starting the ride?
If they seem uninterested in the safety aspects of their job or don’t seem knowledgeable about the ride they’re operating, you might want to skip out on that ride or stick to the carnival’s games and other amusements.

