 If you are at a party or another type of social setting, you’ll receive more attention if you stand in a prominent place.If you’re in a social setting with friends or people you know, ask them to join you in the center of the room. This will help you appear friendly and connected; new individuals will be drawn to you and your friend group.;
, Many people tend to pick a single location at a social event and simply stay put; however, you will attract more attention and meet a larger variety of people if you do not spend too long in any one location.Vary the types of locations that you spend your time in. Talk with someone next to the food table, go outside and have a conversation, etc. This will allow you to meet new people, and you will not wear out your welcome with any one social group.
 A great way to place yourself in the center of attention is to reach out to other individuals around you; bring them into a conversation or game. Reach out to new people and use light conversation and humor to keep the situation friendly and fun.


Bring new people into your group. Don’t just spend time by yourself or with your friends. As long as you are the one starting conversations, you will remain the center of attention.
Use humor appropriately and sparingly. While humor can be an excellent way to bring together a group of strangers, and to make yourself the center of attention, too much humor will start to feel abrasive.
 People love a good story, but even the most fascinating subject can be boring if the teller doesn't know how to keep an audience's attention. Try listening to podcasts like The Moth, which is all about sharing stories, watch stand up specials from comedians like Ellen DeGeneres or Louis C.K., and even check out presentations from legendary businesspeople like Steve Jobs, Sheryl Sandberg, and Richard Branson. Pay attention to pacing, where they pause for emphasis, how they build up to the climax. Watch gestures and body language.


Practice your skills by choosing a short children's story or getting a copy of a favorite speech or monologue from a well-known storyteller. Stand in front of a mirror and practice telling the story over and over again. If it helps, you can start out by replicating the storyteller's performance, pausing where she paused, raising your voice where she did, etc. By telling the story repeatedly, your own voice will begin to emerge.Think about your own life and what stories you have to tell. If you don't think you have any good stories, think about if there are any favorite family stories you might share. It is particularly important you pay attention to length with these stories — often first time storytellers leave in too many boring details and their stories become far too long to hold anyone's attention.Practice this story in front of a mirror, in front of trusted friends and family, and even video tape yourself so you can watch your performance and see where you need to tighten up the story, or if you are mumbling or looking at the floor instead of at your audience.
Keep personal stories simple and truthful. Make sure there is a clear beginning and end, and remember your audience. If your story involves your college roommate's crazy sex life, you may not want to share it with your great-grandma.Incorporate voices, facial expressions, gestures and actions.
 The sound of your voice can be a factor in whether or not you command attention. Learning to speak from your diaphragm may help you keep people's attention when you speak and may even cause them to like and trust you more.To speak from the diaphragm, first learn diaphragmatic breathing. Inhale, allowing your belly to fill with air and rise, then exhale and allow it to fall. Your throat will relax and you will be able to better project your voice and have a deeper, more resonant sound.Take an acting or singing class to develop your breathing and speaking skills, or work with a voice coach. , Going into a business function with the same stories and presence as you would bring to a sports bar might make you the center of attention — but not in a good way. Learning to read a room and adapt to the environment is an important skill to learn so you can be the center of attention in a positive way. Try to get a sense for the overall vibe of the room — do people seem tense, relaxed, worried, aggressive, bored? — and adapt your style for the situation.


For instance, if you're at a dinner party and everyone falls into a tense, awkward silence, you might break the tension by telling a funny story or even calling attention to the situation: "Well, this is awkward!"If the group seems reserved and the gathering is somewhat formal, save your wild stories for another time, even if you know they kill. Listen to what other people are talking about and try to chime in with something relevant.
If you notice people are bored — looking at their phones while you are talking, glancing away, etc. try engaging them by asking questions and listening closely. People are drawn to good listeners, and once you learn what does excite them, you can focus on that. For instance, you may realize that your hunting stories aren't going over well because you're speaking to a group of vegans. Use this new knowledge to take the conversation in a direction that is more relevant to the interests of the crowd.
 People who are overly concerned with their social image often come across as clingy or personally insecure. One of the most important steps to being the center of attention is simply to enjoy yourself and act naturally in any interpersonal settings.


Try new things to see which you enjoy—other people will notice this and consequently pay attention to you. These activities could include:
Ask someone to dance
Help the host prepare food
Initiate a lawn game or party game.

