 If you have blood pressure above 120/80, you have high blood pressure. The stages of high blood pressure change depending on the level of pressure in your heart.


Blood pressures of 120-139 / 80-89 are considered prehypertension.
Stage 1 Hypertension is 140-159 / 90-99.
Stage 2 Hypertension is 160 or higher / 100 or higher.;
, Blood pressure varies regularly throughout the day. It is lower when you sleep and rest, and rises if you are excited, nervous, or active. For this reason, diagnosis of abnormal blood pressure is made only when elevated blood pressure is seen during at least three doctor’s visits, spaced over a period of weeks to months. Additionally, you may have isolated high blood pressure that only affects one of the two pressures measured.Whichever number puts you into the highest stage is the diagnosis you will be given. For example, if your blood pressure is 162/79, you have Stage 2 Hypertension.
 There are two categories of hypertension, essential and secondary.Essential hypertension develops gradually over many years. Causation is generally multi-factorial and it is strongly associated with several independent risk factors. Age is a major factor. The older you get, the more likely you are to develop blood pressure. This is the result of stiffening and narrowing of the arteries over time. Genetic predisposition can also play a role. Hypertension is significantly more common in those people who have parents with hypertension. Studies have shown that possibly up to 30 percent of blood pressure variation is due to genetics.


If you are obese, have diabetes, or have dyslipidemia, you are more prone to high blood pressure. Weight gain is a major risk factor. In early disease, it is the result of increased cardiac output as your body has to work harder against increased weight. Overtime, fat and sugar metabolism is disrupted, which leads to increased blood pressure. Diabetes and dyslipidemia are also diseases of deregulation of sugar and fat metabolism, respectively.
Those who experience a great deal of stress, or have hostile or anxious personalities, as well as those who suffer from depression, have been shown to be more prone to developing hypertension.
Hypertension is more common and more severe in those who are black. This is thought to be the result of both environmental, socioeconomic, and genetic factors., This type of high blood pressure occurs in response to an underlying condition. These factors include such things as kidney problems. Since your kidneys are in charge of regulating the composition of fluid in the blood and secreting excess water, both acute and chronic kidney disease can cause dysfunction, leading to excess fluid retention, increased blood volumes, and the development of high blood pressure.


You can also have this kind of high blood pressure if you have adrenal gland tumors, which can secrete hormones that affect heart rate, contraction of blood vessels, and kidney function, possibly leading to an increase blood pressure.
Other factors include thyroid problems, which cause abnormal levels of thyroid hormones and can affect heart rate and increase blood pressure. Obstructive sleep apnea puts stress on the entire respiratory and cardiovascular systems, which over time leads to hypertension.
Certain medications, both prescription and over-the-counter, have been shown to raise blood pressure. These include certain types of oral contraceptives, NSAIDs, antidepressants, steroids, decongestants, and stimulants. This is also true for illegal use of drugs such as cocaine and methamphetamines, which can raise blood pressure significantly.An unhealthy diet high in salt can also lead to conditions that produce high blood pressure.

