 To get the most nutritional benefits out of this healthy fruit, choose organic blueberries. That’s true of most fruits and vegetables, and blueberries are no different!


Conventional blueberries have been found to contain lower amounts of anthocyanin antioxidants than organic blueberries do. Antioxidants are ingredients that combat free radicals in the body that can damage cells and DNA.Organic blueberries also carry less risk of trace elements of pesticide, which can have a negative impact on health. Appreciate the power of blueberries. Blueberries are considered one of the world’s healthiest foods because they contain antioxidants. They are known as a superfood!
Non-organic blueberries are still good for you. They just aren’t as good for you as the organic variety, which is usually a little more expensive.;
, As with many foods, you will obtain the greatest health benefits from blueberries if you eat them raw.


Cooked blueberries still have some health benefits but, say, blueberries baked into pancakes won’t have all of the nutritional flavor or nutritional benefits of the raw fruit.
The other issue with cooking blueberries is that you end up with the sugar that baked dessert or breakfast recipes call for. Don’t think that processed package of blueberry muffins will be that good for you!
Blueberries are the second most popular fruit in the United States. Only strawberries are consumed more.
 In order to truly reap the health benefits of blueberries, it’s important to eat them consistently and in fairly large quantities.


Studies have documented health benefits in people who eat between 2 and 2.5 cups of blueberries every day. Blueberries are considered on par with strawberries and pomegranates in antioxidant capacity. At least three times a week is a good place to start.Some diabetics who have eaten at least three servings of blueberries every day reported improvement in their body’s ability to regulate blood sugar.
Healthier eating plans often recommend between 5-10 servings of fruits and vegetables every day. Some government organizations recommend a little less. The bottom line, though, is that you can’t go wrong by adding more fruits and vegetables into your diet and removing processed foods from it! To gain the benefit of blueberries, though, you need to eat them regularly.

