 Laser treatment uses a concentrated beam of energy to heat the capillaries under the skin, targeting each one individually to successfully remove them. Intense pulsed light (IPL) therapy is similar, but targets a broader area. Your dermatologist will work with you to decide which treatment (or combination of both) will be most effective in your situation.


When you meet with the dermatologist, ask a lot of questions. Make sure the person has conducted the procedure before with satisfactory results.It's best to choose the dermatologist you go with on someone else's recommendation. Make sure you trust the person to use the procedure that's right for you.;
, You should not receive these treatments while you have a tan or if your skin is irritated; lasers and IPL target the pigment in capillaries and brown spots, and if your skin is dark in color, they won't be able to "see" the places they're supposed to target. In addition to making sure your skin is as pigment-free as possible, follow any other instructions from your dermatologist leading up to the day of the appointment.
 Both laser and IPL treatments can lead to minor redness and swelling of the skin for several days after treatment. You'll want to schedule your appointment several weeks in advance of important social events so your face has time to return to its normal state.


In rare cases, laser and IPL treatments can lead to skin damage and hyperpigmentation. This is more common in people with darker skin than those with fair skin. Be sure to discuss all the possible side effects with your dermatologist before proceeding with the treatments.
 Your skin needs time to heal after treatment, so you should stay out of the sun for several days. Closely follow the after-care instructions given to you by your dermatologist to ensure your skin heals properly.
 Sometimes it takes more than one treatment to get rid of all of the broken capillaries. The capillaries removed by your laser or IPL treatment will never return, but if your skin is especially prone to getting broken capillaries, you may have to get laser treatments every once in a while to clear things up.

