 Many polytechnic schools, universities, and community colleges offer courses as well as full and part-time programs in technical and business communication. You might even able to find online/distance education classes to 'attend'. Some online courses may have a cost to them, others will not.


Note: Technical writers come from a diverse range of academic backgrounds, spanning the military to electrical engineering to Swedish literature to theatre. If you were trained in the sciences or trades, focus on your communication skills. If you were trained in the arts, focus on your technical skills. Take courses, enroll in certificate programs, or teach yourself through books.;
, The more informed you are about the field of technical communication, the better a technical writer you will be. Such books will teach you about technical writing style, different types of technical writing, how to build and manage your career, and a range of other useful tidbits.
 Technical communication is a digital entity. You need to intimately know communication and digital publishing software such as Microsoft Office, Adobe FrameMaker, Adobe PhotoShop, and Adobe RoboHelp; Social Media such as LinkedIn, Yammer, Twitter, and WordPress; and Markup languages such as HTML, XML, and CSS. Specific industries may call for knowledge of other tools such as DITA, Dreamweaver, Java, database languages, AutoCAD or others.
 Ask yourself, are you writing and editing for civil engineers or mad scientists or basement-dwelling hackers or Joe Average? Are you developing online help or parts manuals or memos or corporate e-mails? The number of fields and types of communication that technical writing covers is limitless.
 While most people don't forget how to 'write' per se, specialty types of writing takes practice and a desire to improve. One sound way of going about this is by developing and maintaining wikiHow articles.
 This will sharpen your eye for detail as well as expose you the style and nuances of various types of technical writing out there, i.e. academic papers in the sciences, sets of instructions, reports, catalogues, etc.
 Becoming an STC member will open your doors to professional development training, writing competitions and prizes, mentorship programs, volunteering opportunities, job postings, networking with other technical writers, and a host of other career-related benefits. It also shows employers that you take your professional writing seriously.
 Sound technical writing involves being precise with words, language, and information - it's as simple as that.
 These two rules are imperative for making information as clear and accessible as possible. Keep in mind that your audience may have range of reading comprehension levels. Also, if you are writing for an international audience, try to avoid local idioms such as "the cat's pajamas" or "easy as pie"---such concepts do not easily translate across languages or cultures.
 Trial and error is one of the best ways to learn. Don't be afraid to make mistakes and take criticism, you will improve with time and practice.
 This is important if you work in an international or multilingual context. It opens doors and breaks barriers between you and your client/employer and it enables you to cross-check the quality of translated (localized) technical documents as well as potentially translate technical documentation yourself. Consider languages with major technical, scientific, or academic output as German, Spanish, French, Russian, or even Japanese!

