 You can't be truly happy unless you know the person who you're trying to make happy (YOU!). Spend some time alone to think about who you are and what your purpose in life is, so that you can use that as a guide in your life.;
, Communicate. Chat with your friends about anything; from movies and music, to fashion and boys. Being a (teen) girl should be fun, exciting, and full of new surprises!

, Try to go shopping, especially on weekends, or watch a new movie together as a group. Also, try to make new friends, and e. When you grow up, you start to feel insecure about yourself. Your appearance and your body are your sole focus all of a sudden. Remember that curves are the must have accessory, so don't diet because your "friends" tell you to, or because you see airbrushed celebrities, or just because you see yourself as a little bit chubby. Just remember to drink plenty of water every day, try to eat plenty of fruit and vegetables, and exercise for around thirty minutes a day. Having a body that you like will help to bring up your confidence.
 Whether it's music, volleyball, dancing, or singing into your tattered hairbrush, everyone has a passion that makes them smile. Practice doing what you love, with your friends, or flying solo.
 Maybe it's watching a movie together, or just having a girl gossip! Mothers are like your best friend, except they're always there for you and don't judge. Also talk to the rest of your family! Chat with friends, and keep in touch with female cousins and aunts.
 Don't just let them sit in the back of your mind; share them with the world! It is the only way to make your wildest dreams come true.
 If you find a person or a group of people that you can trust, have fun with, talk personally with, and they make you happy when you're around them, then you've probably found good friends. If your friends try to coax you into doing bad things or things you don't want to do, don't. You don't have to give in. If they're strongly pressuring you to do bad things, find new friends. Remember that you become the people that you hang out with. If you hang out with bad influences then you will become like them. If you hang out with good influenced people then you will become like them. Be a good judge of character.

