 Your supervisor should give you a script to follow for your initial sales pitch. Or you may be asked to create your own script based on some guidelines. You’ll want to avoid reading the script word-for-word, since this an easy way to lose a potential customer’s interest.Memorize it by reading it several times, then trying to cite it from memory one line at a time.


In the telemarketing industry, the product offer is known as an “Elevator pitch” because of how it summarizes the product or service in a few sentences, which should be recited during the time it takes to ride in an elevator., If you're just starting out in telemarketing, you might have problems with shyness. To reduce any reluctance you may have to make calls because of shyness, ask your supervisor if you could practice your sales pitch in front of a group of fellow employees. Ask them to give you feedback on how clearly you’re speaking, the appropriateness of your tone of voice, and how convincing your delivery is.Ask one person in the group to act as the potential customer, and carry out a mock sales conversation with them.
Another good way to build confidence is to shadow a fellow employee. Ask your supervisor about spending time watching, listening to, and taking notes on a top employee while they make calls.
Asking your boss for extra help will show them that you’re a dedicated employee and interested in doing all you can to help the company., In order to be able to speak convincingly about the product or service you’re pitching to the potential customer, it’s important that you understand it well. Ask your supervisor for a written summary of the product or service that you can study.If you’re selling a physical item, ask to see the product so you can study its characteristics and afterwards describe it better to the customer.
 Most telemarketing firms limit their calling lists to potential customers who are most likely to buy their products or services. Ask your supervisor for a summary of the backgrounds of potential customers you’ll be calling. They may all have several things in common, such as age, income, gender, or profession. Knowing these beforehand can help you to customize your pitch to the audience.If you’re calling an existing customer, find out as much as you can about their purchasing history and product preferences. Be sure to use this information when making your pitch.
 The majority of potential customers that you call will not be keen on what you’re offering them—at least at first, of course. That’s where your persuasion skills come into play. But you can't expect to be able to come up with replies to negative answers on the spot, so you’ll need to prepare a list of replies to potential rejections to your sales pitch.For example, in reply to, “Sorry, I’m not interested,” you can keep them on the line with, “But I haven’t told you the best thing about ,” or “If you’ll give me twenty seconds I’d like to try to change your mind.”

, Mispronouncing a potential customer’s last name is a sure way to lose their interest right away. If the name’s pronunciation is unfamiliar to you, ask a co-worker or supervisor for help with a possible pronunciation. If you’re confident you know how a longer, multi-syllable name should be said, practice reciting it a few times before making the call.If you’re not sure how to pronounce a last name, it’s best not to even try. Instead, simply address the person you’re calling as “sir” or “ma’am.” Or if it is permitted by your supervisor, address the person by their first name—it’s less risky to come off as too familiar with a person than it is to botch their last name.

