 Most parts of India are tropical and warm, with the exception of the northern-most regions that are in the belt of the Himalayas. Unless you are visiting up north near Kashmir or the surrounding areas, you will be experiencing tropical weather. Even in the winter it usually only drops down to 15 or 20 degrees C (59-68 degrees F), which means that packing lightweight fabrics like linen or cotton is a good idea.In central and south India during the summer, the temperature can easily reach up to 40 degrees C (104 degrees F), so it’s important to wear clothing that is breezy and light as opposed to heavy or tight-fitting.
Unless you are visiting mountainous regions of India, avoid packing knits, sweaters or thick pants.
If you are a woman, you may find that wearing long skirts is preferable to wearing pants because it will be cooler and breezier, especially as womens’ pants are often tighter than mens’.;
, Try to wear white, beige or other light colors. Black and other dark colors absorb heat from the sun, making you feel even more hot. Keep this in mind especially if you are in India from March to June, which is the summer season.
 If you are visiting the mountainous areas of north India, pack winter clothes like sweaters, long pants and jackets, as well as a few items of warm-weather clothes like T-shirts and capris.


In the summer in the mountains, temperatures can be moderately warm during the day and plunge down at night, so having a range of clothing items is a good idea.
As you are going through your day, carry a bag with you that can hold a warm layer like a sweater in case you need to put one on as it gets colder.
 Even though you probably want to look fashionable, it’s always a good idea to wear a pair of practical shoes that offer support. Try to wear a pair of sturdy sandals or sneakers that will still be comfortable even after a long day’s walk.If you are traveling in northern regions of India, wear close-toed shoes so that your feet don’t get cold. If you are travelling in any other region of India, you can get away with wearing sandals or other open-toed shoes, which will keep your feet cool.
 Monsoon season in India takes place July through September, when the country experiences over 75% of its annual rainfall. Carry a raincoat with you that you can easily take off and put on or carry an umbrella. Don’t wear leather or suede, or any other materials that you don’t want to get wet., If you don't have clothing suited for the climate, consider buying clothing while you are in India. Many markets carry both traditional clothing and Western-inspired clothing that is appropriate for the intense climate.


For hot weather, women may wish to buy lightweight harem pants and long skirts, which are quite breezy and stylish. Men may choose to buy loose cotton or linen pants, which are made of a much lighter material than jeans and are better for hot weather.
Traditional Indian clothing can also be lightweight and good to wear in the summer. It's not frowned upon for foreigners to wear traditional Indian clothes, though you should probably expect to receive some curious looks if you are not of Indian or South Asian descent.
The most well-known piece of traditional Indian womens' clothing is a sari, a long, usually embellished fabric that is draped and tucked around the wearer. Another traditional womens' clothing item is the salwar kameez, which comprises of a long short sleeve tunic over a pair of loose pants.Traditional Indian mens' clothing includes the kurta, a collarless knee-length tunic, and the dhoti, which is a length of fabric draped in the shape of pants. Other items include the sherwani, a long, knee-length jacket-style top that is often worn with churidars, tight-fitting lightweight pants, and sometimes with a long, thin scarf as well.