 Tight clothing may constrict your stomach and lead to stomach pain. If you tend to wear tight fitting clothing, then try switching to loose fitting clothing for a while to see if it helps., Among its other negative effects, smoking can increase stomach acid and this may cause stomach pain.If you smoke, ask your doctor for help with quitting. There are many smoking cessation medications, tools, and programs that may help you.
 Carrying around excess weight can also put pressure on your internal organs and lead to reflux or GERD. If you are overweight or obese, then you may need to lose weight to eliminate this potential cause of stomach pain.Keep track of how much you eat every day. To lose weight, it is important to make sure that the number of calories you consume is less than the number of calories you burn. Keeping track of how much you eat in a food diary is the best way to see if you are burning more calories than you are eating each day.Get one hour of moderate exercise most days of the week.Losing weight is easier if you incorporate plenty of cardiovascular activity such as brisk walking, biking, or swimming. Find something that works for you and stick with it.

Avoid fad diets. Losing weight takes time and fad diets that promise that you will lose lots of weight overnight will probably require you to deprive yourself and you may also end up gaining back the weight you lost after the diet is over., Lying in bed can result in stomach acid rising up and this may lead to stomach pain. One way to reduce this factor is to elevate your upper body while you sleep. You can do this by raising up the head of your bed while you sleep or by placing some pillows under your upper body.Keep in mind that using extra pillows under your head will not help since this will only cause your head and neck to bend forward. It is important to make sure that your entire upper body is elevated.
 Stress is a common cause of stomach pain and other digestive issues as well. To manage stress, make sure that you incorporate some relaxation exercises into your daily routine.



Practice deep breathing exercises. Taking a few minutes to breathe deeply can also help you to manage stress. Try inhaling slowly through your nose to the count of five, then exhale slowly through your mouth to the count of five. Repeat this deep breath exercise for about 5-10 minutes.Listen to soothing music. Music is a great way to change your mood and soothing music can help to reduce stress when it strikes. Try playing some relaxing classical music or nature sounds. You can also just play one of your favorite songs and sing along.Learn how to meditate. Meditation is another great way to relax and manage stress. Meditation teaches you to silence your racing thoughts, which is a major cause of stress for some people. Meditation may even help you to be less affected by stress over time.