 When you start playing shows, you're going to realize that other people are playing very nice and expensive pieces of equipment. In order to maximize tone and take your playing to the next level, you need a professional quality guitar.;
, If you have enough money, request a custom guitar at a smaller guitar shop. It`s almost impossible to get a custom made guitar from Fender or Gibson because there are always people more important than you waiting in front of you.
 Look on the Internet: Guitar Center, Musician's Friend, Sweetwater, Elderly Instruments, Woodwinds & the Brasswinds, Roxy Music, and so on. However, don't overlook your local music shops to check brand names and what features and sounds are found within each brand. Locally, you can actually pick up and play an instrument to get the feel and sound firsthand, which one cannot over the Internet.
 ESP, Gretsch, Paul Reed Smith, Godin, Carvin, Ibanez, G&L, Gibson, Fender, Jackson, Dean, Heritage, and some other independent Japanese and American companies will offer the best examples of professional quality instruments. Visit these companies' websites. Usually they have lists of people in bands that they endorse, and these might be some of your favorite bands.
 This is to see what other people think of the instruments that you're looking at. Usually these people have experience playing in bands and such, and can be very helpful through their reviews of the products.
 After you've looked at everything, pick out a few guitars that you'd like to try out and take for a test drive in a store. After narrowing down your choices, find these models in a store and try them out. Ask the clerks there what they think, and what kind of guitars they play. Professional advice is the best advice when shopping for a professional guitar.
, You've tried them out, you've narrowed your choices down, and you've made your final selection. It's now time to enter the Pantheon of guitar Gods and make your mark upon the Earth with your new instrument. Enjoy your new guitar, and remember that Professional guitars only improve with age.

