 When you get a service (e.g., blood tests, annual physical, surgery) from a healthcare provider (e.g., hospitals, surgery centers, medical labs), that healthcare provider will usually submit a claim to you insurer. However, in some circumstances, if you are getting medical services from a provider that is not in your insurance network, you may have to submit a claim on your own. To submit a claim on your own, contact your insurer and get a claim form. Fill the claim form out and send it back to your insurer.


Once the claim is filed, your insurer will process that claim and decide how much they will cover. This calculation will be made based on the health insurance plan you have. Your insurer will directly pay the healthcare provider the amount that is covered by your insurance.If your insurer is covering all the costs, you will not have to do anything else.;
, If you have to pay part of your bill out-of-pocket, you will receive an Explanation of Benefits (EOB) from your insurer. It will explain what was covered and what was not, along with an explanation as to why. Your EOB will also show the amount you will be billed by your healthcare provider. Your healthcare provider will then send you a bill for that amount.Your insurer is required to send you this notification within 15 days if you are seeking prior authorization; 30 days for medical services you have already received; or 72 hours for urgent care cases.You can find sample EOBs online. Look at some from your insurer so you understand the information on them., When you look at your EOB, there will be a general explanation of why certain services were not covered. You can file an internal appeal with your healthcare provider if you think some services that were not covered should be. Some examples of common denials might include:


The benefit isn't offered under your plan;
Your medical problem began before you got the health plan;
You received care from a provider that is not in your network;
The requested service is not "medically necessary";
You are no longer enrolled in the plan; or
Your insurer is cancelling your coverage., If you received a denial of coverage and you belief your insurer is incorrect, you need to contact them to start the internal appeals process. Appeal information can usually be found on the back of your EOB.Most often your insurer will have dispute forms available online.You must file your internal appeal within 180 days of receiving your EOB.For example, a lot of insurers will provide a form that will ask you for your personal information as well as information about your healthcare provider. You will then indicate the type of dispute you have as well as a description of that dispute.You will usually be able to attach documents to your dispute as well, including bills, coverage details, receipts and even notes from the doctor.
 When you complete your complaint forms, you will usually have to send them in to an address set out in your EOB. If you cannot find the address you need to send your complaint to, contact your insurer and ask for help. The complaint form itself will also usually have the required address on it., Once you file an internal appeal, your insurer is required to respond within 30 days if it is for a service you have not received yet or 60 days if you have already received the service. Your insurer will send you a written decision. If your insurer agrees to cover the costs you disputed, you do not have to do anything else.


However, if your insurer upholds its earlier decision to deny you coverage, they will issue a "final internal adverse benefit determination."If you receive this determination, it is required to include information about appealing the decision externally., If you received a final internal adverse benefit determination, keep it along with any other information you received throughout the internal appeals process. This includes:


Your EOB;
Your request for an internal appeal;
Any documents you sent your insurer;
Notes from any conversations you had with doctors, lawyers, or your insurer; and
Any other documents you think might be relevant., Only certain denials of coverage can be reviewed externally. In general, you can file an external appeal for:


Any denial involving medical judgments that you or your provider may disagree with your insurer;
Any denial that involved a determination that the procedure was experimental or investigational; or
A cancellation of coverage based on the claim that you falsified information when you applied., External appeals are either handled at the state or federal level. If your state has an external review process that exceeds the federally required standards, you will follow your state's process. If, however, your state does not offer a satisfactory external review process, the federal Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) will oversee your external appeal.


If you are unsure about who will handle your external review, look at your EOB for information or look at the state list maintained by HHS. The HHS list can be found at https://www.cms.gov/CCIIO/Resources/Files/external_appeals.html.
 You must file a written request for an external review within 60 days of receiving your final internal adverse benefit determination.However, in urgent situations, you can file an external appeal at the same time you file an internal appeal., If you are using the HHS-Administered Federal External Review Process, you will file a Review Request Form with the federal contractor MAXIMUS.If you are using a state-administered external review process, you will need to visit your state's healthcare or insurance department website.


The federal Review Request Form will ask for your personal information; your insurer's information; information about the dispute; and whether your claim is an urgent one. You will also be allowed to submit supporting documentation, which will include all of the documents you have kept to this point.The state complaint form, in California for example, will ask for your personal information; information about your insurer; health related information; dispute specifics; and a request for relief. California will also let you attach supporting documents to your appeal., Your external review will be processed within 60 days of receiving it.If you receive and advantageous determination, you will not need to do anything else. However, if your claim is still being denied, you may need to take your case to court.
 When you hire an attorney, you will want someone with expertise and experience in insurance law. In particular, you should look for someone who has tried healthcare related cases in the past. If you are looking for attorneys, go to your state bar's website and utilize their lawyer referral service. For example, in California, you can call someone who will ask you a few questions about your case then refer you to a number of qualified attorneys near you.Before hiring any attorney, be sure you sit down for an initial consultation. During the consultation you should ask about their record of success, their level of experience, and their familiarity with the claims that need to be made.
In addition, always make sure you discuss fee arrangements before hiring someone.
 If your claim has been denied to this point, your only option left is to go to court. However, in a lot of situations (not always), you will not be able to appeal the external review's decision. This will depend on the plan you have and the state you live in.Therefore, you will usually need to sue your insurer on a claim of "bad faith." A bad faith claim involves proving your insurer failed to pay a claim covered by your insurance; failed to conduct a fair investigation before denying your claim; or failed to give you adequate notice of the reasons for denying your claim.Proving these things in court will be difficult if you have already lost an internal and external review.
Due to the small likelihood of success and the immense cost and time it takes to litigate a case, you should only go to court if you and your attorney feel your case is incredibly strong.
 Your complaint will describe your injuries or damages, explains how the defendant caused the harm, shows that the court has jurisdiction, and asks the court for relief.In an insurance bad faith case, your complaint will include:


Information about how you were denied on an insurance claim and how you will prove that it was done in bad faith.
Information about the defendant (your insurer) and how they caused the harm, which in this case is because they are your insurer and because they denied the claim.
A positive claim of jurisdiction letting the court know they can take the case. If you are filing in state court, file where you have the insurance coverage. If you are filing in federal court, you will need to show that you are suing under some federal law or that you and the insurance company are in different states.
A claim for relief, which will be an amount that covers the costs of the denied claim.
 Once your complaint is complete, you will file it with the clerk of courts. You will be required to pay a filing fee unless it is waived. Filing fees are usually waived only if you have a financial hardship you can prove. You must then notify the defendant of the case against them. To do this, you will have an independent third party serve them with your complaint as well as a summons. The third party can serve the defendant in various ways but must return to you a proof of service., Before trial there is a period where you and the defendant will exchange information about your case. This information might include the identity of witnesses and copies of important documents.In this context, you will likely depose (i.e., interview) someone from the insurance company who made the decision to deny your claim. In addition, you will want to ask for any internal documentation that might give you an idea of why the claim was denied. You will also have to provide documents and interviews in return.
 Your judge might encourage you to settle the case before it gets to trial. You might want to use formal processes such as mediation and arbitration to try and come to an agreement.In addition, you and the other party might try less formal processes and simply sit around a table and discuss possible solutions.


If no settlement can be reached, you will have to go to trial.
 At trial, a court will apply rules of evidence to determine what can and cannot be heard in the courtroom. You and the defendant will present evidence and each side will have an opportunity to discuss that evidence. After all the evidence is heard, the judge or jury will determine who is liable.If you win, you will be awarded some amount of damages. If you lose, you will either have to continue to appeal or cut your losses.

