 This isn't for the faint of heart. Hopefully, you have a 'techie' friend to help you out. Alternatively, you can visit Tiki.Org for some help.;
,, There is an admin login setup for you.


Account name: admin
Account password: admin

, Absolutely, do not skip this step. Laziness will get you hacked!


Click on Admin Home.
Click on General (should be the first button).
Go to the 'Change admin password' tab.
 Even if you are the only editor that will be using your account, you will probably want to have a non-admin account to edit with.


If you do add a user, try using another browser for that user to log in with. That way you don't have to log in and out with your Admin account while configuring Tiki.
 This is where you will be doing the bulk of your initial setup.
 The screenshot has a few basic ones selected.
 This allows you to select specific user options.
 Be aware that any template changes you made before would have to be redone.
 Some of the items you might want to change are:


Add content in the Custom Site Header area.
Add your own logo and site name in the Site Logo and Title area.
Enable (or disable) the Site Search Bar and Login Bar.
Enable (or disable) the Left and Right columns.
Enable (or disable) the Top and Bottom bars.
Enable (or disable) the icons and debugging information in the Bottom bar.
 Try adding 'Online Users'. Once you have selected it, the screen will automatically refresh so that you will see what it will do. You can now change options. Make these changes.


Position: Select left. You will add this module to the left column.
Order: Select 5. This will place the new module above the menu.
Flip: Type y. This will include the Toggle(Toggle icon) in the module, allowing you to "roll up" the module.
Select Registered. This way, only registered users will see the list.
, You (and your users) can edit this page to learn the Tiki wiki syntax. No versions of the page are retained, so you don't have to worry about spam.
Comments: This allows registered users to add comments to the page (without actually editing the wiki page). You can further customize Tiki by specifying if the comments should be displayed by default and how they are ordered. You can override this setting on a page-by-page basis.
Pictures: This allows you to upload pictures and images to a wiki page. By default, uploaded pictures will be stored in the File Gallery.
Backlinks: "Backlinks" are a list of wiki pages that link to a specific page. Tiki can automatically keep this list of incoming links up-to-date. You can customize the length (number of characters) displayed in the backlink drop list. This can be useful if you have very long page names.

