 If you staple booklets together frequently, it may be worth investing in one of these two specialized stapler varieties. Centerline staplers are simply oversized staplers which can reach the booklet spine from the correct direction to orient a staple. Rotating-head staplers are shorter, but have a stapler arm that can rotate to apply the staple with the correct orientation. Either variety is suitable for booklets.


Centerline staplers are sometimes referred to as booklet staplers or long reach staplers.
For centerline staplers, check that the "throat depth" can reach across the full width of your booklet's page.
Check the maximum number of sheets the device can staple. Keep in mind this is the number of pieces of paper, not the number of numbered pages in your finished booklet.
 Make sure that all the pages are in order and that the paper is evenly aligned before inserting into the stapler.
 Usually two will suffice (this is standard) but depending on the size of your booklet, one staple may suffice or you may need three or four. If you need more than one or two staples, it can be helpful to make small pencil marks in advance that show you where to position the stapler. With practice, this will likely become easier.
 Place it into the specialized stapler so that the center portion is aligned underneath the stapling mechanism. Make sure the booklet is aligned with the stapler, and that the margins on either side of the stapler are as close to the same width as possible.
 Once the stapler arm is aligned, push down on the end of the upper arm until you hear the staple go through the paper. Repeat the process above to align your stapler on a different place on the spine, and staple until the booklet has as many staples as you choose. Two or three staples are generally enough.
 If any of them failed to puncture the paper, or did not close properly, remove them so you can try again. Do this by carefully unbending each arm of the staple until it is straight, then pushing it out through the hole made by the stapler.

