 If you don’t want to gild your entire object, use painter’s tape to cover the parts you want ungilded. This will keep the sizer and gold leaf in the areas where you want them. Because the tape adhesive isn’t very strong, you can remove the tape easily without damaging anything.;
, Use a piece of sand paper to go over the areas that don’t have any painter’s tape. Continue sanding until the surface is smooth. Use a tack cloth to remove the dust you created by sanding.
 Use a primer that's formulated especially for gilding. Gilder’s primer works with gilding sizer to form a tacky surface that will permanently hold gold leaf. It’s also pigmented to hide any flaws that might remain visible after the leaf is applied. If you use regular primer, you will have to apply a base layer of pigmented paint called a bole before applying the primer.
 Wait at least 30 minutes until the sizer has dried to a clear finish.At this point, the sizer will still feel tacky (fairly dry but sticky to the touch). It will then remain tacky for several more hours, giving you time to apply the gold leaf.


An alternative way of testing for tackiness is to glide your knuckle down the surface of the object. If you can hear a squeak, it’s ready for the gold leaf.
While the sizer is drying, clean the gilding cushion.
 A gilding cushion is used in the process of cutting the gold leaf. It consists of leather stretched over a wooden block. The leather provides a smooth surface that won’t tear the leaf.
 Scoop out a small amount with the gilding knife. This should be enough to cover about the first inch (25.4mm) of the blade. Slowly bring the knife to the gilding cushion.
 Spread the powder over the surface of the cushion using the long edge of the blade. Lightly distribute the powder across the surface of the cushion by moving the blade back and forth. Continue doing this until the powder covers the entire surface. This will absorb any remaining grease that would make the leaf stick to the cushion.
 Using the flat side of the blade, scrape the remaining powder on to the cushion. Gently brush away and leftover powder from the cushion. Thoroughly wipe the blade with a cloth to remove any lingering pumice particles., This will make it easier to apply. Lay the leaf flat on the gilding cushion. The matte side with the backing should be face-up. Gently apply pressure with the blade of the knife to begin cutting. You should do this while you’re waiting for the sizer to dry.
 Do this while the leaf is still laying flat on the cushion. A common way to do this is to carefully insert the knife between the leaf and the backing. Keep the tissue paper backing for burnishing the leaf in the application process. Alternatively, you can:


Lay the leaf and backing on the surface of the object. The backing side should face you.
Burnish the leaf with a brush or your fingers.
Carefully pull the paper backing away.
Blow on the gold leaf. This will encourage it to lay flat enough to work with.
 It will only stick to the tacky areas of the surface. If your sheets of leaf don’t cover the entire width of the surface, you can arrange the pieces in a simple grid pattern.Don’t worry if areas seem to overlap. You can remove those later.
 Lay the tissue paper backing on top of the leaf. Use your index finger to gently burnish the leaf and remove any air pockets. Keep the paper still to avoid tearing or scratching the leaf.
 Use a soft gilder's brush to make the leaf adhere to the object completely and smoothly. Move in a gentle back-and forth motion. The movement of the brush will remove the excess pieces of leaf. The object should look as if it’s made of gold rather than covered in gold leaf.
 This includes holes or other places where the gold leaf didn't adhere. Apply small bits of leaf to cover them. Smooth and brush the new bits before moving to the final step.
 Apply an acrylic topcoat. The topcoat will protect the leaf from damage due to handling, dust, water and ultraviolet light. Allow the seal to dry for five hours.The top coat isn’t necessary if you’re gilding perishable items like food., This optional step will give the surface an antique look. Using a dry paintbrush, apply the glaze. Move in straight lines, going back and forth as you progress across the surface. Wipe off excess glaze with a soft dust cloth.

