 Start be deciding where in Canada you’d like to explore, such as a specific province or area. There are 13 provinces in Canada and each province has several national parks. Choosing a national park based on area may help you determine if you’d like to visit the west side of Canada, for example, or the east side of Canada. Or you may look for a park close to the Rocky mountains so you can see the Rockies and enjoy some time in the park.


Another option is to choose a park that is close to a town or city that you would also like to visit, such as Banff National Park, which encompasses the town of Banff. Or Quarry Island in Quebec, which is in the Mingan Archipelago National Park Reserve in Quebec.
You can find a full list of Canadian national parks on the Parks Canada website.;
, Pick at least one park you want to visit or perhaps two or more if you have more time on your trip. There is often a lot to see and explore in one national park so you may only have the time to explore one. If you are doing a roadtrip, for example, you may have time to fit in visits to more than one national park.You may select a park that has a renowned site, such as a lake, hot springs, or rock formations. Or you may go for a park that has a stunning attraction, such as the ski hills in Mount Revelstoke National Park or the Columbia Icefields in Jasper National Park.
You may choose two national parks that are within the same province or area, such as Banff National Park and Jasper National Park, which are both in the province of Alberta. They are also driving distance from each other, which makes it easier for you to access both within in a day trip or for an overnight trip.
 Think about what type of weather you would prefer for your visit. If you’re going to the national park to hike or bike, for example, you may opt for a warmer time of the year, such as the spring or summer months. If you’d like to do winter sports in the national park, the winter months may be more ideal.Many people who like to hike choose September or October to visit national parks in Canada, as they are often less crowded, the weather is more temperate, and the scenery is beautiful with the changing of the leaves.Keep in mind that in the winter months, some parks may be inaccessible or closed due to extreme weather conditions, such as avalanches or snowstorms.
Before you finalize your travel dates, look at the predicted weather forecast in the national park for that time period. Check the forecast closer to your chosen travel dates to ensure the park is still open and that the weather will be a good fit for the activities you want to do in the park.
 To help you narrow down which Canadian national park you would like to go to, think about your priorities as a traveler. Ask yourself, What would I like to do on my trip? What would I like to get out of my visit?


Perhaps you want to do a lot of winter sports on your visit. You may then opt for a national park with a renowned ski hill or a lake that you can skate on. Or maybe you'd prefer to do backcountry hiking. You may then look for a national park that offers great views and good trails for hiking in the backcountry.
 Perhaps the easiest way to explore a Canadian national park is to drive to it. Having a car in the park can be a good way to get to a hiking trail or a ski hill. Many Canadian national parks will have paved roads running through the entire park as well as parking lots by many major attractions or trails. Driving to the national park will also give you the chance to plan a fun road trip, with stops in cities or towns along the way. You may choose an existing route for your road trip or create your own route.For example, a popular road trip is to drive from Calgary to Banff and Lake Louise in Banff National Park, with stops at hot springs, the town of Banff, a beautiful hiking trail to a canyon, and the famous emerald waters of Lake Louise.
If you are travelling from out of the country, you may fly into a city or town in Canada and rent a car with the intent of driving to the national park.
 Another option if you don’t want to rent a car or do not have access to a car is to take a bus to the national park. Many national parks in Canada can be accessed by a bus from a city or town near the park. You can also take a bus to the national park from the airport, depending on where you are flying into in Canada.You can also get to cities in a national park by the Greyhound bus, such as the town of Jasper in Jasper National Park, or cities close to a national park, such as Calgary, Alberta, which is an hour away from Banff National Park.
 If you want a more scenic view from your window, taking the train to the national park may be for you. Many Canadian national parks are accessible by train through VIA Rail Canada. Search online for more information on trains you can take to certain national parks, depending on where you are starting from in Canada.There is also a train service called the Rocky Mountaineer that has routes all over Western Canada. They offer different routes to several national parks with stops in several major Canadian cities., Think about who you are going to be travelling with on your visit to the Canadian national park. Perhaps you are traveling with good friends or a partner. Maybe you are bringing the whole family with you. Or maybe you are doing a solo trip.


Determining who your travel companions are may help you to get a sense of the cheapest and most efficient way to travel to the park. You may be able to save money on gas, for example, if you are splitting the cost with three other people in a car. Perhaps it is cheaper for your family to take the train or the bus rather than drive.
 Once you have determined the park or parks you are visiting as well as your mode of transportation, make a budget for the trip. Calculate how much transportation and accommodations, if any, are going to cost. Then consider daily expenses like food and activities. You may budget a certain amount of money a day so you do not go over your budget.


You can also create a travel timeline so you know where you will be and what you will be doing day by day. You may block out time for hikes, winter sports, and note where you will eat your meals on a daily basis while you visit the park.
 To get the full experience at a national park in Canada, make sure you buy a park pass. You can buy a park pass for several parks in Canada or all parks in Canada in advance online. You can also purchase a park pass at the gates to the national park if you are driving to the park. Having a park pass will ensure you have paid the entry fee and will give you access to the entire park. There are day passes as well as passes for longer stays available.Sometimes Parks Canada offers a special deal on park passes, such as the offer of a free park pass in 2017 to celebrate their 150th anniversary. Check online at Parks Canada to see if there are any deals or specials on park passes for when you plan to travel.
 If you’d like to get a more informative experience at the national park, you may sign up for a park tour. There are often tours offered at attractions in the national park on an hourly or daily basis. You can also sign up for a tour package where you do an activity with a guide, such as hiking, kayaking, or snowshoeing. Having a guide may be a good option if you are travelling as a family and want to ensure you are all safe while doing an activity together.Having a park guide may also be a good idea if you are planning to do any backcountry exploring in the national park or go on more challenging hiking trails.
You can search for park tours online through the website for the national park or by calling Parks Canada for more information.
 Perhaps the easiest and cheapest option in a national park is going for a hike on a trail. You may choose a popular hiking trail in the national park or try a more challenging trail. Look for a family friend hiking trail if you are travelling as a family and make sure you are prepared for the hike. Packing the appropriate gear for the hike will ensure you are all safe on the trail.Always check the weather forecast and the trail conditions before you head out on a hike. Look for any weather advisories in the area and let someone at home or someone not with you on the hike that you are going out. This will ensure someone knows where you are in case of emergency.
 Many national parks contain one or more lakes with stunning views and waters ideal for canoeing. You can rent canoes on site or bring your own canoe to use on the lake. Make sure you wear life jackets when you are in the canoe.You can also try kayaking in any rivers or streams in the national park. You may have to search for good kayaking spots in the national park, depending on which one you go to, online or in person through a Parks Canada representative.
 Winter sports like skiing, snowboarding, and snowshoeing are all fun activities you can try in the national park. If you intend to do winter sports, visit Canadian national parks in winter and go to parks that tend to get a lot of snow. You may be able to rent winter sports gear in the park or bring your own gear.Make sure you do winter sports with at least one other person or a group of people.
You may need to pay a fee to do winter sports on ski hills in the national park.
 Camping in the national park can be a fun way to have an extended visit to the area and really soak in the natural setting. You will need to bring your own camping gear to camp in the national park and ensure you have a valid park pass for the duration of your stay.You can reserve a camping spot in the national park ahead of time online on the Parks Canada website. This may be a good idea in high season, such as summer or late spring.
You may need to pay a camping fee to reserve the spot, depending on the area you are camping on.

