 Know what is a fact and what is an opinion and what is untrue. Without being armed with this knowledge in regard to everything in the world, one apparently cannot understand an avoid failure. Without taking a break, or distracting your mind from the aim, failure may come unfortunately. In that case, giving rise to fear and thinking of the future is utterly idiotic.


Sometimes, failure comes to our door, despite the fact that we had a good performance in the past. We put our honest efforts in order to earn satisfactory credits, but sometimes it does not give you what you would expect.
Do not think about failure or success. This kind of thinking is completely unreasonable. Instead, be hardworking and have integrity. If we allow this integrity to be seen, failure will never knock on the door.

If you dash by failure, chances are there will be faults in our curriculum. It might be that you did choose the direction in which you were proceeding, or the method. It is solely our area of fight in the battle, which is why we get defeated.


For the ultimate loss, only we are responsible. We have to accept this fact in order to maintain the balance. This psychology, if we able to develop in our mind, it would help us from falling in dark. Failure can comes hundred times, that is to say that, trying as a Rocky is illogical or it is against of the wisdom of life. Self-belief is necessary.;
, When competitors are running in a race, they are finely aware of rising and the falling points of each other. This means that they have compared between themselves. People put two bodies, side by side, and they pass their time by counting their bits and pieces, which is very sad.


Everyone is unique and beyond the comparison with others’ is the statement for this kind of society. We have to decompose or rot ourselves from these kinds of people. Every competitor is allocated with a separate running track. These are the rules of the game after all. No one can violate them, and, if it’s done, rustication or suspension from school is performed.
Similarly, in life, if we compare, we attain rancor, jealousy and greed; all these elements take us to bottom. Consider who is responsible for the failure. The answer to this question is different for everyone, as it is an open question which has more than one answer. Our life is like a race too, in which people blame, compare you with others, and force you to compete which apparently caused a dangerous feeling of ‘losing’.
 It requires effort to forget failure, but lastly it helps in amplifying our endurance. For instance, as success comes, it comes with anticipation. As it is continued for a certain period of time, we reach to a destination where load of expectations are excessively high and “repressibility” (an act of pressurizing) comes to do its work. It comes from the masses around you and it’s hard to sustain.


If you are a successful person, people will match the beats with you. If unfortunately this pleasant situation reverses, these masses doubt on your merits. Don’t care about what people comment or care about you; if you don’t want to do this, create the potential to bear the stress. Otherwise, you will soon be a flagged body.

If you develop this supernatural power in your mind, you will be able to face problems in your life. Our parents are the key to unlock this door. They teach us about composure. Society is like a nature; sometimes, words sound like music to ears and sometimes bitter to taste. In these all circumstances, all we have to do is to make ourselves ‘motionless’. Just give a nod with ‘respect’ and do your work with honesty.
 Consider the fear of failing. To distract your mind from it, you should change the orientation of our lifestyle. Perhaps, it would energize you.


For example, spend your time travelling, try different cuisines at different locations, try to learn something new, and try to teach to your acquaintances if you have a perceived skill. These elements are very important, in order to keep your mind cheerful. If you do these things, you will be able to stop thinking of fear of failure. It will also will spur your conscience which is good thing.
Nobility decreases with failure, but also increases the trepidation of losing. By devouring fear, one can resolve the problems if he or she is committed with his or her aim. One additional effect, heads up in this process. ‘Bad habits’. One can think that, by doing a particular thing, you will be in position to oppose the circumstances. This kind of thought process is absolutely an apex of foolishness.
 Consider how to face the commoners. What most people make a picture of this problem is, they forced to walk as a criminal, bear ridiculous thoughts and unexpected replies.


Society is like a chameleon lizard. These kinds of species are able to change their skin coloration. Similarly, society speaks on what it is based at that instance. Accordingly, it changes its group or community and use a different tongue to speak against you.

To oppose this, we should apply the reverse theory. If they ask you about your failure, give them answer which sounds music to their ears. You can just say, "I didn’t give my best; my efforts were not that tight, but I will do it with confidence again with full attention and will definitely get success.” You will probably get a reply of silence if you say this. By doing this, you will definitely be able to increase the level of confidence.
 It’s very crucial to stay focused when starting from beginning. Concentrate on one thing at a time and you can expect good results. Conversely, if you are not paying attention in what you are doing, after some period, you realize that, you are in position to stay silent again.


It is dependent upon how you try. If you think in deep, you come to know that concentrating on a single thing is very difficult. We cannot do multiple things at a time. We suck at ‘multitasking’. ‘Eliminating distractions’ is the key to staying focused. When you are doing one thing, eliminate all the other distractions. Take breaks in between to refresh your mind. Switch off the distractions. It’s hard but definitely doable.
 You need a role model and faith for rising from the dark. Developing confidence is easy to speak, but very hard to attain. Don’t think of negative stuff. If you are thinking about bad thoughts, use ‘SRD technique’.  Stop, relax and distract.


Call these three words two to three times in your mind; do this with full attention, and you will feel better. Another idea for getting maximum confidence is to make two colorful posters and write these two sentences, each, on a separate poster, in bold letters. Every morning, read these sentences loudly for exactly ‘21’ days; do this in order to become a supernaturally confident person. You may face contradictions in starting five to six days that you are not doing this work consistently. You could try saying these things, for instance:

I love to be confident.
I am independent of good and bad opinions of the others.
 Consistency is the concept. If you are known of well, then there is nothing wrong in saying that you have conquered the world. If you have set your aim in life, then it is the master key to get there.


It is very hard as a diamond to preserve consistency over a long period of time. ‘Stick to one thing for a long time’ is not a cakewalk. If you are confident, motivated but not consistent, failure will surely come because it is an independent concept. All the other things are simply meaningless. Even if you lack confidence and motivation but have imposing consistency and ability of doing hard work, you can be a successful person. But, it’s very harsh to develop consistency when rising from the failure and it also depends on what kind of company you have.
 This does not mean having virtual friends on Facebook, Twitter and other online sites. Be more social with people in your workplace, college, school, etc. Form a group and be the leader of it so that you will be able to communicate with people very well.


Schedule daily and weekly meetings, go out, have dinner with new people, share your problems with each other and try to resolve them. It may hard for a character who is obsessed with failure. If someone is inviting you for a meet or a small get together, don’t make excuses, just say ‘yes’ and be yourself in meeting. It will increase your bearing capacity and empower your system.
 We choose failure and success, Life is like different cuisines in which every bite tastes different; sometimes sweet and sometimes bitter. However, we never stop the consumption process. When that bite enters in our body, the only useful part is absorbed and remaining is taken off from the body.


Similarly, in life, if we approach by failure, we learn many essentials from it and take off other terms like misery and sadness. We get countless chances to prove ourselves; we just need to be patient. Everyone does these things in order to live a better life. Start from the step where you did fall from. Show confidence and you will definitely be able to digest failure. Stop caring for results and life will be pleasant.

