 One a girl, and one a boy. They could be children as well, but adults cannot marry children, unlike the previous game, Tomodachi: Collections.;
, While looks/voice don't matter, personalities do. If you change the personalities of one of the Miis later on, there is a chance their affection will change. Even if they do get married, it could be rocky and lead to divorce.
, But keep in mind, if they don't have full birthdays, you can't see their compatibility.


If it's 10-30% or even 0%, There is no hope. Even if you try to bond them, they may have an extremely rocky marriage later on.
35%-50%: There is an even chance but It may be hard.
60%-80%: There's a good chance of love.
80%-100%: They will definitely fall in love, but it is important that they meet each other.
99%-100% is rare.
 It may say "()'s not ready to make the first move, but it may be necessary ...". Or, "This Is a match made in heaven! But () needs to step out because () has the stronger feelings." If it says something like the top, they may not have good compatibility.
 Get the Miis to meet each other. It's usually up to you of how they become friends. The topic they talk about is important. If it's the wrong choice, they won't become friends unless you wait for another event and select a different event.


The friendship level will start out as yellow/gold. It rises the better friends they are. But, it may fall too. The worst friendship is teal colored, and it will say "Not getting along at all".
 Eventually one of the apartment windows of a Mii will have a pink heart. If they are the Miis you wanted to fall in love, try to help them. If not, help them anyway. But keep in mind, once again, the wrong choice results in depression.


If it fails, there is a chance they'll try again. They will buy a gift for them. If this fails, they will see they're not to be and their depression goes down.
If it succeeds, the Miis are now together, and the upper section above "Best Friend" Will Show them as their "Sweet Heart" or "Special Someone". The text matters on what version you are using of the game.
 If two Miis like the same person, there is a chance that Mii will show up. The promised Mii will either choose the second, the first, or ultimately neither. But keep in mind, three can come as well, but this is rarer.
 This time is the proposal. You can choose where they propose, though this could make it harder. Clothes don't really matter.


To succeed the Proposal, you must get the hearts floating above to the biggest you can be.
 Once the other is thinking of the other, you must tap the "Now" at the bottom of the touch screen. This shows as an orange heart.


If you make a wrong choice or when the Mii is thinking of something else, a heart will break. If all hearts are broken, the Proposal fails and the Miis will leave. But, this can be triggered again.
 Once they're back home you will get a souvenir. The souvenir depends on where they go.
 The couple will live in a house together, but keep their apartments if they must be contacted/tended to. Although it is optional, you can also pursue for the couple to later have children.

