 Dogs are great friends and fun to impersonate. If you want to do a dog impression, here are the basics:


Get down on all fours.
Wag your "tail" back and forth a lot.
Pant with your tongue out.
Walk around and sniff things really fast.
Eat a snack out of a bowl on the floor.
Perk up your ears like you just heard something, or saw a cat.
Chase toys, balls, and sticks.;
, Cats are funny and quiet creatures. Sometimes it's hard to tell what they're thinking. If you want to behave like your favorite cat, here's how:


Get down on your hands and knees, or stay on your two feet.
Prowl around, walking very slowly and making careful steps.
Bat toys, string, and other things back and forth between your hands.
Meow and hiss.
Eat a snack out of a bowl on the floor.
Roll around on the floor and stretch your back really big.
Rub your chin on the corners of things.
Tilt your head sideways and stare hard at things.
Dig your "claws" into the carpet.
Pretend to lick the side of your hand, then clean your face.
 Horses are beautiful and majestic creatures that lots of kids love. If you want to pretend to be a horse, try this out:


Walk around on your hands and knees, and make a clopping noise as you go.
Wear a belt like a saddle, or throw a blanket over your back.
Make a whiny sound, like a horse makes.
Comb your hair all to one side, like a horse's mane.
Eat a sugar cube or a carrot.
 Squirrels are funny little creatures that you see in your backyard collecting nuts and acorns for the winter. Here are the parts of a good squirrel impression:


Run around on your two feet. Squirrels need to be fast.
Look back and forth very quickly. Squirrels are very defensive animals.
Always be on the lookout for cats.
Pretend you're always nibbling something, making little squeaky noises.
Collect little things, like acorns or sticks from the backyard. Store them in a pile outside.
Inspect things very closely between your palms before you eat them.
 An elephant never forgets! If you want to pretend to be this big friendly clomper, try doing this:


Walk on your hands and feet, not your knees.
Stick one arm out in front of your face like your trunk.
Put your lips together and blow, making a squeaky elephant sound.
Spit water out of you mouth. Outside of course.
Feed yourself lettuce and vegetables with your "trunk."
Get together with other elephants and stampede.
Watch out for mice and bees.
 Bears are the kings of the forest. If you want to be a bear, try this:


Walk around on all fours, but stand up and beat on your chest when you're angry.
Growl around.
Use your paws to dig around for things and hunt for snacks.
Climb trees. Bears are excellent climbers.
Fight other bears over your territory.
Use your front paws to swipe and grab.
Go back to your bear den (a fort of blankets and pillows) when you're tired.
Take a long nap to hibernate during winter.
For a bear snack, eat some fish and some honey.
 T-Rex was the king of the dinosaurs! Tyrannosaurus Rex walked around on two feet, but with very short arms. If you want to pretend to be one:


Walk around on your two feet, keep your arms tucked in and your hands under your armpits. You can't extend your arms.
Take big steps. T-rex was a big animal.
Get some friends to be other dinos, too. Chase them. You're the king.
Roar when other dinosaurs come close.
Use your big teeth for defense.
Guard your nest with your baby eggs in it. T-rex was very territorial.
Eat meat for your snack. T-rex was a carnivore.
 Sloths are the nappers of the jungle. They're super-cute and super-slow. If you want to be a sloth:


Move very slowly. Very. Slowly.
Close your eyes almost all the way and grin. That's a good sloth face.
Put all your fingers together and use each hand like a little hook.
Take very slow bites of fruits, like a banana or an apple.
Hang from your arms on the jungle gym. Move very slowly.
Hug your friend/family member and don't let go. Sloths are huggers.
Nap for a long time.

