 It's a good idea to keep one in your car and another at your place of work. The basic disaster supply kit should hold you for 3 days, but to survive the long haul, you will need much more.


A good kit would have the following: 5000 watt generator which will run for 13.4 hours on 6.5 gallons (24.6 L) of gas. Four 5 gallon (18.9 L) gas cans for the generator. Four 100 foot (30.5 m) extension cords. Small 25cc gas powered mini-water pump. (to remove any flood water from house or yard) several cases of canned goods. (soup, stew, beans, etc) powdered milk and eggs. Fifty 1 gallon (3.8 L) jugs of drinking water. (1 gallon per day per person) a week supply of clean dry clothes sealed in plastic bags placed into large plastic totes. charcoal, lighter fluid, and waterproof camping matches. (enough to grill 7-10 times) A 2 burner Coleman propane camp stove and extra bottles of propane. Light choices, pick more than one. Coleman battery powered lantern, propane powered, and camp fuel powered. Extra batteries for everything. Energizer battery powered cell phone charger. Military MREs (meals ready to eat, bought at army surplus store,,,civilian level bought at academy sporting goods) Chain saw. Plastic painters drop cloths. Large plastic tarps. Elastic straps and nylon rope to tie down/secure things. NOAA weather radio. First aid kit. Sanitation and hygiene items and BABY WIPES. Large Igloo maxcold cooler packed with ice (should keep ice for 7-10 days) 20 extra gallons of gas for your vehicle. Extra supply of Deet insect repellent. A large camping tent, sleeping bags and an air bed w/pump. Camera, cash, loose change, medication, pet food, something to read and some board games.;
, With flooded streets, downed power lines, and no traffic signals, it's just not safe.
 Look for downed power lines, trees, or unstable building conditions. If it's something as simple as tree branches on your house or vehicle, use the chainsaw to cut up and remove the branches, and then the tarps to patch the damage.
 Remember that mold may soon follow so you may have to go to the tent.
 You must keep that generator away from your home when it's running. Carbon monoxide poisoning kills, and even if it's outside, but near an open window, it's deadly. Because you have a few hundred feet of extension cord, get that generator nice and far away. With the double male ended cord you can plug into the generator and then into any outlet in the house. This will power every circuit connected to that wall plug. You can also keep power to your fridge, but you do not have to have it going 24/7... it will keep everything cold enough if you only leave it running for an hour every few hours. Now we have meat! Although you have the ability to use an electric range/stove, why not get out there and grill some of that meat. you have the choice of charcoal, propane, or electric.

