 When you are dealing with sore muscles, you should try to rest so that your body can repair itself. Try not to hit the gym for two or three days after a workout that has left your muscles very sore. This will give your muscles time to heal.


When you workout before your muscles are ready, there is a possibility that you can injure them further.
 While you may not feel like moving at all when your muscles are really sore, swimming can actually make you feel a lot better. The cold water can reduce the pain and inflammation in your muscles, while moving your body without putting pressure on it (the beauty of being weightless in a pool) can increase the blood supply to your muscles and wash out toxins.


Try to swim laps for 20 to 30 minutes at a light to moderate pace.
 While applying heat to your muscles right after your workout should generally be avoided, heat can help your muscles repair themselves after 72 hours have passed. Heat increases the blood flow to the area, which helps to speed up the healing process. The oxygen the blood carries will help to nourish your muscles and help them regain their normal range of movement.


You can take a hot shower or bath, or use heating pads to relieve tension in your muscles.
 Another way you can apply heat to your muscles is to take an epsom salt bath. Taking an epsom salt bath can ease your sore muscles and reduce the pressure your workout put on them because the salt can help restore your magnesium levels.To make an epsom salt bath:


Fill your bathtub with warm to hot water and then pour about two cups of epsom salt into the bath. Stir the water and then soak in the bath for 15 minutes. Take two or three baths a week as your muscles repair themselves.
You can also apply essential oils like chamomile, lavender, or peppermint to your baths. These essential oils can help you relax mentally, which in turn helps your muscles relax.
 After three days have passed, you can get a massage if your muscles are still in a great deal of pain. A massage therapist will relax your tight muscles by stimulating your cells through massage techniques. This cell stimulation will help stimulate blood flow to your muscles, helping your muscles cells to produce energy that will repair your muscles.


If you don’t want to pay money for a massage, ask a family member or friend to give you a massage. If they don’t know how to give a massage, they can read this article.


