 You shouldn’t go to see an apartment alone. You want another set of eyes with you. Accordingly, ask a friend or family member to go with you. Make a day of it.


A landlord is also much less likely to discriminate against you when you have someone else with you.Never rent without seeing the apartment. Ideally, you should walk through with the landlord. This will give you a chance to observe the landlord in person.;
, You can tell a lot about the landlord by studying the apartment. If the apartment is dirty or in bad repair, then these may be signs the landlord is not responsible.Pay attention to how tidy the rest of the apartment building is. Has the lawn been mowed? Is junk mail piled up around the mailboxes? Is the hallway clean and in good repair?
Ask whether the apartment will be cleaned before you move in. A responsible landlord should volunteer that information by saying, “Sorry it’s in a bad state. The tenant just moved out. We’ll have it cleaned and repaired before you arrive.”

, A landlord should be willing to give you the names of a few current or former tenants. Ask for them. If the landlord hesitates, then this might be a sign that they are hiding something.


If the landlord won’t give references, then make it a point to chat with people who live in the building., If you go to the landlord’s office to review paperwork, note whether the office is tidy or disorganized. A landlord who can’t find forms or has misplaced the keys probably isn’t organized.


If a landlord cancels a showing several times, then there undoubtedly is a problem.The landlord is disorganized and should be avoided.
 Professionalism is key in a landlord.Someone who looks slovenly probably isn’t too concerned with making a good impression, and this attitude could spill over into other areas of the landlord-tenant relationship.


If you meet with the building janitor to see the apartment, this person probably will be wearing a uniform. However, note how well-groomed and tidy they appear.
Pay attention to how your landlord behaves. Look at body language and listen to how he or she speaks. You want someone who is intelligent and courteous. Avoid anyone who comes across as rude or unintelligent.If the landlord appears frazzled, they should apologize and explain. For example, they might work a job and have rushed to meet you.
 You should ask the landlord plenty of questions about their management style. Pay attention to the answers, but also note the confidence. If a landlord hesitates when answering, they probably don’t do what they say they do. Ask the following questions:How long has the landlord owned the property?
Does the landlord manage the property themselves? Or have they hired a property management company? What’s their name?
Who is responsible for repairs—the tenant or the landlord?
How long did the prior tenant live in the apartment?
Does the landlord spray for pests and rodents?
How should you request maintenance? How long does it take for the landlord to respond?
What kind of security does the building have?

, Type the landlord’s name and location into Google and see what pulls up.If the landlord uses a property management company, also research them. Larger landlords might have reviews on Yelp or at the Better Business Bureau.


Almost any landlord can get a negative review. After all, some tenants are a nightmare to rent to. However, you should pay attention to the number of negative reviews. If you see a lot of negative reviews, there could be a problem.
Also look for patterns to the complaints. If multiple people all complain that a landlord held onto their deposit, then there is probably a problem.
 You want to see how many times your landlord has sued someone or been sued by a tenant. A landlord who has sued a lot probably is not a responsible landlord, and one who has been sued often could break the law regularly. Your local court might have a website where you can look up court records. Alternately, you might need to go to the courthouse to find this information.Visit the court in the county where the landlord is located. There should be a computer you can use to look up lawsuits. Search using the landlord’s name.
Also check federal court lawsuits. Tenants will sue for housing discrimination in federal court. You can use the PACER website to find these cases.
If you find lawsuits, analyze the suit. Read the “complaint” to find out the substance of the dispute. It’s not unusual for a large landlord in a city to have to go to court to evict people. However, if you see a lot of lawsuits, you could be dealing with a bad landlord.
 Every landlord must abide by your local building code. This code covers things like when the landlord must provide heat, what temperature hot water must be, etc. You want to check to see if your landlord has violated the code.The purpose of the code is to provide tenants with healthy living conditions, so a landlord who violates the code should be avoided.


Contact your county or city housing authority. Give the address and ask whether there have been any code violations.
If the landlord owns more than one property, ask about code violations for all of them.
 Businesses must be properly licensed by your state and/or local government. You should contact your appropriate state or local government agency. It might be the Department of Real Estate or another agency.


Also check whether complaints have been filed. Some agencies collect complaints and investigate them., The landlord should have given you a list of current or former tenants to talk to. Make sure to call them and ask questions, such as the following:How happy are they living in the apartment building?
What do they think of the landlord?
Have they ever needed repairs? How quickly were repairs completed?
Would they recommend living in the apartment building?
What’s one thing they wish they could change about the landlord?

, A lease should lay out your responsibilities as well as your landlord’s duties.You should request a written lease and read it carefully. Don’t sign until you agree with everything in the lease.Avoid an oral agreement. Although an oral agreement is valid for a lease of one year or less, you have no evidence of what the landlord agreed to. If the landlord won’t give you a written lease, then you should avoid them.
You might not understand the lease, so always ask questions. If you need help, then find a landlord-tenant attorney who can review the document with you.
 Generally, a landlord may use your security deposit only to make repairs. They cannot keep the deposit for normal “wear and tear” or to correct problems that existed when you moved in. For these reasons, you should document what the apartment looks like before you move your stuff in.Take pictures of the empty rooms. Use the digital camera on your phone. If you find something wrong, take a close-up picture.
Notify your landlord of any problems that need to be fixed. Your landlord might give you a form to fill out on which you record any problems. If not, write up a list yourself and include photographs.
 The ideal landlord will promptly fix any problem that arises. However, some landlords might be lax. Always remember to document any request for repairs in writing, using either a letter or email.


If you make an oral request, then follow up with a letter confirming the discussion.Mail any letter certified mail, return receipt requested so that you have proof of the date it was received.
 The easiest way to maintain a peaceful relationship with your landlord is to follow your obligations under the lease. This means paying your rent on time, keeping the place clean, and not damaging the unit.Contact your landlord immediately if you are short on money. You won’t gain anything by hiding from your landlord and hoping the problem will disappear.
Talk frankly with your landlord about when you will have the money for rent. If you’re falling into debt, make a budget.
If you lose your job and can no longer pay the rent, talk to your landlord about ending the lease early.
 Eviction laws will differ depending on your nation or state, so you should read up on your rights. Look for a tenant’s rights website for your city. In the U.S., a landlord generally can only evict you after getting a court order. This means your landlord must give you written notice that they are terminating the lease and then sue you in court. You will have a chance to respond.


Your landlord typically cannot use self-help, such as changing the locks, throwing your belongings on the sidewalk, ordering you to leave, or cutting off your utilities.A landlord-tenant attorney is a great help when you have a legal dispute with a landlord. If money is tight, then seek low-cost legal help, such as legal aid.

