 First, open your browser of choice, type in http://www.odesk.com on the address bar, and hit Enter.;
, Click on the “Login” button at the upper-right corner of the page. This will bring up the login window where you must enter your email address and password into the text fields, and click on “Log in” to access your account.
 Once you are logged in, scroll down your home page, and on the righthand side you will see a link that says “Invitations to interview,” with representing the actual number of pending invitations that you have. Click on this link to load the next page where you can access your interviews.
 Once you click on the link, a page will load, and you will have to scroll down it until you see a subheading that says “Invitations to Interview.” Below that will be a list of jobs. Click on the job that you want to decline to open the offer.
 Clicking on each job will show you a job description and information about the client. To the right of the screen will be a big green button that says “Yes, accept interview,” and below it will be a blue button that says “Decline.” Click on the “Decline” button to bring up a pop-up window.
 The pop-up window contains a list of nine reasons why you are declining the job. Click on the one that is the most accurate or the closest description of your situation.


Below the nine reasons enumerated is a text box you can write in if you wish to explain why you are declining the offer. Remember to keep your message professional!
Always be straightforward about why you cannot accept the interview, much less the job. For example, if the pay is too low, say so. Some clients are amenable to negotiations if they like your (previous) work enough.
 After writing your message, you can check the tick box below the message field if you no longer wish to receive more invitations from the same client. Checking this box will effectively ban him or her from sending you any more invitations in the future.
 The last thing you have to do is to click the green “Decline” button at the bottom of the screen. This will finalize your decision.