 Lights use a lot of electricity and most of the time you don't need them! During the day, open the curtains and during the night, turn off all lights! You will be sleeping during the night anyway.


You could purchase some motion sensor switches or use led lights or compact Fluorescent light bulbs (CFL). They last 12 times longer and consume 80% less energy. But take caution using CFL's, they contain mercury. You could also get a sunroof for natural light if you wanted too.



Take shorter showers and turn off the taps properly and when you are not using them, especially when you brush your teeth!
Putting a big bucket underneath the shower to collect water while the shower heats up is a wonderful way to conserve water and can then be transferred to the garden or used to wash clothing.
 Instead of using a washing machine, when you hand wash your clothes you are saving plenty of water and sometimes it's quicker to wash the clothes yourself.


Also be conscious of the detergent you're using: there are greener alternatives to generic detergents, such as Method, who makes refillable bottles for their detergent
Hang dry your clothes instead of putting them in the dryer. This way you will be saving energy and all you need to do is peg the clothes on a clothes line and wait until they dry! The only time you could use a dryer is if it is rainy out or you could hang your clothes under shelter.
If you are going to use the washing machine, make sure you put in a full load and set the water to cold. This way is greener than washing a small amount of clothing and turning the water to hot.
 Baths use a large amount of water whilst a short shower doesn't. Showers are also quicker so think twice before taking a bath.
 Fans, air conditioning and heaters all use a lot of energy and you don't need them! Instead, when it's cold, put on an extra jumper and when it's hot, wear thinner and less clothing.
 Not only will you save water and money long term, but you will also reduce carbon footprint which is over drinking bottled water.

