 Any teen is likely to have some education about what happens during puberty, but they may also not realize the impact of body odor. Furthermore, many teens may know what to expect, but they simply may not realize that it already applies to them. Remember, it isn’t like a teen just wakes up one day knowing they have gone through puberty. Instead, it is a gradual process, and they simply may not realize they are smelly.Ideally, you should start talking to your child about puberty before they reach it, and before they are a teenager.
For example, you should explain that when people go through puberty, their body does things differently than it did before. They will sweat, but now this sweat will be smelly. Not only that, but they will grow hair in new places, and this hair can make that smell worse.;
, If the teen is the type that doesn't believe a word you say, see if you can enlist the help of someone your teen really looks up to. For example, if you are the mom of a teen boy, he may be more likely to listen to a man that he looks up to, such as his father, uncle, grandfather, or even a close family friend.If the person that is going to talk to him isn’t sure what to say, give them a few pointers. Point out that they should be delicate, and try their best not to make your teen feel embarrassed.
 When talking with teens about hygiene and showering, it is really important to do your best to avoid making them feel embarrassed. With topics such as hygiene, this can be very easy to do. If they feel embarrassed, they will likely become defensive almost immediately, and they aren’t going to want to listen to anything you are saying, no matter how logical it is.Be empathetic and remember that the teenage years can be really tough and confusing. You can say, for example, “I know that it can be really tough at your age, and this may be at the bottom of your list of priorities, but remember that taking care of your hygiene is important. It may seem like a hassle, but being clean and well-groomed will help make you feel more confident in spite of everything going on.”

