 You may not want to meet too close to home if you're worried about the person knowing where you live. But at the same time, you don't want to meet someone for the first time in an unfamiliar part of town.Often you will feel more comfortable in a place where you've been several times, especially if you're anxious about meeting this person for the first time.
Ideally, you still want a place that you don't frequent often. If things don't work out, you don't want to risk running into that person again.
Plan your meeting during the day if at all possible. If the two of you are only available in the evening, choose a place that typically is fairly busy at the time you're planning to meet.
 Before you meet someone in person who you've met online, you want to make sure they are who they've said they are. The best way to go about this is to have a phone call or live video chat with them.If the person isn't able to video chat with you, ask them to take a selfie holding a sign with particular words on it. This can help assure you that they aren't pulling photos off the internet or otherwise deceiving you about who they are or what they look like.
If you and this person have developed a friendship to the point that you want to meet in person, they shouldn't have any problems doing this. If they refuse or make excuses, it could be a red flag.
 If you're really nervous about meeting the person, bring a friend along with you or organize a group date with several friends. If the person legitimately wants to get to know you, they shouldn't be put out that you want to meet in a group first.Especially if you're meeting the person further away from home, or in an unfamiliar part of town, bring someone along who knows that area.
 For people of drinking age, it's quite common to meet people at the local bar or pub. The problem is that alcohol can lower your inhibitions and cause you to lose control.If you do decide you want a drink, order a single drink with a low alcohol content, such as a light beer. Get a glass of water along with your beer, and sip slowly, alternating between the beer and the water.
 The point of meeting in person is to get to know each other better. Since the person might be more reserved in person than they were online, be prepared to ask questions to get them to open up.Referring back to a conversation you had online can help make both of you more comfortable. You'll be able to link the person in front of you to the conversations you had before.
For example, you might say "I remember you telling me that Radiohead was your favorite band. Did you hear that they're playing a concert here in a few months?"

, For your initial meet-up, find some place you can sit and talk for a half hour or so, but don't plan on anything any longer than that. This way, if you find you're not interested in the person, you don't have to spend too much time with them.A short meeting gives the two of you the opportunity to sniff each other out and figure out if there's any connection in person as there is online.
Make a commitment with another friend so you have an easy out if the person tries to convince you to come somewhere else with them. Keep in mind a predatory person might try to lure you to a more private or out-of-the-way location.
 If you have to excuse yourself at any point, such as to use the restroom, do not leave your purse or cell phone unattended with the person you're meeting. Treat them as a stranger and don't give them access to your private information., If the first meeting went well, plan a second, longer meeting rather than extending the first meeting. This way you're continuing to take things slowly and you're remaining in control of the situation.Assuming your first meeting lasted 20 or 30 minutes, your second meeting should be a similar duration, maybe a little longer. You can work up to sharing a meal together or engaging in other activities.

