 It's the grey gear icon on the Home Screen.
 This option is near the top of the Settings page., It will turn green, signifying that your iPhone can now cast its screen to other devices., To turn on your Xbox One, you can either press the X button on the front of the console, or you can hold down the X button in the middle of a connected controller., You'll do this on both your iPhone and your Xbox One.

For example, for Netflix you would select the Xbox One's Netflix app in addition to opening the Netflix app on your iPhone and signing in.
YouTube, Netflix, and Hulu all support screencasting.
 It's the rectangle with ripples in its bottom left corner. While the screencast icon will usually be at the top of your iPhone's screen, its location may vary based on the apps you're using., This option will usually be next to text that says something like "Connect To Device." Once your phone is connected to your Xbox, you can play Netflix episodes or browse YouTube directly from your phone and have it play on your TV.

You may need to confirm that you want to play your selected app media on the Xbox One again right before playing it by tapping Xbox One.
 It's the white "A" on a light blue background.

If you already have the Xbox app, skip to the next part.
 This option is at the bottom of the screen., It's at the top of the screen.,, It's the blue button on the keyboard., It's to the right of the "Xbox" app here.

The Xbox app is created by the Microsoft Corporation.
 It's in the same spot as GET was., Once you do so, your app will begin downloading.

You can also use Touch ID if you have it enabled.
 It's the grey gear icon on the Home Screen., This option is near the top of the Settings page., It will turn green, signifying that your iPhone can now connect to your Xbox One., To turn on your Xbox One, you can either press the X button on the front of the console, or you can hold down the X button in the middle of a connected controller., It's green with a white X on it., It's at the bottom of the screen., You'll do this in the field below the "Sign In" text., This button is below the email address entry field.,, It's below the password entry field., If you signed in correctly, this option is at the bottom of the screen., It's in the top left corner of the screen., This option is about halfway down the drop-down menu here. Doing so will cause your iPhone to search for an Xbox to connect to., You should see this option below the "Connection" heading on this page., If you haven't renamed your Xbox One, this will just say "XboxOne"., Now that your Xbox and iPhone are connected through the Xbox app, you can use your iPhone as a remote control to navigate through your Xbox's Home screen.