 One simple way to start removing some of the crumbs or debris that may have built up in your knife block is to simply turn the whole thing over. Spend a minute or two shaking it over the trash to help remove crumbs.To help the process along, try using a blow dryer to dislodge crumbs.;
, Attach the crevice tool to the hose, and use it to get down as far as you can into the knife block. That should suction out most of the debris., Stick it in there, using it to get far into the corners. You may need to twist or swirl it around a bit to capture the grime. Clean your tool off from time to time so you are still removing dirt instead of adding it., Using hot, soapy water, scrub the outside of the block down. Don't forget to get the underside, too, as that can build up bacteria. You may need to scrub harder to get off any grease or sticky spots., For this part, you'll need a slender brush. A baby bottle nipple brush works, but you can also try a pipe cleaner. Use it to scrub inside the knife slots, getting as far down in there as you can., Starting with the inside, flush the block with warm water to rinse off the soap. Move to the outside, making sure to rinse off all sides of the block thoroughly with water. You may need to rub it with your hands a bit to make sure the soap is gone., Mix a tablespoon of bleach with a gallon of water. Pure bleach is too strong for this purpose, and this mixture will efficiently sanitize the block. Wipe the solution around the outside of the container, and then pour the mixture into the slots, filling them up all the way.Instead of bleach, you can use undiluted vinegar or hydrogen peroxide.
 The block needs to sit with the solution on it for about a minute, which will help sanitize the block. You can leave it for longer, but try not to let it dry on the block. , Rinse the block thoroughly. Make sure you get water into the slots, as well as all around the outside to rinse off the bleach. Once you're done, place it upside down on a clean towel, and leave it to air dry. Wait until the slots are dry before putting the knives back in.