 Music can benefit any senior. It may be especially beneficial for the elderly with Alzheimer’s or dementia. Organize a donation drive to collect new or lightly used mp3 players. You can either present these to elderly individuals you know or donate all of the devices to local facilities that aid seniors.Ask for donations of gift cards for music if your donors do not have mp3 players they can spare.
Invite local business to make donations or sponsor the event. This may invite further interest in the event or get your program some much-needed donations.
 Activity can help the elderly stay or get healthy. Different types of physical activities, including walking and swimming, can help the elderly maintain their health or even heal more quickly. Organizing an event for the elderly that focuses on physical activity can not only benefit their health and well-being, but may also introduce them to new people.Ask a local fitness center or school to host your event. This gives you a chance to offer different types of activities. Set up fun things persons of any activity level can enjoy. This may include obstacle courses, games such as cornhole, a pool party, and a selection of snacks that allow people to mingle.
Enlist the help of local businesses in donating services, products, or even prizes.
 In the digital age, knowing how to use a computer can expand a person’s world. For seniors, it may be a way to travel, connect with family and friend, and entertain themselves.Ask a local facility, such as a library, or even senior center if you can use their equipment to teach the elderly how to use a computer. You could even volunteer to use your own laptop to work with individuals.
Consider enlisting the help of a computer specialist (if you’re not already one) to instruct senior on things such as connecting with people, reading books or watching favorite shows, as well as how to avoid scams that target seniors.
 The holidays can be an especially difficult time for many elderly persons. They may feel especially lonely. Look into using a local facility, such as a church or senior center, to throw a festive holiday bash that anyone in your community can attend.Ask for friends, family, or other interested people to volunteer to decorate and throw the party. Businesses are often willing to donate resources such as food, party supplies, and even presents if you mention their name.
Remember that not every person holds religious beliefs. Keep the party cheerful and festive without putting emphasis on religious, political, or other beliefs.

