 Before you go to the doctor’s, call their office and let them know you have a fear of doctors. Explain your phobia as well as what you are afraid of specifically. The doctor should try to accommodate your phobia and provide options to make you feel more comfortable.For example, you may tell the doctor, “I have a fear of needles and enclosed spaces. What can you do to help me feel more comfortable?” They may then outline a few options to help you feel less stressed about coming to your appointment.;
, You may have a fear of enclosed spaces, such as the doctor’s waiting room, and dislike the anxiety of waiting a long time for the doctor. Remedy this by asking for a shorter waiting time at the doctor’s office. Waiting for five minutes rather than 15 minutes can make all the difference, especially if it will help to calm your nerves before your appointment.You may make your appointment time earlier in the morning, such as the first open slot in the day, so you have a very short wait time.
 For moral support, ask a friend or a loved one to come with you on your doctor’s visit. This can help to quell your nerves and make you less fearful of the doctor. The friend or loved one may sit with you in the waiting room and accompany you into your appointment.Make sure your doctor is comfortable with you bringing a friend or loved one with you into your appointment. Most doctors will be fine with this, especially if it will help to calm your fears.
If you are a parent and your child has a fear of doctors; you may accompany them into the appointment, so they are less afraid.
 Consistency can be a big part of feeling comfortable and secure. Try to make appointments with the same doctor every time so you can grow more comfortable with them. Going to the same doctor will also ensure they know about your phobia and can take steps to make you feel more at ease during your appointments.You may book several appointments with the same doctor, spread out over the year, to ensure you see them on a regular basis. This can help you to confront your fear in a safe way.

