 By making eggs for breakfast, you can provide your brain with all kinds of benefits. Eggs are a great source of protein, as well as choline, a B vitamin found in eggs. Choline improves brain function and memory, while protein stabilizes your blood sugar, which will help you concentrate.Scramble, boil, or cook your eggs sunny side up.


Omelets, made with vegetables like spinach, broccoli, and tomatoes, are a great way to provide nutrients to your brain in the morning. For example, spinach and broccoli are great sources of vitamin B.Try adding a side of avocado or guacamole to your eggs. Avocados are a healthy, monounsaturated fat. Monounsaturated fat contributes to healthy blood flow, and a healthy blood flow means a healthier brain.;
, Tea and coffee contain caffeine. By drinking tea or coffee you can get the benefits of caffeine for your brain, which are enhanced memory, focus, and mood, as well as the benefit of healthy antioxidants. Antioxidants promote healthy blood flow.Drink black tea, green tea, or any other tea that suits you. You can drink your tea either hot or cold; no matter the method, you will still get the same benefits.
Drink a cup of tea or coffee per day. If you want, you can also drink two cups of tea per day. Avoid drinking too much tea or coffee, however. Drinking too much tea or coffee can cause you to urinate often.
 Whole grains, such as oatmeal and whole grain breads, promote cardiovascular health. By having good cardiovascular health, you are promoting blood flow to your organs, including your brain. Whole grains also provide your brain with energy in the form of glucose in your blood. By adding whole grains to your diet, you are ensuring that you get a constant flow of energy to your brain. This ensures focus and concentration.


Opt for whole grain toast, muffins, and oatmeal when planning what to eat for breakfast.
 Blueberries, grapes, and apples are shown to promote brain health. Because blueberries are rich in antioxidants, tannins, and phytochemicals, they are especially good for promoting brain health. Studies show that blueberries improve learning, thinking, and memory. Grapes are a great source of antioxidants and are shown to counteract oxidative stress and prevent age-related brain diseases. Apples are a great source of quercetin, an antioxidant that helps protect brain cells from free radical attacks.Eat an apple with the skin on after you finish eating your eggs or oatmeal.
Add blueberries and grapes to your yogurt, oatmeal, smoothies, and muffins.
For added benefits, add almonds to your blueberry oatmeal as well. Almonds are a great source of vitamin E, protein, fiber, and healthy fats; nutrients that prevent cognitive decline. These nutrients also help your body maintain your blood sugar levels, which helps with focus and energy.