 There is absolutely no way you're going to get people to think you are a sexy fourteen or fifteen year old girl if you smell horrible! Take showers every day/night and wash your hair every other night. Brush your teeth twice a day. Cut your nails once a week, or every two weeks (depending how long you want your nails to be, but keep them clean!) and floss your teeth once a day. Wax/shave your armpits, legs, and bikini line, if you want/need to. Put lotion on, and spray some perfume on to smell gorgeous and be sexy!;
, Walk around the block with your friends, roller blade around your neighborhood, race your dog, swim, dance, anything! Just try to fit at least 30 minutes of exercise in 5 times a week. Eat loads of fruits and vegetables. A vegetarian diet makes you feel amazing and energetic, and sexier! You also look so much nicer, your skin's just gorgeous and glowing. Cut out all junk food and soda and don't eat that extra piece of pizza and you'll be good! Put on facials for a clear complexion.
 Drink gallons of water! Drink at least 8 glasses a day. Water should be the only drink you drink other than maybe one glass of orange juice for breakfast, or a glass of milk at night or something.
 If you like art, go out and show the world you're that artsy girl that loves to paint! If you like to write, write poems or songs and share them with your best friends. Alternatively, you can keep a journal, or just write wherever you go. If you like to dance, show everyone! Whatever you like to do, go way out there and do it! If you're that creative girl, show people! If you're a girly girl, don't be afraid to wear pink everyday! People will be dying to be sexy just like you! But mainly, don't change your personality to appear to others as a sexy teen girl.
 Smile at everyone, don't ever cyber bully or bully anyone. Stick up for people. Be a good person, because what comes around goes around, and if you're nice to everyone you'll get rewarded.
 Be smart, and do good at school. Try to get the best grades you can get. Set aside time for your homework and studying every day of the week. Perhaps after school, go home, check your social media, chill out for 30 minutes, then do your homework and study. Do whatever you can to get good grades! You'll feel so much better about yourself, and sexier! Listen in class! It might be hard to not listen to all the whispering in the room about the latest gossip, but you need to get good grades. School is just the beginning of your life, you will regret not having gone to college or getting good grades later on in life.
 Get a good sleeping routine, there should be just 2 nights a week you stay up a few more hours, which is Friday and Saturday! You need at least 8 hours of sleep to be a sexy teen girl. So if you have to wake up at 5:00, go to sleep at 8:45. Have a sleeping routine, like you read 15 minutes before going to sleep. An example: turn all your lights off, shut the door, lay in bed and watch TV for 30 minutes. Then read or listen to quiet music until you fall asleep.
 Do your hair, makeup, and get a nice, cute outfit on! Maybe even take a quick shower if all you're going to do is blow dry your hair and throw it in a bun.
 Put some concealer over your spots, and under your eyes, and then some setting powder. Then a little bit of a neutral eyeshadow over your lid, and a little mascara, and a little bit of eyeliner. Don't put too much on!! Make it look natural. Make-up is not supposed to cover your face. If you're going to a party or something, make a sexy smoky eye, just some lip gloss and mascara.
 Get 10 of your favorite different hairstyles. Don't make them extremely hard to do! It'll just make you more noticeable if you have your hair different every day. Here are some hairstyles: scrunched hair in a high, messy bun, straight hair, down, a braid in your hair, a preppy high side ponytail, a straight messy bun with a headband, a low-carefree bun, curl it, a headband, a side ponytail, straighten your hair and put it in a high ponytail, put your bangs down, leave your hair down and clip your bangs back. You can do any of those hairstyles, or even more! Be creative with your hair, and make it cute, and different every time, the same old hairstyle will make people bored with you! If you have short hair, put a cute clip or a headband in to make it sexy!

, This will make you seem instantly sexy because people think you have other things to do than just sit around and make yourself look good all day. People will respect you for it, because they know you will not give up doing it for anybody. Maybe join volleyball or cheer-leading, or paint, or draw. Have fun with whatever you do!

, Don't be a flirt, just flirt with those you find attractive. Always smile at them. Avoid flirting with people you don't find attractive, or they will consider you fake.
 Put funny facebook statuses, Don't get into drama, be happy, help people, start a blog if you want. Just have fun!

, Confidence is sexy! Walk through life with your head held high, no matter if you're sad or not. It will help you not attract bullies or haters, and it makes you look good, and feel better about yourself. Be positive, don't say anything negative about other people. If your friends are talking about someone and making fun of them and ask you what you think of her, just smartly say "I don't talk about people, I don't really even know her so it's not my place to say anything.." They'll respect you for that, but do not go tell that girl they were talking about her. Keep secrets and be trustworthy!

, Don't be mean to people, but if people are starting nasty rumors about you,and ruining your reputation, you have to know how to have good comebacks, and get them to stop. Go up to one of them, look them in the eye (that's intimidating) and say "Look, I barely know you. I don't know why you hate me so much, but don't you have anything better to do than sit around talking about me all day?" and bring a friend with you. If they tell the principal or anything you have someone to back you up. They'll probably just say something like "I haven't been talking about you" and just be like "Hmm, okay?" and smile, then walk away. Whatever you do, don't be mean back! Be mean in a nice way, which means no yelling, and good comebacks. Be calm, and pretend you don't even care about them! Always seem to be confident during the entire process.
 You can get really popular by just saying "Hey, I love your shoes! Where did you get them?" Start a conversation with everyone! Be nice!

