 Web design is not book design, it is not poster design, it is not illustration, and the highest achievements of those disciplines are not what web design aims for. Although websites can be delivery systems for games and videos, and although those delivery systems can be lovely to look at, such sites are exemplars of game design and video storytelling, not of web design.
 Web design is the creation of digital environments that:


facilitate and encourage human activity;
reflect or adapt to individual voices and content; and
change gracefully over time while always retaining their identity.
 The main resources are websites, videos, and books. Some popular websites are Codecademy and W3Schools. However, there are many more, so feel free to experiment!


Sign up for an account if you've chosen a website. You will be able to save your progress this way.
If you've chosen videos, bookmark all the videos you'll need.
Go to your local library or bookstore if you've chosen the book route. If you want something cheaper (or even free), download eBooks or PDF files.
If you're willing to pay, you might be able to get individualized lessons from a professional web designer.
 You'll need to figure out how to fit this into your day if you're a busy person.
 While Notepad will work, it's a good idea to have a program like Adobe Dreamweaver, Microsoft Expression Web, or KompoZer. There are many, many others, so browse around and get what you like.
 HTML is an absolute requirement for any web designer. Master the concept of tags, classes, IDs, inputs, etc.


The newest version of HTML is HTML5. HTML5 incorporates some new technologies, so that is probably the best one to learn.

XHTML is also an option, but it's a little bit stricter in its rules.
 CSS stands for "Cascading Style Sheet". Without CSS, there wouldn't be the pretty designs you see on some websites. HTML is merely the skeleton, but CSS is what makes a website colorful and pretty.


CSS is a bit stricter in its rules. For instance, if you forgot to put a semicolon at the end of each line, you could be in for some headaches trying to figure out what went wrong.
 This is optional for ones that plan to make simple website, but it's essential if you want interactive websites.


If you're going to use jQuery, you really only need a basic knowledge of JavaScript, because jQuery makes things pretty simple.
With jQuery, you can insert widgets like an accordion, a calendar, etc. There are different styles of it, too, so you can pick the style you want for your website.
 There's PHP, MySQL, Perl, Ruby, and some others. Again, this is optional for simple website builders, but very useful for interactive and large websites.


Some of these languages, like PHP, require a test server, so make sure to have an account with a web hosting company or install server software on your computer.
 Just experiment and make websites from scratch. This helps you put your knowledge to work, instead of letting it rust out in your brain.
 You could do it for free to get some experience!

, It can be about whatever you want, but it gives you an opportunity to show your work to the general public.
 Charge reasonable rates and post a portfolio on your site. Your business may eventually grow into a full-fledged company.

