 Garlic is known for its antibacterial and antifungal properties, because of a natural compound known as allicin. Consider eating one raw clove per day or adding 2-3 crushed cloves to meals. For supplements, take the equivalent of one clove per day or one tablet that equals 4,000 to 5,000 mcg of allicin.Garlic may interact with a number of medications, including those used to treat HIV. Garlic may also increase the risk of bleeding in people with weak immune systems, people taking blood thinners, and those who have recently sustained injury or had surgery. Consult your doctor before using garlic or garlic supplements.
 Echinacea is an herb with antiviral and antioxidant effects that boost immune function, reduce inflammation and restore hormonal balance. Echinacea may also be useful in combination with econazole, an antifungal agent used to treat yeast infections, which helps reduce the recurrence rate of infections. Studies show that taking 2 to 9 ml of echinacea juice or 1 cup of echinacea tea infusion may help control and manage yeast infections caused by Candida bacteria. To make a tea infusion, simply steep one to two grams of dried echinacea root or herb extract in warm water for five minutes, then strain and drink.
Echinacea may interact with a number of medications, so ask your doctor before taking it.
Some people may experience minor side effects such as upset stomach, nausea, dizziness, and dry eyes. Do not take echinacea on an empty stomach.
Do not take Echinacea if you have multiple sclerosis, tuberculosis, connective tissue disorders, leukemia, diabetes, HIV or AIDS, any autoimmune diseases, or liver disorder.
 Tea tree oil is known for its antiviral and antifungal properties. Studies suggest that tea tree oil may be effective in treating vaginal yeast infections, but applying tea tree oil directly to the vagina is not advised. Instead, try try taking a tea tree oil bath.Add 10 to 15 drops of tea tree oil to a warm bath and soak for 15 minutes. Repeat this process up to two to three times per week. This may help control vaginal yeast infections and keep them from recurring.

