 Go to https://www.SendSpace.com/ on a new browser tab.;
, On the upper-right side of the page are some menu links. Click on the Sign Up link, and you will be directed to the registration page.
 Fill up the registration form. Fields to be filled include: Username, Full Name, Email, Password, and Primary Use. Complete the data, and click on the “Create my account” button at the bottom of the page.


SendSpace will send you an activation link to your email to validate the email address you used.
 Go to your email client, and check for new emails. An email from SendSpace with the email address no-reply@SendSpace.com should be there. Open it and look for the activation link inside.
 Click on the activation link found in the email SendSpace sent you, and you will be brought to SendSpace’s website again, already logged in.


Since you’re still under a free account, SendSpace Lite will show in lieu of the original SendSpace logo.
 From SendSpace’s home page, click on the Tools link from the top menu. You will be directed to the SendSpace Wizard Desktop Tool download page.


You can also go there directly by typing “https://www.SendSpace.com/download_tools.html” (without quotes) into your browser’s address bar.
 From the download page, select “Windows” under Operating Systems, and click on the Windows logo. The installer will start downloading to your desktop.
 Look for the installer file on your computer. The filename will be “SendSpace Wizard vX Windows Installer,” where X is the version number. Double-click on this file, and run the installation.
 Once the installation is completed, run the application by double-clicking its shortcut icon on your desktop.
 Upon initialization of the application, it will ask for your SendSpace account before proceeding. Input your username and password, and then click the “OK” button. SendSpace will validate your account, and sync the contents locally to this application.
 Upon login, the SendSpace tool will have two main sections. The left window refers to your local file directory on your computer, and the right window reflects the contents of your SendSpace account. Within each window are sets of header toolbars for use within the application.
 If you want to add folders to your SendSpace account for better file organization and structure, you can create them in the right window. On the header toolbar, click on the button with the folder with the plus sign icon to create a new folder.


A dialog box titled “New remote folder” will appear where you to name the new folder, and click on the OK button once you’re done.
The folder will be created immediately, and will be synced with your SendSpace account online.
You can also do the same operation by pressing Ctrl+F on your keyboard.
 From the left window, which is your local file directory, navigate through your folders until you find the folder you want to upload. Click and drag this toward the right window. The folder will be uploaded, including all the files and subfolders in it.


You can monitor the upload progress on the bottom window under the Transfers tab.
 Select the folder you want to move by clicking on it. Right-click on it to bring up the context menu, and select “Cut” from the list. Go to the destination folder where you want to put the folder you’ve just cut. Once there, right-click on the area, and select “Paste” from the menu.


The folder and its contents will be moved to this new location.
You can also do the same operation by pressing on your keyboard Ctrl+X to cut, and Ctrl-V to paste.
 Click on the folder, and right-click on it to bring up the context menu, and select “Delete” from the options. Once a confirmation box appears, click on the “OK” button remove of the folder. The folder will immediately be removed from your SendSpace account.


You can also do the same operation by pressing the Delete button on your keyboard.
Do note that this cannot be undone.
 If you want to update or refresh the contents of the folder you’re currently in, click on the Refresh icon from the header toolbar. SendSpace will sync and update the folder’s contents.
 Use the left and right arrow icons on the header toolbar to move backward and forward on your folder views. These contain the history of folders you’ve visited, allowing you to quickly jump from one folder to the next.
 If you’re inside a subfolder, and want to return to the folder on top of it, click on the folder icon with a curved arrow pointing up from the header toolbar. This will bring you up one folder level to its parent folder.
 If you want to go back to the main or Home folder of your SendSpace account, click on the house icon on the header toolbar. Wherever you are within your SendSpace account, you will be brought back to the Home folder.
 From the left window, which is your local file directory, navigate through your folders until you find the files you’d like to upload. Click and drag these toward the right window.


When uploading starts for these files, you can monitor the upload progress on the bottom window under the Transfers tab.
 Click on the files you want to move, and right-click on them to bring up the context menu, and select “Cut” from this. Go to your destination folder where you want to put the files you’ve just cut. Once there, right-click on the area, and select “Paste” from the menu. The files will be moved to this new location.


You can also do the same operation by pressing on your keyboard Ctrl+X to cut and Ctrl-V to paste.
 Click on the files you want to delete, and right-click on them to bring up the context menu, and select “Delete.” When a confirmation box appears, click on the “OK” button to remove the files. The files will immediately be removed from your SendSpace account.


You can also do the same operation by pressing the Delete button on your keyboard.
Remember that this cannot be undone.
 Click on the file you want to share.
 Right-click on the file to bring up the context menu, and select “Copy link location” from this. The URL for the file will be stored in your clipboard.


You can also do the same operation by pressing Ctrl+L on your keyboard.
 You can now use the share link by pasting it on your email, IM, Facebook, Twitter, and other such accounts.


Anybody who has access to this link can now access the file stored in it.
 Right-click on the file to bring up the context menu, and select “Send File Link” from this. An email window will appear where you can input your recipients’ email addresses and an optional message. Once you complete the email, click on the “OK” button at the bottom of the window.


SendSpace has its own email server, and it will send out your email together with the link or URL of your file to your recipients. They will then have access to your file through this link.
You can also do the same operation by pressing Ctrl+E on your keyboard.

