 As the grandfather, one of the most important things you can do is simply to shower your grandchildren with love. Give them hugs and kisses and let them know how much they mean to you. Tell them how beautiful, smart, or funny they are and make them see that not a day goes by that you don’t think about them. Being as loving and caring as possible is the most important thing you can do.


Be affectionate. It’s important to give them hugs, kisses, and a lot of love.
If you’re the proud grandfather, just be aware that other people will be in line to hold your new grandchild ahead of you, including the parents and grandmothers. Have patience and you’ll have a chance to shower your grandchild with love.;
, Of course, grandparents are notorious for spoiling their grandchildren. While you don’t want to complete ruin their diets by feeding them nothing but cookies, you should indulge them a little bit by bending the rules just enough that their time with you feels fun and carefree. Let them know how special they are and reward them with little treats or gifts every once in a while so they know how much they mean to you.


Though you don’t have to spoil them with expensive gifts they’ll forget in a few weeks, you should give them treasured keepsakes that they’ll always remember.
 As the grandfather, one of your jobs is to tell your grandkids about what life was like when you were growing up. Though they may roll their eyes or act indifferent at first, it’s important for you to tell them what your parents were like and what your grandparents and life was like so that they have a deeper understanding and appreciation of the world they live in today, which is likely very different from yours. Even if they don’t seem to appreciate it at the time, they’ll be very grateful, one day.


Have them look at a photo album with you and tell lively stories about all of the people in their families to make them really come alive.
One fun activity you can do with your grandkids is to make a family tree together.
 As a grandfather, one of the most important things you can do is to make sure to be there for the milestones. You can be there when your grandkids learn to walk and talk, and also when they’re a bit older, when they start their first day of school or even when they graduate from elementary school. When they look back on these important moments in their lives, they’ll want to know that their grandfather was there every step along the way. Support and encourage them when those times come. They’ll need you for those big moments.
 If you’re lucky enough to have more than one grandchild, then you have to learn to love them equally, even if your adorable little granddaughter is always telling you how much she loves you, while your grandson likes to throw his food at your face. If you make your preferences known, your grandkids will be able to tell, and the one who isn’t favored will suffer. Just as in parenting, it’s important to love all of your grandchildren equally so they can thrive in the light of your love.


Learn to appreciate what makes each grandchild different, and try not to make them act like their siblings, except to model good behavior.
 Another important way to give your grandkids the love they deserve is to sit down and really listen to them. As the grandfather, you may be more used to talking than to listening, but if you really want to show them that you care, then you have to let them see that what they have to say is important. Sit them down on your lap or across from you during dinner, make eye contact with them, and let them tell you what happened during their day, what they’re looking forward to next weekend, or just what’s on their minds. If you’re really listening to them, it’ll make a big difference.


Put away your newspaper, turn of the TV, and avoid any other distractions. Give them all of your attention.
 Let’s face it. Most kids spend way too much time in front of the television, computer, or even their cell phones. As their grandfather, and hopefully as a man who is less dependent on technology than they are, it’s your job to get them outdoors. This can mean helping you out in the yard, going for a walk in your neighborhood, or even learning to play catch with you. The important thing is that they gain a love and appreciation for the outdoors — and they’ll have you to thank for it, even if they grumble initially.


Get them moving. In addition to encouraging your grandchildren to go outdoors, you should motivate them to be active. This should go hand in hand with going outside. If you’re on the beach, throw a Frisbee around or swim with them.
If you’re at a park, help them play tag or play ring toss or another fun game. Most kids don’t get enough exercise, and it’s important to keep them feeling active and energetic.
 Though spoiling your grandkids a little is every grandparent’s right, you shouldn’t do it so much that you completely disregard their parents’ rules and cause conflicts. Don’t completely ignore their bedtimes, their dietary restrictions, or how much TV time they get per day. Though letting them break these rules may feel good initially, it can lead to confusion in their household, and you should make sure that your grandkids know that rules are meant to be followed.Instead, help your grandchildren understand why their parents’ rules are important.
If you disagree with one of the parents’ rules, you can try talking to them about it (though you should avoid giving advice), but don’t tell the grandkids that it’s a bad rule.
 Another thing you can do as a grandfather is to tell your grandkids what life was like when you were growing up. Let them see that their world is still changing quickly and that they shouldn’t take anything for granted. If you have an extensive knowledge of history, politics, music, or really anything at all, then you should share this knowledge with your grandkids as much as you can; it will help them become mature, knowledgeable adults.


Spend time reading the paper with them and answer any questions they may have.
If they’re taking a history class, see what you can contribute from your own experiences.
 Though you may think that you’re the grandfather and that you have infinite wisdom to share with your grandchildren, you shouldn’t underestimate them, either. They live in a different world than you do, and it’s likely that they can teach you a thing or two, from how to send a text message to who the heck Justin Beiber is. Let them see that they are natural teachers and have a lot to offer, too, and they’ll develop more self-worth.


Ask them for help and don’t be shy about it. They’ll be proud to have something they can show Grandpa.
 Another thing you can do as their grandparent is to teach them the importance of being a good citizen of the world. This can mean everything from teaching them to recycle, to making sure that they are friendly to their neighbors and respectful in public. Remember that you’re a role model to them, so if you are a good citizen, they will follow suit.


Help them have good manners, be polite, and learn to respect the privacy of others.
Even the most basic tasks, like putting back your shopping cart or holding a door for someone, can help your grandkids become good citizens.
 If you and your wife are helping raise the grandkids together, then you should stick to the same rules and regulations. This will help keep things in your household consistent and will make your grandchildren treat you equally, instead of thinking that one of you is the “good cop” who will bend some of the rules. You should also treat your wife with love and kindness, and use your relationship as a model of love and care that your grandchildren can aspire to, one day.


Be affectionate with your wife in front of your grandchildren, and give them a positive model of a relationship.
 Of course, you can tell your grandkids to shape up when they’re misbehaving, but you should avoid being overly critical. It’s not your job to make them feel bad about themselves. You should praise them as much as you can and only criticize them if you think you want to teach them an important lesson and that it’ll be really good for their character. They should come to you for love and guidance, not discouragement.


Hold your tongue if you feel yourself wanting to be critical. Offer criticism only if it’s constructive, not if it’s meant to make your grandkids feel bad about themselves.
 If you want to help your grandchildren be strong and to build their character, then you shouldn’t criticize their parents in front of them. Whether their parents owe you money or are giving you too many responsibilities, you should kick that to the curb when it comes to bonding with your grandchildren; if they hear you criticizing their parents, they’ll think it’s okay to do that, too, and they’ll fall into bad habits.


It goes without saying that when it comes to actually talking to their parents, you should also treat them with kindness and respect, and avoid fighting with them in front of their children.
 As a new grandfather, you can try to be as helpful as you are able to be while maintaining your boundaries. Help the parents by watching your grandkids, running small errands for them, or helping out around the house when you can. You should be there as the parents adjust to their new lives and offer love, support, and a helping hand. When the new baby arrives, you should plan to be more available than you usually are.


If you don’t live near the parents, you can plan to take a trip out to spend time helping them and bonding with your new grandkids.
 While it’s important to help out the new parents, you shouldn’t let your responsibilities as a grandparent take over your entire life. You may be feeling overwhelmed or like you don’t have time to do the things you want to do. You may also feel not physically able to help out as much as you’ve been helping and may feel too proud to say so.


Though you may be excited to spend time with your new grandchild, you have to be open and honest with parents about how much you can comfortably take on.
 Though you may be eager and excited to be a grandfather, especially if you’re going it alone, you have to make sure to maintain your own life in spite of your new duties. Keep your usual meeting times with your friends, make time for cooking, fishing, walking, or anything else you normally like to do, and make time for decompressing with a good book in the process. It’s important to have a life so you don’t get too absorbed in the life of your new grandchild.


Keep spending time with your friends and your wife, and keep doing the same activities you loved to do before your grandkids arrived, whether you enjoy golfing, reading the paper, or gardening.
Remember that it’s likely that there are other grandparents who want to share your duties so you can’t expect to spend all of your time with your new grandchild.
 Though you may have a million and one ideas of how to raise children and though you may have raised 10 healthy, happy children yourself, when it comes to giving advice to the parents, your lips should be sealed unless that advice is asked for. Remember that you’re the grandparent and not the parent and accept that your role in your grandchildren’s lives is not the same as it would be if you were the parent.If the parents ask for advice, you should give it without being critical. Keep in mind that things have changed a bit since you were raising your kids, and you should account for that in your advice.
 Though you may like spending time with the whole family, as the grandfather, you may want to give the parents some time to be together without their children. Some alone time is important for them to maintain their relationship, even if they miss the kids when they’re not with them. Make sure you give them some time to decompress and are understanding of their need to be alone sometimes.Make sure the parents get to have a date night at least once or twice a month. They may insist that they don’t need time away from their kids; you should encourage them to get it.

