 You don’t want to wing it when cutting toddler’s hair because the toddler might be squirmy. Get your tools ready. The most important tool: Good scissors.


A pair of barber’s scissors will work best. A booster seat with a low back is also important so you can reach all sides of the hair from different angles. A comb with a pointed end can help you section the child’s hair.Household scissors are often too dull to use to cut hair. Multi-purpose scissors might work if you absolutely can’t get barber’s shears.Hair-cutting scissors can be found in your local pharmacy or grocery store.
Put newspapers, magazines or a towel under the chair to capture the hair clippings that are bound to fall. Put a towel around your child’s shoulders so that the clipped hair doesn’t end up covering the toddler’s clothing.;
, It’s a good idea to provide a distraction for the toddler so he or she doesn’t get wiggly. Schedule the haircut for a time when your child is feeling happy and well. Do not attempt the haircut if your child is tired, hungry or sick.


Try giving the toddler a lollipop to suck on while you are cutting the toddler’s hair.In order to further distract the toddler, you may want to put him or her in a chair that you set in front of the television. This should keep their focus elsewhere, and make it easier for you to cut their hair.Talk a lot to the toddler with a smile on your face, and provide positive feedback. Make the cut a fun experience for the toddler by involving him or her in the process, perhaps by singing a song together as you cut. Don’t expect absolute perfection when cutting a toddler’s hair as most get a little restless.
 It’s a good idea to spray a mist of water on the toddler’s hair before you try to cut it. If there are any tangles in the child’s hair, buying a spray bottle of detangler is also a good idea. If the hair is not evenly wet, the cut may end up uneven.


Wetting the hair will make it easier to cut the hair properly. In order to wet it down, you could buy a water bottle, fill it with water, and spray it around the toddler’s hair.
If you don’t have a water bottle handy, you can buy one for a dollar or two at many big box or department stores. You will also want a wide-tooth comb.You could also wet down the comb, and comb the toddler’s hair with it before trying to cut it, in the case that you don’t have a water bottle available. Another method is to use a wet washcloth and a bomb to wet the hair. Don’t wet the hair too much. Just mist it.