


Place the affected clothing in your freezer for 30 minutes, or until the crayon hardens.;
, Use a small, sharp paring knife or paint chisel to scrape the hardened crayon off the garment.


Rub the sharp side of of the utensil in between the fabric and the crayon, coming at it from a slight angle. Move the blade on one direction only, and wipe the crayon off of the blade with a clean paper towel in between each pass.
Note that a crayon stain may still remain underneath, but the solid crayon should be completely scraped off.
 Transfer the clothes to an ironing board. Sandwich the fabric in between paper towels, placing them around the location of the stain.


Use white paper towels to eliminate the risk of accidentally transferring color from the paper towels onto the fabric.
 Gently press the iron onto the top layer of paper towel for 5 to 10 seconds. Lift the iron straight up to remove it.

The heat should cause the crayon stain to lift from the clothes and onto the paper towels.






Do not drag the iron across the surface of the fabric since doing so may spread the stain instead of lifting it.






Use a low heat setting on your iron to reduce the risk of damaging your clothes.






Replace the paper towels frequently. After every one or two presses, swap out the dirtied paper towels for clean ones. Otherwise, the crayon stain may transfer back onto the clothes.
 Remove the paper towels and apply a spot stain remover to the remaining stains.


Blot the clothes with the stain remover and let dry.
At this point, the ironing technique should have caused the crayon stains to fade, but some stains will likely remain. These stains can usually be removed with normal stain removing practices, though.
 Run the stained clothing through a hot water cycle. Use standard detergent and bleach, if bleach is safe for the clothing item in question.

If you cannot use standard bleach, try an oxygen bleach, instead.






Rewash, if needed. If the stains have faded after the first wash, put the clothes through a second wash using the same type of detergent and bleach.







