 Smoking related illnesses are a leading cause of death around the world, and they’re one of the biggest single factors elevating your risk profile and your premiums. Quitting smoking—even if you’ve quit recently—can make a huge difference in the cost of your premium., Not only is heavy drinking a contributing factor to poor health, alcohol impairs judgement. Impaired judgement leads people under the influence to engage in risky, ill-advised activities.Reducing your alcohol consumption is likely to lead to increase liver function and decreased blood glucose, two metrics that predict ill health.
 Obesity is another leading cause of illness and death. It puts you at risk for high cholesterol, enlarged heart, and high blood pressure, among a host of other ailments. Although obese people are not necessarily unhealthy people, there is a strong correlation between obesity and poor health, and insurance companies assess risk based on what is typical—they don’t factor in outliers., Regular exams can allow you and your doctor to identify developing health concerns before they become serious issues.In addition, if your health improves and lowers your mortality risk, you may get a better rate.
 The results of your medical exam will be written up as a report that other insurers will have access to. Just like any human work product, your medical report can contain errors.Luckily, you have a right to read your medical report. You can request a copy at http://www.mib.com/facts_about_mib.html.
 Moving violations (like speeding tickets) and at-fault traffic accidents not only raise your auto insurance rates — they can raise your life insurance rates as well. A poor driving record indicates you are at higher risk for dying in an auto accident, so your premium may go up.Drive within the speed limit, obey all traffic laws, and keep a good moving vehicle record to save money.
 A life insurer makes money as long as you keep paying premiums. Most people end up paying more in premiums than they receive in death benefits, which means the insurer makes a profit. When people die before they’ve paid as much in premiums as they’ll receive in death benefits, the insure loses money. Understandably, it makes insurers nervous when they find out you’re a weekly bungee jumper — it’s a risky activity, and it puts them at risk for losing money on your policy.


High-risk activities may include flying a plane, mountain climbing, racing cars, skydiving, scuba diving, extreme sports, etc.
 Your company may offer discounts if you meet certain criteria, such as having a high credit score, make automatic payments, or bundle your policies (such as auto, health, and life).


It is common for insurers to discount premiums if the customer takes out multiple policies with one carrier. It is always a good idea to ask your insurer about any possible discounts they might be willing to give in exchange for bundling your policies.

