 Most s'mores are made with plain or honey graham crackers, but using a different flavor of graham cracker is one of the easiest ways to make a fancy s'more. Buy one of these flavored graham crackers to use as a base for your s'mores:

Cinnamon
Chocolate
Vanilla
Chocolate chip;
, If you can't find graham crackers or want a different base for your s'mores, buy classic sandwich cookies. Just twist apart the cookie and sandwich the toasted marshmallow and any fillings between the cookie lids. You can also use thin waffle cookies for a slightly caramelized flavor.

If you'd like a similar flavor to graham crackers, try using digestive biscuits/cookies.
 Bake a batch of your favorite kind of cookie. Try to make the cookies spread a little as they bake so they come out thin. Or try mixing and matching cookies so you have two different types of cookie for each lid of the s'more. Consider using:Chocolate chip cookies
Peanut butter cookies
Gingersnaps
Oatmeal raisin cookies

, Instead of using the standard milk chocolate, use a gourmet chocolate that contains more cocoa solids. Look for a bittersweet or semisweet chocolate bar. For something even more sophisticated, try:White chocolate with mint
Salted caramel filled chocolate bars
Cocoa nib chocolate bars (for a little crunch)
Cappuccino or coffee flavored chocolate

, You can always use your favorite candy bar as the chocolate in s'mores. To make it easier to eat, chill the candy bar in the freezer for a while and then slice it in half. Lay the halves of the candy bar on your cookie or cracker base.You can use peanut and caramel candy bars, candy bars with nougat or whipped marshmallow, or even peanut butter cup candy.
 Substitute your favorite dessert spread for a truly gourmet s'more or spread it on the cracker underneath the chocolate bar. Chocolate hazelnut spread is an easy way to upgrade basic s'mores. You can also use:Dulce de leche or salted caramel
Cookie butter (speculoos butter)
Candy bar peanut butter

, For a really unique s'more, you can leave out the chocolate and use a fruit curd instead. Spread a few spoonfuls of lemon, orange, or raspberry curd on your base. You can still top it with a marshmallow. Or if you enjoy the flavor of citrus and chocolate, just spread the fruit curd on the cracker underneath the chocolate bar.For example, spread lemon curd on a graham cracker. Top it with a toasted marshmallow for a s'more that tastes like lemon meringue pie.
 Nut butters are a great alternative or addition to chocolate. They're also great if you're looking to cut back on some of the sugar in traditional s'mores. Just spread a layer of your favorite nut butter over the cookie or cracker base. Try almond, hazelnut, or peanut butter.Nut butters also taste great when you pair them with fruit (like bananas).
 More stores are carrying unusual marshmallows, so buy several and try out different textures and flavors. You may be able to find square marshmallows which are perfect for completely filling standard graham crackers. Or pick up toasted coconut-coated marshmallows for a little chewy texture.

You can probably find seasonal flavors, especially in cooler weather. For example, you might find pumpkin spice or gingerbread flavored marshmallows.
 Several gourmet markets sell flavored marshmallows or you can make them at home to control the flavors. Try simple flavored marshmallows (like chocolate or strawberry) or make a unique flavor combination (like bourbon vanilla).Keep in mind that some homemade marshmallows may be lighter or fluffier than commercial marshmallows. They may toast faster, so keep an eye on them when you're heating them.
 For a really easy way to include marshmallow, just spread marshmallow filling over your cracker or cookie base. This works well if you don't have access to a heat source for toasting marshmallows.

Marshmallow filling will also help other loose toppings stick (like chopped nuts or sprinkles).
 Include a sweet fresh flavor by slicing and adding fresh fruit. You can thinly slice strawberries or bananas to place on the s'mores. Consider leaving fresh berries whole and arrange them on the marshmallow or filling.You can also spread a little fruit jam or roasted fruit over the graham crackers or cookie base.
 To add a smoky sweet flavor to your s'mores, candy a few strips of bacon. Lay the bacon on a baking sheet and rub some brown sugar over the strips. Bake the bacon in a 375 degree F (190 C) oven for 15 to 25 minutes. The bacon should look glazed and crispy. Set the candied bacon on paper towels and let the bacon cool completely before you put it on your s'mores.The candied bacon may take longer to cook if you're using thick-cut bacon.
 Sprinkle a little toasted coconut over the chocolate, spread or filling in the s'mores. This will help it stick. The coconut will give a slightly chewy or crisp texture depending on how toasted it is. You can also sprinkle a dash or two of your favorite spices.For example, add a sprinkle of cinnamon and cayenne for a slightly spicy s'more. Or sprinkle some ground ginger if you're using a citrus or fruit filling.
 Lay your cookie or graham cracker bases on a serving plate. Spread any fillings you're using over the cookie or cracker bases. Set any chocolate bars or fruit on the filling or base., You can toast the marshmallow over a low fire or place it in the microwave. Heat the marshmallow on low heat until it softens and puffs up. Transfer the marshmallow off of your toasting stick or from the microwave and onto your cookie or cracker base.

If you're using the microwave, heat it for 5 to 10 seconds.
 Place the top cookie or graham cracker base over the warm marshmallow. Press it down to sandwich all of the s'more ingredients together. This can also help melt the chocolate, if you're using a bar. Enjoy the s'more immediately.