 Your doctor should be able to offer advice on whether or not you require chlorophyll supplementation. In some cases, chlorophyll supplements should be avoided. For example, since there has been a lack of safety research on chlorophyll supplements, pregnant women should avoid commercial supplements.If your doctor advises against supplementation, you can still get your chlorophyll from natural sources such as kale, spinach or broccoli.In fact, eating green vegetables daily is a much better way to get chlorophyll into your diet along with fiber and other nutrients.
Keep in mind that chlorophyll supplements may not be recommended if you are taking other medications or if you are pregnant or nursing. Check with your doctor to be sure.;
, If you are unable to get enough chlorophyll from vegetables, you could use a supplement. Chlorophyll supplements can give you a boost of energy, as well as provide a number of potential health benefits. You can find chlorophyll supplements at most health food stories. Ask the health food clerk which brands are reputable. If there are no health food stores nearby, shop online.You can get chlorophyll supplements in a variety of combinations, including with papaya, spirulina and green mixes containing a variety of other vitamins and minerals.
Chlorophyll supplements cost between $15 and $70.
Also, keep in mind that the FDA does not regulate supplements. Check the label for other indicators of quality, such as a USP label.
 You can get chlorophyll supplements in a variety of forms, including tablets and liquids. If you choose the liquid form, you squirt a few drops in a glass of water. It will get very green and tastes slightly minty and a little bitter. If you choose the tablet form, you don’t have to worry about the strong taste. Follow the dosage recommendations on the label, or as directed by your naturopath or doctor., Taking the supplement orally may give you a green tongue or green feces. If you apply it topically to treat a wound, it may lead to a mild burning sensation or itching. If you take a lot of the supplement and in unusual situations, rare side effects include diarrhea and abdominal cramps.Seek a doctor if you experience rare side effects.
 Many juice stores sell chlorophyll water, which is water with some liquid chlorophyll. If you are on the run and forgot to take your chlorophyll supplement in the morning, you could pick up some chlorophyll water from a juice stand.