 You should do cardio as well as lift weights to train for a track meet, regardless of what events you will participate in. This will help you get in shape so you can perform to the best of your abilities.


Keep your workouts light as you get closer to the meet. You shouldn’t test your limits right before the meet. You can decrease either the intensity, frequency, or duration of your workouts.;
, In the weeks leading up to a meet, you should practice your events regularly. Practice whichever event you will be competing in, such as javelin, shot put, discus, hurdles, or relays.
 This will help you feel calm and ready when it is time for the meet. Check out the jumping pole if you participate in pole vault, or get familiar with the shot needed for shot put. Practice hand-offs for relays, or get to know the hurdles. If you are a sprinter, practice with your starting blocks the day before.
 Both carbohydrates and protein are important sources of energy for your body. Healthy forms of protein include chicken, fish, and tofu. Good sources of carbs include whole grain bread, sweet potatoes, chickpeas, brown rice, bananas, and blueberries., Soda, sugary juices, and even sports drinks aren’t good for you. Choose water instead to keep your body properly hydrated., It’s important to get plenty of rest before a track meet. Go to bed early to ensure you get adequate rest. Teens should get 9 to 9 ½ hours of sleep each night., Listen to the advice your coach gives you and ask them any questions you have. They will be happy to help, and it'll be better to get these questions off your chest before you compete.
 Choose a breakfast with protein and carbs, but avoid greasy foods and butter. Be sure to eat at least two hours before you are scheduled to compete in an event so your body has time to digest the food.You should also bring a few snacks with you to the meet. Snacks such as honey, peanut butter, apples, cheese, and granola bars are good choices., It’s essential that you drink enough water leading up to and during a track meet. As a general rule, men should drink 13 cups (about 3 liters) and women should drink 9 cups (a little over 2 liters) of water each day.Drink extra water to compensate for fluids lost through sweat when exercising.
Be sure to bring plenty of water with you to the meet so you can hydrate throughout the day.
 Take some time to calm down before the meet starts. Practice yoga, imagine yourself in a happy place, or listen to your favorite music.Give yourself positive encouragement by saying or thinking things like “I am ready,” and “I can do this!”

, Being late for the meet will stress you out and could throw off your game. Be sure to leave extra time in the morning in case you run into traffic or have other issues., A sunburn is not a good reward for all your hard work. Apply sunscreen with an SPF of 30 or higher every 2-3 hours while outdoors.You can also visualize the meet and see yourself competing to the best of your abilities.
 Be sure to stretch and warm up about 25-30 minutes before competing in an event. You can do the same warm-ups you do in practice. Just be sure not to over-exert yourself before the meet begins., You can have an energy gel about 15 minutes before the race. Energy gels have complex sugars, and are more efficient than simple sports drinks.
 Put all your passion and training to work the day of the meet. Give each event your all. It doesn’t matter so much if you win or lose if you gave your best effort.