 Your principal will be able to suggest students within the school and can also contact other schools to see who needs help with what. Make sure to tell your principal what time works best for you, what you want to help kids with, and how you're going to do it. This gives them an idea of what to look for.

Tell your principal what time availability you have and the subjects you're willing to tutor with.



 


Have a plan for tutoring drawn up to show your principal before asking. This will show you've already put thought into the matter. It can also open up the discussion about suggested methods and directions that the principal thinks would work well.





;
, You could even do this among your friends! Tutoring a friend is one of the most helpful things you can do in some cases. Advertise yourself, make it clear what you can help with and how!

, Tutoring requires a good amount of effort before the lesson. If you skip preparing for the lesson, it will ramble on and the student won't be directed into focusing on the issues that really matter. This is not the time to be "winging it", so prepare well.
 These become the focus around which you build the lesson. While it is okay to introduce some new material, make sure that you spend a lot of time ensuring that the basics of the subject-matter are clear for the pupil before moving on.
 If there is a cost involved, pass this on to the student; inform him or her ahead of the lesson that there is a cost. Alternatively, use your own materials if you already have them, or ask the student to bring some along. Examples include stationery, textbooks, CDs, memory sticks, etc.


If making worksheets, these must be developed and printed off prior to the lesson. Do not underestimate how long this will take you; with designing them, filling them out and printing/collating them, at least a good hour or more can pass by.
 Sit down with them and write three learning goals they have, and even help them with some personal goals. Write down what they need help with, and how they are most comfortable learning it and then apply it. Your work is pretty much useless unless you apply what you have written down. this means actually do what you write. Really become a role model for the child, giving them the help they really need.
 Get an extra binder, and some folders to go with it. Keep track of each child's work, needs, and progress in these folders. You may want to assign each child a folder, or assign each folder a job like "Work" or "Progress Reports".
 This might be in a quiet study room in the library, in a classroom or at the student's home. Wherever it is, choose a place that is safe, free of distractions and has access to anything you might need, such as power outlets for a laptop or audio player, etc.
 This is a vital first contact so that the guardian trusts you and has faith in your tutoring. Have references showing both your good grades and your good character and share these with the guardian.
 You will probably get a different perspective talking to both of them, which can help you to decide what is really needed.


Get to know the student's interests as well as needs. This will help you to tailor the tutoring to the interests, to make the lessons more engaging.
 Let them know how the pupil is doing, if they're improving, if their grades are going down, or what they might need outside of your help. If you have to ask the parents to do something, like set up a homework time or monitor their gaming time so that they can focus on homework, then please do! If the parent or guardian doesn't know what's going on, and it's likely that the student won't follow through with what they need to do without being pushed.
 If the child loses interest, they won't want to participate anymore and the connection between you and them breaks. Make games that are educational and fun! Some websites that are good for that are listed below.
 The more effort you make, the more effort the child will make!

, If you're not feeling comfortable with the material or it has become more advanced than you feel capable of, be honest. It might be time to send your tutor on to someone else with the expertise. Or, it could be a sign that the student no longer needs the tutor!

