 When you pick your cat up from the veterinarian following a surgery and anesthesia, you will likely be given a list of care instructions. Make sure to carefully read and follow the instructions. For example, your vet may provide you with information regarding administering pain medication, or how to feed your cat while it is recovering from the anesthesia., When you arrive home with your cat after a surgery or procedure that required anesthesia, your cat may be groggy. Place your cat in a confined room, such as a bedroom or bathroom.Choose a room that is quiet and free of other pets or young children. Avoid letting other pets interact with your cat before it recovers fully. This helps keep both your cat and your other pets calm and safe while your cat is still influenced by the anesthesia.
Alternatively, you could confine your cat to a large crate while recovering.
 Choose a room that does not have any elevated objects. Your cat may be tired and groggy and could fall off of a countertop or elevated piece of furniture. Jumping may also irritate any stitches or incision sites and should be avoided.You may also want to carry your cat up and down the stairs for the first 24 hours until they start to regain their energy levels., Your cat will need to spend quite a bit of time sleeping and resting while recovering from anesthesia. As a result, you want to create a comfortable place for the cat to sleep. Place their favourite bed and a few blankets in the enclosed area with the cat.Make sure the bedding is placed on the floor so that the cat is not tempted to jump onto a bed or other piece of furniture.
 Provide food and water in small amounts following anesthesia. Your cat may have a mild reaction to the anesthesia, resulting in vomiting. Only give your cat a small amount of food, about half of what they normally eat. If the cat does not vomit, then you can return your cat to its regular eating schedule.Follow all feeding instructions provided by your vet.
 Make sure that your cat can easily access their litter box. Place it in the confined room with the cat so that they do not need to travel far to go to the washroom. Do not keep the little box on a different floor from the cat. You want to minimize the amount of stairs they are climbing while recovering from anesthesia., For the first 24 to 48 hours after surgery your cat should not engage in any rough play. If you have other pets, keep them separated for a few days, to give your cat adequate time to recover. Rough play could result in tearing stitches or irritating the incision site.If your vet recommends exercise restrictions while your cat recovers, make sure you follow them exactly. If you are unsure if your cat needs exercise restrictions, contact your vet for clarification.

