 The most common anemias are nutritional deficiency anemias. Iron is the most common nutritional deficiency seen in anemia patients.To prevent this kind of anemia, you need to include certain kinds of foods in your diet to get more iron. Men and non-menstruating women should get about 10 mg of iron daily, while menstruating or nursing mothers should get 15 mg daily. Pregnant women should get 30 mg every day.


Try to incorporate more iron-rich proteins such as lean red meat, liver, poultry, pork, and fish. Try more spinach and other dark green leafy vegetables, such as Swiss chard, mustard, beet and collard greens, broccoli, various lettuces, and kale.
Also eat more tofu and other soybean foods, peas, lentils, various colored beans, chickpeas, dried fruits, prunes, raisins, apricots, and prune juice.
For breakfast or a snack, try iron-fortified cereals and iron-fortified whole grain breads.
You can also cook in cast-iron cookware to get additional iron.;
, Certain foods can decrease iron absorption. If you want to prevent iron deficiency anemia, do not drink tea, coffee, or cocoa with meals. They will absorb the much needed iron from your meal and it will not go into your body. You should also not take your iron supplement with these liquids as well for the same reason.


You should also avoid milk and dairy products because the calcium in dairy products may decrease iron absorption., To prevent the kind of anemia where you need more vitamin B12, bring more vitamin B12 into your diet. You need 2.5 mcg of B12 every day. Pregnant women should get 2.6 mcg per day and if nursing, you need 2.8 mcg every day. Include vitamin B12 rich foods such as beef, liver, poultry, sardines, salmon, tuna, cod, eggs, milk, yogurt, and cheese. These all have natural vitamin B12 that will help up your levels and help your anemia.


You can also eat food that has been fortified with vitamin B12. Try breakfast cereals, soy-based beverages, and vegetarian burgers with added vitamin B12.
You can also take a vitamin B12 supplement to help increase your levels as well., You can also get anemia from a deficiency in vitamins such as folate. To prevent this, incorporate more folate rich foods into your diet. Men over 13 years old should have 400 mcg of folate per day. Women over 13 should have 4-600 mcg per day. To get more folate, eat foods such as spinach, beet and collard greens, Swiss chard, broccoli, mustard, lettuces, kale, lentils, black-eyed peas, pinto beans, chickpeas, kidney beans, beef liver, and eggs.


You can get foods that have been fortified with extra folate, such as bread, pasta, and rice.
There are also good amounts of folate in fruit and fruit juices, such as bananas, oranges, and orange juice., Adults over 19 should need to get a minimum of 85 mg of Vitamin C daily. If you are a smoker, you should get an extra 35 mg daily. If you want to boost your immunity, you need a dosage of 1000 mg. To get enough vitamin C, eat fruits such as oranges, grapefruit, tangerines, lemons, limes, kiwi fruit, papaya, pineapple, strawberries, raspberries, and cantaloupe.


There are also many vitamin C rich vegetables, such as broccoli, red peppers, Brussels sprouts, tomatoes, cabbage, potatoes, and leafy green vegetables.
Vitamin C enhances the absorption of iron, so the vitamin C containing foods can be taken with the iron containing foods., It is always best to get your vitamins and minerals from foods. If you eat foods rich with the vitamins, for the most part, they should provide you with all the vitamins and minerals you need. If you worry that you might not be getting enough from your food intake, you can take a supplement of iron, vitamin B12, vitamin C, folate, or any other vitamin or mineral.


Just because something is natural or required by the body does not mean you can’t overdo it. Iron is a good example. There is a condition called hemochromatosis that can be hereditary or acquired and occurs when you take too much iron as a supplement. It can be very serious., If you are not sure what type of anemia you may be susceptible to, you may need to seek medical advice as you start your natural treatments. There are many forms of anemia and there can be serious consequences if anemia is handled incorrectly. You should be careful because, with certain forms of anemia, extra vitamins and minerals can actually make your condition worse.


Before you can prevent anemia, you have to understand if you are at risk for it.