;
,,,, When fitting the chuck, ensure that you use the spanner provided to hold the driven part of the head stock and only tighten the chuck finger tight. Over tightening may damage the drive stock gears and make the chuck difficult to remove.
 The engraving machine will now move to its home position.
 You will now be asked the mode you wish to load, select "inside ring engraving", third icon from the left, and then press "ok". You will now see a see the engraving area on a yellow background on the screen.
 This must be carried out accurately; otherwise your design will not be engraved centrally within the ring. The smallest diameter ring you can accommodate is 12 mm and the largest is 32 mm. You are now ready to setup the ring with text etc., in your engraving software.
 the workspace area is the equivalent of the inside of the ring unfolded. This makes it easier to place your text, press "f7" on your keyboard to zoom in to your workspace.
 in the auto layout dialogue box, ensure that the inside ring mode is selected, third icon from the left. in diameter enter the diameter of the ring i.e. 22 mm, in the ring width enter the width of the ring i.e. 9 mm. in fonts select the font you require to use, click on "ok".
 If you are satisfied with the layout you are now ready to send the job to the engraving machine. At this stage, ensure you have placed the ring in the chuck and the engraving machine is switched on. From the production menu, select "engrave", now select "inside ring using diamond, (this automatically sets the feed rates, depths etc, correctly for ring engraving), then click on "ok".
 This will now give you an exact view of your ring, in the correct orientation with the ring engraving chuck. The job will have been sent to the engraving machine in the correct orientation, ready to start engraving.
 Press the "start/ stop" button, the diamond engraving head will now automatically move down, then to the left into the outside edge of the ring to be engraved. The yellow position light and the green start/stop lights will now be illuminated; this indicates that you should be in the correct position. If you find that the diamond tip is not in the correct position i.e. on the outside edge of the ring, you can use the "x" axis "move keys" on the keypad to adjust the position.
 Using the "z down" button on the keypad (second from right, bottom) jog slowly down to the surface of the ring. Once you are satisfied you are at the surface, press the "start/stop" button, the machine will start engraving the ring. Once the engraving has finished, the diamond engraving head will move to the right and clear the center of the ring and the red finish light will be lit.
