 One of the best ways to improve your new language skills is to practice speaking with a native speaker. They will easily be able to correct any grammar or pronunciation mistakes you make and can introduce you to more informal or colloquial forms of speech that you won't find in a textbook.


If you have a Spanish-speaking friend who is willing to help, that's great! Otherwise, you can place an ad in the local paper or online or investigate whether there are any pre-existing Spanish conversation groups in the area.
If you can't locate any Spanish-speakers nearby, try finding someone on Skype. They might be willing to exchange 15 minutes of Spanish conversation for 15 minutes of English.
 If you need some extra motivation or feel you would learn better in a more formal setting, try signing up for a Spanish language course.


Look out for language courses advertised at local colleges, schools or community centers.
If you're nervous about signing up for a class by yourself, drag a friend along. You'll have more fun and also someone to practice with between classes!

, Get your hands on some Spanish DVDs (with subtitles) or watch Spanish cartoons online. This is an easy, entertaining way to get a feel for the sound and structure of the Spanish language.


If you're feeling particularly proactive, try pausing the video after a simple sentence and repeat what has just been said. This will lend your Spanish accent an air of authenticity!
If you can't find any Spanish films to buy, try renting them from a movie rental store, which often have foreign language sections. Alternatively, see if your local library has any Spanish films or ask if they would be able to source some for you.
 Listening to Spanish music and/or radio is another good way to surround yourself in the language. Even if you can't understand everything, try to pick out keywords to help you get the gist of what's being said.


Get a Spanish radio app on your phone, so you can listen on the go.
Try downloading Spanish podcasts to listen to while exercising or doing housework.
Alejandro Sanz, Shakira and Enrique Iglesias are some good Spanish singers.
 Languages exist in a dialogue with culture, so certain expressions and mentalities are inextricably tied to cultural origins. The study of culture may also help prevent social misunderstandings.
 Once you feel comfortable with the basics of Spanish speech, consider taking a trip a Spanish speaking country. There's no better way to immerse yourself in a language than to hang-out and chat with the locals!


Be aware that every Spanish-speaking country has a different accent, different slang, and sometimes even different vocabulary. For example, Chilean Spanish is extremely different from Mexican Spanish, from the Spanish of Spain, and even Argentine Spanish.
In fact, as you advance in your Spanish proficiency, you may find it helpful to focus on one particular flavor of Spanish. It could be confusing if your lessons continually shift among word meanings and pronunciations for each country. However only about 2% of Spanish vocabulary is different in each country. You must concentrate in the remaining 98%.
 If you're serious about learning to speak Spanish, keep at it - the satisfaction you'll get from mastering a second language will far outweigh the difficulties you encounter along the way. Learning a new language takes time and practice, it won't happen overnight. If you still need some extra motivation, here are some things that make Spanish easier to learn than other languages:


Spanish uses the Subject-Object-Verb word order, just like English. This means that it's easier to translate directly from English to Spanish, without having to worry about rearranging the structure of the sentence.Spanish spelling is very phonetic, so it's usually quite easy to pronounce a word correctly, just by saying it like it's spelled. This is not the case in English, so Spanish learners of English have a much harder time pronouncing words correctly when reading!As mentioned before, about 30% to 40 % of words in Spanish have an English cognate. This is because of their shared Latin roots. As a result, you already have an extensive Spanish vocabulary before you even get started - all it needs is a few tweaks and a Spanish twang!

