 Drink plenty of fluids to help your body sweat and maintain a normal body temperature, so you avoid heat stress and dehydration. Take a break every 20 minutes during exercise to drink some water, even if you don’t feel thirsty.If your doctor has told you to limit fluids because of a health condition, be sure to ask them about staying hydrated during fitness activities.
Some medications affect your body's ability to stay hydrated and cool, such as some to treat high blood pressure and heart problems (beta blockers, diuretics), allergy symptoms (antihistamines), anxiety (tranquilizers), and psychiatric symptoms such as delusions (antipsychotics)., Walking is one of the safest activities to get your muscles and joints used to being active again. Take a walk every day, and don’t worry if you start slowly – even 5 minutes is a good start. Try to increase how far you walk every day.


Get an inexpensive pedometer to measure how many steps you take. The goal for healthy adults is 10,000 steps every day.From whatever is your starting point, try to increase it 500 steps more every day until you can do 10,000 steps with no pain or discomfort.
 If a 30 minute walk leaves you feeling exhausted, that’s okay! Cut it down to 15 minutes until that feels comfortable, then increase it. Everyone recovers at different speeds. Push yourself to be slightly outside your comfort zone, without being in pain or having symptoms return.

If you’ve had a severe illness, even walking may seem like a challenge. The idea is to start small, even extremely small, like getting up to use the bathroom or make a meal. Then slowly and gradually increase your activity each day.
 Even at the best of times, do not jump into full workout mode without a warm-up. This is especially important now that you’re rebuilding strength and endurance. Start each fitness regime with at least 2-3 minutes of warm-up exercises like shoulder shrugs, toe taps, marching in place, knee lifts or leg lifts, and lifting your arms over your head., Flexibility is an important part of overall fitness, just like strength and endurance.Start your day with 10-15 minutes of stretching. Breathe slowly and deeply while your stretch, and hold each stretch for at least 30 seconds.


Try to get one of the many phone apps that lead you through various stretches, like Stretching Programs for Android or Stretching Sworkit for iPhone.
When you’re ready, you can also replace one or two of your weekly workouts with an easy to moderate yoga session, which both stretches and gently strengthens muscles.
 Once you’ve eased back into activity, start working on cardio exercises. Leave strength training for later. Do aerobic exercises like jogging, swimming, the elliptical machine, bike riding – whatever increases your heart rate and breathing rate and gets you to break a sweat.When you’re ready to work on cardio, aim to do 50% of your pre-sickness activity and go from there.For example, if you used to do a 10 mile bike ride, start with 5 miles. Pay attention to your body, and increase or decrease that distance as you need to.
Once 50% feels good, increase your workout to 60% of your previous activity, then 70%, and so on. Don’t jump back to a full 100% effort as soon as 50% feels comfortable; this will probably be too intense., Once you’ve improved your cardiovascular fitness, you can start working on strength training. To improve your overall strength and get your whole body back to being fit, exercise large muscle groups such as your thighs, back, chest, and abdomen (stomach muscles).Use resistance bands or weights to strengthen these muscles. Do sets of exercises with the heaviest weight you can use safely, even if that starts out being very light. Increase your weights weekly a little at a time. Have a professional show you the proper form for the following exercises:Squats
Deadlifts
Military press
Bench press

Barbell rows (while bent over)
Pull-ups
Chin Ups
Dips
Calf raises
Plank

