 For many people, shampooing in the shower is such a part of their daily ritual that it may seem unthinkable not to do it. However, if you're suffering from dry hair, frequent shampooing is actually one of the worst things you can do. Shampoo strips essential oils from the hair along with dirt and grime, leaving it dry and vulnerable to damage. These oils will eventually return to the hair, but if you shampoo every day, they may not get a chance to.


Shampoo is good for cleaning your hair and scalp, so a good compromise is to shampoo every third day. You can shower as often as you normally do to clean your skin and even use conditioner, but limit shampooing to about twice per week unless your hair gets especially dirty.;
, Using a blow dryer after bathing can dry your hair out, but the effects can be minimized with a few easy changes to your drying habits. Try the following:


Don't blow dry right after you get out of the shower. Let your hair air dry or blot it dry with a towel to soak up excess moisture.
Set your dryer to a low setting and dry your hair gradually over a longer period of time.
Use a thermal-protective hairspray or product to protect your hair.
 The stiff, sharp bristles of most hair brushes can tear and fray delicate hair. Instead of using a harsh brush, switch to a brush with wide-spaced, round-tipped bristles. Better yet, skip the brush entirely and use a wide toothed comb. Any of these alternatives should be available at a local department store or pharmacy for cheap.


This advice is especially important if you normally brush your hair in the shower. When your hair is wet, it is weaker. If you regularly pull on it with a brush, you can stretch and damage your hair.
 Rubber bands and tight hair ties can fray, and damage your hair. The tighter and more constrictive the material, the worse the effect. Try switching to free-flowing hairstyles or use braids or buns if you need to wear your hair up.


If you have to use a hair tie, get the big poofy ones that have soft fabric over them.
 If you normally straighten your hair every day, this can gradually damage the outer layer of your hair. Over time, this causes your hair to become weaker and dryer. Eventually, it will become so dry and brittle that you can be left with split or broken-off ends. Embrace your non-straight hair and it will naturally become less dry.


This is especially true if you get your naturally kinky hair straightened at a specialist's. The chemicals used in the straightening process are quite caustic and can cause severe damage to your hair (or, if you leave them in too long, your scalp). Luckily, this goes away once the treatments stop.
 A wide variety of products designed to repair dry, damaged hair are available at supermarkets and beauty stores. Try switching to a product labeled "moisturizing," "repairing," "restorative," "strengthening," or "fortifying." These sorts of products are available as shampoos, conditioners, hairsprays, hair oils, and more. Regardless of the specific product you choose, use a light application on your hair every day and it should get stronger, shinier, and easier to brush and manage.

