 Type https://iforgot.apple.com in a desktop or mobile web browser.
 This is the email address you use to sign in on iTunes or the App Store., It's just below the Apple ID field.

If you don't know your Apple ID, click Forgot Apple ID? and then enter your first name, last name, and email address.
,,,

Select "Reset from another device" if you have access to a device that is logged in with your Apple ID such as a Mac computer or another iOS device.

This is the fastest and preferred method.


Select "Use trusted phone number" to use the phone number associated with your Apple ID.

This method can take up to several days depending on the account information you are able to provide.
, Do this according to the method you chose to reset your password:

If you previously selected Reset from another device, on one of the devices listed that is associated with your Apple ID, select Allow.
If you previously selected Use a trusted phone number, click Start Account Recovery then click Continue and enter the verification code that is sent to the trusted number.
, Depending on the information you have already linked with your Apple ID and depending on the security preferences you have previously set, you may be asked to confirm any of the following:

Birth Date
Credit Card information

Email Address (for Apple ID's that don't have "@icloud.com" addresses)
Security Questions

, Do so after confirming all the requested account information.,

If you Reset using another device or you answered security questions, you will be asked to create a new password for your Apple ID.
If you chose to Use a trusted phone number, open the account recovery link that is sent via text message once your account is ready to be recovered, then enter your Apple ID.
If you chose to retrieve your password via email, click on the password reset link contained in the email message from Apple.
 Type a new password into the labeled field and re-enter it again identically in the field below.

Your password must:

be at least 8 characters long
include at least 1 number
include at least 1 uppercase letter
include at least 1 lowercase letter
not contain any spaces
not contain three consecutive characters (e.g. ttt)
not be identical to your Apple ID
not be a previous password you've used in the last year



, You have now reset your Apple ID's password and can now log in with your new password on Apple's website or your iOS device.