 Start your citation by reversing the author’s name, i.e., last, first, and close it with a period. Follow the author’s name with the title of the book italicized. Follow this with a period as well. Then type the publisher’s location, a colon, the publisher, a comma, and the year of publication. End the citation with a period. Try it for yourself!For example: Eckhardt, Daisy. Healing Plants. New York: University Press, 2002.
If your book has two or more authors, then only reverse the name of the first author. The rest of the authors’ names should be in regular format. For example: Eckhardt, Daisy, John Glass, and Michael Briggs. Healing Plants and Medicine. New York: University Press, 2005.;
, Begin your citation by reversing the author’s name, i.e., last, first, and follow this with a period. Type and quote the title of the journal article, and follow the title with a period. Then type and italicize the name of the journal with its volume number. Follow the volume number with a comma and the issue number. Place the year of publication in parenthesis followed by a colon and the inclusive page numbers. End the citation with a period. For example: Richard, Anna. “Race and Gender in the Classroom.” Race and Gender Studies 30, no. 2 (2010): 65-81.
If the journal article has more than one author, then only reverse the name of the first author. Type the rest of the authors’ names in regular format.
If you retrieved the journal article from online, then follow the inclusive page numbers with the access date and a URL (if it is a Internet site), or the name of the database if it was retrieved from an online database. For example: Accessed March 15, 2015. http://www.libraryofcongress.com. Or, Accessed March 15, 2015. Academic OneSearch.
 Start the citation by reversing the author’s name, i.e., first, last, and close it with a period. Type and quote the name of the magazine article and close it with a period. Type and italicize the magazine’s name followed by a comma and the date it was published. It's that simple!For example: Doe, James. “How to Adopt a Cat.” Cats as Pets, August 15, 2009.
If the article has more than one author, then only reverse the first author’s name.
 Citing newspaper articles is easy! Begin the citation by reversing the author’s name followed by a period. Type and quote the title of the article, and close the title with a period. Type and italicize the name of the newspaper followed by a comma and the date it was published. Then type the date you accessed the article, a period, and the URL (if it was accessed online). End the citation with a period.


For example: Moore, Katherine. “Women in Combat.” Houston Times, January 16, 2007. Accessed June 11, 2009. http://houstontimes.com/2007/05/09/women-in-combat.html.
If the article has more than one author, then only reverse the first author’s name.
 Begin the citation by reversing the first author’s name followed by a period. Type and quote the article’s title and close it with a period. Type the name of the website and close it with a period. Then type the date of publication, a period, the date you accessed the article, a period, and the URL. End the citation with a period.For example: Davis, Ashley. “Ten Places You Should Visit This Summer.” Travel. May 21, 2016. Accessed June 5, 2016. http://www.travel.com/2016/98/02/ten-places-you-should-visit-this-summer-555849578.

