 If they are pressuring you to choose a "best friend", try to take a neutral stance. It’s not really fair of them to try to force you into choosing a best friend, and you don’t have to just because they say so. Say that you appreciate both of them and tell them why. Say something like, "I really like both of you, and don’t want to choose just one as a best friend".


You can be specific and say what you like about each and try to point out what they like about each other at the same time.
"Ella, I really like hanging out with you because you’re so laid back. Sally, you’re really funny and I like joking around with you."
Point out that the three of you make a good combination and be positive.
 It can be awkward, but it’s best to try to explain your side of it. Of course it is hard for them to be fighting, but it’s not easy for you being stuck in the middle either. They should understand this, but they might be caught up in themselves and have not thought about how tough it is for you. Explain carefully and sympathetically that it’s no picnic for you.


Say something like, "I know it’s hard for you, but it’s horrible for me to be stuck in middle of you. I want to be friends with both of you, and the whole situation is upsetting for me."
Be patient and you might help them to put it all in perspective.
 If you have tried to stay neutral and leave them to it, but they are still pushing you to choose, you may feel it is unavoidable. If you are going to choose, don’t rush into it. Think it over carefully and try to weigh up your options before you do anything. Use the steps in the first method, and ask yourself who makes you feel good about yourself.


People who make us feel good about ourselves, and validated in who we are, are often those whom we will be good friends with for a long time., This is a bold option, but you might feel you have no choice but to move away from them both. It’s possible that if they really pressure you, or are horrible to each other, that you might change your opinion about them. If they are pushy and mean you might decide that you don’t actually want to be friends with either of them. Don’t be afraid to tell them this. Some tough love might be enough to make them have a rethink.


It takes courage to say no to this kind of peer pressure, especially from close friends, but if you think it’s the right to do, do it.Say something like, "I’m sorry, but you’re upsetting me by trying to make me choose."
Or, "we’re not having any fun, so can we just move on?"

