 Your children will notice and mirror your behavior and values, so you should make it clear that you are environmentally conscientious and take steps in your daily life to contribute to conservation efforts. Show them how you sort and recycle all disposable household materials, pick up litter when out at the park or on walks in the neighborhood, save electricity and water in the household, and sign petitions for wildlife or environmental groups when out and about.


If you begin a recycling initiative at work or volunteer for a political action group, make sure your kids know about this activity. It will provide a good example of civic responsibility for them, and maybe even inspire them to take similar initiative at school.
 In addition to showing your kids daily recycling and conservation habits, you should also let them see you do “adult” things like donating money to philanthropic organizations, as well as joining advocacy groups like the Audubon Society and the Nature Conservancy. This will show them how you incorporate your love of nature and sense of responsibility into your adult life, and, consequently, how important it is to support good charities through monetary donations.


You can even involve your kids in this donation by using various charity websites which make it easier for children to participate in the giving process., While you are teaching your kids to love and enjoy nature, you should also teach them that they are responsible for taking care of the nature they are enjoying. By telling them they are expected to pitch in and help conserve the environment, you are helping them understand the impact of their actions and developing their sense of ethics.You can start teaching this lesson with small actions of daily responsibility. For example, make sure they throw away their trash when outdoors, sort their recyclable containers into the appropriate bin, and put out water and food for the bird and wildlife feeders.When camping, you should make sure you show your kids how to be an accountable outdoorsman. Review proper campfire safety procedures and the importance of not disturbing the wildlife., Get educated with your child about current legislation affecting the environment, and then teach your child how ordinary citizens can influence this legislative process. Have your kids write letters to a Senator, Mayor, Governor other representative, or show them how to sign petitions or attend conservation protests. This teaches the child to be active in the political process and feel they can affect large-scale change.


If your children are a bit older, you can have them volunteer with you for various conservation organizations, community gardens, or wildlife preserves.It can be a good idea to get your kids involved in a mixture of fun projects and those which are not so glamorous: for example, have them volunteer for animal shelters, as well as for park and highway litter cleanup.

