 Keeping your cat inside permanently is the easiest solution to this problem. However, cats like to roam and may start focusing on other items like your shoes. Your cat must be trained to enjoy the indoors exclusively. Buy your cat some new toys and play with your cat to keep it entertained. Eventually your cat will be content with staying inside all of the time.If you can't keep your cat inside all day, have a curfew. Sunset, sunrise, and around bad weather are prime time for bird hunting. Keep your cat inside at these times.;
, Cats often hunt and bring home their prey. When your cat brings home a bird, just ignore the cat. Do not yell at or chastise your cat. If you're cat hunts other prey and you do not mind, praise your cat if it brings something else home. Otherwise, just act indifferent to your cat.


Get rid of the prey when your cat is not looking.
 Have your cat wear a big, rainbow colored collar around its neck. It is important that the color is brightly colored because birds have great color vision and do not rely on their sense of smell like other animals do.Go to the pet store and look for the Birdsbesafe collars. These have actually been tested in scientific studies and were shown to be effective.If your cat is not used to wearing a collar, it may initially resist. Put the collar on right before mealtime or before you play a game to distract the cat.If your at is still growing, check in to make sure that the collar is still fitting properly.
 If your cat has a bell around its neck, birds will be alerted that your cat is coming. The bell should be placed on a fitted collar. Make sure the collar is not too tight. You should be able to stick two fingers between your cat's collar and the neck. To keep your cat safe, use a quick release collar that will snap open if it gets caught on something (e.g. fence, tree branch, etc.).See a veterinarian if you have questions about the fit of the collar.
 All cats will not want to stay inside all day but may get into trouble if allowed to roam freely. Creating an outdoor playground for your cat is a nice compromise. This outdoor space can be simple or elaborate and fully or partially enclosed. They are also easy to build. It's recommended that this space have 3-4 walls and a roof.Use 2x4s or 2x2s to build a frame. 1x2" galvanized or chicken wire can be used for the walls.
A screened patio also works well for cats.
Fill the space with things that cats like (e.g. scratching posts, things to climb, toys, tree limbs, ramps, wood).Cats are climbers so make sure there is a roof.
Not only will this space keep your cat from hunting birds, it will also protect your cat from other animals.
If you do not want to build your own, you can purchase a catio kit.