 Involve your child in the process of limiting their video game playing. Talk about not playing certain games that will be too exciting or take too long on school night, or come up with a reward system for following the video game rules.For example, talk with a child about not trying to beat a level when they don’t have time. Instead, they can save that for the weekend.
You and your child can brainstorm rewards for not breaking the rules for a week, month, or longer. Don’t give rewards of more video game time. Instead, find other fun rewards you can both agree on.
 Instead of getting rid of video games completely, slowly taper the amount of time your child can play. For example, if they spend every hour after school playing, limit that to one or two hours at first. Explain to your child why you are reducing their time playing video games, but let them know you respect that they enjoy the activity and still want them to play.For example, you may say, “You get angry and have verbal outbursts when I tell you to stop playing video games. Your grades have fallen over the last few months because of your video games. This is unacceptable. I want you to be able to enjoy them, but we are going to limit how long you can play each day.”
Cutting off video games completely at first will more than likely backfire. You want to limit your child’s behavior, not take away something they enjoy completely.
 Ending video game time may be difficult, and your child may not be able to switch out of that mode immediately. Help your child by giving them a physical activity that marks the end of their video game time. This can help them get used to switching from that to non-video game life.For example, you can try specific language that signals a switch. Say something light like, “You are being called back to the RW from fantasy land! Welcome back!”
Set up a physical marker. Give your child a glass of water, stretch with them, or do a few jumping jacks.
 Get your child away from the video games by setting up family time where the whole family does an activity together. Family time should not be optional, and every member of the family including parents and children should participate.Allow your child to choose the activity sometimes, so they feel like they are getting to do things they want to do. Forcing them to do activities they don’t want to do can frustrate them.
You can ask your child to help you make dinner, and make family dinners a nightly ritual.
Go for a walk or bike ride together, play board or card games, or have a family movie night.
You may want to set consequences for not participating in family activities. For example, if they skip a family activity, they do not get their hour of video games.
 Many younger children do not know how to navigate the game features and may need help learning how to save progress. If they save their game and do not feel like all of their efforts have been wasted, they are less likely to give you a hard time about ending their playing session.


Explain to your child that many games take tens or hundreds of hours to complete, which means the game cannot be completed in one sitting. Help them understand that the game is meant to be spread out.
When their time is up, wait for them to get to a saving spot, and help them if they are too young to do it by themselves. If they try to extend their time by taking too much time to save, subtract the amount of time from their next day’s hour. If it continues, take away their privilege for breaking the rules.