 You can still dress modestly if you choose not to wear a hijab. Instead of wearing tight, revealing tops and bottoms, put on wide-leg pants and a matching long-sleeve shirt.you should actually wear clothes such as kurtas and salwar because that does not reveal the body.


Base your outfits on your personal comfort level.
Maxi-skirts, long dresses, and flowy tops are essential staples of a modest wardrobe.
Seek a second opinion if you are unsure whether a certain top or bottom is too tight.
Full coverage does not have to look dowdy and matronly! Mix and match trendy items or vintage pieces with the staples of your modest wardrobe for a chic look. Pair black jeans with boots, a long wool trench coat, and a turtleneck sweater. You should keep in mind that the reason that you wear full clothes is so that you do not attract men so try to wear clothes that will not show your body shape and dont wear short shirts, wear long ones that hide your buttocks.
 Laying your clothing is key to achieving an on-trend modest look. Do you have an absolutely amazing low-cut shirt in your closet? Make it modest by wearing it over a blouse or long-sleeved t-shirt for coverage. Add a scarf for additional coverage and a pop of color. Cover up tight skinny jeans with a long sweater, coat, or flannel blouse tied around your waist.


Get creative! Experiment with layer different pieces until you find a look that you are comfortable wearing.
 Determine if a neckline is too low by measuring the distance from your collar bone to the top of your shirt using your fingers as a measuring tool--one to four finger-widths is ideal, while five finger widths may verge on too revealing. Cover your cleavage with turtlenecks, boatneck shirts, and blouses.


Tie a scarf around your neck to cover a lower neckline.
Wear a tank-top with a high neckline under a shirt that is too low in the front.
 Before going out, stand in front of a full length mirror. Bend forwards, backwards, and side-to-side. Try to sitting down and raising your arms. If your clothing shifts to reveal your midriff or your chest, consider changing or adding additional layers to your look before leaving the house.
 Opt for a care-free, natural look when applying your make-up. Use a small amounts of concealer, blush, mascara, and a dash of lip gloss for a fresh, simple look. Make-up should be used to enhance your beautiful, natural features, not overpower or mask them.


During holidays, such as Eid, go for a more dramatic, sparkly look. Try a smoky eye and a berry lip!
Ask your mom and friends for make-up tips. How do they achieve a natural look?

, Simple, understated pieces of jewelry can have a major impact on any outfit. Chose dainty necklaces and earrings.

