 Before you even start to tell your kids that you and your spouse are getting a divorce, it is important to assure your kids that you and your spouse love them very much. This is important because some kids can confuse the lack of love between their parents with a lack of love for them.Say something like, “Your mother/father and I love you very much.”

, It is important to tell your kids what the situation is up front. While it is important to keep the conversation age appropriate, try not to beat around the bush or sugar coat things too much. Just explain to your kids in a simple, direct way that you and the other parent are getting a divorce.Try saying something like, “We have tried to work things out, but we have decided that the best solution is to get a divorce.”

, The reason for your divorce might be complicated, but it is important to give your kids some sense of what it is. Otherwise, they will wonder and they may start to blame themselves. To avoid this, provide a summary of the reason for the divorce.For example, you might say something like, “We have not been getting along well, and we both want to be happy. Getting a divorce is the best way for us to improve our situation.”

, Even after providing a reason for the divorce that has nothing to do with your kids, they may still consider whether they played a role in it happening. To head off these worries, make sure that you you’re your children directly that they had nothing to do with the divorce.For example, you might say something like, “Our decision to get a divorce has nothing to do with you kids. It is just between your mom/dad and I.”

, After you have shared what is going on and why, your kids may want to talk about what you have shared. Let your kids know that yu are willing to answer their questions as best you can.Your kids might have lots of questions about how things will change, such as:Do we have to move?
Will I need to go to a different school?
Will I still get to see mom/dad every week?

, If your kids will have to move or if they will be spending part of their time in another home, then let them know about this ahead of time.This will help to prevent them from feeling left out or shocked by the change.


For example, you might say something like, “Your father is moving into a new apartment next week and he has an extra bedroom for you to stay in when you visit. As soon as he has it set up for you, you can go and have sleepovers with dad every other weekend.”

