 A solid sleep schedule is good for anyone's sleep hygiene, and may help improve rest when you're pregnant. You will fall asleep and wake up easier if you get yourself on a sleep schedule. This means going to bed and waking up at roughly the same time each day, even weekends. When your body is on a regular sleep/wake cycle, you'll get tired at night and then energetic in the morning., Indigestion and nausea are common problems during pregnancy. You can exasperate these issues if you eat a heavy meal before bed. Try to stick to light snacks in the hours leading up to bedtime and don’t eat within two to three hours of going to bed.It may help to schedule your big meals around lunch and dinner. Eating a big breakfast and a heavy lunch can stave off feelings of hunger at night.
If you're feeling hungry or nauseous before bed, try having a few plain crackers. This can fill up your stomach and may prevent nighttime nausea.
It is important to avoid eating within two to three hours of going to sleep because this can increase your chances of developing heartburn.
 When you're pregnant, you will urinate more due to the baby pressing down on your bladder. It's a good idea to cut back on liquids in the hours leading up to bedtime. Fluid intake throughout the day is important, so do not neglect water during daytime hours. Simply cut back on fluids close to bedtime.Caffeinated beverages, like teas and coffees, are a particularly big culprit in keeping you awake at night. As you should limit your caffeine intake when pregnant, it may be a good idea to cut out caffeinated beverages altogether during your pregnancy.
 If you're having trouble sleeping, try relaxation exercises. They can get your mind off of the stress of your pregnancy, as well as any bothersome physical symptoms.You can try a breathing exercise. Breathe in and out in slow, steady breaths. Focus on the air going in and out of your lungs. If there is any tension in your body, release that tension as you breathe. If your mind starts to wander, bring it back to the breath.
Try guided imagery. Imagine a relaxing scenario, like a childhood home or an ideal vacation. Take a mental vacation to that place and try to let go of other thoughts. Imagine all aspects of your imagined getaway, including sight, sound, touch, smell, and taste.
 Where you're sleeping can have an impact on the quality of your sleep. If you're struggling to sleep while pregnant, evaluate your room and make any necessary changes.Try dimming the lights in your room before bed. This will alert your body that it's time to sleep.
Make sure your room environment is relaxing. A room should be calm and peaceful. If your room is cluttered, this can make sleep difficult.
Reduce any bothersome noise. If you live in a noisy neighborhood, use a fan or a noise machine to block out unwanted sounds. Keep your windows closed at night to reduce outside sound.
Remove any blue light sources from your bedroom as well, such as TVs, computer screens, tablets, digital alarm clocks, and cell phones.

