 Typically, beautiful singing is both “clear” and “resonant.” Everyone has a different definition of beautiful, but there is some common ground between all the best singers. Think about the singers you admire and the type of music you want so sing, as you develop your beautiful voice.


’’’Clear:’’’ The listener should be able to hear the words and notes without strain.
’’’Resonant:’’’ Resonance is the deep, almost subconscious vibrations that all beautiful singers access. Think of the long, powerful, and sustained notes of singers from Aretha Franklin to Luciano Pavarotti., Most beginning singers feel themselves singing through their throat, and they can feel the pressure in their head and neck as they sing. While this may feel natural, it is the wrong way to sing if you want to sing beautifully. Focus instead on your chest so that you feel it vibrating as you sing. You should feel pressure in your chest, as if you voice is coming from your pectoral muscles.


This is easiest if you are correctly breathing through your abdomen
Think of singing from your diaphragm (the muscle under your lungs that controls breathing) if you are having trouble singing from your chest.
 Listen to any opera singer to hear resonance at its best. Your voice echoes in your chest, mouth, and throat to gain depth. When you are singing with resonance, you feel a slight buzzing or vibrating feeling. To develop resonance, think about your voice’s “placement.” Where do you feel the sound coming from? How does it move as you open your lips or move your tongue? Everyone is different, but there are some tips to keep in mind:


Start by humming a simple “ee” sound. “Move” this noise up and down from your chest to your mouth. These are your resonators
Move your tongue down towards your bottom teeth, opening up your mouth and making the biggest space you can.Never “swallow” your vowels, or sing from the back of your throat. When you do, they become muddied and unclear.
 Some people are not comfortable singing high-pitched songs, no matter how much they practice. Others feel most at home in the upper register singing soprano parts. Through careful practice you can find your range, which is the series of notes that you sing most comfortably. When trying to find your vocal range, focus on singing with your chest and not your “head voice,” which is where you feel yourself singing in your throat.


Sing the lowest note you can without cracking or creaking. This is the bottom of your range.
Sing your highest note without cracking or creaking. This is the top of your range.
Your singing range includes all of the notes in between this upper and lower limit.
 This is essential for the burgeoning singing, because there is only so much you can learn on your own. Vocal coaches know mechanics, music theory, and how to diagnose problems you can’t hear yourself. Your voice sounds differently to you then to other people, so an experienced guide is necessary to truly sing beautifully.Your coach should make you feel comfortable, and have either extensive performing experience or a degree in vocal training.