 Charity scams often use names similar to well known charities. This is because scammers think you're more likely to give to a reputable charity. When a charity asks for donations, type the name into the search engine before agreeing to donate.Something is probably fishy if the search engine redirects. It may, for example, suggest the name of a similar named charity that is more well known. This is a sign the charity is attempting to masquerade as a better known charity to get money.;
, Real charities will be upfront regarding any questions you have. This is because a quality charity has nothing to hide and representatives will be happy to reassure consumers they're legitimate. A fraudulent charity, however, will dodge certain questions or fail to provide detailed information. A solid charity should have no trouble answering most of the following questions:What is the address of this charity?
Is there a number I can use to call you back?
Are donations tax deductible?
What portions of donations go towards your cause?
What local organizations do you work with?

, Never give to a charity on the spot, especially a charity with an unfamiliar name. Always run a charity's name through a variety of websites to see if anything suspicious comes up.Check the charity's reputation on the Better Business Bureau, Charity Watch, Consumer Reports, and BBB Wise Giving Alliance. Such organizations strive to evaluate a variety of charities and alert consumers to fraudulent charities.
You can also type the name of the charity followed by the word "scam" into a search engine. You may find news articles and other information come up revealing the charity as a scam.
 Charity scams are more prevalent during the holiday season. While you should always research charities before donating, be on extra alert during the holidays. You may be more prone to scams during this time.Never agree to donate on the street. Scammers will often try to target holiday shoppers by attempting to sign them up for a fraudulent charity.

