 Start with a container that is large enough for the plant to grow in. For seeds, small containers are okay provided they are deep, as the roots need to burrow down.If growing from beans, the seedlings can be transplanted at about 4-5 months., Use a mixture of well-rotted compost and sand to recreate a rich and sandy soil environment. The soil needs to be fertile and rich. It needs to drain well but hold moisture.


Fine mulch works well., Cacao seeds will sprout quite easily.Seeds must be germinated before planting.
Seeds must be watered at least twice daily after planting.Use a fine, soft spray of water so as not to damage the seeds.
 Ideally, this should be a temperature-controlled greenhouse. If you are planning on keeping the plant indoors without such warmth and humidity, choose a spot with lots of regular warmth.


The preferred temperature level for cacao trees is 79ºF/21ºC, the lowest level being 60ºF/16ºC, without wild fluctuations.Place a bowl of water next to it to release humidity.
 Dry air will kill this plant quickly, so maintaining a humid environment is vital.


For young seedlings, only mist under the leaves, not on the top, as the pooling water can be too heavy for the leaves to withstand., The chocolate tree thrives under the shade of rainforest canopies in nature. It's not fond of the sun and will dry out quickly, and intense heat will do the same.


Do not keep it next to a heater; however, near a heater should be fine, especially if it has a bowl of water constantly near it. Filtered sunlight is optimal. Some people recommend placing the container in a bowl of water but be careful, as this plant doesn't like too much water, just moisture.
 Cold is another enemy of the chocolate tree. This is a tricky plant to grow, the environment must remain warm but neither too hot nor cold. As noted in the previous step, keeping it near gentle radiant heat should be sufficient.


Some people have success with growing on windowsills but it is probably best to keep any such window well shaded and not to use a window that gets direct sunlight blazing in.
 This will help to maintain the humidity levels and replicates the tropical forest environment that the cacao plant is used to.


To help keep a good level of water around, try a tray filled with gravel, pour water into it and keep the container sitting on this. Add water regularly to keep it topped up.
 Use a fertilizer such as liquid seaweed or fish emulsion to keep the nutrients flowing to the plant. A general purpose fertilizer is also fine.Many growers prefer the organic fertilizers.


Do not fertilize seeds until the second set of leaves have appeared., You'll find they have already experimented a lot with placement, humidity control and the like and you can benefit a great deal from their experiences. Many gardening sites will allow you to ask questions in their forums and someone experienced may spot your question and help you out.
 The chocolate tree is not a good plant for the indoor gardener who likes to leave plants to their own devices and expect them to survive. This plant cannot be left to dry out, get cold or overheated. Even when you go away on vacation. Treat it like a pet if you need to go away and get someone to plant-sit it.

