 Applying foundation to your face if you have freckles can be tricky, as it can turn your beautiful freckles a gray, blotchy color. You can avoid this by skipping the foundation and using a product with lighter coverage, such as a tinted moisturizer or a mineral face powder. This way, your skin tone still looks even but the color of your freckles are still intact.

You may look for a BB cream or a tinted moisturizer at your local beauty store or online. You can apply these products with your fingers or with a makeup brush.
You can also try a mineral powder in your skin tone. Apply it with a brush for lighter coverage.
If you need to cover up a blemish on your face, make sure you apply concealer in small amounts right on the blemish. Avoid putting concealer on large areas of your face, as it can make your freckles look patchy or only partly covered.
 You can give your face a more sunkissed glow by applying bronzer and blush over your tinted moisturizer or mineral powder. This can enhance your freckles and even out your skin tone. Use a large makeup brush to apply the bronzer and blush on your freckled face.To apply the bronzer, put a small amount of the bronzer on the make up brush. Then, gently make a number “3” on the side of your face, starting from the top of your forehead to around your eye, and then down your jawline. Repeat these steps on the other side of your face.
To apply the blush, put a small amount on the makeup brush. Then, apply one to two swipes of blush on the apples of your cheeks, right above your cheekbones.
 Because you will be wearing fairly neutral makeup, with only tinted moisturizer, bronzer, and blush, you can go bold with your lip color. Try a bold red lip color or a bright pink lip color. Have fun with different colors so your makeup still stands out on your freckled face.You can also play up your eyes by applying colored eye shadow. You may try to play off your eyeshadow color with your lip color. You can also select eye shadow based on your skin tone and your eye color. Read more about choosing makeup colors so your look appears polished and put together, freckles and all.

