 If your narcissist seems open-minded, bring up the topic of getting help. In many cases, narcissistic behavior patterns have led to problems in the narcissist's marriage, family, friendships, and career. Use one of these aspects as a benchmark to convince your spouse to get help.For instance, if your spouse is very career-oriented, but has been struggling to work as a team player, you might use this as fuel for a conversation.
Say, "Sweetie, I know you were hoping for a promotion this year, but you've been having trouble with the team at work. I think it would be a great idea if you talked with someone who can help you build on the skills you already have to increase your odds of getting chosen for the position."

, Although it may seem like a good idea to search for a marriage therapist to help your spouse, avoid this dynamic in favor of having your spouse attend individual therapy. In many cases, couples therapy results in the narcissist playing the victim role, leading to very little change.Instead help your partner find an individual therapist who has experience treating personality disorders. You don't have to share your suspicions about the specific disorder with your spouse, but this increases the odds of your spouse being properly diagnosed and treated.
Be sure to let the therapist know about your suspicions that your spouse is a narcissist. However, do not let your spouse find out that you have shared this information or they may become enraged.
 Refrain from trying to steer your spouse into treatment one way or another. Treatment for personality disorders like narcissism require long-term, intensive one-on-one therapy, and your spouse must be a willing participant. However, it can be helpful to ask how you can show support as they go through treatment.


You might say, "Darling, I'm so proud of you for seeking help with what you're going through. What can I do to show my support or help you through this time?"
Be open to your spouse's response. They may simply ask for space while they come to terms with the disorder.
 Since family members are often left to sort through their own emotional situation alone as the narcissist seeks individual treatment, you might find support by attending a local group or joining one online.


Ask your spouse's therapist for a recommendation of a support group for loved ones of those with narcissistic personality disorder. You might also research forums online to locate other spouses or family members of narcissists. It may also bring awareness for your spouse to attend these groups as well.
Spouses of narcissists may also benefit from seeing a therapist to resolve the emotional damage inflicted by their spouses and help them learn to cope.