 Dark circles under your eyes will make your eyes appear dull. Brighten up the area under and around your eyes by applying concealer. Dab several small dots of concealer across the bottom of your eye and gently tap across the dots to blend them with the rest of your skin., Adding navy or indigo blue colors around your eyes will be somewhat softer than the drama and harshness of black colors. Also, the blue tones will help to counteract yellowish colors that might show up in the whites of your eyes, which will make your eyes appear brighter and clearer., These days white eyeliner could be easily found in market. Just a swipe or two of white eyeliner on your eyelid will not only make them brighter will also make them wider. You can also take little white eyeliner near corner of your lids and blend it, this will give an angel like look. Your face will look dewy and very fresh., Making your eyes stand out can help them appear whiter. Using black mascara on both top and bottom lashes will make dramatic eyes, but they do not help your eyes look whiter. Instead, try brown mascara on your bottom lashes. This softer color will help draw the attention upwards to your top lashes, which will make your eyes appear wider, more alert and whiter., By using a light bone-colored or flesh-colored eyeliner, your eyes will attract and reflect light, which will help make it seem like your eyes are larger. Outline the inner corners of your eyes with the eyeliner to give the illusion of being brighter.Apply a shimmering white or light-colored eye shadow in the inner corners of your eyes to attain a similar effect.Try to refrain from using a white eyeliner pencil to outline your eye, as this can be hard to blend in properly and may look too "staged" or artificial., An eyelash curler, which is readily available at drug stores and grocery stores for about $5 to $6, will clamp your eyelashes and bend them upwards in a curl. Curling your lashes upward will make your eyes appear to be bigger and more open. They can also draw attention to your eyes by making your eyelashes appear longer., Apply pink blush to the apples of your cheeks, your lips, and across the highest point of your eyebrows. This will lighten and brighten your entire face, which will help make your eyes appear brighter and whiter.