 Employers often talk about taking pride in your work, but a service worker's work isn't all that exciting, per se. Instead, take pride in your own ability to do that work. Start being impressed with how well you manage during each shift. There's no better way to encourage yourself to do even better than to let yourself believe that you're capable of doing better.


In lower-level service jobs especially, you may not be treated as though you have much personal ability, but that's simply not the case. It takes poise, perseverance, and social skills to handle customers, even at a fast food drive-through window.;
, The best way to handle customers is to never give them a chance to dislike you. A big part of that is making a positive physical impression on them. Dress neatly, in clean clothes. Bathe regularly, and brush your teeth and use deodorant every day. Walk with an easy stride, make eye contact, and speak in a loud, clear, relaxed voice. Your customers will feel as though they're in the hands of a professional right away, discouraging any urge to nitpick the rest of your performance.


If you sweat a lot or have any other condition that might make you smell or look less than your best after a few hours on the clock, see if there's any way to bring some emergency hygiene supplies to work and pop out for five minutes partway through your shift to replenish.
 If you're really leaving your own worries, fears, annoyances, and insecurities at home each day, it's an easy next step to teach yourself to smile and be genuinely glad to greet every new customer. Don't be self-conscious – let your face open into the biggest, sunniest smile you've got every time you greet someone at work (even if it's over the phone, since a real smile comes through in your voice, too). You might be surprised just how much of a difference it makes in the way customers treat you.


Don't forget to smile at your coworkers and, yes, even your bosses. It costs nothing except a little self-consciousness, and it will reduce your workplace stress considerably if you can keep it up. Smiles are contagious.
Pay attention the next time you go out shopping or visit a restaurant, and you'll see that some service workers always seem sullen and vaguely resentful. That's because they aren't focused enough on the work, and are too concerned with who's “okay” to interact with and who's “not okay.” Think about how unwelcome such people make you feel, and resolve not to make others feel that way at your own job.
 This is one of the most important skills a customer service worker can learn, as it's often what separates the happy workers from the miserable ones. In a nutshell, you aren't at work to demonstrate who you are. You're only at work to do a good job and get paid. The customers who interact with you at your job don't know what pet peeves you have, what your favorite food is, or what you think of the clothes they're wearing – and just as importantly, they don't care. They're talking to you because they need service. Always keep that in mind.


If you're insecure or nervous about what people think of you, leaving your worries at home should help you to deal more confidently with customers. Focus on their needs and wants instead of their thoughts about you. They aren't a part of your personal life, so it's safe to disregard what they might think of you.
If you're constantly frustrated by customers or find yourself silently judging them (even the nice ones), leaving that bad attitude at home will help you relax and do your job more efficiently. Remember, the customers are the lifeblood of the business, and therefore of your paycheck.
 Customers don't really have much invested in what they say about you; they're just reacting in the heat of the moment, for better or worse. Obviously, praise is preferable to criticism, but either way, the customer's opinions don't matter as much as their continued business does. Just let everything they say slide over you and disappear. Continue providing the best service you can to each customer, regardless of how they react.


Never take out a bad experience with one customer on the next customer you come into contact with. Compartmentalize the incident and see it for what it was – unpleasant, but isolated. Once you grasp that, it becomes easy to ignore. The only time a bad customer experience snowballs is when you take their bile and spread it around. By not taking your customers personally, you can be sure the buck stops with you.
Be proud when you receive a compliment. However, don't take it as a cue to stop striving to provide even better service. The people who receive the most positive feedback from their customers are the people who never stop going the extra mile to make them feel happy and at ease.
 Many a young or inexperienced service employee has gotten chewed out by a manager (or even fired) for scoffing at a bizarre or rude customer request. The fact is, you should always, always, always assume the customer is serious. Customers very rarely kid, and there's no way to know what's going through their minds as they speak to you. Be pleasant and earnest when you respond, no matter how their words sounded to you.


Remember, especially in brick-and-mortar service jobs, you'll sometimes run into customers with mental illness, developmental disabilities, or speech impediments. If you make a habit of always taking every customer request seriously, you won't put yourself in the awkward position of being rude to someone for something they actually couldn't help.
Sometimes, customers are trying to have a joke at your expense. That's fine; it's no fun for you, but remember, it doesn't matter and won't make any difference in your life later. Keep in mind the steps you've read and stay separated from the experience. Don't take it personally.

Very often, if you approach a “joke” request as though it's serious, you can make the joke fall flat and steal a bit of the rude customer's thunder without being rude at all. The customer was probably assuming you weren't dedicated enough to really “fall for it;” once he or she sees that you were actually ready to do whatever you could to satisfy the request, his or her opinion of you will change for the better.
 A humble worker embodies all the qualities outlined above. She provides consistent service regardless of the customer or the customer's attitude, smiles and tries to get along with everyone who crosses her path, and doesn't let personal misgivings or rough transactions color her actions. A humble service employee also knows when to pass the torch to a manager. There are times when you can't satisfy a customer, or can't fill a special request. That's what managers are for. There's no shame in calling them to help.


Don't seem frustrated or angry when you have to bring a manager over to sort things out for your customers; instead, frame it to them as an extra step you're glad to take to make sure they're satisfied. Customers want to feel glad that you're working for their benefit, not guilty or upset because their request bothered you.
Once the transaction is finished, ask the manager (after the customer has gone) to explain what they did, and what you should do the next time a similar situation comes up. Sometimes you can learn new and useful information so you can provide a smoother customer experience next time.
 You should always be in a rush to help them, but they can take all the time they need. If a line or queue is building behind an exceptionally slow customer, see if you can get someone else to take a part of the line for you.


If nobody else can help, continue to smile and be pleasant. The customers know it's not your fault that things are held up; they might not be so forgiving if you seem to be slowing things down even more by losing your cool and making mistakes.

