 The fat you use to make a roux greatly impacts its flavor. Using bacon drippings creates a smoky, salty base for the dish you're making. Butter adds richness, and shortening and other types of oil tend to create a lighter flavor. Use the fat recommended in the recipe you're using, or if it's not specified, consider these options:









Use bacon or pork drippings to make a roux you'll be using for gumbo or another dish that will have smoky elements like sausage.
Use butter to make a roux you'll be using for a creamy soup, such as a chowder. This is also a good choice if you're making a roux for macaroni and cheese.
Shortening makes a good roux base for lighter gratin dishes, since it doesn't have an overwhelming flavor.;
, Use a cast iron skillet or another heavy frying pan. Place the pan over medium heat and add the fat. Let the fat heat until it has just melted. If you're using oil, let it heat for just about 2 minutes.
 Place the flour in the skillet with the fat. Use a whisk to begin stirring the mixture constantly. Use the whisk to break up any lumps in the flour and distribute it evenly through the melted fat.









If you want a thicker, past-like roux, add an extra 1/4 cup of flour.
For a thinner, more liquid roux, reduce the flour by 1/4 cup.
 Continue whisking the roux constantly while it cooks. The mixture will begin to thin and darken after several minutes. Continue cooking it until it has the color and consistency you need for your recipe.









Some recipes call for a blond roux. In a blond roux, the roux mixture turns to a light golden color and has a mild flavor. It's usually ready after about 8 minutes.
You might see a recipe that calls for a dark roux, also called a chocolate roux. It can take about 60 minutes to achieve this color. Some people find it easier to start the roux on the stove and finish cooking it an over heated to 325 degrees., When the roux has reached the color and texture you want, remove it from heat. It's now ready for you to use in the recipe you're following.
 If you want to use the roux later, place it in a food storage container and keep it covered in the refrigerator. It will harden as it cools, but it will melt when you add heat. You can scoop out as much as you need on a recipe-by-recipe basis.








