 One way to encourage senior dog adoption, is to provide potential adopters with testimonials describing successful adoptions. These stories can be shared on the shelter website and included in brochures. Some people may be more likely to adopt a senior dog if they can learn about the positive experiences of previous adoptions. This will also help remove the stigma that senior dogs have behaviour issues.Testimonials can also explain that senior dogs can actually live for years once they are adopted.
 Another way to advertise senior dog adoption, is by posting photos on social media of dogs that are currently looking to be adopted. You can provide a few details about the dog including their age and temperament. These photos can be shared on a variety of social media platforms including Facebook, Instagram, and Twitter. This is a great way to advertise the rescue agency as well as individual dogs seeking a home.You can also share the background stories of senior dogs to help motivate potential adopters. Some individuals will find these stories heartwarming and will look into adopting a specific dog as a result of its history.
For instance, you could write "Fido is a Wheaton Terrier who is approximately 8 years old and was found in an abandoned building with no food or water. After receiving a thorough vet exam, Fido is doing great. This dog loves to cuddle and is looking for a forever home."

, Many shelters will create special programs to help with adopting senior dogs. For instance, some shelters focus exclusively on senior dog adoptions and all of their promotional material is dedicated to senior dog adoption. Alternatively you could try providing extra incentives and programs for senior dog adoption. November, for example, is senior dog adoption month. Throughout the month of November your shelter could provide discounts and added incentives for senior dog adoption.You could also try reaching out to local media sources such as television, newspapers, and radio programs to help advertise senior dog adoption.

