, Center your energy and your mind. Charge the cards by holding them in your hand and sending your energy into them. Gently shuffle them.
 An incantation is like a statement or question asking what you want from the cards. This can be a vague or specific question, it's your choice.
 Make sure to cut the deck several times, until the cards are in a totally random order.


If you are doing the reading for someone else, have them shuffle the deck. After all, if the reading is supposed to be about them their energy should be in the cards.
 The first card you will place in the center. The next card will be placed directly to the left of the center card and the third card will be placed to the right of the center card. The fourth card is placed at the bottom of the center card and the fifth, and final, card is placed directly above the center card.The meaning of each card placement is important, as it is in all spreads. The three horizontal cards represent the past, present, and future from left to right, as they do in a three card spread. The bottom card represents the reason you are asking the tarot questions and the top card represents the potential for your question.
 Look at the cards first before thinking about their traditional meanings. Let the images rise to the front of your mind. Try not to have expectations for an answer to your question, simply seek vision and insight.


Pick up each card as you interpret it. Look at the picture on it. What stands out? What specific meaning might it have for you or the person you are doing the reading for?
Look up what that card means using your books and resources. In the beginning you might refer to your book or online resources often to help you move forward.
Want resonates with you? You know the truth through your experiences. When a message from the cards or books sticks out in your mind, you know that is a potential answer to your question.
 Place them back into the middle of the deck and put your cards away in a safe place.


You may want to keep a list or journal of your readings, to track how tarot has worked for you over time.

