 Cut open a citrus fruit, e.g. a lemon, orange, or grapefruit, and rub the pulp across your oily skin. The fruit juice functions as a natural astringent and skin cleaner. Using the fruit closer to the rinds works well too.Avoid using citrus on broken skin, and be careful not to get juice into your eyes.
Citrus can result in increased sensitivity to the sun, so you might want to avoid direct sunlight for a few hours following application.
 Strawberries, blueberries, cranberries or grapes all make a good facial tonic for oily skin. You can blend them using a hand blender or just mash them well with a fork. With your fingers, simply rub the pulp onto your skin. The antioxidants, vitamins and acids in the fruit offer multiple benefits to your oily skin.This is a great way to get rid of aging fruit, but make sure it's not moldy.
Grapes are great for aging skin.
 Almost any fruit has benefits as a skin cleanser, but some of the best include: apple, kiwi, banana, papaya, tomato, and pear. Women in tropical climates often apply fresh mango to their skin as a natural cleanser. If you're active in the kitchen, simply set aside a slice or two for your oily skin.There's no need to rinse after rubbing with fruit unless your skin retains a stickiness.
Remove your makeup before rubbing fruit onto your face for best results.
 You can either slice a raw potato and place it directly on the affected area, or grate the potato and spread it across your skin. Either way, allow the potato to sit against your skin for about 15 minutes. Follow by rinsing off your skin with warm water.The potato will soak up excess skin oil without causing drying or aggravation.
Potatoes might also help minimize any scarring caused by acne.
 Using your food processor, pulse several times until oats are ground into a flour-like substance. Add the ground oats to boiling water and allow to cook for 5 minutes, stirring frequently. Allow the oats to cool to room temperature before applying to your skin. Massage the cooled oatmeal onto your skin and allow to remain for about 10 minutes before rinsing with warm water.Oats provide deep pore cleaning, and contain beneficial proteins.
This treatment is especially effective for patches of acne.
 The natural astringency of tomato makes it a popular treatment for oily skin. Combine 2-3 teaspoons of fresh tomato juice with a few drops of cucumber extract and mix well. Apply to your skin using either your fingers or a cotton ball, repeating until the mixture is completely used up.Use this treatment every other day to keep pores from clogging.
If used on the face, apply particular attention to the T-Zone: the forehead, nose, and chin. These are the areas of the face most likely to be oily.

