 Diarrhea can lead to a large loss of water in your body. Prevent dehydration by having eight to 10 eight ounce glasses of water a day to replace the fluids you have lost.You can check if you are getting enough fluids by doing the pinch test, medically known as the skin turgor test. Use your fingers to pinch a section of skin on the back of your hand, your lower arm, or your abdominal area and hold it for a few seconds. Make sure the skin is tented upward. Release the skin after a few seconds. If the skin snaps back quickly to its normal position, you are well hydrated. If the skin stays tented upward and smooths back slowly, you are likely dehydrated.You can also tell if you are getting enough fluids by checking the color of your urine. If your urine appears darker than normal, drink more water. If you are well hydrated, your urine will appear bright yellow.
Water alone will not always fix more severe dehydration. Try adding a pinch of honey or sugar with a dash of salt to the water you drink, or supplementing your eight to 10 glasses with an electrolyte solution available at your local pharmacy. Correcting electrolyte imbalances can often help the body to "reboot" after a bout of severe diarrhea.
 Fiber will help to slow down your diarrhea by allowing your body to absorb water and making your stool more firm. Stay away from fatty, oil, or spicy foods that contain fiber and go for lighter foods high in fiber. Have brown rice with vegetables, barley, or another whole grain like oats or quinoa.


Cook grains in a light chicken or miso broth. Use a 2:1 ratio, with twice as much liquid used per one cup of grains. For example, you would cook ½ cup barley in 2 cups of chicken broth.
Have well-cooked, starchy vegetables like potatoes, yams, sweet potatoes, and winter squash.
You can also have fresh vegetable juices like carrot or celery juice. Dilute the vegetable juice with an equal amount of water.
 The BRAT diet can help to bulk up your stool and provide nutrients you may have lost due to the diarrhea and any vomiting. The BRAT diet is made up of:Bananas
Rice
Applesauce
Toast (whole grain)
You can also eat salted crackers to help reduce any nausea or vomiting you may be experiencing, and ginger ale is often helpful in reducing nausea symptoms.
 Your body will also loose salt when you have severe diarrhea. Add a pinch of salt to liquids you are drinking or soft, solid foods you are eating to replace vital minerals in your body. You can use table salt or sea salt., You can find probiotics such as Lactobacillus GG, acidophilus, and bifidobacteria at your local pharmacy. Probiotics are “friendly” gut bacteria that help you maintain a healthy gut. Taking them while you have diarrhea allows the “friendly” bacteria to compete with the disease causing bacteria.You can also add yogurt to your diet to increase the active cultures in your stomach and counteract the disease causing bacteria in your gut.

