 Deep breathing is relatively simple and can help to lower your nervousness physiologically. Taking deep breaths may assist you in reducing butterflies in the stomach, jitters and tenseness in the body.Start by sitting in a quiet, safe space. Breathe in through your nose and out through your mouth slowly and deeply.Notice how it feels in your diaphragm each time you inhale and exhale. Continue to breathe this way for a few minutes at least, while thinking solely about your breathing and how it feels.
 Progressive muscle relaxation is one relaxation technique that can be very helpful to calm yourself down and reduce excess tension.Start by tensing your toes for 5 seconds, then relax them for 10-20 seconds. Then move slowly up your body and tense and relax most of your muscle groups all the way to the top of your head.
 This is an ancient way to remove stress, pain and panic from your body. Meditation is typically conducted in a quiet, safe space. You can sit or lie down. Usually meditation is done with the eyes closed but you can keep your eyes open and look at a specific spot if you choose. Clear the thoughts out of your mind and attempt to simply sit with yourself.The point of meditation is to clear your mind. If you find yourself getting distracted simply and non-judgmentally bring your focus back to the meditation.
You can also meditate on a specific topic. For example, if you fear speaking in front of people, you can meditate and only think about this topic as you sit quietly.
 When we are feeling nervous, scared, or intimidated we often slouch in order hide or make our body small. If you are slouching you are telling the world non-verbally that you are not confident. Since behaviors are closely linked to feelings, if we change our body and nonverbal communication we can begin to feel differently. Standing and sitting up straight are great ways to exemplify confident and positive nonverbal communication.If you are standing, push your shoulders back. Stand up against the wall to flatten out your back.
If you are sitting, make sure your back is straight against the chair instead of slouching forward.
 Mindfulness is focusing on what you are currently doing, feeling, seeing, and what is going on in your environment.Mindfulness helps us focus on the here-and-now instead of worrying about the future or thinking about what has happened in the past. It is especially helpful when we find ourselves nervous about a scary event that is about to occur.


Try fun ways to practice mindfulness such as eating a piece of candy while focusing first on how it feels and looks and then one how it tastes and feels inside your mouth. Focus only on the candy and your experience of eating it. Eat a small bit or piece of it at a time and really enjoy it.
Pick any object in the room and focus on it. Look at it, explore it, touch it, pick it up, and examine all of the details about it. Next you can write down everything that you noticed about the object and share it with someone.
 Grounding can be especially helpful in times of nervousness, stress, and anxiety. Grounding helps you become centered and also serves as a momentary distraction from your emotion and refocuses your energy on something concrete.


It is associated with activities such as naming all of the different objects in the room and their different uses.
You could name all of the states or colors you can think of.

