 Be an overall friendly person with confidence. Be loud, out-going, sassy and fearless. Never put up with people's crap, defend yourself in style. Have a sharp act on your opinion, stick to your beliefs.;
, Go to concerts every once in a while.
 If you want you can get some highlights of extreme colors such as pink or blue, or perhaps another natural color. "Under layers" are also exceptional.
 Straight hair should be a typical style, and some curly-waves once in a while. Straight or side bangs are your choice, but try to keep them right above your eyes. You may also do a "Poof" were you lift up your bangs, tease them with a comb, and then secure them back by using two bobby-pins or a small hair clip. If you ever need to put your hair up, put it up in a high ponytail, a side braid, or a messy bun.
 Spread foundation throughout your face, cover lips also if you want the "Nude" look. Put a little bit of eyeliner on and some mascara. If you feel like having some more fun, wear some black eyeshadow. Clear or light pink lipgloss is good. Never over-do your makeup though.
 Even Walmart has some nice clothing that are quite costly and support the look you are going for (Check out OP.) Also, don't be afraid to check out the thrift store. If you ever feel like being crafty you can always fix up something that's dull from there.
 Wear hoodies with random stuff on them, such as a sports team, a university or school, a band, a military branch or something like that. Wear lots of patterns, especially plaid and striped. Those two prints are a huge fashion "yes" in the rock scene. go crazy with colors. The colors red, black, and white are also big colors in the rock scene. But have a lot of fun with pink, especially hot pink.
 Buy an assortment of skinny jeans, black, grey, faded, the original blue, and any other color. Wear shorts, any type of material or colors. Have fun with tights and stockings, wear them under your shorts, skirts, or dresses.
 If it ever gets cold out, get a pair of Ugg boots. They are very comfortable, warm and are popular for the preppy scene.
 Have at least one studded belt of any kind, those are important. Wear some simple but elegant earrings. If you ever have the money, try to buy a nice purse that you like from Buckle or any other store with good purses. Try getting a nice tan during the summer.

