 In the US, Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 has made sexual harassment illegal in the workplace.Various state laws may also reinforce or work in conjunction with the national law.


You can be guilty of sexual harassment even if you are not in a management or authority position.If you sexually harass someone in the workplace, you may open yourself up to lawsuits against you from either the harassed woman or from your employer for putting them at risk and tarnishing their image.
While specific company policies vary, none tolerate sexual harassment, which is grounds for discipline up to and including dismissal.;
, Pet names or complimentary epithets may seem like harmless fun, but they are a virulent form of sexual harassment. You might even believe that women enjoy and appreciate such benign sexual harassment. They don’t. Refer to women in the workplace only by their names. Some gendered referents to avoid include:


Honey
Sweetie
Baby
Darling
Sweet cheeks

, While one time will probably not be considered sexual harassment, repeated attempts most certainly will. If a woman is not interested in dating you, accept her decision and do not pursue a relationship with her.


Even if this didn’t constitute a form of sexual harassment, it’s pretty dumb. Work relationships rarely last and when you break up, you will have to confront your ex every day at work. Don’t do it.
 Hugs, back rubs, even slight nudges or taps to the arm could be considered sexual harassment.Any contact between you and a female coworker could get you in trouble. Keep your hands in your pockets, at your sides, behind your back, or clutching something (a report, a book, a coffee mug) when you interact with women workers to ensure they are not subject to sexual harassment.
 Talking about the physical attributes of women in your workspace or of women in general are common forms of hostile work environment sexual harassment. Do not make comments either disparaging women’s physical qualities (such as “She’s so fat”) or admiring them (as in, “She has a great body”). Making comments which are offensive to women (especially referring to a woman as a “bitch”) or which reinforce gender stereotypes (“All women want to be mothers” or “Women are no good at math and science”) should also be forbidden.Keep your personal opinions on women to yourself.


A hostile work environment might also include descriptions of sexual acts. When you’re on the clock, leave bragging about your sexual exploits for a more appropriate time.
Gender equity in the workplace requires not only eschewing negative or objectifying comments about women, such as “Women don’t know anything,” or “Women are only good for one thing,” but creating an environment in which women and men feel they have positive ideas to contribute. Encourage management to include more positive images of women in your company’s promotional materials and introduce more women into the management team and labor force.

