 Cover your counter with newspaper. Wrap a dyeing cape or an old towel around your shoulders and put on a pair of plastic gloves. Lastly, make sure that you have all of your supplies laid out and ready to go., Purchase a bleaching or highlighting kit from the store and prepare the bleach according to the instructions. Each brand will be a little different. In most cases, however, you will have to mix some sort of powder into a cream.The type of bleach you choose depends on how dark your hair is to begin with and how much lighter you need it to go.
 Use a rat-tail comb to divide your hair in half horizontally so that you have a top and bottom section. Clip the top section out of the way, then split the bottom section into two pigtails., Gather a 2-inch (5.08-centimeter) section of hair. Apply the bleach to it using a tinting brush. How far you apply the bleach is up to you. Most people choose to only do the bottom half of their hair, but you can go higher or lower if you want., This will not only keep your dyeing cape/towel clean, but also prevent the bleach from getting onto the rest of your hair., Once you have finished the entire bottom row, let down another layer of hair from the top section and bleach it as well. Keep going until you are done. Remember to wrap each section with foil or plastic wrap as you finish it.
 How long you wait depends on the type of bleach you used, so be sure to follow the instructions closely. Double-check your hair while it is processing. The times on the kits are only recommendations, and your hair may process faster! Do not over-process your hair, however; the longer you leave the bleach on, the more likely your hair is to be damaged. Be careful and don't lose track of time!If you want a warm tone, such as red, violet, or pink, lighten your hair until it is marigold-yellow.If you want a cool tone, such as blue or green, lighten your hair until it is pale yellow, like the inside of a banana peel., Make sure that you use one specially formulated for bleached, damaged, or color-treated hair. Your hair will look darker at this point, but only because it's wet., Sometimes, dark hair turns orange when it is bleached. This can affect the color your dip dye will turn out. Get some toning shampoo for blond or bleached hair. Mix it with some water, then apply it to your hair as a mask. Leave it on for a few hours, then wash it out with cool water.Toning shampoo has some blue or purple dye mixed into it. This will help neutralize any copper or brassy tones.
 Only do this if the instructions on your kit say it is safe to do so. Keep in mind that bleach is very harsh on hair, and that the more often you bleach your hair, the more damaged it will become., If you already have the cape and gloves on from before, wipe them clean so that there's no bleach left. It might be a good idea to put on a fresh pair of gloves for this. Next, mix your dye and developer in a mixing bowl. Lastly, put on a dyeing cape.

If you don't have a dyeing cape, drape an old towel around your shoulders instead.
Some dyes already come with the developer already mixed into them (ie: Manic Panic). They are ready to go!

, Use the handle of a rat-tail comb to divide your hair in half horizontally. Clip the top section out of the way, then divide the bottom section into two ponytails. If your hair is very thick, you may need to create more horizontal sections and ponytails., Work the dye into your hair well, making sure to saturate it. Start from the ends first, then work your way up to the middle, where the bleached part ends. This will help make the ends more vibrant., Rinse the dye off of your gloves, then pat them dry with a towel. Grab your ponytail where the dyed part ends. Twist your hair into a tight rope.You can also switch to a new pair of gloves.
 This will help soften the transition and blend the color into your natural color better. The fade won't be as fine as an ombre, but it won't be as stark either., Wrap a piece of aluminum foil around your finished ponytail. Repeat the dyeing process on the other ponytail, and wrap that as well. Un-clip the top part of your hair, split it into two ponytails, and do the dyeing process all over again.You can also use a piece of plastic wrap instead.
Make sure that you apply the dye up to the same level on each ponytail.
 The longer you wait, the deeper the color will be. For a very strong color, wait up to 45 minutes. For something more subtle, wait about 10 to 15 minutes instead.If your dye has specific processing instructions, follow those instead.
 Do not use any shampoo, or it will take the color out. Instead, apply some conditioner to your hair, after you have rinsed all the color out. Let it sit for a few minutes, then wash it out as well.
 When you do wash your hair, use cool water instead of how. This is especially important if you have never bleached or dyed your hair before., Make sure that you use products specially formulated for colored hair. Not only will they keep the color bright and prevent it from fading, but they will also have hydrate and nourish your hair., Dyed hair is often brittle and dry, so you will need to add moisture back into it. The best way to do this is with a hair mask.After you finish shampooing and rinsing your hair, skip the conditioner and apply the mask instead. Let it sit for 3 to 5 minutes, then rinse it out.


You can also apply raw coconut oil to your hair instead., Heat styling is damaging enough as it is. Combined with harsh bleaching and dyeing, it can ruin your hair even further. If you do decide to heat style your hair, apply a heat protectant first and use a lower temperature, if possible.

