



Focus to bring out student ambitions: by leading to reach goals in student achievement.

Face and overcome obstacles by leadership: to improve achievement.
 A study showed that teachers who lead many students in low-income (at risk) areas to as much as two to four years’ worth of academic progress in a single year had used unusually ambitious, "measurable goals. Rally your students around the idea that they begin to believe that they could double their learning this year:


Urge them on to demonstrate "at least two years" of measurable reading growth for improving in all subjects, and to achieve eighty percent (80%) mastery of rigorous, attainable, measurable math and science standards. But a clear focus is not enough to get many of them to where you want your students to academically achieve even more by the end of the year.
 This cycle all too often characterizes "disbelief in learning" because of your students’ lower sense of academic self-worth and perspective on the value of purposeful activity in school. To break through this:


Instill encouragement (by successfully achieving early and often) and a need for students and families to be enthused to work harder to achieve bigger goals.
Change students’ belief that it is already decided what their intelligence (understanding and applications) will be: No, it is not really set. Work can improve. They are young and still can grow and change for the best, in many ways!

, Maintain high expectations at all times, while still inspiring your students from right where they are academically.
 is something that sounds "athletic/physical" and everyone may be accepting of that, but "you're so smart" may sound like mush and criticism to others who did not receive that "vanity"/praise.



Call, email, or text parents throughout the day with updates on their children. Each week send home student work with "Post-Its" for parents to make comments on; when they’re returned, laminate the comments and put them on the wall to keep students proud and motivated.
 To succeed in the challenging environments where an achievement gap is prevalent, teachers must backwards-plan to begin each idea from individual lessons through the year calendar, with keys:


“Where are my student's current achievement levels versus where I will lead them to move and to reach?” and
“What is the best possible use of time to move them forward?”.
 Not just organized learning objectives in units, but lead them in logical order so that the skills are built on each other, with the school’s calendar taken into account. For each week’s unit plan look at the objectives for that unit, then write five assessment questions per objective, and only then plan lessons.
 Strong classroom leaders are effective executors, making good judgments about when to follow through on their plans and when to adjust them in light of incoming data. They offer their students consistent, caring, demanding leadership, and constantly seek to maximize the time students have to work hard toward their goals.
, Your kids will know what to expect from you and may be excited on a daily basis by what you have in store for them that day.
 Be a strong leader as your own toughest critic, constantly seeking ways to improve your skills.


Use data to reflect and improve on your teaching and to ensure that you maximize your impact. You might even consider occasionally videotaping your morning classes and fast forward viewing the footage that day, slowing it to play to critique your instruction and to tweak lesson plans for the afternoon classes.
 In many low-income communities, schools with the least capacity serve children with the greatest need. To make significant academic progress with students, highly effective teachers go above and beyond the traditional role of “teacher” and do whatever it takes to lead their students to academic success. Successful teachers refuse to allow the inevitable challenges that they face to become roadblocks. Instead, they see these as obstacles to be overcome on their path to achieving ambitious goals.


Make it your personal mission to do everything humanly possible to help students get on a college bound path (or to know how to make informed choices about taking an alternative but equally successful path).
Offer tutoring during lunch hour and after school every day except for the day reserved for faculty conferences.
Consider special Saturday school from 9 a.m. until noon.

