 For the first few weeks your dog is inside, you should closely monitor them. You may want to keep them on a leash or not leave them unsupervised for long periods of time. This can help you train them to not mess in the house, chew on things, or engage in other negative behaviors.After about three weeks, you can stop watching your dog so closely if they are not doing any bad behavior.
 One of the things you’ll have to do when you bring your outdoor dog indoors is house train them. They are used to going to the bathroom whenever and wherever they want, so they have to learn to only go outside.Take your dog outside to use the bathroom in the morning, before bed, after meals, and any other time you think they may need to go. It may help to take your dog out more often initially, every two to three hours, to help your dog adjust.
Reward your dog’s good behavior with treats and positive praise. Pick a treat that your dog greatly enjoys, and be sure to reward them as soon as they have relieved themselves. Don't wait until your inside, or your dog may not understand the reward.
 If your dog is showing any odd behavior, you should take them to the vet for a check up. Things like aggression, barking, excessive chewing, changes in eating or drinking habits, or inability to be house trained may point to a medical problem. It’s a good idea to get your dog a checkup just in case.If you haven’t taken your dog to the vet in awhile, you may want to get them a checkup when you decide to bring them indoors to ensure they remain healthy.
Make sure that your dog is up to date on flea and tick prevention at this time, too, to avoid bringing unwanted bugs into the home.
 If you are afraid your dog won’t behave well in the house, or if you can’t seem to get them trained, then you may want to consider getting help. You can enroll your dog in obedience classes or hire a professional dog trainer.Professional training can help your dog become house trained, learn basic commands, and stop barking or chewing.
Make sure you only hire trainers who use humane training techniques. Your dog should not be harmed or treated badly while learning. Make sure the training classes use positive reinforcement and praise.
 Some dogs will immediately adjust to being inside. Others may take more time. If this is the case, consider keeping your dog in a dog-friendly room or a crate when you are not home. You may also use baby gates to keep the dog in certain rooms.This helps the dog stay out of trouble when you are not home. For example, your dog won’t have an opportunity to mess in the floor or chew up furniture if you place them a specific room.
Leave the dog toys and fresh water when you are gone. You may consider picking up food, though, if your dog is not used to free-feeding or has a tendency to overeat.
 When you bring your dog indoors, you want to make sure they stay clean and groomed. Give your dog regular baths. Comb and trim their hair if they are a long haired breed. Keep their nails clipped. If you don’t want to do all of this yourself, you can take them to the dog groomers.If your dog has fleas or ticks, you can talk to the vet about medication to help get rid of them.

