 In order to attach another monitor, your Mac or MacBook must have a port to attach it to. You can purchase adapters that allow you to connect more modern displays to older computer, and vice versa.


HDMI - This is the new standard in display connectivity, and can be found on virtually all computers built in the last five years. It looks like an elongated USB port. HDMI can transfer image as well as sound, and results in the best picture quality.
DVI/Mini-DVI - DVI (Digital Video Interface) has long been the standard way to connect a flat-panel monitor to a computer. Mini-DVI is an Apple-specific connection that acts like DVI but in a smaller form.
VGA - VGA is an analog output, and was most common in the CRT-era of computer displays. It has largely been phased out of any recent hardware, but you may encounter it with older computers or CRT monitors.
DisplayPort/Thunderbolt - Macs have been using DisplayPort technology for much longer than most PCs, and the new Thunderbolt connector is an evolution of that. DisplayPort monitors can plug into both DisplayPort and Thunderbolt outputs, while a Thunderbolt monitor can only work on a Thunderbolt output.Adapters - There are several adapters available for users that need to connect a monitor to a different port on their mac. Some of the more useful adapters include: Thunderbolt-to-HDMI, VGA-to-DVI, Mini-DVI-to-DVI, and DVI-to-HDMI.
 Power down your Mac first if you are connecting a VGA or DVI monitor. Otherwise, you can just plug it in. If you are using VGA or DVI, make sure to secure the cable with the built-in screws.
 Click the Apple menu and select System Preferences. Choose "Displays". Click the "Arrangement" tab. Adjust the screen placement so that your mouse cursor flows naturally between monitors.


By default, OS X will extend the desktop to the second display. You can check the "Mirror Displays" box to duplicate your display.
 OS X will attempt to determine a resolution that works on both displays. You can set the resolution yourself, but the image may looks stretched or blurry if you don't select the recommended resolution.

