 Having inadequate coping resources pre-loss is associated with higher difficulties and chronic grief after the loss of a loved one.Thus, it is crucial to employ coping mechanisms when you are fearful of losing a loved one.


People typically have ways to cope with certain emotions such as fear, loss, grief and depressed mood. Some examples of positive ways of coping with fear of losing a loved one include exercise, writing, art, nature activities, spiritual/religious behaviors (such as prayer) and music.
Deal with your feelings appropriately; allow yourself to feel them and let them out if you need to. Higher depression levels (prior to the death of a loved one) may indicate a better adjustment to loss once the loss occurs.Crying can be a healthy and normal release of pent up sadness and fear.
Keep a fear journal. Write down your thoughts and feelings about losing your loved one.
 If you find yourself in a panic or having extreme anxiety about the thought of losing a loved one, deep breathing exercises can help to reduce physiological reactions (heavy breathing, rapid heart-beat, etc) and help you feel calm.


Sit or lie down in a comfortable place and position. Breathe deeply and slowly in through your nose and exhale out through your mouth. Concentrate solely on your breathing pattern. Pay attention to your stomach/diaphragm as it moves in and out as you breathe.
 High self-esteem is a protective factor against difficulties dealing with issues related to death.However, relationship issues such as conflict and excessive dependency on others may result in individuals becoming more vulnerable to chronic grief after the passing of a loved one.Be more independent and plan for a life of independence. Trust that it will get easier and you will be able to cope with it.
 Believing that the world has meaning (a point) helps people deal with the reality of death and can help reduce the fear of losing a loved one.Having a purpose in life means living for specific reasons (such as for family, an occupation, to help the world, give back to the community, etc.) rather than just existing or surviving. If you have a purpose or multiple purposes in life you can focus on what you will accomplish and carry on if your loved one passes away. This gives you reassurance that you will continue to have something to live for if you loved one is no longer with you.


Remember that you are a valuable member of society. Focus on what you do that contributes to the world. Do you help others? Are you kind to strangers? Do you donate to a charity or volunteer your time? Acknowledging these attributes can help you realize that you have a purpose, and can continue that purpose despite losing your loved one. You can even dedicate certain activities or projects to your loved one in the future.
Try to create meaning in death. An example of creating meaning out of passing away is that death is necessary for life, or that death is simply a gateway to another dimension or reality (such as belief in an afterlife). What does death mean to you? Will your loved one live on in an afterlife? Will you loved one live on in the memories of his loved ones? Or, will his contribution to society live on?

, A higher power can be anything that is greater and more powerful that yourself. Having a connection or thinking about your religious, spiritual beliefs, or worldviews helps individuals cope with death-related themes.If you aren't religious or do not believe in a divine creator, you can focus on a higher power such as nature (the moon and ocean are very powerful). A higher power can also be a group of people (since groups can be more powerful than one person).
Write a letter to your higher power expressing your fears about losing your loved one.
Pray to your higher power about your feelings and thoughts. Ask for the outcome that you desire (for your loved one to make it through, or for your loved one to not suffer, etc).

