 The best ways of getting out of class are always the most legitimate ways. Next time you have to go to the doctor, the dentist, or make some other kind of appointment, make sure you schedule it for the day and the time of the class you hate the most, so you'll be able to miss. You won't have to sneak around if it's for real.


If your parent usually schedules appointments for you, go ahead and do it yourself before they give you the chance to go back out to the waiting room. Then make like everything's already taken care of.
 In middle and high school, some teachers will write up passes for students to work on group projects in their classroom, especially during study hall, or other break periods, if the project is especially important. In some cases, you might be able to convince one teacher that your break period is actually during another time than it actually is, and get them to write a pass for you to leave the class you don't like. Then just leave.


This can be dangerous, if you have teachers who talk a lot. Try to get teachers from different departments, like a shop teacher and a math teacher, who may not be likely to communicate with one another.
 Depending on the class you're trying to get out of, you may have a more legitimate reason to leave than you originally thought. If you're annoying about being in a particular class, tell your teacher that you do better work in the library, and ask if you can go study there instead some day. Teachers are likely to be surprised by this, and you might win a free hour in the library, without having to beat around the bush about it.
 If you're upset about something, or if you feel like you need to be missing class for a more serious reason, ask to go talk to the guidance counsellor. It doesn't have to be anything big: maybe you're just feeling stressed about school and about your ability to handle the pressure. That's what guidance counsellors are there for.


Tell your teacher that you're really upset, but be vague. Talk quietly and seriously, right before class, and ask if they'll allow you to go talk to the guidance counsellor instead of coming to class today.
If you have to come up with an excuse, try to think of something they'll be unable to verify. No dead grandmothers. Try something like, "I think I might be having a panic attack," instead.
 Maybe you've got strict parents, but you never know until you ask. If you've got a real bummer of a class period coming up, ask one of your more lenient parents if they'll call you out for a class period sometime. You might get lucky once or twice.


Sometime, try doing a little research by asking one or both of your parents if they ever cut class when they were younger. Dig up some good stories, then use this for leverage later.
If you find out your dad used to cut all the time because his math teacher was totally boring, start playing up how dull your math teacher is, and how you wish you could just come home and spend time cleaning up instead of going to class. Boom. Easy call-out.

