 Bronchodilators are medications that help physically open your airways. However, bronchodilators are not for everyone. They are most effective for treating an asthma attack, so bronchodilators may not help your shortness of breath if you do not have asthma.Many bronchodilators incorporate a corticosteroid to help ease breathing and improve air flow. These medications are typically only available by prescription, so talk to your doctor if you think bronchodilators may help you.
Common bronchodilators include Aerobid, Albuterol, Azmacort, Flovent, Medrol, and prednisone.
 Smoking is one of the biggest causes of shortness of breath. Even if you don't smoke, being around other people's second-hand smoke can irritate your lungs and make breathing difficult. If you're currently a smoker, you should quit as soon as possible. You should also avoid being around smokers, regardless of whether or not you yourself smoke.Ask your family, friends, and coworkers to help you quit smoking. Ask them to keep an eye on you and stop you from smoking any time you're tempted.Use smoke cessation products like nicotine gum, patches, and lozenges. All of these products are available over the counter without any prescription.Try to manage your stress and avoid triggers that make you crave tobacco.
 Products with a strong scent or a significant air particle presence can adversely affect your breathing. Even household chemicals like cleaning products, candles, and perfumes can affect your ability to breathe.If you must use household chemicals like cleaning products, make sure you do so in a well-ventilated area. Turn on a fan and open all the windows to allow your home to air out.
If you work with chemicals, take safety precautions by using a respirator and any workplace ventilation options at your disposal.
 Being overweight can make it difficult to breathe, especially during mild to moderate physical activity. If you believe that your breathing difficulties may be caused by a weight problem, talk to your doctor about a weight-loss plan to help you safely and effectively reduce your weight.Focus on eating healthy, low-calorie meals. Avoid anything greasy, fatty, or high in sugar.Increase the amount of exercise you get. Talk to your doctor about how to do this safely.
Once you get approval from your doctor, aim to get at least 150 minutes each week of moderate exercise, or 75 minutes each week of higher-intensity aerobic exercise.
 Some individuals who are prone to anxiety might experience breathing problems during a panic attack. This usually involves a rapid heartbeat, short, shallow breathing patterns, and an overwhelming sense of fear or dread.Talk to your doctor if you believe you may have an anxiety disorder. Having your anxiety diagnosed is the first step in treating the symptoms.


Anti-anxiety medications may help reduce the symptoms of a panic attack, which can include shortness of breath.
Common anxiety medications include benzodiazepines and selective serotonin re-uptake inhibitors (SSRIs).
Cognitive behavioral therapy (CBT) can also be very effective at treating anxiety. Though it may not help during an active panic attack, CBT can help manage your anxiety and reduce the overall frequency/intensity of panic attacks.
 Any type of physical exertion at elevations above 5,000 feet (1,524 meters) can impair your ability to breathe. You may also experience elevation sickness at high elevations if you are not properly acclimated. If you experience the symptoms of elevation sickness, including headaches, confusion/disorientation, and difficulty breathing, it's important that you return to lower elevations as soon as possible.Elevation sickness usually goes away after returning to a lower elevation. Common treatments and preventative measures for elevation sickness include:


taking medications like Acetazolamide, Dexamethazone, Methazolamide, and Sildenafil
taking natural supplements like gingko, vitamin C, and other antioxidants
staying hydrated
adjusting to higher elevations gradually over several days

