 The easiest way to clear congestion is to force the mucus out through the nose. Carry a package of tissues or several handkerchiefs with you as you go about your day.;
, Ever had too much wasabi, and feel it go straight to the nose? That's because spicy foods thin out mucus and clear up congestion, albeit mostly temporarily. For severe congestion, try eating:


Hot peppers, such as jalapeno, habanero or serrano pepper
Horseradish or wasabi
Spicy ginger
Fenugreek
Onion and garlic

, A vapor rub containing menthol will temporarily clear congestion and allow you to breathe more easily for an hour or two. Rub a bit of salve on your upper lip beneath your nose and allow the vapors to work their magic.
 Propping yourself up at night with pillows, or resisting the temptation to be horizontal, may help ease congestion and make it easier to breathe. It won't clear congestion, but it will aid in breathing and make you more comfortable.
 Relieve congestion the old-fashioned way — without any medicine or stimulants, just you and your fingers. Self-massaging is easy to do and effective. Here are three massages that you can do at home, at work, or in public.


Take both index fingers and place them on either side of the eye cavity, just above the nose but just below the brow. In outward circles, start massaging the sinuses around your nose with your fingers. Do this for 20 to 30 seconds.
Take both index fingers and place them right below your eyes. Again, using outward circles, massage the sinuses around your eyes using your fingers. Do this for 20 to 30 seconds.
Finally, take your thumbs and place them on either cheek bone. Massage your cheekbone in outward circles using your thumbs. Do this for 20 to 30 seconds. Repeat the massage again, or until your sinuses are adequately relieved.
 Soak a clean towel in warm water and wring it out until the towel is damp, but not wet. Sit down and place the towel over your face for a few minutes. The warm compress may help relieve discomfort and open up nasal passages.
 The warm steam will pass through your lungs and into your nasal passage, loosening up mucus and relieving congestion.

