 A crucial step in learning to draw manga is to study the art styles of Japanese artists and understand the different components that set manga apart from other types of art. For instance, the eyes are normally the main focus of the face and contain the most detail. Furthermore, a variety of different manga styles exist, and it can be helpful to study them before deciding which one appeals to you the most.;
, Before purchasing a how-to-draw book, attempt to learn the basics on your own. Because instructional books are normally written by a single artist, the images may be drawn in one style. To prevent unconsciously absorbing his or her style, it is best to practice for a while. With many references and guides on the Internet, you can search the basics of manga anatomy and do your best to learn them.
 Rather than skipping to the final product and copying it, it is best to lay out each step. The directions will guide you through the process of starting from scratch and developing each essential part of the face, so you can eventually draw on your own without the book's guidance. If you attempt to cheat and skip ahead, you may have difficulties with remembering and learning the anatomy of manga. Furthermore, attempt to draw your own character so that you can start to develop your own style.
 Although you should not completely adapt another artist's style, copying their work can help you decide what design you prefer. If you enjoy that particular style, bits of that technique will eventually carry over to you. Although this method can be used as a starting point for style development, you should not solely rely upon it; otherwise, you may have difficulties with creating original designs.
 Although it is important to remain open to suggestions, remember that there is a difference between constructive criticism and demeaning remarks. As long as you remain dedicated towards drawing, you have a chance to improve your art. All artists work at different paces, so remain focused upon your own path and avoid comparing yourself to others.

