 Most women experience symptoms one to two weeks before the first day of their period. The symptoms usually go away after you start bleeding.PMS is different for everyone, and it is helpful if you document your symptoms as you track your period.Most women experience at least one PMS symptom as part of their menstrual cycle.Your symptoms can be both physical and emotional.
 Many women experience crying spells, anxiety, mood swings, or depression before their period starts.You also may experience fatigue and irritability. If changes in your mood do not end after your period starts, or you feel like your daily life is being impacted, you need to see your doctor.30 minutes of moderate-intensity exercise and strength training two or more days a week can help with depression and fatigue that you may experience., You may experience abdominal bloating, constipation, fluid retention, or diarrhea prior to your period. This can result in weight gain before your period starts.Again, these symptoms should end within four days of your period starting. See a doctor if they continue.


You can limit your salt intake and eat smaller, more frequent meals to alleviate some of the bloating and fluid retention.Taking a diuretic can help your body get rid of excess fluid and reduce bloating and weight gain as well. Medications like Pamprin and Midol contain diuretics.
 Breast tenderness, joint or muscle pain, and headaches are common symptoms.You can take over-the-counter pain medication such as ibuprofen, aspirin, or naproxen to relieve these symptoms.Acne is also a common physical symptom that your period is on the way., If you experience five or more of these symptoms and find that your PMS is keeping you from doing your usual activities, you may have premenstrual dysphoric disorder (PMDD). Your doctor may prescribe you antidepressants, prescription pain medication, or the Yaz birth control pill to manage your symptoms.Counseling and therapy may also be helpful for dealing with the emotional aspect of PMDD.
You should also see your doctor if your symptoms do not go away after your period starts, or you begin to see a change in the frequency or volume of your symptoms.

