 The best way to react to someone who is saying mean things about you is to not react. By ignoring those people and the things they are saying, you are showing them that you aren’t bothered by them. People who say mean things often enjoy getting a negative reaction out of others. Practice ignoring them by walking away.


Walking away and ignoring mean people extends beyond in-person interactions. If people are being mean to you through social media or text messages, for instance, block or unfriend them.
If you see a negative comment written about you, stop reading it. While it is certainly hurtful to know someone has written something mean about you, that doesn’t mean you have to read it.Take a break from social media and texting, from time to time.;
, Unfortunately, there will probably always be someone who doesn’t like you. That is true for everyone. Rather than worrying about that one person, spend more time with the people who care about you and like you as you are. Your true friends know that the hurtful things someone else might be saying about you are not true. Real friends will stand by your side and help you ignore or brush off the mean comments., When someone says negative things about you, they are really revealing a lot about themselves. Feeling that they need to be negative about others shows that they are unkind, and possibly feel insecure about themselves.


People who are happy with themselves and their lives do not waste time tearing others down.
Mean people sometimes make negative comments about other people as a way of distracting others from noticing their own flaws and the things they feel insecure about.
 Sometimes the negative things other people say about us can replay in our heads over and over. Push those negative thoughts aside and regularly remind yourself of all the good things about you.


As you “talk yourself up” and focus on the good every day, those positive thoughts will become part of how you see yourself and your confidence should grow.Avoid depending on feeling validated by others and whether or not they like you. Accepting yourself and recognizing your positive attributes is more valuable.
 Write down the things you value most in life, as well as the type of person you want to be. Doing so will help you become more sure of yourself and what you stand for. When you are clear about what is important to you, you’ll notice you begin caring less about what others say about you.Writing down what is important to you is also a great way to keep those things fresh in your mind so that you think and act in ways that match your values. Part of that should include not caring about what others say.Revisit your list when you are questioning yourself over someone's opinion. Try asking yourself, "Do I agree with what this person thinks/says about me?"

, There is no way that you can control what other people do, say, or think. Instead of worrying about what others think of you, go out and do things you enjoy. Participating in activities you like gives you something fun and positive to focus on.Before you know it, you’ll be enjoying your own life and won’t have time to care about what other people say or think.

