 Finger nails grow at a rate of about .1 millimeters each day. That doesn’t sound like much, but it means that your toddler’s nails can grow enough in a couple of weeks to inadvertently scratch herself or others. You may get a reminder in the form of a small cut, if you fall behind.Smaller children may need more frequent trims. Infants, for instance, have very fast growing nails that can need to be clipped twice a week.Toenails grow a bit more slowly than fingernails, on the other hand. You probably only need to cut them once or twice per month.;
, Using nail scissors or clippers, cut nearly straight across and round a little at both edges of the nail. Do this for both the finger nails and toe nails. It will reduce the chance that your toddler develops a hangnail, which can cause infections.For infants and smaller children, you can use blunt-nose toe nail scissors or baby nail clippers. Do not use adult nail clippers. Be very careful so that you don’t accidentally cut the tips of the toes or fingers, as well.Do not trim a child’s finger or toe nails by biting them. This can transmit a condition called herpetic whitlow, an infection of the finger or thumb caused by the herpes virus., Once you’ve trimmed the nails, look for any ragged edges that could scratch or catch onto something like fabric. Use a nail file or emery board to smooth off these rough patches.Always make sure to pull the emery board in the same direction when filing nails. Going back and forth can weaken nails.
Leave your toddler’s cuticles alone. Cuticles protect the nail root, so you don’t need to cut them back or push them down.
 Warm water from the bath will temporarily soften your toddler’s nails. Try to trim immediately after one so that the procedure is easier and less daunting for you both. As a bonus, the water can also relax your child.Some children just don’t like nail cutting and throw fits at the first sight of clippers. Try clipping the nails when your child is asleep, if you have this sort of problem.
 Toddlers are often uncooperative. You might find that nail clipping time elicits squirms, tantrums, or refusals. One way that you can make nail trimming easier – on you as well as on your toddler – is to turn it into a game. Having a bit of fun can make your child forget all about being antsy or scared.You might inject a little fun by singing a finger nail-themed song, like “The Itsy Bitsy Spider Went to the Nail Salon.”
You could also pretend with your toddler that her fingers are a big family and that the nails are their hair. Explain that every week, the mommy, daddy, and kids need to go for a trim.
Be mindful of language, too. Toddlers may be uncooperative because you’re using the word “cut,” which they associate with pain. Opt for a more neutral word like “trim” or “clip” instead.
 Don’t feel that you absolutely need to trim every finger and toe nail in the same sitting. There’s no fast rule. For really a resistant toddler, try to do what you can before she gets too squirmy or escapes.Get a few nails clipped and then try again later. You might even wait until the next day to complete all ten fingers.

