 This method requires trickier folds than the ones above, but leaves you with an elegant, professional-looking booklet if done correctly. To make your job easier, it's useful to use square pieces of origami paper for this project. Technically, any square piece of paper will work, but origami paper is usually thin and relatively easy to fold. Plus, it often has patterns or designs on one side which can create great-looking covers.


If you don't have any square paper handy, you can trim a standard 8 1/2 x 11" piece of paper to make an 8 1⁄2 inch (21.6 cm) square piece by cutting three inches from the longer side. Be precise and use a ruler to aid your measurements. You're going to be making lots of intricate folds, so having a paper that's as close to perfectly square as possible will be a big help in the long run.
 Lay your paper flat in front of you (if you're using patterned origami paper, you want it white side-up). Fold the paper in half vertically, then fold the outer edges inward to the center and crease. When you're done, your paper should be divided into four tall, skinny, equal sections with three folds that point away from you (or "valley" folds).
 Next, make four more vertical folds to divide each of the tall, skinny sections of the paper in half. These folds should point toward you ("mountain"-style), rather than away from you. When you're done, you should be left with a piece of paper that's divided into eight skinny strips that fold together in an "accordion" pattern.
 Next, turn your paper 90 degrees so that the previously vertical folds run horizontal. Unfold these folds and make one new one to divide the paper in half vertically. Use a "valley"-style fold (one that points away from you). Your fold should intersect the folds you've already made at perfect (or nearly perfect) right angles.
 Turn your paper once again so that your original set of folds are once again pointing vertically. Fold the edges inward, "accordion-ing" the paper along the vertical folds as you go. Don't make the final fold in the center of the paper — leave this unfolded. Your paper should look like a long, skinny set of double doors at this point. Your folded piece of paper should be one-fourth as wide as it would normally be.


If you're using patterned origami paper, the "doors" should have this pattern. If they're plain, you may have made an error in your folding.
 Here's where things get tricky. You may want to start following along with the video below if you get lost. Take the skinny top edge of your folded "doors" and fold it down so it reaches halfway to the center crease running through your "doors" horizontally. In other words, you'll want to put a valley fold one sixth of the way down the length of the doors.


Making this sort of fold is a little trickier than folding a section of paper in half or into quarters. There are a few different ways to do this — the easiest is probably to think of the top half of the doors as one single unit and fold the top edge down until it appears that the unfolded paper below is about the same thickness as the doubled-up portion, then fold and adjust manually until you get your proportions just right.
 Grab the top edge of the folded paper and fold it across itself diagonally. Line the crease you just made up with the central crease running down the center of the doors vertically and press to fold. Your paper should look like an upside down, rotated letter L.


Repeat for the opposite direction to fold an "X" shape into the top portion of the paper.
 Next, unfold your paper completely and lay it in front of you. If you're using paper that's patterned on one side, you want the white side facing up (if you're not using patterned paper, this is the side that was inside your "doors" earlier). If necessary, turn the paper so that the "X" folds run along the bottom edge. Fold the lower part of the paper underneath using the horizontal crease near the bottom of the page.


When you're done, your paper should be divided by vertical folds that form triangle shapes at the bottom.
 Fold each of the small triangles at the bottom of the paper inward to divide it in half. Start at one end and fold the rest of the paper around each fold as you go. Press the folded triangles together accordion-style until your entire piece of folded paper looks like a very long, skinny letter L.
 Take the long, skinny end of your "L" and make a 45 degree fold to bring it up and over itself. Leave a small gap between the lower part of the "L" and the fold you make. When you're done, your folded-up piece of paper should look like a backwards letter J. Fold the interior of the J shape in upon itself to give the bottom of the J 45 degree angles all around.
 Carefully open up the accordion-ed folds of the long, narrow part of the J shape to reveal a wide "cape" shaped section of paper. Fold this back over itself, turning it 90 degrees as you do so. Line your fold up with the paper behind it. Then, fold the upper section of the paper back over itself once more in the opposite direction.
 If you're working with patterned paper, after you flip it over, your paper should now look like a wide, fat cape or glider with patterned "trim" at its edges. Fold the bottom edge of the paper over itself with a narrow fold — you want to create no more than a quarter inch strip of doubled-up material at the bottom.
 Grab the top edge of the paper and fold it down over itself until it's almost (but not quite) level with the bottom edge. Your folded paper should now be in the shape of a long, skinny, horizontal rectangle. If you're using patterned paper, the entire rectangle should be patterned.
 Your booklet should now be starting to take shape. In the middle of your rectangle, there should be a small "tab" of tightly-folded square segments of paper that fan out from a central point where they all meet. These will form your booklet's pages. To make your booklet's covers, fold the outer edges of the rectangle in until they meet the base of the pages and fold to crease. When you're done, there should be a tab of paper at each end of the inner tab of pages that's slightly larger than the pages themselves.
 Congratulations! If you've made all of your folds correctly, when you're done, your tiny booklet should have ten pages and a front and back cover. If you want to, at this point you can carefully glue or tape the flaps that form the covers of the book down to secure them in place. Your booklet is now ready to use!


Alternatively, for true origami authenticity, try sliding the lower tab of each cover flap into the pocket along the back of the book. This secures each cover in place without the use of adhesives, which any origami master wouldn't be caught dead using.

