 You'll be creating a new document from a business card template. This will allow you to quickly make a lot of professional-looking cards at once.;
, Use the search field in the new document creation window to search for "business card". This will bring up a variety of free templates that you can use for business cards. There are templates for horizontal and vertical cards.
 You'll be able to change any element of the template you'd like, including color, images, font, and layout. Pick the template that most closely matches the vision of your business card in your head. Click the "Create" or "Download" button to open the template in Word., If you're using Office 2010 or newer (and the template was designed for 2010 or new), you'll see your text appear in all of the business cards on the page. You'll only have to fill out information for one card this way. If the template is not designed to automatically fill out successive cards, you'll need to enter the data for each one manually.
 You can select any of the text on the business card and change the format. You can switch fonts, change colors and size, and more, just like you would regular text.


Since this is a business card, make sure that the font you choose is legible.
 If the business card template has a placeholder logo, you can click it to replace it with your own. Make sure that you resize your logo so that it fits, and that it doesn't look bad when the size has been changed.
 Make absolutely sure that your business cards do not have any typos or other mistakes. Your business card is one of the first impressions people will have of you, so you don't want to start off on the wrong foot.
 If you're going to be printing the cards at home, you'll need high quality stock paper. Stick to white or off-white, and pick your finish. Most business cards don't have a finish, but some people prefer a glossier card. Many print shops will be able to open your saved business card template and print them for you as well.


When purchasing paper, make sure that your printer at home can handle it. Check your printer's documentation or support site for details on the type of paper that it supports.
 Once the cards are printed, you'll need to cut the sheet up. Each sheet will typically have ten cards on it. Don't use scissors or other methods of cutting that rely on you keeping a straight line. Instead, use a paper guillotine or precision paper cutter. Many print shops have these tools available for customers, or can do the cutting for you.


The standard US business card size is 3.5" x 2" (or 2" x 3.5" for vertical cards).

