 Before you begin, be sure to cover your work area with butcher paper or newspaper. This procedure will create two 8 x 7/8-inch rolled taper candles. You will need:

One 8 x 16-inch beeswax sheet
One 10-inch-length braided wick
1 to 2 ounces paraffin wax (optional, for priming the wick);
, The wax now needs to be softened slightly, which you can do with a hair dryer.

Make sure to set the hair dryer on “low” to avoid melting the wax too much.
 Locate one edge of the wax square, then press the wick down into it, making sure that 1 inch of the wick extends from each side. Start rolling the wax. As you roll, make sure to keep the edges even and keep the rolling wax tight around the wick.For the tightest roll, try placing a piece of waxed paper between your fingers and the beeswax. Keep the waxed paper moving so that it doesn’t get stuck in the rolled beeswax.
Using the waxed paper will also protect the beeswax from the warmth of your fingers, which can complicate the roll by softening the wax so much that it comes hard to work with.
 Push the edge into the candle, which will seal it. If the wax is too hard to work with, use the “low” heat setting on your hair dryer to soften it up.

The first candle is complete.
Repeat the exact same actions with the second square of beeswax to create the second candle.
 Priming will keep the wick rigid, which means it will burn better. You do this by soaking the wick in wax, which removes any air bubbles that might exist.The easiest way to prime is to use two small pieces of wax sheet and simply press them around the wicks.

An alternate method is melting paraffin wax in a double boiler over medium heat.
Once it’s melted, dip the ends of the wicks into the wax for 5 seconds.
Allow them to cool completely before lighting them.
 This is the optimal length for burning, so that the flame doesn’t get too large. The candles are now ready to light. When lit, the flames should be about 1 to 2 inches high. The wax should pool around the wick. It should not spill over the side.If the wax is spilling over, the wick you’ve used is too small for the diameter of the candle.
If there is very little wax pooling around the wick and it’s not burning properly, the wick is too large for the diameter of the candle.

