 You will need to do the following during your time:

Read and understand the prompt. Learn how many paragraphs it must consist of besides an introductory and closing paragraph. Most often times, it will need anywhere from two to three body paragraphs besides the intro and concluding paragraph.

Make sure the prompts wants you to write an essay and not just a simple short answer that could consist of a few sentences to one full paragraph.


Pick a position/argument to organize your essay. Think in terms of the pros and cons of the arguments and what supporting details lead you to the facts you'd like to present in the essay.
Jot down an outline on some scrap paper
Write the essay based on the outline! Don't ever write without some notes and knowledge of the subject at hand.
Proofread your essay. No reader ever wants grammatical and spelling errors to be present.
Submit on time.;
, For a longer or shorter essay, use this same time ratio for each step.

Read and understand the prompt = 1.5 minutes
Pick a position = 1.5 minutes
Jot down an outline = 2 minutes
Write = 21 minutes
Revise = 3 minutes
Submit = 1 minute

, For a 30-minute essay, it would look like this:

Introduction: 3 minutes
Paragraph 1: 6 minutes
Paragraph 2: 5 minutes
Paragraph 3: 5 minutes
Conclusion: 2 minutes

, If you don't know where you're going with your essay when you start, it's likely that the end product will not be as focused as you want it to be., That way, each paragraph leads into the next, making it easier to both write and read., Wearing a wristwatch is recommended so you don't have to rely on a clock in the room or on the proctor announcing how much time is left., You don't have much time to get your ideas across or revise, so you should focus on getting the message across well., Make sure that there are no grammatical errors nor any spelling errors nor any errors that would make you want to scratch your head wondering what you meant by your statements., Essays that aren't long enough, won't' be well understood and those that are too long can sometimes be quite wordy and loose the concept fairly quickly in each paragraph of the essay.,, Did you cite your sources, if external sources had to be used? Make sure that the reader can get the information from any applied sources or books that could be used to back up the information you presented., Perhaps it's a boss who wants to learn about why his employee is doing something wrong, or perhaps it's a teacher who wants the student to explain his viewpoints on things inside a book., Most often times, with teachers, you can say "Thank you" to them as you hand them the papers, but most want the essay as well as the notes you took and the test/answer booklets you wrote the essay on.