 Also known as a spirit board, the Ouija board is basically just a flat surface with all the letters of the alphabet, the numbers 1-10, Yes/No, and "Goodbye" written on it.


You'll also need what's called a "planchette," or some kind of movable indicator to use to point to the letters. A shot-glass is a common substitute, but any talisman you can all put your hands on to indicate the letters would be appropriate.
There's nothing magical about the Ouija board itself, so you should feel free to create your own on simple paper, or buy a more stylish one if you like.;
, You need more than one person to operate the Ouija board. It's best to have a relatively small group of people with a legitimate interest in communicating with the spirit world.


Designate one person and one person only to be the medium. This person will ask the questions aloud and be the one who is specifically communicating with the ghost, though both (or all) of you will have your hands on the planchette.
It might also be helpful to have at least one other person present to record the communications. If it gets moving very quickly, it can be difficult to keep up with the ghost's spelling. Having someone write it down will make sure you can keep up.
 Go into a quiet and comfortable part of the house in which you're communicating at an appropriate hour. Light the room softly with candles and consider cleansing it by burning sage or performing a brief cleansing prayer or other ritual appropriate to your beliefs.


The spirit world is most active between 9pm and 6am, so you might consider staging your communication during those hours, or another time of particular significance.
In some cultures, setting out a small amount of alcohol as an offering to the spirits can be helpful in attracting them.
 Place your fingers gently on the planchette in a central location on the board. Usually the letter "G" is a good starting place, equidistant from all points. Generally, a good opening question would be something like: "Are there any benevolent spirits present who would like to communicate?"


Introduce yourselves and clarify your intentions. Say your names aloud and reassure any spirits of your curiosity and kind intentions: "We want to listen to what you have to say."

,


Some Ouija board users like to close their eyes, both as a way of focusing their energy on communicating and sensing the spirits present, as well as to ensure that none of the participants are "cheating" the board by moving it and spelling out the answers that another party wants to hear.
In general, "cheating the board" by moving the planchette on purpose is a big taboo and extremely disrespectful to both the other users and the spirits who may or may not be present.
 After making your question known and introducing yourselves, sit and wait. You might try asking different questions, but know that the spirit world has no obligation to communicate with you, and it might take a while.


If and when the planchette starts to move, remain calm and have the recorder start writing down the letters.
Treat it like a normal conversation. Ask follow up questions that you're legitimately curious about. Don't treat it like something the spirit needs to "prove" to you, forcing them to answer specific trivia questions or other "test" types of questions. Treat it like a person is present. Be polite and be courteous.
 You can move the planchette yourself over to the "Goodbye" section of the board to signal that you've chosen to end the conversation, but it's also best to say a few words aloud: "Thank you for taking time to speak with us. Goodbye for now."


Close the board and put it away when you're finished, to ensure communication will be cut off.

