 Write "I love you" in the steam of the bathroom mirror after your loved one takes a shower. This will be a fun and fresh romantic surprise. You can also carve this into a tree trunk on your property, or into an old wooden table that you own. You can even tell the waiter to write "I love you" in chocolate on top of a dessert in a restaurant.Write "I love you" in the sand on a beach.
 Fill it with songs that are meaningful to the relationship or that remind you of the other person. You can leave the CD in your partner's car and wait for him/her to listen to it as a surprise. You can also put the CD in a card on a special occasion.
 If you know your partner had a long day at work, invite him or her over to you for a long, relaxing back or foot massage. You can even add some lotion or oils to make it extra romantic and sexy.
 It's likely that most of your photos are online. Print out the special ones and make a small photo album for your loved one to give him or her a physical reminder about how much you mean to each other. You can even write funny captions for the photos in the album to make the gift more silly and meaningful

, Who says you need to wait for a Hallmark holiday to tell your loved one how you feel? Pick a random night to celebrate Valentine's Day -- complete with a card, a nice dinner, and a long, loving night. This will be a very romantic move that will surprise and delight your partner.
 Dedicate a song to your loved one on the radio and make sure he or she is listening at the right time. You can also declare your love by writing a poem to your loved one and wrapping it around a bottle of wine. You can even serenade your loved one in a public place -- as long as this doesn't embarrass him or her. There are dozens of ways to come up with romantic ideas that are old-fashioned but not corny.
 You can be romantic by showing your loved one how much you care in a silly way. Take him/her to a county fair, hold his/her hand, and win him/her a silly stuffed animal. Go mini-golfing and write "I love you" at the bottom of the score sheet. Go to an amusement or water park together and have fun acting like lovesick teenagers. Who says youth is wasted on the young? You can show your love to your partner by being romantic like a teenager at any age. Here are some other ways to be romantic while acting like a little kid:



Make balloon animals together.
Spend an afternoon fingerpainting.
See a fireworks display.
Make cupcakes.
Watch a silly movie from your childhoods.
Tell loving knock-knock jokes.

