

Skeleton - Skeletons equip a bow and a unlimited arrows. It burns during the day. Kill him with a bow to not hit with his bow. A variation of it is called stray, only spawns in cold biomes.
Spider - Spiders can climb walls up to 3 blocks. It only fight when you hit him. It not burns during the day. A variation is called cave spider, found only in the abandoned caves. Kill it with a sword.
Creeper - One of the strongest mobs in Minecraft. It blows when you go near the creeper. It is turning to a charged creeper if he is struck by a lightning bolt. Kill it with a bow.
Zombie - It spawns deep in a dungeon. It turns a villager into zombie villager. Kill it with a punch or sword. It burns during the day.
Witch - Found only in witch huts in a swamp biome or a villager struck by lightning bolt. It throws a Splash Potion of Poison if you hit it. Kill it with a Splash Potion of Decay.
Slime - Spawns deeply underground or in a swamp biome during a full moon. Kill it with a sword.
Guardian - Spawns in a ocean monument. It has spikes and a laser. This laser will give you nausea. Kill it with a sword. A variant, Elder Guardian, has more health.
Silverfish - Spawns in the End Portal Room of the stronghold near the End Portal. It is the second smallest mob in Minecraft. Only one hit of a sword will kill him.


Ghast - Spawns in a 5×5 area, throws fireballs to the player. Hit him with his fireball.
Zombie Pigman - A Pigman with a golden sword. Also spawns if a pig gets struck by lightning. Only attack when you hit him first.
Blaze - Spawns in a Nether Fortress. It also throws fireballs. It takes damage when you hit it with snowballs.
Magma Cube - Mobs like slime, it is not taking damage from water as of version 1.0.0. Kill him with a sword.
Wither Skeleton - Also spawns in a Nether Fortress. When you hit with his stone sword, it will give you a wither effect. Kill it with a sword.


Enderman - The only mob that teleports. To kill him, hit his feet with a sword.
Shulker - Spawns only in the End City. You can kill him with a sword.

