 Most commercial cat foods will provide your Himalayan with adequate nutrition, but a high-quality food will help to ensure that your cat looks and feels his best. Look for a cat food that lists meat (not just a meat by-product) as the first ingredient.


If you are unsure about whether or not a food is high-quality, ask your veterinarian for a recommendation.
Make sure that the cat food you choose contains taurine. This is an essential amino acid that all cats need.Only feed your cat a food that is specially formulated for cats. Other foods may not have the nutrients and amino acids that your cat needs to be healthy. This may lead to heart and vision problems for your cat.;
, To keep your Himalayan at a healthy weight, you will need to create a feeding schedule and stick with it. Free-feeding (placing food out and allowing your cat to eat whenever he wants) can cause your cat to become overweight.That is why it is ideal to feed your cat a measured amount of food twice per day.


Use your cat’s weight and age to determine how much food to give for each feeding. The food that you purchase for your Himalayan should indicate how much food to give your cat for his weight and age. For example, a cat that weighs five to nine pounds needs about 1/3 to 2/3 of a cup of dry food per day. A cat that weighs between 10 to 14 pounds needs about 2/3 of a cup to one cup of food per day.
If you are not sure about the amount to give your cat, then ask your veterinarian for a recommendation.Split the amount of food that you are supposed to give your cat every day into two or three feedings because cats prefer smaller meals.For example, you might give your eight pound cat 1/3 of a cup of food in the morning and 1/3 of a cup of food at night. If your cat weighs 12 pounds, then you might give him 1/2 cup of food in the morning and 1/2 cup of food at night.
 Your Himalayan will need to have access to fresh, clean water at all times. Make sure that you place the water somewhere that is easy for your cat to access and that is not near a litter box. Cats do not like to eat or drink near their litter boxes.Change your cat's water at least once per day.
 You can purchase special kitty treats in pet stores and grocery stores, just make sure that you do not give your cat too many of these treats. Too many treats may cause your cat to become overweight or lead to picky eating habits.


Offer him a few treats per day, but make sure that treats do not make up more than 10% of his daily calories.Give your cat a little piece of turkey, chicken, fish, or lean deli meat now and then. Cats are natural carnivores so they tolerate these foods well. Just make sure that the meat has been cooked to protect your cat from harmful bacteria.Try making some treats for your cat using canned tuna.

