 To create your own Harry Potter character, you really need to know your character. If you know him/her like the back of your hand, there character will come to life in your story and really make it a whole lot better. So, to start off with learning the inside out of your character, simply get to your computer and open a new word document.;
, (You can write how they got their name and what that name means.)

, Next, write all of your character's family's full names. Grandparents, cousins, uncles, aunts, sisters, brothers, parents, everyone. (You can write your main character's feelings about all of her family and what they are like.)

, If you want you can go online and look up the sorting hat quiz. Answer all the questions the way that your character would. Then submit, and see what house your character would be in. Be sure when you draw your character to make them look like a person from their house. For example if your character is a Ravenclaw draw their school uniform to be a Ravenclaw.
 (You can describe their physical traits if you like.)

, Do the same thing you did for your character's friends and make sure to write why your character and this/these person/s are enemies. If your character is in any house other than Slytherin, you might want to make their enemy or enemies a certain Slytherin or all Slytherins.
 You can write things like how they appear like, their customs, their family's traditions, their neighbors and their neighborhood; basically every little thing about your character.
 You should draw your character or find a picture online that you think describes your character. The drawing doesn't have to be the best, it's only for you to see what your character looks like. This might seem like a lot of things to do for one character, but if your character is interesting-which is necessary for a good story-then making up all of these things about your character will be fun. --

, What is their biggest fear?

, Shorter wands generally go for shorter people, or whose character is 'somewhat lacking', and less flexible wands go for wizards with less adaptability. Go to Pottermore to read about wand woods and cores.
 You can a pick a toad, cat or an owl. If your character is in the Ravenclaw house or Hufflepuff house, it will prefer a cat. If your character is poor, it'll have a toad. Something common would be an owl., Students in Beauxbatons and Durmstrang can also be male or female., Is she a Parseltongue? Is he an expert on non verbal magic? Try adding things like this to make your wizard truly unique.

