 Most of it can be bought from your local electronics shop or through online from eBay or Amazon.



Case opener tool – A case opener is a small plastic tool with a flat tip similar to a flathead screwdriver used to separate pieces that are firmly attached to each other such as the casings of phones.

T5 and T3 Torx screwdrivers – Torx screwdrivers have tips that look like an asterisk, commonly used to take apart most electronic devices like cellphones.;
, Insert the case opener tool inside the gap that runs around the sides of the Razr and slide it around the body to loosen the back cover. Slowly pry off the back cover off the phone by wiggling the case opener tool in an up-and-down motion.
 Take off the red terminal cover at the lower-left corner of the battery and remove the screws that hold the battery in place.


Use a T5 size Torx screwdriver to remove the two screws on the battery terminal (previously covered by the red terminal cover).
After the terminal screws have been removed, use a T3 size Torx screwdriver to remove the two screws located at both the top corners of the battery.
 This will reveal another screw near the camera lens.
 These are around the edge of the phone and near the camera lens. Use a T3 size Torx screwdriver to remove the gold screws.
 You can find the screws at the bottom of the Razr. Use a T5 Torx Screwdriver to remove them.
 Do this after removing all the screws that holds the Razr’s body together.


You can use the case opener tool to split the Razr apart, carefully running it along the sides of the phone to pry the body apart.
 Use the T3 screwdriver again to remove the three silver screws that hold the metal frame in place.
 Once the three screws have been removed, lift the metal frame off the phone.
 Do this by slowly prying it off the motherboard. This will reveal the connectors that link the Razr’s screen to its motherboard.
 Pull the screen connector slowly off the motherboard to disconnect it.
 Use the case opener tool to lift the motherboard off the body of the Razr


Congratulations! You’ve just taken apart your Motorola Razr!

