 If you have a crack between the bottom of your door and the floor, a mouse can walk right in. Mice can squeeze through very slim cracks, so don’t look at a crack and assume nothing could get through. Go to the hardware store and buy a door seal that you attach to the bottom of your door to close the gap.









Look around the vicinity of your door to see if there are any other places mice could be getting in. You might have holes in your foundation that need to be caulked. You can also stuff them with steel wool.
Check your screen doors to make sure they don’t have holes, too.
 Mice are attracted to food smells, so it’s important to keep your trash well contained within your house and your yard. Use trash cans with tight-fitting lids both inside and outdoors. Make sure trash gets removed from the premises promptly on trash collection day.


Mice may also be attracted to recycling containers, since the bottles, cans and boxes they contain could still have traces of food on them. Keep recycling in a container with a lid as well.
If you have a compost pile, make sure it’s located well away from your home, since it may be attracting mice.
 Both inside your house and in your yard, clean up messes that could provide food and shelter for mice. When you leave food out, neglect to pick up crumbs, or even have a pile of brush in your yard, mice might start to move in. Keep your home neat and tidy to make it less hospitable to mice.
 There are several effective natural substances you can use to keep mice out of your house. When they smell a repellant, they won’t want to come in. Many mice repellents smell great to humans, so don’t hesitate to sprinkle them around your house. Put your repellant of choice in the cracks, crevices and dark spaces where mice tend to dwell. Here are some to choose from:









Peppermint oil, which is great for sprinkling on countertops and other kitchen spaces
Cedar chips or cedar oil
Predator urine, available for purchase from places that sell any type of pest repellent

