 Found all around New Maris, they can be suppressed in certain areas via missions but on the whole are found anywhere. They're easy to defeat but here's some tips for fighting them.


Get the high ground. Even if they're on the rooftops go up there. Why? If they're on the rooftops you will find more hard to hit them as rooftops are crammed with cover. If on an opposite rooftop they can't come over to get you which means you have the advantage. If they are on the ground it's a perfect opportunity to use thunderclap.
Take a minute to watch them. make sure to concentrate on any rocket launchers, riot shields etc. Consider sneaking up on them as well. A cool beginners trick is to sneak up on enemies which are perched on the edge of a rooftop and blow them off it with an alpha blast: instant kill.;
, These guys have the most variation, coming in many different types.


Swamp monsters: Don't bother using your powers. Unless you're a higher level character it doesn't have much effect. These guys weakness is the amp(your main melee weapon). When battling these guys take a moment to check out the awesome melee cut scenes that you can get.
Gasbags: The suicides of the monster world. These guys storm around the place trying to give people a cuddle, aah...(IE get close to you and blow you up). The best bet with these guys is to get up on a rooftop and chuck grenades at them.
Ravagers: The next step up. These guys can burrow underground and spray poison. There weakness however is grenade. Wait until it pops up before showering it with grenades. Use the time its underground to restock on electricity.
 These guys are exactly the same as ravagers except they can summon spikers. Spikers are midget assassins who are summoned in swarms. They spray poison and are easy to defeat but in large groups can take you down quickly. Your best bet with these guys is to get on a roof and toss grenades at the hive lord while killing any spikers that jump onto the roof. Once the hive lord is dead kill the spikers.
 These guys are armored, massive and deadly. If they catch you with their tongue and you're low on health, expect to die. Your best bet with these guys these guys is to stay the hell away from them. Tossing cars at them will do some major damage but DO NOT under any circumstances let it get close to you. If it sits on you its an instant kill.

