 You can apply a seal by rubbing your document with normal household candle wax, although a more complete seal can be accomplished using a dipping technique. To seal your paper with wax, you'll need:


Normal candle (or beeswax)
Metal pot (optional; dip technique)
Paper
Tongs (optional; dip technique);
, In a pinch you can use the wax from normal household candles, and you can even use scented ones for a unique scent. Colored candles can tint your paper, giving it a fun and creative touch.


Classically, paraffin has been used to waterproof clothing, canvas, and other items.However, you should use paraffin in a well ventilated place, and be aware that it is fossil fuel derived and poisonous if ingested.
A nontoxic wax sealer intended to unwaxed items, like beeswax or Otter Wax, is a great option for consideration., You will need to lay your paper on a sturdy, flat surface that is dry and free of dust or grime. You don't want to stain your paper before it's sealed against the elements! Clear any clutter out of your way so that your work area is free and clear.
 You should test your wax on a separate sheet of scrap paper before trying the paper you want to preserve. Different kinds of wax will have different levels of softness, so by rubbing your wax on your scrap paper you'll be able to judge how firmly you'll need to press for the best application.You should do this over all over the document you wish to seal, on the front and back until it has a slick, waxy feel.


You may need to rub softly many times in a row to get your wax to stick to the paper, or you may be able to press the wax firmly into the paper to apply it in thick swatches.Be careful not to rub too hard or you might rip your paper.
 Rubbing can take time and can sometimes leave an incomplete seal on your paper. Beeswax, however, can be melted in a pot or crock pot so you can dip your document right into the wax. Use medium heat until the wax is in a liquid state. If you are using your fingers, you should be careful not to burn yourself while dipping the paper.


Dip your document quickly into the beeswax to seal it. Use a pair of tongs to completely immerse the document.
If you are using your fingers, dip the document in parts. Hold your paper by the dry end until your seal is firm and cool. Then you can turn your document and dip the other portion into the wax., The wax will be bonded to the surface of your paper now, and will protect it from moisture, grime, and even dust. Where the wax has not bonded, your paper could still get wet and damaged. Take your wax and cover any spots that you missed, or even places where the wax seal looks thin.


Use your fingers to test the wax. Especially for lighter wax that bonds clear to your paper, you'll be able to easily feel missed spots, which instead of smooth and waxy will have a bumpy texture, or the texture of paper.
 This is the best way to get the closest, tightest bond between your wax and document. You'll need to warm your wax, gently smoothing it as you do, with a heat source, like a hair dryer. Be sure you do this to both sides of your paper.


Use moderation when heating; you don't want the wax to drip off completely, you only want to soften it so that it works further into the fibers of your paper.
If you use a different heat source or an open flame heater, like a creme brulee torch, use extreme caution. The last thing you want to do is start a fire and lose your document forever.
 Although the wax will keep your paper safe from the elements, over time your wax seal can wear away. Heat can melt your wax seal, so you should keep this document out of the sun and away from heat. But, outside of heat and light, your wax seal will protect your document for as long as your seal is maintained.


Resealing your document is as easy as rubbing another application of wax on top of whatever wax remains on your document.
Wax sealed documents that undergo regular handling and wear will be more likely to rub off wax. These should be checked every few weeks for a thin or worn away seal.
Wax sealed documents that are kept from light and heat and handled with care can maintain a seal of a year or longer.

