 Use a fork to beat the eggs, as if you were about to scramble them. Then add some salt and get to work seasoning to your heart's content. You can either make up your own seasoning or use one of the following mixes:


1 tablespoon (15ml) of your favorite bottle of "Italian" seasoning. Note -- check if it already has salt in it before adding separately.
1/2 teaspoon (7ml) oregano, garlic and onion powder, cracked red pepper, rosemary, and/or thyme
1 packet powdered onion or mushroom soup mix.
1 Adobo chili mixture or spice packet, with salt.;
, Classically, meatballs are made from hamburger meat. But mixing things up, like the lovely Italian trio of beef, lamb, and veal, will lead to spectacular meatballs with little extra work.
 Plunge your hands in and really squeeze to mix everything up. If you're squeamish, a stiff spatula or wooden spoon will work as well. Just make sure that everything is evenly blended and you have a wet, seasoned pile of meat when done.


If desired, add the small diced onion here as well. Onion, when cooked, is a savory-sweet complement to the meat.
Once it looks well mixed, you can stop. Extra mixing isn't helpful, and the more you mix the meat, the tougher it gets., You can make any size you want, but 1" balls tend to brown nicely on the outside while cooking quickly enough on the inside. Grab a small pinch of meat and roll it between your palms to get nice round meatballs.


If you make larger meatballs, you may need to cook them a little longer, lowering the heat to prevent burning.
Smaller balls can dry out if cooked too long. They must hit high heat, brown, and then come off quickly before over-cooking.., Use a little bit of oil and rotate the meatballs every few minutes until browned and cooked. If the outsides are done, but the insides are still soft, lower the heat and let them cook for an extra 2-3 minutes. For the best meatballs, let them cook in a 1/2" (1-2 cm) of red sauce after they've browned -- they'll soak up some of the flavor and liquid to stay tender.


A slow-cooker filled with sauce and meatballs can accomplish the same thing for beautifully rich, slow-cooked meatballs. To make them, add the sauce and meatballs to the cooker and cook on low heat for 6-8 hours., Roasted meatballs bring out a rich, crisp flavor and texture, and create far less mess than stovetop cooking. Your biggest worry in the oven is drying out -- be sure to check the smaller balls regularly and take them out as soon as they are cooked all the way through.


Once they are just about finished, crank the heat to high or put them in the broiler for 1 minute to get a wonderful brown crust on the tops.