 Many beauty magazines recommend a regular regimen of facial exfoliation to keep your cheeks pink. The reasoning behind this is that exfoliation helps remove dead skin cells that can give your face a "dull," cold appearance.


If you have one, try using an exfoliating cream or rub (preferably one that contains a moisturizer) to clean your face every morning.
If you don't, no worries — you can make your own with olive oil and sugar.
 Another trick that beauticians will sometimes recommend for giving yourself pink cheeks is a facial massage. Massages improve circulation and increase blood flow to the area you massage, giving the impression of pinker cheeks.While this solution is a temporary one, it's one that's very quick and easy to do on your own.


To give yourself a facial massage, close your eyes, get into a comfortable position, and bring your hands up to your face. Use the tips of your fingers to press into the skin of your face, starting at the top of your forehead and gradually working your way down to your chin. Spend extra time on your cheeks, gently kneading and pressing them to increase blood flow.
 One sure-fire way to get your cheeks nice and red is to simply do a little exercise. It's no secret that activities like playing sports, jogging, lifting weights, and doing calisthenics can make you flushed — generally, the more intense the exercise, the brighter your cheeks will be.


Note however, that a regular exercise routine can actually make it harder for you to get rosy cheeks in the long run. If you're able to reduce your blood pressure with steady exercise (which, by the way, is a good thing!), the capillaries in your cheeks responsible for giving you pink cheeks won't fill with blood during exercise as easily.
 Keeping yourself warm and cozy in cold weather can sometime have the side effect of giving you pink cheeks. When your body temperature is hot, the body automatically redirects blood from the inside of your body to the blood vessels near the surface. This blood causes your cheeks (and likely other parts of your body) to get a reddish or pinkish tinge.


Don't go overboard here — wearing a warm coat in winter is a good idea, but deliberately subjecting yourself to uncomfortably high temperatures can be unsafe. Cool off right away if you start to sweat profusely or feel light-headed.
 A nice facial rinse doesn't just feel great — it can also give your cheeks a "splash" of pink! Heating up the skin of your face with warm water causes the body to direct more blood there. This extra blood can make your cheeks a little pinker with very little effort on your part.

