 Of course, you want to make sure that your sibling knows what you're doing, or else they might think you have nothing to do and are intruding with their personal life. If they don't want much help, that's okay. You can still help by telling them a few tips and tricks, or helping with homework.
 Remember when it was your first year of middle school or high school, and you were panicking to get every- and anything? And then how it turned out you didn't need 1 million notebooks? You probably have some extra supplies that you can give to your sibling. After all, you wouldn't want to be stuck carrying around unnecessary things. There's no reason why you can't help your sibling, at least with something like this!, It's a horrible feeling to be late to class on the first day of school, so imagine how your sibling feels thinking that might happen! You've been to the school for at least a year, you know the layout. Even if you don't have your sibling's schedule, make them a map showing the different classrooms, even the ones they don't need to know. If there are any "landmarks" in the school, include them. People typically find it useful when there are landmarks, not just in schools., While it might seem fun to poke fun at people who are younger and less experienced than you, don't do it. Nobody wants to be friends with the person who makes fun of random people! Besides, making fun of your sibling at school can be a great way to get in trouble, and unless there's something you need an excuse to miss, you don't want that., Maybe your sibling came from a smaller school, where almost everyone knew everyone. Imagine how it feels when you go to a new school that's at least twice as big! Teach your sibling that it's okay to not be popular, and it's almost impossible to know everybody. If you have to, you can also give friendship and relationship advice., You may want to help your sibling, but some things you just have to let them experience for themselves. You don't want to seem like a parent who is too over-controlling, do you? You don't even want to seem like a parent! You're not there to set the rules, you're there to help your sibling., If your sibling's friends went to another school or moved away, they may feel lonely, and it can be scary to make new friends right away. If you see your sibling is sitting by themselves, it's fine to invite them over. So yes, the popular kids might look at you funny for sitting with one of the "new kids", but later your sibling will thank you. It feels nice to so a good deed., How did you feel when you first came to the school? Nervous? Excited? Chances are, your sibling is feeling that way too. Sometimes all somebody needs is someone to talk to. If they feel to embarrassed to talk to your parents, you can also listen. Remember to not brag or show off how much you are of an expert, just listen. However, don't be afraid to report something of your sibling is acting overly anxious. Look out for your sibling's mental health too., A new concept in school can be confusing, and your parents may not be able to help if it's not in their area of expertise or they forgot. If your sibling gets frustrated, try to calm them down and explain it as simply as possible. If they start fighting you, though, leave the room/situation and tell your parents. You're not a tattle-tale for protecting yourself from getting injured., Unless you're starting a new school as well, it's your sibling's moment to shine. They've made it this far from working hard. And don't worry. Soon enough, you'll be graduating, or going to another school. It's okay to share the spotlight.