 You should do this exercise against a wall or an exercise bench.Make sure that you have plenty of free space to move around. All sharp or heavy objects should be removed to minimize the potential for accidents.;
, Your feet should be pressing against the wall or bench. Keep your legs about hip width apart. The wider you keep your legs, the easier the exercise will be. The closer your legs are together, the more challenging., Straighten your legs out behind you. Keep your feet against the wall with the balls of your feet pressing against the ground.Don't touch the ground with any other part of your body.


If you are having difficulty with this, you can do this exercise with your knees bent against the ground., Your fingers should be lightly touching the back of your ears or your temples. Do not clench your hands or grab your hair. Inhale before you start to rise.
 Exhale as you do so, and squeeze your glutes.Your entire body should form a straight line. Stop once you've reached a comfortable position—sitting up too far will put unnecessary strain on your lower back. Pause for one second.If you feel pain in your back, you have stretched too far up.
To help you keep a straight posture, imagine that someone is holding a ruler against your body. You are trying to align with that ruler.
 Inhale, and slowly lower your body down. Take your time. Going slowly will help prevent injury and may build muscle more quickly., Rest for sixty seconds between sets.Repeat until you've completed two to three sets. In order to start seeing/feeling results, aim to do three sets three days a week for six weeks. For faster results or more advanced exercise, increase the number of sets or repetitions.
 As you rise through the exercise, pull your elbows back as if you are rowing a boat. Squeeze your back muscles as you do so. As you lower yourself, straighten out your elbows in front of you., Keep your arms straight as you move through the entire exercise.Your arms should be in alignment with your back as you move up and down.
 You can use a dumbbell or a weighted plate. Hold this under your chin as you move through the exercise.For even more of a challenge, stretch the dumbbell straight out from your chest, so that your arms are aligned with the rest of your body.
 Try the exercise without the aid of a wall or bench. Instead of balancing against the wall, press the balls of your feet against the ground.Your feet should not leave the floor.