 Between four and six months, most babies show signs of wanting to eat solid food. To get twins started on solid foods, you should pay attention to their attitudes and behaviors. Signs of readiness for solid foods include being able to sit up and a focus on you when you eat.At around 6 months old, your twins may also imitate your chewing motions when you eat, have a general fussiness that indicates remaining hungry after obviously being satisfied with milk, and development of the pincer grasp (being able to pick things up with finger and thumb).
 When you are ready to begin your twins on food, start by gathering supplies and getting two of everything. Feeding them at the same time saves time and also prevents dealing with fussiness while one waits. Because of this, two high chairs is beneficial.


You also need double of bowls, baby spoons, and eventually sippy cups.
Also gather food like single grain baby cereal, fruits and vegetables that can be mashed easily (bananas or avocados), and other single-ingredient baby food.
 Not only is it good to feed them at the same time, but it is ok for them to share food out of the same container. One bowl of cereal and one jar of baby food, for example, can be all the twins need for a good meal when they first start eating., Set the twins up in their high chairs for feeding time so that you can easily reach both mouths in the same sitting. This saves time and concentrates the mess to one area., If one baby doesn’t like a food but the other can’t get enough, don’t get upset and try to force the picky one to eat. Find an alternative and keep looking until you find what the other baby likes to eat. Chances are that the non-picky eater likes it too, and you can cater to the picky one.


Try to vary their diets and introduce new foods on a weekly basis. If your picky eater simply won’t be open to new options, keep supplying the other baby with different flavors. You may end up feeding them two different meals, but at least you are expanding the palate of the baby that is open to it.
 Your twins will start to understand that waiting is a part of their lives as twins, even in infancy. Mealtimes are one of the places you will see this patience forming. Set up a routine for mealtimes so that your babies can more easily adjust to waiting.


For example, start cleaning them in the same way and order each time. Start by using a wet cloth on one baby’s face and hands, then move to the other baby. The second baby may whine, but it is likely they will get accustomed to waiting if you repeat the routine.