 Usually this will give you a summary of what it's like, such as what weapons the class uses, or its dominant skills. Do this first, because you can usually get a feel for what you think you like the best and what you definitely do not want to play. The game guide could also tell you about the skills and attributes of the class.;
, Don't be a warrior just because the graphic looks so awesome. Play your strengths, such as your team skills. If you are used to playing a mage in the other MMORPG's, then play a mage. You will be more familiar about what fits a mage. If you are usually a warrior, and you pick a mage, you might think that your character can take more hits then it really can.
 This can be done by going to the forums, or asking a friend if he plays. Sometimes the classes are unbalanced, and one class is superior to another. Get reviews from multiple people, because what one person thinks may be different from another.
 If you have a team, and they have a warrior, rogue, and berserker; you may want to pick a mage or archer because that team needs a ranged attacker. If the team is rogue, rogue, rogue; pick a healer because there is already high damage, but low defenses=more damage to them. The classes are below:

Warrior. These are the high defense, medium strength type. Usually used for tanking, they can withstand high hits and protect a team from dangerous monsters. The use a sword and shield, as well as metal armor. They can go solo, which means a team isn't necessary. Good for solo people, or confident/experienced players.






Mage. These are the ranged attackers that have high attack, but low defenses. They are used best with a tanker, so it doesn't get attacked. This class also usually has Area of Effect and Damage over Time attacks, which help destroy opponents. They use staves and wands. This is best for team players that want to do some damage.






Healer. Also called cleric, they are the healer and usually buffer (giving boosts to stats for a period of time) of the team. They really need a team to play with, because they have okay defense but minimal attacking skills. The use maces, bows, or small magic attacks. This class is great for team players that want to help other people.






Archer. These are also ranged attackers. However, they sacrifice a little damage for more armor; meaning that these can also solo if you kite (run away, then attack, and repeat. You get hit a few times through this). They use bows and crossbows, and sometimes throwing items. This is best for the new player, because you are relatively safe from monsters.






Rogue. High damage, low defenses. The melee version of the mage, you need a lot of money to maintain this guy due to the need of health restorers. He is good if you have a tanker, and you want to destroy the enemy nice and quick. This class uses darts, throwing items, daggers, and bows.






Berserker. A slightly more armored rogue, this class dual-wields axes and swords. Good for chopping down an enemy's health, and then letting a tanker take over. More experienced players should use this, as this guy is sort of hard to handle.







