 You want to make sure that your shoes fit properly and are comfortable. This will prevent injuries and blisters. Try on several pairs and run around the store to test the fit. Some specialty stores will even let you test them outside.Be flexible about sizing. Shoes sizes can vary between manufacturers or even between models made by the same company.
Your feet swell when you run, so try on shoes at the end of the day when your feet are more swollen.Find shoes with a little space in the toe box, so they do not rub and form blisters or black toenails.Heels and laces should fit snuggly, but neither should be tight.
 The way your foot falls when you run can tell you how much support you need from your shoe. If your foot falls inward, choose a supportive shoe. This will help stabilize your body and can prevent knee pain and injury.You can tell that your foot falls inward when you run if your arches and the insides of your knees tilt inward when you bend your knees.
A firmer midsole provides more support.
 If your foot rolls outward when you run, your weight is concentrated on the outside of your foot. This means your foot does not receive much natural cushioning when it hits the ground. Find a shoe with a very cushiony, flexible sole that will balance your weight. The soles of your shoes will show more wear at the outside of the foot if your foot turns outward when you run.
 When you run, you land on your feet with a force greater than your body weight. This can make your legs tired and lead to injuries. Run in a shoe with extra cushioning in the sole. Be sure that the shoe allows easy flexing in the ball of your foot.
Super cushioned shoes provide more shock absorption.
 You should also select your shoes based on the types of races you run. If you run on trails or in slick conditions, find a shoe with more traction. Look for a shoe with a highly breathable mesh upper if you run in the heat. In a rainy climate, you might prefer waterproof shoes.
 Do not run a race in new shoes. On race day you want to be sure that your shoes are comfortable and properly supportive. If you plan to buy a new pair of shoes for the race, run in them for a few weeks before the race. You will want to break them in even if the new shoes are a model you have raced in before.