 While you’re inside the game, press the tilde (~) key on your keyboard, the left-most key along the number buttons on your keyboard.


A small black screen/window will appear, covering half of the upper part of your screen. This is the console screen. Here you can type codes that you can use for cheats.;
, There are a lot of cheat codes available over the Internet, from adding simple items in your inventory to making your character immortal. Here are some of the cheat codes you can use:


tgm—This makes your character completely invulnerable.
unlock—This instantly unlocks any doors or chests without having to use a lock pick.
psb—Your character will instantly learn all the spells available.
player.advlevel—This will instantly increase your character’s level.
showracemenu—This lets you change the race and appearance of your main character.
player.additem ITEM ###—This adds a specific item and amount to your bag. Replace ITEM with the item code, and ### with the amount of that item you want. Item codes can be obtained from walkthrough sites like http://elderscrolls.wikia.com/.
tfc—This lets you change the camera’s viewpoint to Skycam, letting you see Skyrim from above, as if you’re flying.
player.setlevel ##—This is just like player.advlevel, but this sets your character to a specific level, either lower or higher from its current level. Replace ## with the level you want.
kill—This will allow you to kill any non-playable target character.
killall—This will kill every non-playable character in the area.
resurrect—This cheat allows you to resurrect any non-playable character that’s been killed.
player.modav carryweight—This will increase your character’s maximum weight capacity.
sexchange—This will let you change your character’s gender after creating it.
There are several more cheats available online, and players also keep creating more. There are many sites on the Internet, like www.pcgamer.com, that share cheat codes whenever a new one is created or available.
 Mods are modified programming structures of the game created by users, not by Bethesda itself. These mods basically add features that are not present in the games itself, like special kinds of hairstyles, armors, weapons, and more. There are many mods available for download over the Internet; just go online and search for them.



Once you’ve downloaded a mod, just install it, and it will be automatically enabled in the game.
Note that installation methods vary from one mod to another; most mods come with installation manuals so getting it to work on your computer won’t be that complicated.

