 Some cardigan styles look better on particular body shapes, and others should be avoided. The goal is to choose the cut and length that’s most complementary to the overall silhouette of your body. For example, if you’re slender and long-waisted, a fitted cardigan that tapers at the waist can look flattering, but a long, loose-fitting cardigan might swallow your body shape and look sloppy.


For a masculine fit, select a cardigan with a bit of a taper at the waist. It should complement your figure in the same manner a suit coat does.Use cardigans to balance out your body's proportions.;
, This item can be mixed and matched with almost anything in your closet, making it the perfect staple piece. You can create a wide variety of looks with a basic cardigan, ranging from casual to elegant. Choose a thin material, such as cotton, so that you can easily wear the piece in all seasons.


For example, in summer you could wear a lightweight cotton cardigan over a thin, short-sleeved top and in winter you could use it as an additional layer to keep you warm.
 They are especially useful during the spring and fall, when mornings can be chilly and the afternoons much warmer. When layering with a cardigan, it’s best to go with a thin and lightweight version. Otherwise, the overall effect may appear bulky or frumpy. Save the thicker knits for winter and wear light weight pieces under them.


Cardigan sweater vests are great layering pieces to create a business-casual look. Pair it with a long-sleeved button down dress shirt or turtleneck.
If your shirt has a pattern or print, choose a solid colored cardigan to go with it. Doubling up on prints can look busy and unpolished., Not only are they functional, but they’re also very comfortable. Oversized cardigan sweaters tend to look best with casual clothing. These cardigans are meant to be loose and cozy, but they shouldn’t be so large that they look sloppy.


Go for a comfortably loose cardigan, not a large saggy one.
A boyfriend cardigan is a great example of an oversized piece. It’s casual, loose and long – usually reaching to mid-thigh – but the fit isn’t saggy.
Wrap cardigans are open in the front and have no button-line. They provide a loose, flowy fit that looks both casual and stylish.