 Do not try to fight the shooter if you can safely escape or hide from the assailant.Fighting should be a last resort, but if you must fight, it's important to go into full survival mode., Locate anything you can use to hit or harm the shooter, such as a chair or fire extinguisher or pot of hot coffee. Most people won't have armed weapons on hand, so you'll need to improvise and use what you've got around you.You could hold the object in front of your body to deflect the shots or throw it at the shooter.


Scissors or letter openers can be used as a knife. Even a pen could be used as a weapon, particularly since you give it leverage with the back of your thumb.If there is a fire extinguisher nearby, grab it. You can spray the fire extinguisher in the shooter's face, or use the object itself to bash the shooter in the head., Fighting back against the shooter is always a last resort if your life is endangered. If you cannot escape or hide, work alone or with others to fight. Try to find a way to get the gun out of his hands or to knock him down to disorient him.Encourage others to try and help you. Working as a group will give you an advantage over the solitary shooter., If the shooter is very close, you could try to disarm him, again, only if your life is absolutely in danger. Whatever you do, it's important that you act fast and focus on disarming or incapacitating the shooter.If the shooter has a rifle, grab the barrel and turn it away from you while striking or kicking him at the same time. The shooter will likely try to get control of the weapon back, but if you follow his movement he may be caught off guard and get thrown off balance. If you can get the butt end of the rifle as well, then you'll have both ends and can use the weapon as leverage to further kick, knee, or push the assailant.If the shooter has a pistol, try to grab it by the barrel from the top, so that he cannot point it at you. With many models, grabbing the pistol from the top keeps the shot from being fired.
Try to aim high when attempting to bring down the shooter. His hands and the weapon are the most dangerous parts of him during a shooting. Otherwise, try for the eyes, face, shoulder and neck., Even though you may be scared, particularly if you're armed with a broom and you know the shooter has an assault rifle, stay focused on getting that rifle out of his hands and bringing him down. Think of your life and the lives of others he may go after.


Fortunately, your body's natural "fight" response should be triggered and keep you alert and focused on staying alive, whatever the costs.