 Preheat your oven to 350 degrees Fahrenheit (180 degrees Celsius). Place ½ cup unsalted, natural peanut butter, two tablespoons vegetable oil, and one cup water in an electric mixer bowl. Fit the mixer with a paddle attachment. Turn the mixer on to blend the ingredients in the mixer bowl.As the ingredients are mixing, gradually pour 1.5 cups whole wheat flour and 1.5 cups all-purpose flour to the bowl.
After about three minutes, the ingredients will have formed a dough. Stop the mixer and remove the bowl.
Scoop the dough out onto a lightly floured surface. The dough should be about ¼ inch thick. Use a cookie cutter to cut the dough into shapes which please the eye. Your dog might appreciate a cookie cutter shaped like a dog bone.
Transfer the biscuits to a baking sheet lined with parchment paper. Bake the biscuits for about 15 minutes, until the bottoms and edges turn golden brown.
Remove the biscuits and allow them to cool. Serve to your dog.
 In a large mixing bowl, combine two cups of chickpea flour, one tablespoon of nutritional yeast, two tablespoons of dried parsley, and one cup of plain flour. Slowly add one cup of warm water. Mix the bowl as you add the water.As you mix the ingredients, they will form a dough. Roll the dough out to a depth of 1.5 centimeters. Cut the dough into shapes that you enjoy using a cookie cutter. For instance, you might cut the dough into star shapes or dog bone shapes.
Place the protein treats on a baking sheet. Bake for 15 minutes, then turn the oven off but leave the protein treats in the oven for about eight hours.
Serve to your dog.
 Mix one cup of apple pulp, ½ cup peanut butter, one tablespoon of ground flax, three tablespoons of water, and ¾ cup of brown rice flour in a large mixing bowl. Knead the ingredients in the bowl until they form a dough. Remove the dough and roll it to a thickness of about ½ an inch (one centimeter).Use a cookie cutter or knife to portion the dough into small treat-sized bits.
Lay the treats on a baking sheet lined with parchment paper. Bake at 350 degrees Fahrenheit (180 degrees Celsius) for 20 minutes.
Remove the treats and allow them to cool. Feed the apple treats to your dog in the summer.

