 You can delete comments that you've made on posts, or comments that others have made on your posts. You cannot delete comments that others have made on posts that you didn't create. This process is essentially the same for iPhone and Android. Make sure that you've opened the Comments section of the post.


If you want to delete multiple comments or posts that you've made, or can't find the comment you wanted to delete, see the last section of this article.;
, On Android, this will open a new menu. On iPhone, release your finger and the menu will appear.Try to press a blank space in the comment. Pressing the name will open the commenter's profile instead.
 Confirm that you want to remove the comment from Facebook. The comment will be deleted immediately.
 You can only delete posts that you have made. This process is the same for iPhone and Android. You can quickly access your profile and find your posts by tapping the More button (☰) and then tapping your profile.


If you want to delete multiple posts that you've made, or can't find the post you made that you want to delete, see the next section.
 This will open a new menu.
 Confirm that you want to remove the post permanently from Facebook. The post and any associated comments will be deleted immediately., If you want to delete multiple posts or that you've made, you can use your Activity Log. This is the quickest way to scan through the posts and comments that you've made without having to hunt them down. The process is a little different depending on if you're using Android or iPhone:


Android - Tap the More button (☰) in the upper-right corner of the Facebook app. Scroll to the bottom and tap "Activity Log."
iPhone - Tap the More button (☰) in the lower-right corner of the Facebook app. Scroll down and tap "Settings." Select "Activity Log" from the menu.
 You'll only be able to see posts and comments that you've made, not comments that others have made on your posts.
 This will open a small menu.
 You will be asked to confirm that you want to remove the item from Facebook. Once you confirm, the post or comment will be permanently deleted.

