 If you suspect you may have gum disease, you should speak to your dentist right away. During your appointment, you should ask your dentist about your gum health and share your dental hygiene habits with your dentist. Your dentist will perform a physical exam of your teeth to confirm that you have gum disease.The dentist may also take an x-ray of your teeth to see if there is any bone loss.
You may be referred to a periodontist to get a more in depth diagnosis. Periodontists are trained to diagnose and treat gum disease.
 One of the most common treatments for gum disease is doing a deep cleaning on your teeth. This treatment can help to control the infection and remove plaque that is causing the infection. The periodontist will perform the deep cleaning in their office with the assistance of a dental hygienist.During a deep cleaning, the periodontist removes plaque on your teeth by using scaling and root planing. Scaling means scraping off the tartar above and below your gum line. Root planing means getting rid of rough spots and infiltrated cement on your tooth root where germs and bacteria tend to gather.
 Your dentist or periodontist may suggest certain medications that you can take along with a deep cleaning. Your dentist may prescribe antimicrobial mouth rinse to help control bacteria that may be causing gum disease. You may also get an antibiotic gel or oral antibiotics for short term treatment of bacteria in your mouth that may lead to gum disease or make your condition worse.Talk to your periodontist about taking medications and always follow the recommended dosage.
 If your gum disease problem is severe, your dentist may recommend surgery. You may also need to consider surgery if your teeth, gums, and teeth support are still inflamed and infected despite the use of deep cleaning and medication. Your dentist may recommend flap surgery or bone and tissue grafts to address your gum disease.During flap surgery, your dentist will remove tartar deposits attached to your root and alveolar bone. Your dentist will lift back your gums and remove the tartar leaving a smooth surface. Then, the gums are sewn back in place so the tissue fits snugly around your tooth again.
During bone and tissue grafts, your dentist may use a natural or synthetic bone to replace bone loss in your mouth. Tissue grafts may be used to restore the natural aspect if there is any tissue loss in your mouth due to gum disease.

