 All states have laws regarding abandoned vehicles, but your city or county may have a stricter or more specific ordinance., Just because a car is broken down doesn't necessarily mean its owner intended never to claim it again.


However, if a car is stripped or burned, or if it's missing significant parts, it's a pretty safe bet that it's been abandoned., In most states, if you find an abandoned vehicle you must call local law enforcement and report it – even if you find it on your own property.


Make sure you call the police or sheriff's department's non-emergency number – not 911 – to report an abandoned vehicle.Be prepared to give the officer who handles your call the exact location of the vehicle, as well as the make, model, and any other information you can give her about the appearance or condition of the vehicle so she can find it.In most states an abandoned vehicle or water vessel becomes state property. For example, in Michigan, you can't claim an abandoned vehicle on your private property, but you may have the opportunity to bid on it at public auction if it remains unclaimed.In many states, abandoning a vehicle may constitute a civil infractionor even a criminal misdemeanor, depending on where the vehicle is abandoned and in what condition.
 If you have the owner's contact information and you want the car yourself, you may be able to work out something with the owner before his time to reclaim his vehicle runs out.


In some areas, police place a warning sticker on the vehicle instructing the record owner that it will be towed and auctioned if not moved within 24 hours. If the owner moves the car, the period of time starts over.If you find a car that already has an abandoned vehicle sticker or tag on it, you may be able to contact the owner and take the car yourself.
Even with the owner's consent, you typically will be on the hook for title, registration, and towing fees, as well as whatever repairs are necessary to get the vehicle back in working order.
 If the county or state took ownership of the vehicle, it will either be scrapped or sold at auction.


If the vehicle is sold at auction, you have the ability to bid for it there.
Some states require a vehicle be sold for scrap if it is in significant disrepair or more than a certain number of years old. Vehicles that are sold for scrap typically can't be re-titled.