 Take a shower, use deodorant, wash your face, brush your hair, floss, and brush your teeth right before you leave. Don't do anything overly complicated; the parents you're babysitting for will not care how large your pores are or how exfoliated you are.;
, A good idea is just to wear a pastel-colored jeans and cute t-shirt with something childish on it like Mickey Mouse. If this doesn't work for you wear a nice dress- knee high or longer -and pair it with a belt. Do not have anything offensive or controversial on your clothes, such as political views, curse words, or a band that is known for profanity.


Pretend you're going to school, where you have a dress code. This means no short necklines, no holes, etc.
 Not the ones you use for gym class, but your favorite Vans or Nike's. If you want, just wear a pair of black flats. If it is very cold, wear some boots or if you have wear Uggs. For a summery look, with a dress wear flat sandals or short heeled wedges.
 Have a ponytail, braid, bun, or just leave it down.
 You want to give the faint appearance of makeup, or none at all. If you choose to have none, just wash your face well and use any cover-up if needed.

For subtle makeup: Start with concealer- not foundation, because foundation is cakey. Next, apply a light blush to the apples of your cheeks and blend it in. Apply primer to your eyelids then apply a brown eyeliner to your eyes and a white to your waterline to give a wide awake affect. After apply your eye shadow. Go for pastel shades in brown or core maroon and make sure to blend it in. Then apply your favorite tinted lip balm.
 Paint them clear or go for a french manicure with NO extensions. If you have short nails just keep with dark nude colors; it gives them more length. Also, try painting a white tip on them to make them look longer.
 Wear a watch, some stud earrings, a nice scarf, and maybe a belt. Make sure to take out any nose, lip, or eyebrow piercings you have. Use basic colors such brown, black and navy.
 Have good posture- put your shoulders back and feel good with how you look.
 With all this you should look brilliant. Remember to smile!

