 If you do not enjoy your diet, it will be very hard to stick to your plan. Try to make your diet plan fun and exciting, by learning how to have fun preparing and eating your food.


You don't need to change your menu overnight. If you think about your current diet, you might find a lot of raw foods there already. Start with them and gradually add new ones to ease the transition. At the same time, eliminate cooked or processed foods.
You should not sacrifice the pleasure of eating. You will soon lose interest in your new diet if you do so, so make sure to choose foods that you like.
You can start with your favorite raw salad, salsa, nuts, cheese, pesto, or super foods like berries, raw chocolate, honey, maca, or young coconuts.
 You are probably not going to become a professional cook. So, your raw food diet should be easy to prepare with common ingredients to prevent getting frustrated by having to comb the supermarket looking for ingredients.


Do not start with recipes that require intensive training, costly kitchen equipment, or complicated procedures like dehydration and sprouting. Find foods that you already eat and enjoy like smoothies, juices, and raw fruits.
You should try to avoid rare and costly items. It is best to find seasonal, yet delicious items. This way, you can rotate your menu to avoid dullness and boredom.
 An ideal raw food diet plan should be balanced, including all the essential nutrients present in their appropriate amounts and proportions.


Try to rotate among different foods so that any deficiencies of one can be covered by another.
This will also prevent the boredom of eating the same food day after day.
Don't avoid sweet fruits if you are healthy and don't have diabetes, because they can provide a good source of calories and vitamins.
Eating a good amount of fruit will provide you with the calories that most raw foods lack.
 One of the principles central to embarking on a raw food diet is to avoid hazardous and toxic substances. If you purchase raw foods grown and preserved with chemicals, that principle is spoiled.


Thus, try to get raw foods in fresh and natural conditions.
It is great if you have a piece of land to grow plants. In apartments, you can also grow plants on a sunny windowsill or balcony.
Try herbs and fruits like tomato, papaya, pepper, lemon and other plants that do not grow too tall.
You may also make your own compost using a compost bin to provide organic fertilizer for your garden.
Put your daily kitchen waste in the bin and add some soil. After a few months, you will get an excellent compost to nourish your plants.
 Raw foods decompose and spoil easily at room temperature, so try to consume them when they are fresh.


Some foods even produce bowel-toxic substances after prolonged standing, due to the action of bacteria.
Warming some other stored foods can activate harmful bacteria.
You can freeze some foods like nuts, seeds, dried fruits (particularly foods that can be kept at room temperature for several days) for days to weeks without any deterioration of nutritional value.
 The three main sources of a raw food diet are fruits, vegetables, and nuts and seeds. You can calculate a rough estimate of the total calories you will consume daily.


Typically, an adult male needs 2500 calories and an adult female needs 2000 calories per day.
Choose foods from all three groups to meet the total calorie requirement.
If you combine foods in this way, the requirements for protein and fat will probably also be met.
Check online for the nutritional value (including calorie count) of different food items, particularly the ones that you have in your current eating pattern. Make necessary adjustments in relation to amount and proportion.

