 You want to constantly check and assess their skin for any redness or tenderness that may be warm or cool to the touch. If prolonged pressure is applied in areas that are irritated or inflamed, they may break and become open wounds.


Turning the patient at least every two hours will ensure any bed sores do not get worse or turn into open wounds.;
, A paralyzed patient can urinate and move their bowels in bed involuntarily or voluntarily and may accidentally soak their diapers and clothing. Urine causes the skin to become moist with prolonged contact, which will increase the risk of skin breakdown. Bacteria in the feces can enter the cracks and wounds, thus, increasing the risk of infection.So if their diaper or clothing are wet, change them before you move the patient.
 If done properly, moving a paralyzed patient will require minimal strength. But in cases where the patient is larger than you or heavier, always get assistance from a family member or a friend.


It is very risky to lift larger, heavier patients on your own as this can lead to falls and injuries to yourself and/or the patient.
 Place the bed sheet on the patient’s shoulders up to the middle portion of their thigh.
 This will prevent the transmission of harmful microorganisms., Explaining the procedure before you turn them helps to establish trust and cooperation.
 Follow this procedure to properly turn the patient.


Put the arm closest to you at a 90 degree (right) angle, with the palm facing up. Then, lift the knee furthest away from you so the leg is bent and the foot lays flat on the bed.
Place the freehand of the person under their head, so their cheek is on the back of their hand and their palm is on the bed.
Pull the farthest knee towards you, while supporting the person’s head with your other hand until the patient is lying on their side.
Bend the knee closest to you at a 90 degree (right) angle., Now that the patient is lying on their side, insert the draw sheet or bed sheet at the person’s shoulder up to the middle portion of their thigh.
 You can do this by slowly pulling their upper shoulder and thigh down and away from you., So, if you first turned the person to their right side and inserted the draw sheet, turn the person to their left side to easily move the draw sheet.
 To turn them to the other side, pull the exposed sheet at their shoulder to the middle portion of their thigh. Then, return the patient to lay on their back by slowly pulling their upper shoulder and thigh down and away from you., Ask someone close by to assist you with this.
 Then, position the patient’s arms over their chest and bend their knee over their other leg. If their leg cannot bend, put one ankle over the other ankle to allow their hip to move more freely., They can be laying on their left or right side. Position their head comfortably on a pillow and ask the patient to slightly bend their knees to help maintain this position for at least two hours.


You can place a pillow behind the patient’s back so they do not roll backwards.You can also place a pillow between their knees to avoid any friction that may cause skin irritation.While the patient is in this position, check their hips and lower back for any red spots. If you see any bed sores, let the patient’s physician know so they can be treated.
 You can start by turning them to the right and then back to the supine position (lying on their back) after 2 hours. After another 2 hour interval on their back, turn them to the left and then back to the supine position again after 2 hours.


You can also complete this procedure starting from the left, then back to supine, and then right and back to supine with at least 2 hour intervals in each position.
 This will prevent the transmission of harmful microorganisms to the patient., Paralyzed patients tend to slip down towards the edge of the bed when they have resting in the same position for a long time. So it’s important to lift them up to ensure they are comfortable.
 This will prevent the moving or shifting of the bed and create stability so there are no accidental trips or falls.
 You will need the help of an assistant to hold the sheet on the opposite side of the patient.
 You and your assistant can count to three to ensure you are lifting the patient out of their original position on the bed at the same time.


If the patient cannot lift their head, place the draw sheet as high as possible so their head will be lifted as the sheet is raised.
 You can fix the sheets and place a pillow under their head.
 Paralysis refers to the loss of muscle function in any part of a person’s body, and will occur if there is a defect in the channel that carries messages between the muscles and the brain.This condition may affect only one side of the body (partial) or both sides (complete). It may also develop in a particular area or it may be general.
 Paralysis can be classified in two ways: paraplegia and quadriplegia. Paraplegia is a form of paralysis that affects the lower portion of the body, together with both legs, while quadriplegia affects both extremities, including the arms and legs., If a person develops partial or complete paralysis, the circulation of blood in the affected area tends to become limited as the area is under pressure. If this pressure is not managed right away, it may cut off blood supply into the affected area. This condition may then lead to the death of affected body tissues, which then sloughs off and develops into a decubitus ulcer or bedsore.


Bed sores usually develop on a patient's hips, sacrum, heels and buttocks.Decubitus ulcers that are not treated properly may harbour infectious microorganisms that can pose serious threats.

