 Use a comb to gather your hair high on your head, either right on top or slightly lower down, according to what you enjoy. Secure your hair with a hair elastic. Make sure it is tightly secured, so your hair won't fall out.


You might want to use some bobby pins or hair spray to keep your hair in place at the top of your head.This works well for hair that is long enough to be secured at the top of your head. If your hair is too short, choose a low bun or a side bun instead.;
, This will add some volume and texture to your bun. Take a section of your ponytail and hold it out straight. Place a comb near the tips and backcomb toward your head, gently teasing your hair. Repeat with a new section until your whole ponytail has been teased.


Use a fine-toothed comb instead of a brush, since it's less damaging to hair.
You can skip this step if you prefer a sleek, glossy bun; however, it will be smaller with less volume.
 Simply gather it into two equal sections, so that your ponytail resembles a fishtail. You want each one to have the same amount of hair.
 Twist it downward and tuck it under the ponytail, so that it curves around like a crescent moon. Pin the ends under using several bobby pins. This creates the first half of the bun shape.


Don't twist your hair too tightly, or it might spring out of the bobby pins. Just do one or two gentle twists to give the appearance of a ballerina-style bun.
Make sure the ends are tightly secured and tucked up under the ponytail, so they won't show.
 Take the remaining section and twist it up and over the ponytail, then tuck in the ends and secure them in place with several bobby pins. Now the other half of your bun has been created.


Again, just do a gentle twist, rather than twisting so tightly that your bun might spring out of place.
Check the ends in the mirror to make sure they're secured out of view.
 Check the back of your hair in a mirror to see if there are any loose spots that need to be tucked in, and use more bobby pins if necessary. Finish the look with plenty of hairspray so it won't come loose.


For a fuller look, use your fingers to poof out the bun a little so it has more volume.
It's pretty to pull out a few pieces toward the front of your hair to frame your face.

