 Once you're fully confident this person is indeed missing, alert your local law enforcement. Unfortunately, people disappear every day and there is a routine to this event.


Be sure to give them all the person's information: age, height, weight, hair color, eye color, skin color, distinguishable features, what they were wearing when they disappeared, etc. Give them a current photo and their fingerprints (if you have them), too.
 NMAUPS (National Missing and Unidentified Persons System) is the largest system in America for missing persons. Make a notice online so everyone, law enforcement included, will have access to the information. You'll be able to update it accordingly and see if anyone else has posted further information.


There's also the National Center for Missing and Exploited Children, the National Alliance on Mental Illness, and the National Health Care for the Homeless Council -- if your person fits into any of those categories, consider filing something on their respective sites.
 Whether it's a child, a teen, or a full-fledged adult, search their social profiles (Facebook, Twitter, etc.) for clues as to what may have happened. They may have posted something that leads to something you were unaware of.


Look at their friends' profiles too -- the information may be on there instead. If you're so inclined, you may wish to contact these friends to ask if they've heard anything. Sometimes people seek refuge in others they don't have to see face-to-face.
 Hopefully this person is still within the area -- and if they are, posting pictures around town is the only way you'll be able to alert those in your vicinity. Others will be able to keep an eye out and contact you if they see anything.


Include all the vital information (like what you gave the police) and be sure to include several contact phone numbers. Give at least your first name and stress that you can be called day or night.
 In cases like this, it's impossible to sit at home and help someone else will handle everything. Once you've exhausted all the nooks and crannies of your home (or theirs), expand it to the neighborhood, then the town, and eventually contacting hospitals. It's not the happiest of events, but it's necessary.


When contacting hospitals, be sure to describe the person you're looking for. They may not be in under their real name. Bring a current photo to make the process go more quickly.
 The more people that can be on the lookout, the better. Not only should you exhaust your social network, but exhaust theirs. Whether it's the barista at Starbucks that they see every Monday through Friday morning or the afternoon crossing guard, let them know.


If possible, contact these people with the information and a picture too. The ones who are acquaintances may need the picture to jog the memory.
 Once you've done all the groundwork for your area, alert the media. The best way to reach a large amount of people is through local TV stations, newspapers, and other publications. Hopefully someone has seen something somewhere.


Remember that everyone is on your side. There's no need to be embarrassed, ashamed, or guilty to this situation. You are doing what you can to make sure this person returns home safely.

