 Generally, people like to kiss people who are groomed and have clean teeth.You want to look presentable!


If you are a crunchier person, don’t worry about the grooming as much. There is a nobility in cutting down on water usage and hygiene product production that some will find more attractive than clean hair.;
, Experiencing something new activates adrenaline and heightens awareness, which together make meaningful memories and can help you create a stronger bond with your special someone.Try going bouldering, a form of rock climbing that doesn’t require a harness. Don’t worry—the walls are pretty short!
If there’s a restaurant or bar you’ve both been wanting to try out, go together.
 While some people certainly do kiss in public places, not everyone loves PDA, especially for a first kiss.Talk about pressure!


If you’re at a party, you could ask if your partner wants to go on a walk or to talk in a different room.
Say something like, “It’s so noisy and crowded in here! Want to go get some fresh air?”
It can be scary to ask someone out first, but if you’ve been crushing on this person and never gone on a date, it’s important that he knows you’re interested. Ask him if he wants to come over to watch a movie, just the two of you.
 This will vary based on where you are and what your evening plans look like.


The most important thing is to be warm and approachable. It’s easy to be standoffish if you are nervous, but no one will try to kiss you if you are. If you want him to make the move, you have to help him feel confident that you are open to it.
Make sure to smile! Just as your guy needs to feel that you’re approachable, he also needs to know that you’re enjoying yourself with him.If you invite him over to your house for dinner or a movie, make sure the space is clean and the air smells inviting. Atmosphere is everything.
 If you really like someone and feel nervous when you’re with him, you might subconsciously box yourself off from him accidentally. Don’t do this! Of all flirting techniques, physical touch works best.Gently touch his arm when he says something funny. You want him to know that you are OK with physical touch.
 If you are sitting down to watch a movie, make sure you sit in close proximity to him! Let him sit down first and snuggle in next to him., You can hint at him by making eye contact and occasionally looking down at his lips. He should pick up on the fact that you are imagining what it would be like to kiss him.Don’t go too overboard with this. If you’re not in conversation, don’t stare him down or he will find it creepy. If you’re sitting down watching a movie you can occasionally look over at him let him catch you looking, then turn back to the movie. He’ll know you’re thinking of him.
 Women are more successful at flirting when they are bold and direct, studies show.Men tend to prefer when women are direct about their intentions.


You can say, “I’m so glad we’re finally on a date together!” People love hearing that they’re wanted.
Get him to ask what you’re thinking about. If you’re feeling bold, say, “Oh, I’m just wondering what it would be like to kiss you.” , If you can find a natural way to initiate it, play fighting can lead to a kiss—think of The Lion King! It’ll increase your adrenaline, it gets you close to each other, and it shows that you feel comfortable with him. Just make sure that it is playful, not violent., If he knows that you like him enough to be nervous, it will make him feel more comfortable. No one likes to be vulnerable, and if he doesn’t know that you’re feeling nervous too, he might be too afraid to make his move.


For example, you could say, “I’ve been wanting to spend time with you for a while. I didn’t think I’d be so nervous!”

, If all else fails, you can tell him that you want him to kiss you and see what happens. Sometimes guys fail to pick up on the hints and you need to be more direct.


You could say, “I’d really like for you to kiss me right now.” If you want to be slightly less direct, you can say, “It would be OK if you kiss me right now, if you want to.”
Don’t rush into this. Enjoy the beginning of the relationship, and if it’s been several weeks and you’ve dropped hint after hint, just tell him.
He may be looking for your OK to go ahead, or he may want to kiss you in his own time.

