 Bipolar disorder and depression are serious conditions that involve chemical imbalances in your brain. Set up a doctor's appointment if you haven't gotten medical attention already. A doctor can discuss treatment options to make your disorders more bearable and less intrusive.


Take notes on your symptoms to show your doctor. Record mood swings and other common symptoms. This will make it easier for the doctor to diagnose you.
There is a slight chance that you have a different, similar condition instead. Research several similar disorders, and don't jump to conclusions. Your doctor can figure out which one truly fits best.;
, Medication can tame mood swings, and antidepressants can help if you feel depressed often. Therapy can help you handle difficult times and look at ways to get a positive, less stressful lifestyle.


Medication and therapy aren't necessarily forever—sometimes they just give you the boost you need, and you can ease off once you are doing better (with a doctor's supervision).
 One of these may be helpful to you. Your health insurance may cover it and it will help you be function better on less medication. There are many apps and books on DBT or CBT, so if you can look into those until you are comfortable with therapists.
 Work together to figure out a treatment plan that works well for you, weighing risks and benefits and considering your unique needs. Set up doctor appointments soon after you try a new medication so you have an opportunity to discuss any side effects you may experience.


Once you have a treatment plan, stick to it—this is the only way to get better.
If your doctor does not listen to you, or offers advice that isn't helpful, get a second opinion.
 They've seen your mood swings and sadness, and they're worried about you. Giving them information can help. Find a few close people whom you can confide in, and who can support you on your bad days.


Explanations to children can vary based on how much it affects them and how old they are.
You are absolutely not being a burden by reaching out. Your loved ones can tell that something is wrong, and they will feel less worried and powerless if they are able to help you. By allowing them to do so, you are actually helping them feel better.
 You don't have to face this alone. Stay close to family members and friends, so that you have several people in your life who can support you.
 Your partner appreciates you and loves you through all your mood swings, dark days, and medical struggles. Show your love and thank them for supporting you. Spend time with them every day, find little ways to show you're thinking of them often, and shower them with love.


Maintaining relationships can be difficult when you have bipolar disorder and depression. A therapist can offer you helpful advice on building and keeping strong relationships.
 You may not always realize that you are in the midst of a manic or depressive episode and your mind is clouded. Other people can help you figure this out, and remind you not to make any important decisions. Reach out to people you trust, and let them help you.


Come up with a plan for what people can do when you're in a manic episode and engage in risky behavior (purchases, physical danger, etc.). A therapist can help you create it with your loved ones.
 There are support groups for bipolar disorder, depression, and mental illnesses in general. At a support group, you won't have to define your mental illnesses to anyone—they'll already know—and you can swap stories and coping tips.
 You have an illness in your brain. You deserve extra relaxation and pampering. Drink plenty of fluids, eat from a mix of food groups, and get outdoors. (Even a 15-minute walk is better than nothing.) Spend time relaxing each day.
 Engage your senses, breathe deeply, use imagery, or meditate. Schedule a time of day that is devoted solely to relaxation. Your mood will gradually become more stable.
 This could be as easy as rating your mood from 1-10, or as long as a 2-page journal entry every day. Some people like to enter their ratings into Excel or another graphing program to observe trends. Pick a time of day to rate your mood to help you remember. Find what works best for you.
 You are not weak or bad—you're fighting a battles that many people never have to face. The brain can get sick, just like any other part of your body. Mental illness takes a tremendous amount of courage to manage, and you are doing well.


There are also supportive groups of mentally ill people on websites such as Tumblr.
 Mental illness is not a condemnation to stay miserable behind closed doors forever—in many cases you can still live a happy and meaningful life. Go out with friends, visit places you've wanted to see, enjoy your hobbies, and search for a great career (if you are capable of working).
 You will have bad days, and days when you do things you regret. There will be relapses and sleepless nights. Forgive your mistakes, and recognize that it's okay not to be perfectly calm all the time. You're going through a lot—be patient with yourself.

