 Whether you know it or not, Windows takes a snapshot of your PC every so often – at least by default upon installation – and you can always restore your system to that snapshot. This effectively turns your PC back in time to before the virus existed, destroying it. If restoring back as far as you can doesn’t work, go to the next step.


Find it under the “System Tools” group of the “Accessories” menu under your “Programs” menu. Select “Restore My Computer To An Earlier Time” and then choose a date that your computer worked properly.;
, If you have problems with Internet Explorer, use Mozilla Firefox and/or Google Chrome. If none work, you’ll have to download whatever tools you need to a USB stick from a computer that does work and then move to the next step.



CNET in early 2014 recommended Kaspersky, BitDefender, and Panda Security, all of which still support Windows XP and have free and freemium versions.
 Not only is doing so thorough, it may not even be a virus you're dealing with: you could be a victim of a Trojan or another type of malware. A few good apps to try include AdAware, Norton Power Eraser, and Malwarebytes.
 If you have a Windows CD you can simply put the disc into the PC, restart it, and choose to boot from CD when asked. After that, follow the onscreen instructions, choosing to repair Windows instead of reinstalling -- this way you keep your existing files., If you've got your original XP install discs, a full install might help clear things out. This option will destroy your files and thus, unless you don’t care about your files, should be a last resort. If you have a Windows CD you can simply put the disc into the PC, restart it, and choose to boot from CD when asked. After that, follow the onscreen instructions, choosing to totally reformat your hard drive when presented with the reformat utility.


Virus repair of Windows XP is difficult and fraught with increasingly diminishing returns the older the operating system gets. Consider an upgrade to your operating system if all else fails or if you'd like to have fewer problems in the future., Some viruses require Internet access to be able to hide, so you need to cut off their Internet supply to find them.
 If the computer won’t restart normally, try Ctrl+Alt+Del or just force the restart by holding down the power button on the computer or by cutting off the power supply by taking out the battery for a laptop or unplugging a desktop computer.
 A menu appears with various options available. If the computer starts normally, restart it and try again.
, If you have put the software onto a USB stick as mentioned earlier, you’ll have to install the antivirus software to your computer at this point and then run the software. Run a full scan; it may take awhile depending on your computer.

