 Each state issues its own driver’s license. Accordingly, the requirements for each state may differ slightly. To find out your specific requirements, locate your state’s Department of Motor Vehicles (DMV) website, which should have a list of requirements.


To find your state’s DMV, type “DMV” and your state into a search engine. Then find the requirements for a driver’s license.
California’s web page for unauthorized immigrant licenses is here. Vermont’s webpage is here. Colorado’s is here.
Pay attention only to your state’s requirements.;
, Most states will require that you show that you have lived in the state for a specific amount of time. This proof can be in the form of rental or lease agreements, mortgage bills, employment documents, school records, etc.You may need multiple documents that prove residency.You may also be required to show:


you have a valid passport or consular identification, or some other document that establishes identity.inability to get a Social Security Number. You may need a letter from the Social Security Administration stating that you do not qualify for a SSN.proof of insurance. States may require proof of insurance before you can get a license.
 You will be tested on driving rules and state laws related to driving. To prepare for the test, you should download any Driver Handbook that the state has on its website.Read through it and take notes.


Some states also have sample tests you can take.You should take a practice test and study the correct answers before going to the DMV.
 Depending on your situation, you may want to talk to a lawyer before seeking your new driver’s license. For example, you may already have a license obtained using forged or fraudulent documents. Also, you may have stolen someone’s Social Security Number to get a license. It’s not clear whether states will prosecute you if you step forward.


For example, the California DMV has stated that it will not forward past cases of fraud to obtain a driver’s license so long as you do not have any other criminal activity. However, lawyers recommend caution.You should also review your criminal history. If you have convictions for felonies or serious misdemeanors, or if you re-entered the country after being deported, then ICE (Immigration and Customs Enforcement) could be looking for you.If you can’t afford an attorney, then try to contact a legal aid organization near where you live by using this Locator. Legal aid organizations provide free or reduced-fee legal services to those in financial need.
 Some states may require that you first get a driver’s permit. Connecticut requires unauthorized immigrants to first secure a driver’s permit by passing a knowledge test.If you pass the vision and knowledge test, then the Connecticut DMV will mail you the permit.Depending on your age, you will have to satisfy driver’s requirements. For those age 16 and 17, you must have at least 22 hours of classroom training plus an eight-hour Safe Driving Practices course at a commercial or secondary driving school. Then you need an additional 40 hours of practice driving.For those aged 18 or older, you will need to take the eight-hour Safe Driving Practices course., Find your nearest DMV by visiting your state’s website, which should have a list of facilities where you can apply. The website should also list the hours in which they are open.


You probably need to make an appointment to get an unauthorized immigrant driver’s license.In California, you can make an appointment online by visiting this page or by calling 1-800-777-0133. In Colorado you can visit this webpage to schedule an appointment or call 303-205-2335., You will need to fill out an application when you arrive at the DMV.Some states may make their applications available online, in PDF format. If so, you can download it and then fill it out before going to the DMV.


Nevada’s application is available online here. You would check that you are applying for a “Driver Authorization Card.”

, Vision tests are a standard prerequisite to getting a driver’s license. Typically, states require that your vision be 20 over 40 or better to gain full driving privileges. If your vision is worse, you may be denied a license or have driving restrictions imposed (such as no night driving).


If you wear glasses, you can wear them for the exam. However, if you need to use glasses or contact lenses to pass the exam, a notation will be made on your license., The test requirements will vary by state. But you will probably need to identify common traffic signals and answer questions about driver liability and driving rules.


In Nevada, the written test is made up of 50 multiple-choice questions. You must have a score of 80 or better to pass the knowledge test. The test is offered in both English and Spanish., States will require that you pass a road test in order to get a license. You must have insurance on the car and it must be registered. The driving test itself will vary depending on the state and the instructor, but you should plan on the test covering the following:Finding and using the car’s controls: accelerator, signals, brake, horn, etc.
Adjusting the seat, mirror, and seat belts properly
Releasing the brake
Checking over your shoulder that the way is clear
Using turn signals properly
Ability to make turns
Stopping the vehicle and backing it up properly
Parking on a hill
Obey traffic signals
Follow the speed limit and obey lane markings
Your overall safety, including your awareness of traffic around you

, Each state charges a fee, which varies depending on the state. Check with the DMV ahead of time to find out the fee and acceptable methods of payment.


In Colorado, the fee is $50.50.In Connecticut the fee is $72.00 and you may pay using cash, money orders, personal checks, bank checks, Mastercard, Visa, Discover card, and most debit cards with a Mastercard/Visa logo., You will need to sit and have your picture taken in order to get a license.Your photo must appear on the license itself.


Washington uses facial recognition technology for its pictures, which requires that you remove anything covering your face or head. Exceptions will be made for medical or religious reasons.You may also need to provide a thumbprint., You may not receive your license immediately. Instead, the Secretary of State may need time to check your immigration status before issuing the license.

