 Some research indicates that experiences of déjà vu start to decrease as you get older.So instead of fighting the sensation, document it , and enjoy the wonder and novelty of it while you can.


Try to keep track of how frequently you are having déjà vu experiences to determine if the frequency is decreasing.
Notice if there are any patterns as to when or where your déjà vu experiences occur. Do they usually happen in the morning or evening, for example?

, Some studies indicate that people who experience déjà vu are better at remembering things than people that don’t.For example, research has found that people who experience déjà vu remember their dreams better than people than people who don’t experience déjà vu.Deal with your déjà vu by using it to exercise your memory and recall skills.


Make an effort to recall the specific circumstances of the original incident when you experience déjà vu.
Practice paying attention to detail on an everyday basis to deal with your déjà vu and improve your memory even more.
For example, notice how things smell, look, taste, feel, and sound. Also, pay attention to emotions in each moment.
For instance, if you are swimming, you might notice that you feel relaxed and calm and that the water is salty and cool.
 The more you know about déjà vu, the easier it will be for you to deal with it and appreciate it. So take the time to learn more about déjà vu and experiences similar to it.Déjà vu is the feeling that you have experienced a particular and exact situation or sequence of events before. For example, while on a vacation to a place you’ve never been before, you get the feeling that you’ve stood on that exact beach before watching the sunset, even though you know it’s impossible.
Another experience you might have is called déjà entendu, the feeling that you have heard something before, but can’t remember from where. For instance, if you hear a Gregorian chant that sounds strongly familiar even when you have never listened to anything like that before.
Learn about jamais vu, which happens when you are somewhere familiar but it feels like you have never been there before. This might occur when you walk into your bedroom, but feel as if you are entering the room for the first time in your life.

