 Before you decide to add to your animal family, take a few moments to weigh the reasons behind your decision. You’ll want to make sure that your dog is actually indicating that it wants a companion, perhaps by whining or acting lonely. And, remember that adage that more dogs equal more work.It is important to note that adopting a new dog will likely only worsen any behavioral issues, such as barking, that your current dog possesses. Don’t expect a new dog to be a bad behavior cure.If you are considering getting a dog to replace one that has passed away, make sure to take your time. Dogs experience a grieving process as well and getting another dog too quickly could disrupt this.;
, Take your dog to a play group or pet park and watch the interactions. See what types of dogs your pet gravitates toward in a positive way. What breeds of dogs does your dog seem to avoid or clash with? You could also observe interactions while attending an obedience class you’re your dog. Make sure that you consider both pure and mixed breeds.For example, it is possible that your dog seems to enjoy playing with terriers, but is a bit afraid when encountering retrievers or shepherds.
Make sure to consider the grooming and unique care needs of your new potential pet. If you already have a high maintenance dog, such as a poodle, you may want one requiring less care. Or, perhaps you plan to tote both dogs to appointments at once to save time., A puppy’s jumping and energy may be too much for an older dog to handle. However, an older dog may be more set in its ways and less likely to defer to your current dog. Likewise, a teacup or toy dog could be injured by an excitable large dog. Dogs who are close in size generally make the best play companions.Again, the best bet here is to watch your dog in a natural play environment to see who it naturally chooses for companionship.
It may seem like a good idea to make your older dog act as a babysitter for a younger puppy, but this can backfire. Your current dog might exhibit little patience with the pup and could even hurt it. Or, the puppy could run wild and develop bad behaviors, such as biting. Make sure to plan a training regimen if you consider a puppy., Two dogs of the opposite sex are generally more likely to get along, as opposed to two of the same sex. And, a male-male pairing will likely be more peaceful than a female-female pairing. Again, you will want to watch your dog to see how they interact with the different sexes.Make sure to get your dogs spayed or neutered. Not only does this help to control the pet population, it also often leads to better behavior.
 All dogs have different traits and needs/wants. You’ll want to make sure that your dog is friendly, at a minimum, to other dogs. You’ll also want to think about whether or not your dog tries to establish dominance around other animals, or is content to be led. You want to find a companion dog that can bring out the best in your dog’s personality.If your current dog’s behavior is a bit unruly, you may want to complete an obedience course prior to bringing in another dog., Once you’ve narrowed down your preferences a bit, you’ll want to contact your local animal shelter to discuss the adoption process. This, or reaching out to an online adoption website (such as Petfinder), is generally the best way to locate a mixed breed dog. If you want a pure bred dog, you’ll want to search for breeders in your area.


You can go to the American Kennel Club (AKC) website to get more information regarding breeders operating in your area.
Whether you choose a breeder or adoption, try not to visit the facility with your dog during the first go-round. This can stress out your dog and lead to a bad reaction.If you are looking for a puppy, you can find one via a breeder or adoption. If you are interested in a more mature dog, adoption is probably your best bet. You can search online for dog rescue groups in your area as well.

