 As a side-on bowler, hold the seam at an angle. It should point toward the fine leg position in the field.


Your top two fingers should rest close together on the top of the ball with your middle finger directly on the seam. Your thumb should rest on the bottom of the ball at the seam.
Position the shiny side of the cricket ball away from the batsman.
 The run up is the period of running prior to release at the crease, which is a white line marked on the field. In cricket, the run up is essential in creating the velocity of the ball, and in turn, performing an outstanding Inswinger.


Every bowler approaches run ups differently, and there is no determined right or wrong length for a run up. Practice running up from different distances and angles to see what feels most natural.
The length of the run up depends on how long you need to achieve your maximum force without losing control over your form.
In general, side-on bowlers tend to favor a slower run up speed.
 The last few paces before you reach the crease are the delivery stride. In this stride, you should seek to maintain your speed without accelerating. As you reach the crease, the positioning of your feet is important.


As a side-on bowler, your feet should stop parallel to the crease. You should maintain a comfortable width between them.
At the moment of delivery, you should transfer your weight from your back foot to your front foot. For a right-handed bowler, the back foot is usually the right foot.
The majority of your weight, during the run up and when you land, should be in the balls of your feet. This will assure you have maximum control over your movements.
 The way you set up your posture during delivery can make or break your Inswinger. As a side-on bowler, in the last step before you release the ball, you should turn your body so that your left shoulder points toward the batsman. To align your shoulders with your hips, your non-bowling arm should be in front of your head.


Usually, the non-bowling arm is held vertically before the release of the ball. Keep the ball in your bowling hand close to your head.
Rotate the front arm high, and sight your target on the outside of your front arm.
 In this moment, you want to make sure you release the ball from the highest vantage point that you can.


Make sure your delivery arm is stiff rather than bent. You want to maintain a relaxed wrist but keep the position of your grip.
To create this movement, use both of your arms. The movement should look like the beginning of a cartwheel.
When you are transitioning your weight onto your front foot, engage your whole body. Use the bend in your back to create additional momentum.

