 By itself the Downward-Facing Dog helps eliminate back stiffness, will help to wake you up and build bone density. It also helps stretch the muscles that you will be exercising during the eagle pose..


There are a number of poses that will do this, including the Cow Face Pose, the Wide-Legged Forward Bend and the Hero Pose.
Do not practice the Downward-Facing Dog if you are in late term pregnancy.;
, Your wrists should be directly under your shoulders and your knees should be under your hips. Your fingers should be pointed directly towards the wall in front of them. Spread your fingers apart and put your weight evenly into your palms., Bring your pelvis up towards the ceiling and slowly straighten your legs so your body shape begins to resemble and A. Make sure you do not lock your knees but leave them relaxed.


Keep your whole body extended during the pose.
 Exhale and push the back of your heels down towards the floor. After this bring your shoulder blades up towards your ribs and backbone. Draw your chest towards your thighs to lengthen and compress your spine.
 Relax your head but do not let it hang. Once in this position, hold it for anywhere between 5 and 100 breaths.
 Slowly exhale as you gently bend your knees and elbows back down to the floor. Stand up and prepare to begin the eagle pose.
 The Tandasana, or Mountain pose, is the starting pose for many of the standing yoga positions like the eagle pose. On its own, the Mountain pose helps with posture and helps to strengthen thighs, knees and ankles.The eagle pose should not be attempted if you have a history of knee injuries.
 While balancing on your right foot, cross your left thigh over your right thigh. The toes on your left foot should be pointing towards the floor and should be placed behind the calf of your right calf.
 Begin by putting your arms out straight in front of you so that the back of your shoulders are separated. Then, cross your arms with the right arm above the left arm. Place your right elbow into the crack of your left elbow. Bring your forearms up so that the backs of your hand are facing one another.
 The thumb of your right hand should be in front of the little finger on your left hand. Lift your elbows up and stretch your fingers towards the ceiling.
 Then gradually unwrap your legs and arms and return to the Mountain pose.
, For beginners who may have difficulty with the eagle pose, you can take steps to enhance your balance that will help to simplify the pose. First, you can try to curl your legs together tightly to help with balance. Secondly, as you are getting into the pose it it possible to lean against a wall for some initial balancing help., If you feel as though you have mastered the eagle pose and want a challenge, begin in the eagle pose described above. Next, exhale and lean forward with your torso. Your forearms should be touching the top of your thigh. Hold this position for 2-3 breathes before returning to the former position and repeat., Again, the eagle pose is not recommended for for individuals with knee injuries. However if you do have a knee injury, you can still do the eagle pose. Rather than crossing your legs, simply bring them together and keep your toes on the ground. If you are able, you can go into a shallow squat position.