 When pruning a burning bush for shape, you will likely need to schedule two pruning sessions each year. The first one should be before new growth has developed, which means pruning the bush in late winter or early spring.


Burning bushes tend to get large and unruly as they mature, but you can usually keep them in check by pruning them down into a desired shape. This type of pruning will keep the bush looking nice for the season while preventing it from completely taking over the space it occupies.
When pruning a burning bush for shape, you must also do some pruning for health maintenance.
 You can choose to trim the burning bush down while maintaining its natural shape or you could trim it down into an ornamental hedge shape.Consider pruning the bush into a standard cube, box, or globe hedge shape.
Another option would be to trim out the lower branches, leaving only a rounded top behind. Doing so would make the burning bush look like a small tree.
If you have difficulty visualizing your ideal shape, find a photograph or sketch to work from. You could also make your own sketch to help guide you through the process.
 Once you have visualized the shape your burning bush should be, use hedge clippers to remove any branches that extend beyond that shape.


When shortening a branch or twig, cut it back to point that is 1/4 inch (6 mm) above a bud or side branch.
Unless you choose to completely remove the bottom half of the bush, you should make the top of the bush slightly thinner than the bottom. Doing so will permit sunlight to reach all the leaves of the shrub. A wide top can prevent sunlight from reaching the bottom in adequate amounts, though, causing the plant to become unhealthy., When you prune burning bushes into hedge shapes, you should also thin out some of the dense interior branches to improve the spread of air and sunlight through the plant.


Remove the oldest, tallest branches completely by cutting them back to their point of origin on the main stem.
If you want to redirect inward growing branches so that they grow outward and make the bush less dense, use pruning shears to cut those inward growing branches down to an outward facing bud or branch.
 To maintain the right shape, you should prune the burning bush again in the middle of summer.


Burning bushes are usually grown for their autumn foliage, so you don't need to worry about accidentally removing flower buds when you do a summer pruning.
To determine a more exact time for your summer pruning, wait until new growth reaches a length of 6 to 8 inches (15 to 20 cm).
You should prune down new growth within 2 inches (5 cm) of your spring pruning.

