 Bodily fluids can make for very unique stains. Whereas blood carries a distinctive brown stain, urine adds insult to injury with a punishing odour. While blotting is the most effective option to treat new stains, if the stain has dried, you can scrape some of the surface material off with a steel brush. While this won't solve the core stain, it will at least make it easier to get at it with subsequent steps. If you've got the stain while it's still wet, blot with me a paper towel or dishcloth damp with warm water.
 Adding a teaspoon of dish soap to a cup of water can make a powerful counter-agent against bodily fluid stains. Stir it together in a bowl or cup and dab the stain gently with a washcloth.
 Once you have the solution on the stain for five minutes, place another paper towel on the stain and let it blot up the stain. Repeat the process again if the stain requires it.
 Many bodily fluid stains will require more than dish soap to deal with entirely. If that's the case with your stain, take a half cup of water and add a tablespoon of ammonia. Stir it together and get it ready for use on your stain.


White vinegar is a suitable replacement for ammonia if you're working to get urine out.
 Once you have the ammonia solution ready, apply it to the stain lightly with a sponge. Begin rubbing in small, circular motions from the outside, moving in gradually. Take your time with it; you want to make sure the solution has a chance to inflict maximum damage on the stain.
 Give the stain yet another sheet of paper towel to blot up the stain after giving the ammonia five minutes to soak in. If the ammonia solution has worked, the blood or urine should be much easier to remove. Feel free to use the convex side of a spoon to rub around if you feel the blot isn't going as well as expected.
 Adding some warm water after the fact is a good way to give your carpet an extra bit of cleaning. Make sure to dry it afterwards; a wet carpet runs the risk of growing mildew if left unattended after a day.

