 Once you feel that everything is designed the way you want, read through all of the text a few different times. Check for misspellings and confusing wording throughout the text. Sloppy and poorly-written content is one of the biggest ways to lose credibility with people.Leave the poster alone for a day or a few hours after you finalize the design. Then come back to it and do your proofreading. If you proofread right after you type it all up, it can blur together and cause you to miss errors.
Have a friend, colleague, roommate, or family member look at the poster and check for mistakes or confusing aspects. Second or third opinions will help you catch things you missed.
Proofreading can also include paying attention to whether everything is displayed in a way that makes it easy to read. If any important information is obscured or designed badly, people will not see it.
 Even more than proofreading, fact-checking is vital to the success of your poster. If you give the wrong date for an event, it could be detrimental. Before you finish the poster and disseminate it to the public, double or even triple check all of the factual information to ensure that it’s correct.It’s possible that you’ll be designing a poster before some of the information is finalized. So if you use any stand-in information, be sure to change it to the real information.
If you are not in charge of the event or organization the poster is for, check with a supervisor to make sure you have accurate information.
When presenting research findings, look specifically at words like is/isn’t, was/wasn’t, and other negative words. A small mistake can completely reverse what you want your findings to say.
 Once you have designed the poster the way you want it to be, print a copy and hang it somewhere you will see it multiple times throughout the day. Put yourself in the shoes of a stranger and ask yourself if the poster draws you in and makes you want to know more. If it doesn’t, then it needs more work.Printing a hardcopy as opposed to looking at the poster on the screen is important because it mimics the way people will actually see the poster. If you are drawing the poster by hand, hang up your finished draft.
Look at the poster from long distances and up close to see how the look of it changes. See how far away you can get before the primary information is no longer visible. Ask yourself if that is an acceptable distance.
Looking at the poster for a day or more helps you decide if it accomplishes what you want it to.

