 When you are driving in wintery conditions, you should put together a winter safety kit. This stays in your vehicle in case of an emergency. The kit should include:Ice scraper, snow brush, and de-icer
Blankets
Flashlight and extra batteries
First aid kit
Jumper cables
Flares
Shovel
Extra warm clothes, like socks, gloves, hats, scarves, and even pants or shirts
Cell phone charger
Boots
Tire chains
You should also consider bringing additional food, water bottles, and warm beverages in a thermos with you whenever you travel in wintery conditions.
 At the start of winter, you should take your car in for maintenance, or check it over yourself. You should always have proper winter-friendly tires on your car. Always keep your car’s fuel level full.Check your battery, hoses, the radiator, belts, lights, heater, defroster, wiper, and brakes on your car.
Make sure to place windshield wiper fluid for winter conditions and temperatures in your car.
Make sure that your car has winter grade oil. Check your car’s manual or take it to a specialist to determine the kind of oil you need for winter conditions.Check your tires to make sure they are ready for winter. Check air pressure, tread, and overall condition of your tires. Driving on bad tires can be dangerous. Consider changing your tires to snow tires if you live in an area with heavy snow and ice. You can also get tires with studs that can help with driving. If you don't want to change tires every winter, you can also check into buying all-season tires., Before you set out on the road, make sure to remove any ice and snow from your car. This helps prevent your vision from being obstructed, and protects others so that snow or ice won’t fly off your car and hit their car.Use a snow brush to remove all snow from the entire car, including the roof, hood, and trunk.
Use an ice scraper to get ice off windows, including the windshield, door windows, and back window.
Make sure to remove snow and ice from mirrors and lights.
Keep in your car ice melt to help melt snow and kitty litter to help with traction in case there's a buildup of snow. You should also keep a snow shovel around so you can dig out the snow around your car when it builds up.
 If you find yourself in wintery conditions, make sure not to overexert yourself trying to get going. Shoveling snow, pushing cars, or jacking a car takes a lot of energy, especially in snowstorms. You are at risk for injury if you try this.If you walk around in a storm, you can risk severe injury or death. You can easily get lost in snowstorms, along with easily exhausting yourself. Stay in a shelter during snowstorms. If you are stranded in a car, call 911 and remain in your vehicle.
 It is possible you will get caught in a winter storm and have to pull over and wait it out or wait for help. Staying in your car is the safest choice. Tie a brightly colored piece of cloth to your antenna to make your car easier for rescuers to spot.Move any supplies from the trunk to inside the car. Wrap yourself in blankets, extra clothing, or even newspaper. Wrap your head, too.
Check the exhaust pipe to make sure it is not blocked by snow (which could lead to carbon monoxide poisoning), then run the motor and heat for about 10 minutes every hour, cracking a window to let in air.
Huddle with other passengers and keep moving your arms and legs to stay warm. Try to stay awake.
Do not eat unmelted snow — this can lower your body temperature.

