 Many people have the H. pylori infection but don’t have any symptoms or problems with peptic ulcers. Smoking increases your risk of developing peptic ulcers if you have H. pylori present in your stomach. Stop smoking to reduce your risk of further ulcers and help those you do have to heal.Use the START Acronym to stop smoking:


S= Set a quit date.
T= Tell friends and family that you plan to quit.
A= Anticipate challenges.
R = Remove tobacco from the home, car, and work.
T= Talk to your doctor for more support and advice on quitting.
 The pain from peptic ulcers comes from stomach acid contacting the sore in the lining of the stomach or duodenum. Drinking alcohol increases the amount of stomach acid and causes irritation in the stomach lining, and increases the pain of ulcers. Stop drinking alcohol or limit your consumption as much as possible to reduce symptoms., Eating spicy food does not cause peptic ulcers, but it can worsen your stomach irritation when ulcers are present and make pain more severe. Limit your spicy foods to improve symptoms.Eating and drinking foods that increase stomach pH (make it less acidic in your stomach) can also help with pain. Milk, for instance, may decrease symptoms temporarily.
 You can buy a number of acid-decreasing medicines from your local drug store. These won’t heal your ulcers, but they will probably help with your pain at least temporarily. Try antacids like Tums, Rolaids, or Pepto-bismol.


The definitive treatment for peptic ulcer disease is triple therapy. This is when they give you three medications including an antacid and antibiotics to clear the infection, while sometimes a repeat endoscopy is needed to cure the infection/peptic ulcer.
 Alternative medicine should not be used alone to treat peptic ulcers, since ulcers can cause severe complications and require medical treatment. However, use of botanicals at home may help symptoms. Cabbage is a good choice, as is turmeric, neem bark extract, mastic, and licorice.Always consult with your doctor before trying natural remedies.
 Like spicy foods, feeling really stressed out might worsen the symptoms of pain caused by ulcers.Stress releases a hormone called cortisol, which negative affects numerous body systems – including your digestive tract. Try yoga, meditation, deep breathing, taking a walk – anything that helps you relax. If you have a stressful lifestyle due to work or family, practice mindfulness meditation or learn stress management skills. You cannot eliminate stress from your life, but you can control how you deal with it. Maintaining a calm, peaceful demeanor will help to improve your pain and health.


Keep in mind that quantifying stress can be difficult on a clinical level. While certain psychosocial factors influence the development of ulceration, these factors need to correlate with psychophysiological factors as well.

