 Brushing your teeth after every meal is the absolute best way to get a glistening smile. And if you have braces that gives you an even better reason to brush your teeth because think of the plaque and bacteria that is building up behind those wires! Also, never forget to floss. It may be hard, but when you get older, you're going to be glad that you did.;
, There is no excuse for not taking a shower. Try to take at least one shower a day. Not only will you smell good, but you will also be super clean and healthy.
 If you want to be glamorously thin and healthy then exercise! Don't just sit on the couch all day. You want to be active and outgoing. Exercising is a great way to burn those calories that you gained from eating that bowl of ice cream or from that bag of candy. But do not over exercise because that will wear out your muscles. Try about 30 minutes a day.
 Washing your face in the morning and at night everyday is a great way to dry out your skin- wash your face once daily, with luke-warm water. Brand names aren't necessarily the best.
 Let's make this simple, don't eat more than three candies a week OR two bowls of ice cream in a week. And especially hamburgers, too many of those can cause health problems. So try to eat at least 3 servings of fruits and vegetables, 8 glasses of water, 2 cups of milk, a 1 serving of meat everyday, and maybe a small candy for desert.
 Try not to show too much skin because you don't want to give the wrong impression about yourself.
 Styling your hair will make you and your outfit look fabulous.
 You may think that studying is boring and a waste of time, but it really works. At least re-read the section in the textbook and take some notes,then take about ten minutes to study the notes, just to store all the information in your head until test time.
 Doing homework will raise your grade big time. Even if you have to stay up until midnight( which should not happen)just get it done. Homework is excellent practice for tests, and will keep your grades higher than ever.
 Paying attention in class will give you an understanding of what your homework is, help you extremely for tests, and will fill your head will knowledge and big words that you talk to your friends with. Listening will make you look and be smart.
 Cursing makes you look dirty. As in what you say very much affects what people think of you as a person. So if you curse, try to stop because no one wants to hear a dirty mouth that gives bad examples for kids in a lower grade than you. I don't care if your friends do it or if it's 'cool' because it's not.
 Smoking and doing drugs are just plain stupid choices to make. It's extremely bad for your health and not to mention just terrible. Also, don't ever listen to commercials or your friends that say 'do it because it's cool' or 'just try a little it won't hurt' those are ALL lies, it's not cool and it will affect your life big time.
 Just try to go a week without watching it and see how much better you feel. Pick up a book or exercise instead.

