 Think of the room in which you want to place the chair. Is it a bedroom, family room or simply a hallway? If you are planning to place the chair in a hallway it is likely to be more of a decorative piece and remain untouched. On the other hand, if you are placing the chair in the family room, you want a piece that can take a lot of wear.For example, if you have children, pets, or friends with a penchant for destruction, you'll want a chair that's durable and practical. However, if you live alone and want to make a statement, maybe you'd prefer a chair that's more artistic than practical.;
, An accent chair should make a room more inviting, not clutter it up unnecessarily and block movement. Plan out where you want the chair to go before purchasing. For example, if you are looking for some extra seating in a family room, consider adding a chair or two to face inwards and book-end a sofa. Or try placing an accent chair in a corner or next to window to create a reading nook.Knowing where you will place the chair can also help you decide on size and style in the future.
 There are many factors that can affect the size of your accent chair. Not only do you need to think about the size of the room, but also the height and width of your other furniture and the people who use it. For example, your accent chair should sit at the same height as your sofa and other chairs.


You may also want a chair with more leg room for those who are tall.
 Before choosing a fabric, it’s best to consider how the chair will be used and by whom. This will help you pick a fabric that works in the room rather than against it. For example, if you have children or pets, you may want to avoid materials like suede. While a classic for accent chairs, it’s easily stained and not very durable. Similarly, you may want to go with microfiber rather than leather. It will give you a similar look, but be far more kind to dirt and food residue.


You can also use the fabric of a chair to make it stand out from the rest of your furniture. For example, if you have mainly upholstered pieces, try a leather accent chair for a rugged contrast.
 Think about the look and shape of the chair you want in the room. For example, do you want something with a sleek silhouette or is it important to have a bigger piece with arms? If you're looking for a classic chair style, choose a roomy club chair with extra deep seats or a large wingback chair that can help balance out a room with a bigger sofa. You can even go a completely different route with a slipper chair, which is armless and sits low to the ground., One of the easiest ways to decide on a color for an accent chair is to base it off other colors already in the room. To do this, try using complementary colors on the color wheel. For example, if you have a lot of blue in the room via lamps, rugs, or paintings, then try a burnt orange-colored accent chair. Or, if you have a large chartreuse or earthy green sofa, try a deep violet for your chair., Accent chairs are meant to bring a new design element to a room. They are also easy ways to make an eye-popping statement while still remaining practical. Go for a color you love, but wouldn't use normally. For example, bold jewel-tones like jade, ruby, and sapphire always stand out with neutral tones like black, gray, or navy.You can also pick large patterns like floral prints, geometric shapes, chevron stripes, or animal prints to bring the chair to the forefront., For a put-together look, try matching the accent chair to other items in the room, either through their colors or patterns. This can be anything from pillows, lamps, and pictures to knick-knacks. For example, if you have black and white striped accent pillows on your sofa, try getting a chair that mimics the pattern with black and white lines. The chair will still stand out against your other furniture, however, it will help keep symmetry in the room by matching smaller pieces.


Or if you have a favorite art piece, pull one or two colors from there and find an accent chair in the same shades.

