 You will need to take your puppy to see a veterinarian soon after you come home, so it is important to contact one before that time. Your puppy should have a full examination to alert you to any potential health problems, as well as receive his vaccinations in a timely manner., Your new miniature schnauzer puppy will start to explore the moment you bring him home. To make sure he doesn’t hurt himself, you need to remove anything that could possibly be harmful. Any plants, especially toxic ones, should be removed from within reach of your puppy, as well as any chemicals, medicines, or other potential hazards. Also be sure to move any food that he could easily access.Be sure no exposed electrical cords are accessible by your new miniature schnauzer.
Clutter is appealing to puppies, particularly for chewing. Pick up any shoes, books, or other items that could easily be reached by your puppy.
 A baby gate is useful for confining your puppy to certain areas of your home, at least initially. Crates are good for sleeping and keeping your puppy safe while you leave the home for brief periods.Pet owners commonly keep puppies in the kitchen at first and place gates there. Kitchen floors are usually easier to clean than other areas.
 You can either choose a pillow-type one that will accommodate your puppy while he is small, or you could choose a larger one that will fit him when fully grown as well (between 13 and 15 inches).Providing your miniature schnauzer puppy with his own bed will help you train him that this is his space for sleeping (instead of in your bed or on other furniture).
It will be reassuring to your puppy for him to have a space that is exclusively for him., You will need to accept the fact that your puppy will have accidents. Urine stain and odor remover, puppy wipes, poop pick-up bags, and housebreaking pee pads are some essential items to have in your home when you are with a new puppy., You want to be as prepared as possible when you bring your miniature schnauzer puppy home, so get all of the basics ahead of time. For grooming, you will need puppy shampoo, a toothbrush, a nail file and clippers, and a brush. You will also need to get food and food bowls or dishes. Finally, dog toys and chews are essential because they will keep your puppy occupied and give him less time to chew on your furniture or other items.Your food bowls or dishes should be shallow, since miniature schnauzer puppies won’t be able to reach the bottom of deep ones.
A variety of toys, like rope toys, squeakers, and teething chews, will keep your puppy busy.
 In many areas, it is required by law that your dog be leashed and collared while outside, so it is essential that you have these on hand when you bring your puppy home. Additionally, your collar gives you a place to affix an ID tag, so that your dog can be returned to you if you ever are separated.A harness collar can be useful for your miniature schnauzer puppy, since it will give you a bit more control over him while out and about, and flexible leashes are convenient as you both learn to walk together.


An adjustable collar will grow with your puppy.
If you plan to take a lot of walks in the evening, you may want a harness with reflectors or one that is illuminated., Miniature Schnauzers love to run and chase animals outside, so a strong fence is imperative for keeping them safe.