 Before building a rectangular prism, you will need to know the desired length, width, and height of that prism. Write those dimensions down and refer to them throughout the process.



Example: Consider the steps you'll need to follow when constructing a rectangular prism with a length of 6 inches (15 cm), a width of 4 inches (10 cm), and a height of 3 inches (7.6 cm).;
, On a sheet of heavy construction paper, use a ruler and pencil to draw two rectangles. The length of each rectangle should match the length of the final prism, and the width of the two rectangles should match the width of the final prism.After drawing both rectangles, use the ruler to measure them again. Both rectangles must be equal in size and must accurately match the length and width of the rectangular prism you wish to create.
Once you are certain that both rectangles are the correct length and width, cut them out with sharp scissors.
Note that these two rectangles will form the top and bottom of your rectangular prism.

Example: Measure and cut two rectangles, each with a length of 6 inches (15 cm) and a width of 4 inches (10 cm).
 Use a ruler and pencil to draw two more rectangles from heavy construction paper. The length of these rectangles should match the length of the rectangular prism, but the width of these rectangles will need to match the height of the final rectangular prism.


Re-measure the two rectangles after drawing them to check for accuracy, then use sharp scissors to cut both of them out.
These two rectangles will eventually form the front and back of your rectangular prism.

Example: Measure and cut two rectangles, each with a length of 6 inches (15 cm) and a width of 3 inches (7.6 cm).
 Sketch two more rectangles on heavy construction paper using a ruler and pencil. The length of each rectangle should match the width of the rectangular prism, and the width of each rectangle should match the height of your rectangular prism.


After drawing both rectangles, measure them again to check for accuracy before cutting them both out with scissors.
These two final rectangles will form the left and right sides of the rectangular prism.

Example: Measure and cut two rectangles, each with a length of 4 inches (10 cm) and a width of 3 inches (7.6 cm).
 Line up the length-by-width rectangles and the length-by-height rectangles, alternating back and forth between the two types. Tape the length sides together on one side of the paper.The paper rectangles should be lined up in the following order: length-by-width, length-by-height, length-by-width, length-by-height. Do not place identical rectangles next to one another.
Note that the rectangles should be lined up so that their length sides lie directly next to the length side of the adjacent rectangle.
Apply one to two strips of tape to each shared edge. When finished, all four rectangles should be taped together into one strip.

Example: Alternate the 6-inch by 4-inch (15-cm by 10-cm) rectangles with the 6-inch by 3-inch (15-cm by 7.6-cm) rectangles, matching the 6-inch (15-cm) sides together. Tape the 6-inch (15-cm) sides in place.
 Fold the strip so that the two unattached length-side ends meet. Use one or two pieces of tape to hold these two ends together.


As you fold, make sure that the strip is folding at the edges between separate rectangular faces. You may need to use your thumbnail to crease the tape in between these edges, making it easier to fold.
When done, you should have something that looks like a rectangular tube. The prism shape is almost complete, but two sides are still missing at this point.

Example: Fold up the strip and tape together the two loose 6-inch (15-cm) sides.
 Position the two remaining rectangles over the two open ends of the shape. Use tape to attach all four sides of each rectangle to the matching sides of the rectangular prism.


Make sure that the height side of each rectangle matches the height side of the prism. Likewise, the width side of each rectangle must match the width side of the prism.
Start by taping one side of each rectangle in place, then tape the opposite side. The paper should already stay in place at that point, but taping the remaining two sides will provide greater security.

Example: Position the 4-inch (10-cm) sides of one rectangle against the 4-inch (10-cm) sides of the rectangular prism. The 3-inch (7.6-cm) sides should naturally match up, as well. Tape the rectangle in place, then repeat with the remaining rectangle.
 Use a ruler to measure all sides of the finished shape. The length, width, and height dimensions should each match the required dimensions you needed to fulfill.


At this point, the rectangular prism is complete.

Example: The final rectangular prism should have a length of 6 inches (15 cm), a width of 4 inches (10 cm), and a height of 3 inches (7.6 cm).

