 Usually some sort of conditioner is included with the dye product that is to be applied. If there is not, condition your entire head using your usual conditioner, leave in for at least three minutes, then rinse out with cool water.


If you had your dyeing done professionally, think about booking a conditioning treatment right afterwards.
In general, products with a built-in conditioner often contain harsher, more damaging products. Be cautious if you decide to use one and take a look at the ingredients.
After dyeing, wait 48-72 hours before washing your hair again, and preferably don't even get it wet. This gives your hair time to recover.;
, In addition to your regular conditioning routine, use a deep conditioner once a week. If you get oily roots, simply rub the conditioner just into the tips of you hair. After a few minutes, it can be rinsed out.


Some conditioners are leave-in. If this is the case with yours, just dab or spray it on when your hair is damp out of the shower, and you're done!

, Warm water opens up your hair follicle and cold water seals it back up. In other words, warm water will allow your hair to soak up the moisture and cold water will keep it inside. So resist that urge to take a hot shower; your tresses will thank you later!

, Washing your hair actually dries it out, so if you can avoid it for a few days, do so (why the ponytail was invented, really). When you shower, throw your hair up and put it in a cap to keep it out of your way. Just because you don't wash your hair doesn't mean you're not showering!


Everyone has different needs. Some of us will need to wash every two days, some of us once a week. Just take a look at your roots: If they're oily, wash 'em. If not, bask in the extra time you have to get ready in the morning!
If you feel like you must do something to your hair when you shower, on days you don't wash just rinse and condition.
 You want shampoo that's not too heavy and sulfate-free. If they have added oils for nourishment, that's good, too. And it should be good for color-treated hair, of course!


Concentrate the shampoo on the roots and the conditioner on the ends. Conditioner is generally more oily -- you want nourished ends, not greasy roots.
 Decide what products will work the best for your needs while minimizing damage.Bleach lightens your hair by removing color and causes damage by raising the hair cuticle, which allows hair to tangle easily. This is why conditioning becomes important.
Semi-permanent or temporary dyes don't contain bleach so they can't lighten your natural hair color but are easier to apply and less damaging. Since they only last about 6 weeks they need to be applied more often, and doing it too often can also end up damaging your hair.
Permanent dyes last much longer but the ingredients necessary (oxidizers and ammonia) are more damaging to your hair.
Ammonia-free dyes replace the ammonia of permanent dyes with a less damaging compound. However, if you use too much of this product it can still damage your hair in a similar way as permanent dyes.
 Heated tools will only further dry and damage your hair. It'll be a sacrifice, but it can be done. Ponytails, headbands -- that frizz can be hidden. Think of it as a short-term solution for a long-term problem. So ditch the iron and go au natural a few days a week. You should see improvements in a few weeks' time unless your hair is seriously damaged.


If you're in a tight spot, try turning the heat down on your curling iron or straightener and avoid styling the same hair more than once so it can rest. It's not as good as not using it, but it's better than nothing.
 For most, 6-8 weeks is ideal if you're experiencing damage issues. Since the tips of hair seem to take the most damage from the hair dye, this is the best way to solve the problem. And for most of us, our hair doesn't grow beyond a certain point -- getting a trim will help rejuvenate it.
 Every day, eat a balanced diet. You know why the crash, fad and starvation dieters don't have good hair? Because you really are what you eat. If your body doesn't have enough nutrients to go around, it's certainly not going to give any to your hair! So make sure you get your protein, zinc, iron, and all your vitamins and minerals. Your hair, skin, and nails will look better for it.


Drinking lots of water helps, too. Just as apple cider vinegar can cleanse your tresses, water cleanses your entire body. The more hydrated you are, the healthier you are as a whole.
 The protein and lecithin in these guys is super hydrating from root to tip. And it can strengthen your hair, too, keeping it from breaking. Here's how to turn breakfast into a homemade hair softener:


Mix three eggs with a tablespoon of honey and two tablespoons of coconut or olive oil. Liberally apply to your hair and leave for thirty minutes. Wash out thoroughly and let air dry.
Half a cup of yogurt and 2 tablespoons of almond oil combined with 2 beaten eggs will form a creamy mixture you can apply to the length of your hair. Leave for thirty minutes and condition as normal.
Mayo works, too, but it can leave you smelling like a deli.
 Olive oil, coconut oil, castor oil and almond oil are your best bets here. A few drops of a sweet-smelling essential oil wouldn't hurt, either. You could either just put a few drops in your hands, rub them together, and rub your strands all over, or you can heat it up in the microwave.


To get serious, heat up four tablespoons over the stove. When it's hot but not too hot, take it off the stove and drizzle it onto your strands. Massage it in thoroughly. Cover your tresses with a hot towel to ensure your hair gets the most out of the treatment.
 Melt coconut oil in microwave until liquefied. Allow to cool slightly until you can touch it. Apply the lukewarm coconut oil through your hair thoroughly. Leave in for 5-4 hours (or as long as you want). Rinse out thoroughly.
 Slather on the sweet stuff and leave it for half an hour and rinse out, or combine it with avocado and egg for more of a cream. Use this as a deep conditioning treatment once a week.


Alternatively, you can just add some to your regular shampoo!

, Banana strengthens your hair and gets in healthy, and then avocado takes over and nourishes it, making it soft and shiny. To create a nice treatment, add a teaspoon or two of oil (any of the above kinds will do). Mix it up, apply to your hair, and leave for 30 to 60 minutes.
 Less of a moisturizer and more of a restoring agent, apple cider vinegar is a home remedy for many problems. It can restore the pH of your hair, stripping away all the synthetic products you've been slabbing on it that haven't really been helping. Basically, it's a cleanser for your fragile locks.
 Rinse your hair thoroughly with the mixture, leave it in for 15 minutes, and wash out. Then continue your routine as normal.