 Television, books, documentaries, and other media rarely depict autistic people correctly.Even so, autistic people vary widely. Each person is impacted, gifted, or impaired by being autistic in a unique way. If you've met one person on the autism spectrum, you've met just one person on the autism spectrum.;
, Read books and articles written by autistic people. Learn about what makes them different, what misconceptions people have, and what therapies are helpful. Autistic people can paint accurate pictures of what life is like for autistic people. 


Remember, autistic people are a very diverse group (just like non-autistics). You will read from people with a variety of abilities, needs, and symptoms.
 Autistic people write novels,run organizations,create art,compose music,become athletes,and make contributions to science and mathematics.You may be able to have a successful career. You can contribute to society. You may be able to live and work on your own, just like your peers. Or you may live in a supported situation, such as a group home, with your parents or other family members—all depending on your abilities, needs, and preferences.
 Autistic friends, along with being cool and fun-loving people in general, are crucial to your coping skills. You can find them in person, through autism advocacy groups, or autistic spaces online. Here are a few ways in which autistic friends are helpful. 



They are like-minded. You can bond with other autistic people in a way that just isn't possible with non-autistics.

They can share coping skills and social strategies. Autistic people have firsthand experience with what works and what doesn't.

They face challenges together with you. Tackling a neurotypical world feels a lot less overwhelming when you have a fellow autistic person by your side.

They demonstrate firsthand that it's possible to be awesome and autistic. With all the negative discourse on autism, it's easy to forget this.
They accept you for who you are.
 People will misunderstand you. Things other people find simple might be terribly difficult for you. Your life won't be like the picture-perfect "inspirational" photos of disabled people doing exceptional things. Sometimes, it's difficult to be autistic. It is okay to feel confused or unhappy about your diagnosis,and to recognize that your disability makes your life harder in some ways.


You are not suddenly a new or different person because of a diagnosis; autism is thought to be inborn. An autism diagnosis does not change who you are; you have always been autistic. But a diagnosis will help clarify a part of you that is different from most other people. An accurate diagnosis is meant to help you and others understand how you are different, and how to meet your needs.
Individuals and families can have many different reactions to a diagnosis. It can be frightening, because it is something unusual. It can be a relief, as it may explain things that were a mystery before. It can be confusing, as people often have a poor understanding of autism. A mix of emotions is typical, and it will be okay.
 The autistic community is a welcoming place that provides a positive space to discuss autism. Many autistic people congregate under the hashtags #askanautistic and #actuallyautistic (since family members have mostly taken over the autism tag).


If you're having a rough day or are feeling down about your autism, go to the autistic community. They write many things that help.
Consider getting involved in advocacy groups. Some autistic and other disabled people dedicate their time to fighting stigma and shame. Find a group that is run partially or completely by autistic people.Non-autistics are welcome to ask questions under #askanautistic and read from #actuallyautistic (although it is rude to post in it if you are not actually autistic).
 Neurological differences don't make you any less of a person. They don't change your intelligence, your dedication, or your compassion. You can be strong and autistic at the same time.

