 Here is a link to the website's home page: http://www.elderscrollsonline.com/en-us.


To download a digital copy of the game, you must have an account on Bethesda.net; this is a subscription that will cost you extra money, outside the cost of the game itself.
Don't worry if you don't have an account yet. Attempting to buy the game will prompt you to create one.;
, Click on the blue “Join us!” button at the top-right side of the screen.
 You should see a picture of the box art along with a list of the game's features. Under the brown Buy Now! button, you will see two boxes.


One box will read: “Digital Imperial Edition,” and the one below it reads “Standard Edition.” The Imperial Edition costs twenty dollars more, but includes exclusive content not available in the Standard Edition.
Once you have decided which version to purchase, scroll down a bit until you reach a blue Buy Now! box, and click on it.
 If you already have an account on Bethesda.net, just skip this step. You should now be at a purchase screen, with your game of choice on display.


In the upper-right corner, you should see the "Create an account" button beneath the Bethesda logo. Click on it.
Fill out all the necessary information. Make sure you accept all the Terms and Services agreements.
To activate your account, simply check your registered email’s inbox, and click on the prompt “Activate your account.” If you have not yet received an email from Bethesda, check your Spam folder, or try resending.
You must now choose a subscription for your account. There will be three options, each of a different price and lasting a different duration of time. Once you have chosen one, click the “Continue” button.
 You should now be at a screen that prompts you to fill in information regarding your billing address. Fill out all the necessary fields, click “Continue,” then select your payment method.


There should be a display of the different banking cards for you to choose from.
 Proceed to the final step, which is confirmation that all the information you have provided is correct.


You should now be the proud owner of a digital copy of the game, compatible with both Mac and Windows. Congratulations!

, To properly install the game, you will need to visit your account on Bethesda.net once more. Go to https://account.elderscrollsonline.com/ and log into your account.


Once you’ve logged in, select the “Redeem code” option.
As long as you’ve purchased the game through the Elder Scrolls Online store, you will automatically have the proper codes applied.
The store should prompt you to install the game on your computer, so long as you agree to all Terms and Services and allow it to make any necessary changes to your desktop.

