 Straight hair can be easy to take care of, but it can also look limp. Fortunately, there are a few extra steps you can take to give it some boost. This section will show you how to blow dry straight hair; it will also give you some tips on how to give it a little volume. Here's what you'll need:


Hairdryer
Nozzle attachment
Round hairbrush
Hair clip and hair tie
Mousse for thickness (optional)
Cream to smooth and soften dry, damaged hair (optional)
Hair spray to add volume and set style (optional)

, Squeeze your hair with the towel. This will help soak up any excess moisture, and help your hair dry faster.
 Use mousse if you want to add volume to your hair. Use a smoothing hair cream to tame dryness and repair damage.
 If your hair dryer had a speed setting, use the high one. Dry your hair until it is about 80% dry, then turn off the hairdryer. Be sure to aim the nozzle downwards while blow drying your hair.The nozzle will help direct the air flow, and keep your hair a safe distance from the hairdryer's heat.
 Gather the upper layers of your hair, just like doing a half-up, half-down ponytail, and secure them with a hair clip.
 Point the nozzle downward, and run the round brush through your hair while you are blow drying it.
 You can pull it back into a low ponytail if you want to keep it straight. You can also twist it into a loose bun if you want it to have a slight wave to it.
 Run the brush through your hair while you are drying it, and point the nozzle downward. If you want to give your hair some extra volume, the point the nozzle upward when you get to the roots., You can brush it back and let it part naturally. You can also set your own part using the handle of a rattail comb.
 If you want to have flipped ends, run the round brush through the underside of your hair, and stop when you get to the ends. Blow dry your hair using a medium heat setting first, then dry it using a cold setting to set the style. Here are some tips on how to style your hair:To give the ends of your hair a slight curl, run the round hairbrush through the underside of your hair. Twirl it until the ends of your hair are wrapped around it. Blow dry the ends with a medium setting first, and then a cold setting. The cold air will help set the curl.
To make the ends of your hair straight, brush them downwards while blow drying them. Be sure to aim the nozzle downward as well.
If your hair tends to get a lot of static or flyways, tame it with some styling cream or mist.

