 Only an experienced operator should attempt to dig a trench with a machine. These machines are very physically demanding, and can be extremely dangerous for an unskilled user.

All ordinary trench safety precautions apply as well. This includes calling 811 or another utility location service before you begin, and having plans to shore up the trench walls if necessary.
 Choosing a machine will depend on your budget and the size of the desired trench. Plotting the route of your trench with highly visible marking paint and thinking about the depth of your trench will help you determine the best trencher for your job. Most projects will only require a walk-behind trencher.


Walk-behind trenchers can dig up to 3 feet deep and between 4-6 inches wideOn average, a ride-on trencher can dig up to 7 feet deep and about 13 inches wide.
Ride-on trenchers are the largest available commercially, but due to potential safety concerns, these are usually only rented to professionals. You can contract a landscape company that installs sprinklers or a utility installation company to use this tool on your behalf.
 Most hardware stores will allow you the option of renting a machine for a few hours, a day, or even a week. Unless you have considerable trenching to do, or unless you have future projects requiring a trencher, renting might be the best option for your project.


Trenchers cost anywhere between $900 and $1 million to buy, and at least $70 to $200 to rent for a day or two, plus the cost of transport.You may also find a more affordable trencher through online services, like Craig's List or eBay.
 If you decide to operate a trencher, you might consider taking a free trench safety class. The main points you want to keep in mind are the stability of your trench, your footing, and the consistency of the soil, which will influence the effort you and your trenching machine will have to exert. Rocky soil or roots can cause stones or grit to become airborne, so it is recommended you wear safety glasses while operating your trencher.There is also considerable danger from the rotating digging chain, and from the risk of the heavy, powerful machine getting away from you.
 Each machine will be different, but most will have an ignition switch, a choke, and an engagement lever, which you will manipulate to control the trencher.Due to variations in make and model, it is safest to familiarize yourself with operation manuals before use.


If you have rented your trencher, do not leave the rental yard without a demonstration of the machine's operation, including a check that all safety and shut off switches are working properly. You should also have access to a copy of the manual, although you may be able to find this online by searching for the make and model information.
 Be sure to keep all other people and pets far away while the machine is running. During operation, if you need to clear debris from a stuck chain or trench, or leave the machine for any reason, always shut off the machine completely. Never leave the machine running while you are not operating it. Even if the chain is disengaged, the machine can cause severe injury or death., You'll want to double check that your path is clear, but now that you're aware of the basic functions of your trencher, turn on the ignition, pull out the choke, and position the digging chain where you want your trench to begin.
 Pull the engagement lever/switch (depending on model) and walk slowly backward along the trench path you have plotted. As operating this machine requires you to walk backward, be careful not to trip and hurt yourself or do damage to your trenching machine.


Large roots or stones might have to be cleared by hand. If your trencher stops for an unknown reason, turn the machine fully off, remove it from your trench, and explore with hand tools, clearing any obstructions with your shovels, Pulaski digging tool, or pruning shears.

