 Some herbs may help to relieve the pain and discomfort of excessive gas when taken as a tea. These herbs appear to work by calming the intestines, allowing the re-absorption of the gases produced, and making the gas easier to pass. The next time you need relief from intestinal gas, try drinking a cup of ginger, fennel seed, chamomile, anise, peppermint, or lemon balm tea.Ginger: Drink 1-2 cups of ginger tea with meals. Make the tea by grating 1 teaspoon of fresh, peeled ginger per cup of boiled water. Steep for 5 minutes and sip throughout the meal. Ginger tea can also be drunk after the meal. If taking ginger as a supplement, follow manufacturer’s directions. It is safe for children over the age of 2 and pregnant women. Discontinue use one week before any surgical procedure because ginger may slow blood clotting.Fennel seed: Fennel seed can be used as a tea (1 teaspoon steeped in 1 cup of boiled water for 5 minutes) or taken as the whole seed (1-2 teaspoons after a meal). It is safe for babies and children and is used to treat colic in babies.Chamomile: Chamomile is safe for babies and children. Pregnant women should avoid chamomile tea as there is a risk (a very small risk) of miscarriage that has been reported. It is most often taken as a tea.Anise: Anise fruit has long been used as a carminative. Caution is advised using anise as a tea in pregnant or nursing women and children younger than 5 years old. To use, steep ½ - 1 teaspoon of dried anise fruit in 1 cup of boiled water for 5 minutes.
Peppermint: Peppermint should not be used with children under 2 years of age. To make a tea, steep 1 teaspoon of dried peppermint leaves in 1 cup of boiled water for 5 minutes.Lemon balm. Do not use lemon balm if you have a thyroid condition. To make a tea, steep 1 teaspoon of dried lemon balm leaves in 1 cup of boiled water for 5 minutes.Use cautiously and under the advice of a knowledgeable physician for children and pregnant or nursing women.;
, This seed has also been traditionally used as an after-meal digestive aid. Try eating ½- 1 teaspoon whole seed after meals or look for recipes that call for caraway seed. You can also use caraway essential oil to treat Irritable Bowel Syndrome along with peppermint oil.Ask your doctor first before giving to children or if you are pregnant or nursing.
 Dill weed has been used for centuries to reduce gas and bloating and has Generally Recognized as Safe (GRAS) status according to the US FDA.Use some fresh dill weed in a recipe, sprinkle over food as a garnish, or steep 1 teaspoon of dried dill weed in 1 cup of water for 5 minutes.
 These are natural enzymes produced by the pancreas to help digest foods. There are three main forms of digestive enzymes: Proteases (pre-digest proteins), lipases (pre-digest fats), and amylases (pre-digest carbohydrates). These enzymes are primarily derived from animal pancreas and are used to pre-digest your food, making it easier to absorb and decrease the amounts of undigested foods available to the gas-producing bacteria.


Examples of digestive enzyme products are made by Beano, Pure Encapsulations, Nature’s Secret and Source Naturals and can be purchased online.
Take digestive enzymes about 10-20 minutes before meals.
Some plants also contain natural digestive enzymes that can help reduce gas and can reduce the use of store-bought digestive enzymes. For instance, pineapple and papaya break up proteins, mangoes break down carbohydrates, and honey can break up proteins and carbohydrates.