 This source can include rain, well, spring, sea, river snowmelt or pond water. Water which covers an area of 21 by 21 feet (6.5 by 6.5m) is generally regarded as large enough to gather pure water., Water that may have bodily fluids from animals or humans is also unacceptable. Discolored water should not be used.


Make sure to use safe water to perform this ritual; in some warmer areas of the world, water may contain naegleria fowleri, an amoeba that, if inhaled into the nostrils, can cause a rare but usually fatal type of brain infection. The CDC has guidelines on how this type of ritual ablution can be done safely. , You should perform Ghusl with water as soon as you find a water source., It does not matter if you engaged in sexual intercourse or not - it is also required after unlawful acts and after wet dreams. Ghusl is not required for discharging madhiy (urethral fluid) which sometimes seeps out after thinking of or desiring intercourse - wudhu is sufficient in this case.
 This extends to bleeding after childbirth. If there is no bleeding after childbirth, it should be performed on the 40th day after childbirth.
 Those who died in Jihad don’t require Ghusl.
 This is preferred but not required.


When a disbeliever is converted to Islam.
Before Friday Prayer.
Before Eid Prayers.
After washing a corpse.
Before undertaking a pilgrimage to Makkah.
, The intention is inside your heart and saying it verbally is recommended.


, Wash your right hand up to and including your wrists. Rub between the fingers and repeat three times.
, Repeat three times. Remove all traces of semen (men) or vaginal discharge on the private parts with water and rubbing of the hands.
 Take water from the clean source and pour it into your mouth. Swirl it inside your mouth and spit it out.


Depending upon your preference, you can repeat this three times.
 Blow the water out into your left hand. Repeat three times.
 Wash it three times from your hairline to your chin and jawbone. Extend the washing from ear to ear.


Men should wash their beard. They can take a handful of water below the chin and rub it through the beard. Drag the wet fingers through the beard once.
 Repeat with the left arm.
 If men or women have braided hair, they should wet the base of the braids and hair. If they can’t wet the base, they should un-plait the hair.
 Repeat with the left side.
 Rub every portion of your body with the water to ensure your entire body is clean.
 Wash the feet, right then left, up to the ankles. Make sure to pour water between the toes and rub with your little finger.


Ensure you wash the soles of the foot.
All washing should be completed three times.
 Don’t delay in covering your body. As long as the entire body was washed three times in this order, you are considered eligible to perform Salah.