 It is very important to network when looking for a job or starting a new career. The thought of networking can be intimidating and scary especially for those that are shy and reserved. But networking can be your best bet in finding opportunities not listed on the job boards. Networking is much easier than you think. Networking is just getting to know people and striking up a conversation with a person in line at the grocery store, a parent at daycare or a neighbor. Everyone you meet can help you tap into the hidden job market.;
, Contact co-nationals in your country directly and ask them for information. You can find them through social and professional networks.
 Ask for information and even interviews through this entity.
 These people know the market inside out and can help you. Provide them with information about the work you're interested in and tell them about your experience.
 These companies will often employ foreigners too. Also, find ones which need workers who speak your language fluently. This can be an excellent way to get entry into the company.
 They will have lots of possible business connections.
 Posting your resume on job or resume banks can be very useful in helping you narrow down your job search to specific jobs that match your qualifications and skills. Many career sites have job matching engines that scan job openings and match keywords from you resume. Therefore, it is important that your resume is career specific and descriptive.
 These sites will have tailor-made information, links and forums where you can ask questions and find help.
 An elevator pitch has to create a visual image for you listener. It should be a 30 to 60 second pitch that sums up what you do and why this person should work with you.
 The primary source of information in today’s world is online web presence. It has become essential to have an online presence. A professional, well-organized and well-designed website can serve as your professional face. It can convey your professional identity by describing your qualifications and skills, and you can also market your services or skills that are marketable.

