 Big, masculine muscles are considered indicators of strength and health. However, while there is some truth to this, many very strong and healthy individuals do not look like body builders.


Look at a variety of athletes; the type of muscles develops depends quite a bit on the sport trained for. Weightlifters will look quite different than divers, speed-skaters, or professional dancers. But all have to be strong and healthy.
Many athletic people are not "ripped". While a very dedicated athlete likely has a great physique, even good amateur athletes are not necessarily outstandingly muscular. In fact, many athletes (such as marathoners) tend to look scrawny rather than brawny.
Think of reasons to exercise other than your physical appearance.
Exercising to have fun, relieve stress, improve concentration or vitality, or socialize creates a better relationship with your body and exercise.;
, For men especially, focus on a muscular appearance tends to be the ideal. But this narrow focus tends to ignore the fact that rippled muscles are not the only feature that people find attractive.


Just as men find attraction in different features, women do too. Some women swoon over big biceps. But others prefer a more slight build. Others are more impressed by other things. Women are diverse in what they find attractive...not just muscles.
Different physical attributes are good for different things. Very large and muscular people often lack the flexibility, agility and coordination of someone with a slighter frame.
Not everyone excels at sports and physical activities, and many people do not have that as a requirement for attraction..
Remember that other talents attract romantic partners. Playing the guitar, being a great dance partner, being able to get a computer working can all be just as "sexy" as a muscular body. , Sometimes the hardest pressure you can come under about your body is from people you know, especially friends and family. We learn from the people with whom we spend the most time, so if you grow up in a house of people who take body image very seriously, you are likely to feel under more pressure to conform to this standard.


The same is true for your friendship groups, where you are likely to spend time talking about clothes and appearance.
Despite pressures you may feel to go along with what others say and do, remember that these standards are created and not fixed or natural.
Try to spend time with people who have a healthy relationship with their bodies, physical activity, and food., If you have a negative body image, you are not alone. It has been suggested that around half of men don’t like to be photographed or seen in swimwear.Other research has revealed that a majority of men feel that part of their body is not muscular enough. The research also reported that more men than women would sacrifice at least a year of their life in exchange for what they perceived to be a perfect body.


More than half of those surveyed said body talk affected them.
63% said that they thought their chest or arms were not muscular enough.The high percentages of men unsatisfied with their bodies reflects the prevalence of idealised images and the difficulty of achieving them in reality.
 If you want to try to develop a positive body image, it’s important to try to think critically about the idealised physiques that are so prevalent across culture and society. It can be very difficult to escape these images, so rather than trying to avoid them altogether, be appropriately skeptical about what they are presenting.Realize that advertising images do not reflect reality; they are something created to try and make you want to buy something.
Whereas women typically feel under pressure to lose weight, men generally feel under pressure to gain more muscle mass.Remember that photographs in magazines and advertising are often altered and Photoshopped, with imperfections removed, muscles enhanced, etc., If you find that you are very down about your body, and your mood is negatively affected when you think about how you look, consider getting some professional counselling or guidance. This is especially recommended if you find yourself developing destructive and harmful behaviours, such as compulsive exercise or binge eating.


Contact your doctor in the first instance and explain how you are feeling.
Your doctor may refer you to a counsellor who can talk through everything with you, and help you take steps to develop a healthier body image.