 Just like cats, dogs will also do things that they shouldn’t. Upside-down mousetraps and deterrent devices are very effective at discouraging a dog’s bad behavior (e.g., getting into a trashcan).Withholding a treat when a good behavior is not performed is another undesirable consequence, and is especially useful when training your dog.


Meeting bad behavior with inattention is another good way of making your dog’s bad behavior undesirable.Keep in mind that inattention will not always be a practical way to handle bad behavior, especially if that behavior results in physical injury.
 Your cat can certainly cause your love to wear thin if he is scratching up your furniture or attacking you. Rather than reprimanding him with harsh words or physical punishment, you can try other ways to make his bad behavior undesirable. For example, if your cat is scratching your sofa, you can make your sofa undesirable by placing orange peels by the sofa (cats don’t like the citrus smell) or putting double-sided tape on it.


If your cat is attacking you by playing too roughly, you can give him a time out. By not giving him attention, he will realize that his behavior is not rewarding, and will learn not to play roughly with you.
If your cat likes to jump up on countertops or tables, you can place an upside-down mousetrap on the surface that will flip upward when he steps on it. This will be upsetting enough to get your cat to stop this bad behavior, but will not injure him., If your bird tends to bite, you can communicate through your body language that this behavior is unacceptable. For example, if your bird bites you when he is perched on your arm, you can rotate your arm to throw him slightly off balance. Creating unbalance without causing him to fall will be just enough to let him know that he should not bite you.If he is perched on your hand, you can unexpectedly and slightly drop your hand to throw him off balance., Discouraging your horse’s bad behavior can involve the use of direct (your hand) or indirect (your lead rope) pressure. For example, if your horse makes a habit of invading your personal space, you could use a lead rope or your hand to apply pressure to his body—the pressure will not hurt him, but will make him uncomfortable enough to step back.


Due to a horse’s size, the risk of serious physical injury can be far greater with a horse’s bad behavior than a dog or cat’s bad behavior. If the bad behavior poses a physical danger, consider contacting your equine veterinarian or equine veterinary behaviorist for guidance on addressing dangerous bad behavior.

