 One way you can protect small animals in your yard is to place areas where you feed them out of reach of cats. For example, place bird feeders in locations that a cat cannot reach even by climbing. This is usually at least 10 feet from shrubs or other areas where a cat could hide.Placing bird feeders away from all hiding places can be difficult in yards that have lots of bushes and hiding places. If this is a problem for you, you can try fencing off the area under the feeder to slow down cats that may try to sneak up on birds or squirrels.;
, In order to deter cats from coming into your yard you can place motion activated sprinklers that will soak a cat if it walks by. Water is a good deterrent for cats and it will hurt anything but their pride.Remember, however, that motion activated sprinklers can be set off by other animals, such as the wild animals that you want in your yard and humans that forget to turn off the sprinkler before coming in the yard.
 There are some plants that you can put in your yard that will protect small yard animals from cats because they are spiky or prickly. Planting one of these plants, such as holly, under areas where you feed wild animals can be very helpful in keeping cats at bay.There are also plants, such as herb rue, lavender, pennyroyal, and lemon thyme that cats do not like the smell of. Planting these in areas where you have a lot of wildlife activity can help protect that wildlife from cats.The key is to put plants in your yard that will make hiding and stalking small animals more uncomfortable for cats. If you have a very persistent cat that always hides in the same place, consider replacing what is there with a holly bush. Hiding in a holly bush will be very uncomfortable for that cat.
 There are products that you can use to keep cats out of your yard. One product is an ultrasonic cat deterrent that claims ot emit ultrasonic noises that cats do not like, but that do not bother other animals or humans. Putting one of these up can potentially keep unwanted cats out fo your yard.There are also chemical repellents that you can spray around your yard. These give off smells that keep cats away.
Commercial deterrents and repellents can be found at most large pet stores, big box stores, or from online retailers.
 There are some products that you may have in your house that can keep cats away from the small animals in your yard. These are strong smelling products that cats do not like the smell of, such as citrus, vinegar, and essential oils.Simply put your strong smelling product in a spray bottle and spray along the edge of your property and on the ground in areas where wildlife congregates.
If you choose to use a strong smelling deterrent, you may need to reapply it regularly. This is especially true if you live in an area where it rains, as this can wash away your deterrent.
 To deter cats from entering your yard, you can make access more difficult. Putting up a fence the doesn't have a top edge cats can walk on can limit a cat's access to your yard. Fully fencing the yard with a tall fence will make it less likely that cats will come in. However, they still may occasionally find their way over the fence.Making a complete perimeter around your yard may also limit the number of wild animals from entering it, such as raccoons or squirrels. However, birds may find it a wonderfully safe refuge.
Putting a tall fence around your yard may not keep cats out completely but it will make it less likely that cats simply wander in.

