 Even though telemarketers are supposed to reveal their phone numbers, many don't Blocking unknown calls is a good way to screen out the callers you don't want to hear from. If you're using an iPhone or Android, there are apps that automatically block calls from hidden numbers.


Blacklist call is the fastest and most intuitive app for Androids to automatically block SPAM calls from annoying telemarketers.
Call Control is the most popular app for Androids to block telemarketers.
Call Bliss is the most popular app for iPhones to block calls from unknown numbers.
 Androids and iPhones both have settings that allow you to only get calls from the people you want. The drawback is that if an organization or person you actually want to hear from has an unknown number, you won't get the call. If you get an inordinate number of unknown calls from spammers every day, this might be a good option.


You can set your Android to Privacy Mode so you only get calls from people you preapprove from your contacts list.
Use Do Not Disturb on your iPhone. You can silence calls from everyone except for those selected from your contacts list.
 Call trapping services are paid services that force the caller to show the number from which they're calling. TrapCall is the most popular service, and works with iPhone and Android (but not landlines)., Your phone company provides a range of call blocking and screening services. These types of services come with a monthly fee. Call your phone company to see what options are available to you. Services such as Call Screen, Priority Ringing and Call Return are ordinarily available in most states.


Call Screen can be set up to block calls from specific numbers by sending that caller to a pre-recorded message telling them that you will not take their call.
Priority ringing allows you to set up special ring tones for individual numbers so you know without looking at your phone if you want to answer it.
Call Return allows you to call the last person who called you even if their number came up as "private" or "unavailable."

, Inbound call blockers require the caller to punch in a code to reach you. This will stop calls from all callers who do not possess your personal code. While this might make it a hassle for friends, family and acquaintances to reach you, it might be worth it if you're being constantly harassed by solicitors.

