 Age is the most important risk factor when determining stroke risk. The risk of having a stroke nearly doubles every ten years after people reach 55 years of age., One of the biggest risk factors for a stroke is if the person has already suffered from a stroke or transient ischemic attack (“mini-stroke”) in the past.Work closely with your doctor to minimize other risk factors if you have one of these events in your history.
 Though men are more likely to suffer from a stroke, women are more likely to suffer from a fatal stroke. The use of birth control pills also increases the risk of stroke in women., Atrial fibrillation is a rapid and weakened irregular beating in the left atrium of the heart. The condition leads to a slowing of blood flow, which increases the risk of blood clots. A doctor can diagnose AF with an electrocardiogram (ECG).Symptoms of AF include a fluttering feeling in the chest, chest pain, lightheadedness, shortness of breath, and fatigue., These malformations cause blood vessels in or around the brain to bypass normal tissue in ways that increase risk of stroke. AVMs are most often congenital (though not hereditary), and they occur in less than 1 percent of the population. However, they are more common in men than women., Peripheral artery disease is a condition in which your arteries narrow. This narrowing of the arteries makes clotting more likely and prevents the proper flow of blood throughout your body.The arteries in your legs are the ones usually affected.
Peripheral artery disease is a main risk factor for stroke.
 High blood pressure puts undue stress on your arteries and other blood vessels. This can create weak spots that rupture easily (hemorrhagic stroke) or thin spots that fill up with blood and balloon out from the artery wall (called an aneurysm).Damage to the arteries can also lead to the formation of clots and impaired blood circulation to cause ischemic strokes.
 If you suffer from diabetes, you have a greater risk of stroke because of the health problems associated with diabetes. If you suffer from diabetes, you may also have other health problems such as high cholesterol, blood pressure, and other forms heart disease, all of which can put you at an increased risk of stroke., High cholesterol is also a large risk factor for stroke. High cholesterol leads to plaque formation in the arteries and can block blood flow, which leads to stroke. Maintain a healthy diet low in trans fats to maintain appropriate cholesterol levels., Smoking tobacco damages both the heart and blood vessels. Additionally, nicotine use raises your blood pressure. Both of these issues put you at greater risk of stroke.Even exposure to secondhand smoke from others smoking raises the risk of stroke in nonsmokers., Consuming alcohol in excess can cause various medical conditions, such as high blood pressure and diabetes, that could increase your risk of stroke.


Alcohol consumption causes platelets to clump, which can lead to stroke or heart attack. Excess drinking can also cause cardiomyopathy (weakness or failing of heart muscles) and abnormalities of heart rhythm, like atrial fibrillation, which can cause the clot formation and lead to stroke.The CDC recommends that women have no more than one alcoholic beverage each day and that men have no more than two., Being obese can lead to medical conditions such as diabetes and high blood pressure, which increase the chances of being affected by stroke., Exercising regularly will effectively prevent many of the aforementioned conditions, such as high blood pressure, high cholesterol, and diabetes.Aim for at least thirty minutes of cardio exercise every day.
 Certain ethnicities are more prone to stroke than others. This is due to a variety of genetic and physical attributes. Blacks, Hispanics, American Indians, and Alaska Natives are all at a greater risk of stroke based on predispositions.Blacks and Hispanics are also at a higher risk for sickle cell disease, which can cause red blood cells to form in an abnormal shape that makes them more likely to get stuck in blood vessels, leading to higher potential for ischemic stroke.