 Double-click on the icon of your preferred Internet browser found on your desktop.;
, Once the browser is open, click the address bar at the top of the screen and type in www.elance.com; hit Enter, and you will be taken to the Elance home page.
 Click "Sign In" on the top right section of the screen and you will be taken to the sign in window. Click inside the first box and type in your email address; when that is done, click on the second box and enter your password.


Once you have completed both of these, click the “Sign in” button to load up your account.
 Once your home page has loaded, click on your username at the top-right section of the screen. Then click on “Profile” from the options that appear.
 Below your name on your profile page is a subheading that says “Overview” with the word “Edit” beside it; click on “Edit” to load the Edit window.


A screen will load with all the different settings you can edit to make your profile better.
 The first and second box on the Edit window is for your first and last name. You can click each box individually and change this information if you did not add a last name.
 Below your name is an option for you to enter a tagline. This is a great way to come up with a catchy slogan that describes the kind of work you do. All you need to do is click inside the box and type in your tagline.
 Below your tagline is an option for you to enter an hourly rate. If you click inside the hourly rate box, you can type in what you want to get paid for an hour’s worth of work.


The Elance fee will automatically be included into the second box.
 Once you enter in your hourly rate, you can click the next box, which asks for your YouTube video URL. If you do not have one, you do not have to enter anything. If you do, simply copy and paste your video link in the box.


Video introductions can help prospective clients be confident in you, especially if you provide concise, well-articulated information regarding your skills; it can also help you be more credible as it would appear that you're introducing yourself to your clients face-to-face.
 You can click inside the next box and write a paragraph or so about yourself, the positive traits about working with you, and why you would make a good partner to work with.
 A service description is a summary of the types of work you are good at, where all of your strengths are. This is crucial for getting good clients.


Click inside the Service Description box to begin typing in your information.
 The second to last box is for your payment terms. This all depends on what you personally want to put. Click inside the box and type in your terms.
 The final box is for selecting your keywords. These words will help clients find you easily by searching for one of your keywords.


You can have between 1 and 10 keywords; to add them, just click inside the box and list 10 keyword skills, separating each with a comma.
 When you have finished filling out the information, it is recommended that you read back through your changes to make sure everything sounds great.
 When you have finished double-checking, click on the green “Save” button on the bottom of the screen to save your profile changes.