 If you're already blonde, you're good to go! If not you can still get highlights or even dye it completely! However, getting Hanna's hair really isn't all about the colour - what's more important is that it looks great and will flatter your natural skin tone and face shape. Hanna's hair is always styled in curls. Alternate the way you curl them around your curling iron for a messier "Hanna" look. When you get to the front of your hair, though, curl the hair away from your face. For makeup, her eyes are always rimmed in black eyeliner, and she always sports a pink lip shade. In season 3 she has more natural eyes with a smoky look at the lash line. Hanna also gets her hair cut short in season 5 so if it is short look at season 5.;
, Hanna borrows elements of everyone’s wardrobe to create looks that are strikingly chic with touches of trendiness, femininity, and glam. Hanna looks like she’s heading to a hip soiree every day, even when she's just going to class. Her look is very young Hollywood: it’s flirty and girly with a trendy edge. To get Hanna's style you don't necessarily have to shop at expensive stores, but you absolutely need to be unique!


Try ruffles or brightly-colored blazers.
 Just because you don't have to dress in expensive clothing doesn't mean you shouldn't know all the brands by heart! Spend some time looking at websites online for brands like Tory Burch and Splendid. If you comment on fancy brands, people will think you have them.
 Hanna loves her cell phone, so always carry yours with you! Also, keep light pink lipstick, lip gloss, a flashlight, and a nail file at all times.
 Hanna is especially savvy in fashion, so be sure you know what is going on and stay up-to-date on trends. You should also be informed about political events, music, and things of the sort. This doesn't mean you have to be a girl who only shops at exclusive stores. You can find cute things anywhere if you look.
 Hanna is hot, and she knows it! Her confidence makes her sparkle. She can be very sarcastic, but she's always up for a good time. Try to be confident and independent, and let people know your rules. Fun-loving and a little wild, she is all kinds of feisty and tough. Being popular is important to her, but being a true friend to her girls matters more to her than anything.
 Hanna is never one to conform to something she doesn't believe in. Being independent does not mean being sassy and rude to authority, though. Follow your heart and what you believe in. And follow your instincts - you never know when they may come in handy.
 Don't wait for others to initiate anything. Do it yourself and get things going when no one else will.
 Be tactful and have standards; they will get you further than you may think. People will always be mean, no matter how nice you are, so don't think about it.
 No matter what your hair or makeup looks like, being confident will always draw people to you. But don't be cocky! There's a border between confidence and arrogance.

