 This may be the biggest “no brainer” step of all, because you need to have good information on the card if it’s going to be helpful. Try to think of making flash cards as part of the study process, not just a step that allows you to study. It is oftentimes the first foray into the study process for you. Pay close attention to the material. Try to add your own insight while you are making them. It will help you remember the information later on.


Some researchers even think that hand-written flash cards work more effectively than those made on MS Word, with other software programs, or online. Princeton and UCLA psychologists found that information retention increases when students are forced to write it out on paper. Your brain is forced to process the new material in a different way than if you simply type it out verbatim., Don’t just make the flash cards and look them over right before a test. Reference them frequently. Set aside a chunk of study time when you won’t be disturbed. Go through the notecards methodically. Keep them at hand throughout the day and reference a couple during television commercials, when you are sitting on the bus, or waiting in line at the grocery store. Your goal is to know the entire stack backwards, forwards, and mixed up. You can only do this if you test yourself frequently., It doesn’t matter if the other person is in your class or not. All they have to do is be able to read to you what you’ve written on the card. Have them show you one side of the card. You then explain the material on the other side, making sure that you use key phrases.


If you are new to the information, you might even have your study helper show you the side with the information and then you say the key word., One of the biggest mistakes that students make is discarding their flash cards after the quiz or exam. Information compounds over the course of the semester and from one class to the next. If you are taking a course that has several parts, consider creating a much larger “bank” of flash cards to reference in the coming months.

