 If you know what neighborhood you’re interested in living in, drive, walk or bike around the area. Look for “For Rent” signs, and if possible, inquire within.Make a list of all the things you “want” to have in your new place and all the things you “need” to have in your new place. Make sure any place you see has all the things you need before committing.
Trust your gut. If a place feels too good to be true, it probably is.
If no one is at home, try leaving a business card with your information. They may not call you back, but it’s worth a try.
 Before the Internet, all home and apartment vacancies were listed in the classified section of the newspaper. Purchase a local paper, and while you’re at it, drop in on some local coffee shops and businesses. Sometimes people will hang listings on bulletin boards or by the front desk.Check social media. Oftentimes, it’s easier to rent by reference, rather than listing an apartment online. Even if you don’t know someone well, chances are a mutual friend will be able to put in a good word for you.
Try looking on Reddit. The front page of the Internet often has apartment listings for the greater Los Angeles area., Renters do not have to pay realtors; the person renting the property pays that money. With that said, realtors have a wealth of knowledge and their expertise can come in handy when looking for a new home.Even if you choose not to hire a realtor, you can call a realtor to verify an owner’s name, so you don’t end up getting bamboozled.
Rental agents are often the first to know of a new property, so they are excellent resources for getting started.
 Look for open houses online and attend any that seem interesting. LA is a very competitive market, so open houses are usually crowded and aggressive. Renters frequently make offers at open houses, so attend each open house armed with the following materials:A renter resume, that includes credit score, your household income and occupation, any pet information and your rental insurance policy info.
A completed rental application.
A copy of your credit report.
A copy of your driver’s license or state ID.
Proof of income.
A checkbook. Make sure you have enough money in the bank to cover the cost of first and last month’s rent, plus a security deposit.

