 Some scents, such as coffee or spices, repel a dog from approaching and eating grass. Spray or spread readily available scents you have in your home to keep the dog from eating grass.Sprinkle black or cayenne pepper or chili powder around the edges of your lawn. You can also mix these in a bottle with water and spray it around the yard. Make sure to use only a moderate amount of each as sniffing these scents can cause your dog’s nose to become inflamed.
Dry coffee grounds, which have a strong and bitter scent dogs don’t like, in your oven for 20 minutes at 200 degrees Fahrenheit (93 degrees Celsius). Then flip the grounds over and bake for another 20 minutes.Spread dried grounds loosely on the grass and around the edges of your lawn. You’ll need about one cup (237ml) of grounds for each 40 square feet (3.75 square meters) of lawn you’d like to treat. Spray a mixture of equal parts lemon juice and vinegar around the yard. These scents will deter your dog from crossing on to the lawn. Avoid spraying directly on the grass, as the vinegar may harm your lawn.
 Certain plants have a scent that repels dogs. Creating borders around your grass with these plants can keep your dog away from the lawn. The following plants may deter your dog from eating grass:Coleus canina
Marigold or calendula
Lemongrass
Citrus trees
HolliesEvergreen huckleberry
Succulents such as aloe

, Despite your best efforts, your canine companion may still chew on grass. Some owners physically punish their dogs to stop undesirable behaviors. This does little to deter the behavior and can make your dog fear you.Using a firm, “No!,” can teach your dog to stop eating grass. If your dog is on a leash, you can gently pull on it while saying, “No!”Stay consistent with your reprimanding. Dogs eventually learn that “No!” means you don’t like the behavior.
 Although sometimes difficult, you can train your dog to not eat grass. The safest and kindest way to do this is using a spray bottle. Whenever you go outside with your dog, carry a spray bottle filled with cool and clean water. If your dog puts its mouth near the grass, reprimand it with a firm "No!" followed by a spray in the face with the water. Avoid filling the spray bottle with hot water or other liquids. These could get sting your dog’s eyes or hurt it.
 If your dog continues to eat grass despite your best attempts, schedule an appointment with your vet. The vet can examine your dog for underlying physical and mental conditions. The doctor may also suggest an animal behavioral specialist or dog trainer who can help stop your dog from eating grass.

