 If you feel emotionally healthy enough, and if you think you parent will be receptive, you could consider talking to them about your feelings and experiences. This could help you come to a better understanding of your relationship with your parent and hear your parent’s perspective. An honest, open conversation with your parent could offer new insight on your past.If you choose to have a conversation with a parent who was abusive, or who struggles with mental illness or addiction issues, it may be wise to have this conversation in the presence of a therapist. A therapist can also help you prior to the conversation with your parent about what you can expect, as well as coach you on what you want to say.
It may feel freeing to express yourself to your parent, but understand that they might feel under attack and defensive.
You and your parent could decide what you want to do next. For example, “Dad, we’ve gone a few years hardly speaking to each other. What should our relationship look like going forward?”

, Sometimes we become weighed down by our grudges and resentments: “If only he had done this,” or “I still can’t believe she treated me like that.” Forgiveness is coming to a place of acceptance about the past and vowing to let go of the anger you have been clinging to.Forgiveness doesn’t mean that you condone the behavior. Rather, you are refusing to let it anger you any longer, and you are coming to a place of peace and acceptance about the past.
Just because you forgive someone doesn’t mean that you will have them in your life and everything will be wonderful. Often, people may choose not to have any contact with those they forgive. Forgiveness is often more for yourself than for the other person. Besides psychological and emotional benefits, there are lots of health benefits to forgiveness, including lower blood pressure and a stronger immune system.You may wish to develop a ritual to acknowledge your forgiveness. You may decide to throw something into the sea, or write a note with all your anger and bitterness and set it on fire or rip it to shreds., There will be a huge surge of hurt in your heart when you realize that your parent let you down. You were born into parents that were too self involved or concentrated on the wrong things to the point of destruction. This is not your fault, but how you deal with it is your responsibility.


Do not allow yourself to be made to feel guilty or ashamed for your childhood behavior. If your parent says, “You were such a mouthy child, it’s no wonder I lost my temper,” you could say, “You had no excuse to verbally berate a child the way you did.”

, Be the bigger person and admit fault if you contributed to the family dysfunction in some way. This may be difficult if you are still waiting on an apology from your parent for their behavior, but do it anyway. Be a role model for the behavior you would like to see in your parent.


You could say, “I’m sorry I caused so much trouble in the family when I was drinking as a teenager. I know that it was hard on you.”
Do not, however, be coerced into making an apology for being a “bad” child. You could say, “I think our family has a lot of problems, and I think I tried to deal with them any way I could.”

, Your parent may change someday down the road. If you are in contact with your parent, you can encourage them to seek counseling or join a substance abuse support group to get help. Perhaps little nudges in the right direction will make a difference. But keep your expectations reasonable. If your parent has never been anything but emotionally distant from you, for example, there is likely little possibility of that changing.


Accept that you can't control your parent’s actions. The only behavior you can change is your own. Changing your own behavior, by speaking up or setting limits, may in turn impact their behavior. For example, if your alcoholic parent is drinking around you, you could say, “I told you we wouldn’t be spending time with you if you are drinking,” and end your visit.