 You can join a club, go to school, or go to church, but you still won't make friends if you don't actually talk to people. By the same token, you don't have to be involved with an organization to be social. Any time you talk to someone, you have a chance at making a lasting friend. Most conversations may be a dead-end of sorts, and you may never talk to that person again, or you just remain acquaintances – but once in a while you'll actually make a friend.You can talk to anybody: the clerk at the video store, the person sitting next to you on the bus, or the person in front of you in the lunch line. Don't be too picky.
 If you have an unfriendly countenance, people are less likely to be receptive to your friendship. Look people directly in the eye when they are speaking to you (or when you are speaking to them) and offer them a warm, friendly smile.Do not squint, look bored, frown, or appear blankly deadpan, fold your arms (this practically screams "don't talk to me") or hang out in a corner; such habits may make you look troubled or disinterested.
 Once you find a person you’re interested in becoming friends with, you need to initiate a conversation with that person. This will help you connect to that person and start forming a friendship.Try making a comment about your immediate environment. The weather is a classic: "At least it's not raining like last week!"
Make a request for help: "Can you help me carry a few boxes, if you have a minute?" or "Can you help me decide which one of these is a better gift for my mom?"
Give a compliment: "That's a nice car" or "I love your shoes."
Follow up immediately with a related question: Do you like this warm weather? What kinds of gifts do you normally buy for your mom? Where did you get shoes like that?

, Keep the 30% talking/70% listening ratio in mind during small talk when possible. Keep in mind that this is only a general rule, and it can change from situation to situation as needed.People enjoy talking about themselves. So, listening more than you talk will make you seem like a desirable friend.
 It can be as simple as saying "Oh, by the way, my name is..." Once you introduce yourself, the other person will typically do the same.Remember his or her name. If you show that you remembered things from your past conversation(s) with the person, not only will you look intelligent but he or she will see that you were paying attention and are willing to be a true friend.
 That will give you a better opportunity to talk and get to know each other a little bit better. Invite them to join you for coffee sometime and give them your email address or phone number. This gives the person the opportunity to contact you; they may or may not give you their information in return, but that's fine.A good way to extend yourself is to say: "Hey, well, I've got to go, but if you ever want to talk over lunch or coffee or anything like that, let me give you my number/e-mail address."
Maybe they don't have time for new friends – don't take it personally. Just offer your contact information to whoever seems to be potentially a good friend, and eventually somebody will get in touch.
 You can chat your heart out but it won't get you a friend if you don't open up the opportunity for another conversation or meeting. This is especially important if you meet someone who you aren't otherwise likely to meet again.Tell some new people that you’re having people over to watch a football game or for a fun dinner party. Or suggest going out to the movies or to a bar as a group.
 If you've discovered that the person you're talking to has a common interest, ask them more about it and, if appropriate, whether they get together with others (in a club, for example) to pursue this interest. If so, this is a perfect opportunity to ask about joining them. If you clearly express interest (when? where? can anyone come?) they'll probably invite you.


If you have a club, band, church, etc. that you think they might enjoy, take the opportunity to give them your number or email address and invite them to join you.

