 Cut four hearts from red paper that are roughly 1 in (2.5 cm) tall and wide. Glue or tape two of these hearts to the top of the fruit cup where the pull tab is. Attach them so the tops of the hearts poke beyond the rim, creating what will be two heart shaped feet. Then:

Use a felt tipped marker to draw spots all over the fruit cup.
Turn the cup upside down, so the heart feet face downward.
Attach googly eyes to the side of the cup.
Fasten pipe cleaner to the upwards facing bottom of the cup for antennae.
Glue or tape your remaining paper hearts to the tips of each antenna. Your love bug fruit cup is complete., You’ll need a pudding cup, a juice box, three foil wrapped chocolate hearts, and two rolls of Smarties for each robot. Hot glue two hearts at the bottom of the juice box to form feet. Then:

Attach one roll of Smarties on each side of the juice box to give your robot arms.
Orient your pudding cup upside down and glue its top to the top of the juice box.
Glue googly eyes on front of the pudding cup and a final heart to the front of the juice box.
Draw a smile to finish the face on the pudding cup and pack your kids’ lunches with this treat., Assemble pipe cleaners, a clothespin, a pink marker, plastic baggies, googly eyes, glue, and M&Ms. Color your clothespin pink with the marker. Fill the plastic bag halfway with M&Ms and seal the bag. Then:

Separate your M&Ms so half are on each side of the baggie.
Clip and fasten the baggie with your clothespin at the middle. The candy in both sides of the bag should look like butterfly wings.
Glue googly eyes and pipe cleaners (for antennae) to your clothespin to complete this treat., Applesauce, yogurt, and many kinds of food and drinks are served in convenient squeeze pouches. Take one of these and tie a tag on it that conveys a cute message, like “You’re my main squeeze.”

You might want to cut out your tag in a Valentine’s Day themed shape, like a heart. Coordinate the colors of your tag with Valentine’s Day red and white.