 This simple construction literally translates as "is going to do," and is used similarly in English. For example, use the near future for sentences like "I am going to run," "She will eat," or "they are going to study," basically any sentence where the action is going to take place soon. To use the near future tense, simply conjugate "aller" in the present tense and add your unconjugated verb. The example uses the verb "nager" (to swim).



First person: "vais + verb." Je vais nager → I am going to swim.


Second person: "vas + verb." Tu vas nager → You are going to swim.


Third person: "va + verb." Il va nager → He is going to swim.


Plural first person: "allons + verb." Nous allons nager &rarr: We are going to swim.


Plural second person: "allez + verb." Vous allez nager → You all are going to swim.


Plural third person: "vont + verb." Elles vont nager → They are going to swim.
 Remember that the infinitive is the normal version of the verb, like "parler," "finir," or "enterndre." The future stem always ends in an "r," so you must eliminate the "e" in verbs like "entrendre to continue. However, there is only one set of endings for every future tense verbs: "-ai, -as, -a, -ons, -ez, -ont." The following example uses "nager" (to swim):



First person: "-ai." Je nagerai → I will swim.


Second person: "-as." Tu nageras &rarr: You will swim.


Third person: "-a." Il nagera → He will swim.


Plural first person: "-ons." Nous nagerons → We will swim.


Plural second person: "-ez." Vous nagerez → You all will swim.


Plural third person: "-ont." Elles nageront → They will swim.
 There are, of course, exceptions to the rules. There are only a few, however, and a Some examples and their future stems include:


être → serr-

Voir → verr-

Pouvoir → pourr-

Voulor → voudr-

Aller → ir-, This is one instance where French and English differ. For example, English speakers would say, "When she finishes, they will eat dinner," with the first half in the present tense (she finishes) and the second in the future (they will eat). In French you would say, "Quand elle finira, elles mangeront."

