 There are several types of endocrine disorders that can impact your dog's hair and skin. These include disorders of the thyroid gland, adrenal gland, and the pituitary gland.Skin and hair problems are also often caused by allergies. If your dog is having issues with its skin and hair, you should consult with a veterinarian about possible causes and solutions.;
, Endocrine disorders can cause both weight loss and weight gain, depending on what type of disorder your dog has. Problems with the thyroid gland and the adrenal gland can cause your dog to either gain or lose weight. Problems in the pancreas can cause your dog to lose weight.In order to assess whether your dog has lost or gained weight, it's a good idea to have an idea of how much your dog weighs normally. If you know how much the dog weighs on an average day you can easily weigh it to see if it has lost weight.
 While weakness and lethargy can be caused by a wide variety of illnesses, they can be associated with endocrine disorders as well. Pay attention to your dog's energy level and take note if its energy level drops.


Lethargy and weakness are associated with endocrine disorders in the pancreas, adrenal gland, and the thyroid gland., Endocrine disorders can also cause problems in your dog's digestive system. This usually means your dog will have repeated episodes of vomiting or diarrhea, or both. It may also mean that your dog has less interest in eating than usual because it is not feeling well.


Digestive distress can be associated with a wide variety of illnesses. In the case of endocrine disorders, it is usually associated with problems in the pancreas, adrenal gland, or the thyroid gland., If your dog has symptoms that you think could be connected to an endocrine disorder then you should have it looked at by a veterinarian. Call your veterinary office and tell them about your dog's symptoms. They will schedule an appointment for you to bring your dog in.


If your dog is having severe symptoms and you are worried about its survival then you should bring your dog to a veterinarian right away. Call the veterinary office on your way in so that they can prepare for your arrival but don't wait for an open appointment if your dog is gravely ill.
 When you bring your dog in to see a veterinarian, they are likely to ask you a variety of questions about your dog's condition. Give the vet as much information as you can in order to assist them in coming to a thorough diagnosis for your dog.


Keep track of your dog's symptoms, even consider writing them down, so that you can tell your veterinarian exactly when you first noticed them and how they have progressed.
 Once your veterinarian has done a thorough physical exam of your dog and has discussed its symptoms with you, he or she may want to do additional testing to figure out what exactly is wrong with the dog. Approve these tests so that your veterinarian can get to the bottom of what is making your dog ill.


Testing usually begins with a general blood count and urinalysis. If any levels look off during these tests, then the vet can do follow up tests to narrow down the cause.
Once a veterinarian suspects a specific glandular problem, they can do specific tests on that gland's function. For example, if your veterinarian suspects a problem with the thyroid then he or she is likely to do a series of thyroid function tests, testing for T4 and TSH levels., Once your veterinarian figures out what they think is wrong with your dog, they will discuss the problem with you. They will also discuss the treatment and prognosis with you as well. Feel free to ask questions if you don't understand what they are telling you at first.


Take notes if you have a hard time remembering details. This will help you to treat and care for your dog later on.
Make sure that your vet is taking your dog's age into consideration when discussing treatment. You will need to weigh your dog's age and physical stamina against the treatment options your veterinarian presents.
 Medication can often be used to treat endocrine disorders that produce too much hormone. Syndromes that are caused by hormone deficiency are often treated by replacing the missing hormone. The most common example of this type of treatment is insulin injections that are used to treat diabetes. Medications used for endocrine disorders are sometimes injected, as in the case of insulin, but are often given orally. This is the case for steroid and thyroid hormone replacements.
Medications are often a good treatment option for senior dogs, as undergoing more invasive types of treatment could be too much for their aging bodies.
 If your dog has an endocrine disorder that causes too much hormone to be released then surgery to remove the malfunctioning gland may be one of the treatment options.For example, endocrine problems that are caused by tumors or tissue malformation may require surgery to correct.


Surgery can be very hard on senior dogs. You will need to discuss your dog's health and whether or not your vet thinks the dog can physically handle surgery before committing to this treatment. Some senior dogs, depending on their age and condition, are better off living out their days on medication than undergoing surgery even though the surgery could potentially eliminate the problem.
 Radiotherapy is extremely rare as a means of treating endocrine disease in dogs. A medical or surgical intervention is much more likely. However, if your dog has an endocrine disorder that causes too much hormone to be released then it may be able to be treated with radiotherapy. This type of treatment uses radiation to eliminate tissues that are malfunctioning.For example, radioactive iodine can be used to eliminate an overactive thyroid.
In many cases, radiotherapy is used on glands that cannot be surgically removed due to location or other restrictions.