 If you're sure your dog is healthy, he may be panting because he's thirsty and overheated. Offer your dog cool, not ice cold, water. If the water is too cold, your dog may find it uncomfortable and stop drinking.


If you're exercising with your dog, periodically give him water breaks.To prevent your dog from gulping too much water, try to give him water from a water bottle. Drinking slowly can prevent stomach cramps.;
, If your dog is overheating, you should put him in a cool place that has air conditioning or a room that has a fan running. If you have the option, let your dog go for a dip in the pool or lake. Once your dog seems to have cooled off and isn't panting as much, offer him water again.Consider dipping a towel in water, wringing it out, and draping it over your dog. This will cool him off, especially after exercising in a warm environment., If your dog is overexcited or anxious, take charge and calm him down. If you’re worried or panicked, your dog will feed off your emotions so don't appear nervous. Instead, comfort your dog by talking to him in a soothing voice while petting him.You may be able to distract your dog from what's worrying him. Try giving him a small treat or his favorite toy to play with.
 If your dog has been in a hot environment and is panting heavily, he may be overheated. Check to see if his gums are beet red or pale. If so, get your dog to a cool place with a fan on him and offer cool water.If your dog doesn't stop panting or acts weak, take him to the veterinarian.
 Your dog may pant heavily to flush his body of toxic substances if he has chronic health problems, like heart or lung disease. If your dog is obese, he's more likely to pant heavily because of heat exhaustion. This is because the extra fat and energy required to carry the weight makes your dog work harder.


If you have an older dog who suddenly pants more when he does average physical activities or when he's laying down, make an appointment to have him examined., Your dog may pant heavily if his body temperature rises externally (in hot weather) or internally (by fever due to illness or infection). In these cases, he'll pant to rid his body of this heat. If your dog has heat exhaustion or a fever over 102.5 degrees, immediately call the veterinarian. Your veterinarian should tell you what steps you'll need to take before bringing your dog in for medical treatment.To take your dog's temperature use a rectal thermometer, or an ear thermometer if your dog will tolerate it. Never take an oral (mouth) temperature since it won't be accurate.
 Take your dog to the veterinarian if you notice heavy panting and:Pain from arthritis
Pain from abdominal problems like bloat or pancreatitis
Pain from an injury
Fever over 102.5 degrees
Panting that lasts more than 10 minutes
A bluish purple or very pale mouth or tongue

See the vet immediately if your dog has bloat, pancreatitis, colored or pale mouth or tongue, and heavy breathing.
 Occasionally, some medical conditions or medications may cause your dog to pant heavily. Consult with your veterinarian if you suspect one of the following is causing the heavy panting:


Cushing’s disease: This hormonal disease causes your dog to produce too much cortisol.Panting is one of the minor signs of this disease, while a pot belly and increased eating, drinking, and urination are more common symptoms.
Medication: Some medications such as steroids (like prednisone) can cause your dog to pant.Pregnancy and related conditions: If your dog is pregnant, the added weight can cause her to pant heavily, especially by the end of pregnancy. Milk fever (eclampsia) in nursing mothers can also lead cause heavy panting. Calcium levels in the blood stream plummet when the milk demand for calcium becomes too high.