


You don't have to offer a complete bar. Consider serving just beer and wine or just a select few liquors. The same goes for mixers. Don't feel like you need to offer every possible mixer there is. Maybe just a couple sodas and a juice or two will suffice. If you want your guests to have the option of having top-shelf liquors or multiple mixers, you could choose to supply a couple choices, but have other options available for guests to purchase on their own.;
,


If you have a strict budget, let the venue know what it is. Once the allotted amount is gone, guests will have to pay for their drinks. As long as you offer enough for all of your guests to have a drink or two, it is completely reasonable to have a limit. Remember, too, that some guests won't have any alcoholic beverages while others will have more than their allotted amount.



If you are worried about saving money on drinks, look at your guest list. The more people you invite, the more drinks you will be expected to provide. Reducing the guest list will allow you to offer more to fewer guests.



In order to save some money at the bar during the reception, don't leave the bar open the whole time. Consider having servers offer a glass of wine at the table during dinner, but close the bar. This way, guests may have a glass of wine during dinner, but it will limit their access to additional drinks.



When you purchase drinks from the reception hall, you pay much more than you would buying a bottle off the shelf. They are hard to find, but certain venues allow you to bring in your own alcohol for them to serve. While the hall may still charge you corking fees or bartender fees, the overall cost will be significantly less. While this may require more footwork, it will definitely pay off in the end.



Whether you purchase the drinks from the venue or bring them in yourself, you will save by buying kegs and the largest bottles of liquor available. Buying boxed wine versus bottled can also save you some money, although some boxed wines are not of the highest quality. In that case, you'll have to decide whether you prefer quality over quantity.

