 Try to make a strawberry-banana Smoothie if you have the ingredients. All you need is 1 half of a Banana (chopped in to fourths), 4 medium sized strawberries (frozen or fresh), a cup of soy milk and 3-4 ice cubes. Add soy milk first then add the bananas, strawberries, and ice cubes then blend for about 20 seconds and enjoy. Or you can go to: https://www.wikihow.com/Make-a-Banana-Smoothie;
, Curl up on your bed with a blanket and a magazine/book.
 You can either just sit in the silence or you can do some stretches, yoga, tai chi, or Qui Gong. If you do decide to do one of these, research them and find some of the moves.
 You can also light some candles and put them at the foot of your bathtub. Relax for about 30 minutes and think of good thoughts, maybe a favorite past time or a favorite scene in a movie.
 Dry yourself by patting your body with a towel, your skin will feel softer if you do this. Wrap the towel around your body and stay in the bathroom.
 The steam from the bath softened the skin and loosened the hairs so that its less painful.
, Do not put on uncomfortable clothing such as jeans, tight shirts, skirts or work clothes, these won't help you relax at all.
, Mix a tablespoon of honey and a tablespoon of milk in the bowl then heat it in your microwave for 10 seconds. Mix again and apply to your face and neck for 15 minutes then rinse off with warm water. Splash your face with cold water about 3 times to close the pores. Pat your face dry with a towel.
 First fill a small bowl or bottom of a water bottle with warm water, you can add either add olive oil or lemon juice. Olive oil moisturizes while lemon juice whitens the nails. Soak nails for about 5 minutes then pat them dry. Clip nails to a mid-length (not long nor short) then use a toothpick to clean under them. Shape nails to an oval by going from the edge of the nail to the tip in a semi-circular motion. You can also paint your nails, but if you just took off nail polish its best to wait a day or two to let your nails breathe.
 The possibilities for a foot soak are endless. A favorite would be a half cup of epsom salts, 1/4 cup of sea salt, and 8 drops of Lavender oil. Lavender is soothing and it helps get rid of scars and heal blisters. Fill the bowl with warm-hot water and keep your feet in it for 15 minutes. Remove and dry.
 Scrub your feet while they are still wet if you use the pumice stone, but if you use a foot file make sure your feet are dry. Clip your toenails until they are short and square with round edges, make sure you also file the nails this way. Apply large amounts of lotion and sit back and relax for about 15-20 minutes then tissue the excess off.
 If you are using your computer and you don't wish to wait for a while til youtube loads, use www.imeem.com It is a safe playlist website and you can search all your favorite music, from classical to rap. Listening to music will help you relax. Sing or dance crazily, it helps a lot with relaxing!

, If it is the afternoon, it is perfect to have a 20 minute nap. Set your alarm to wake you up at this time, you will feel more energized.
 stretching helps blood circulation and oxygen get to the brain.
 Rent some or go on an adventure to find some on tv, either that or watch ones you already have. Chick flicks really help raise your mood. Some good ones are: "The proposal", "A Walk to Remember", "The Notebook", "The Devil Wears Prada", "Confessions of a shopaholic", and "The Other Boleyn Girl".
 this will help keep you energized!

, Walking helps clear your mind and help you get fresh air. Just make sure its not dark out, if it is then just stay in.

