 It actually starts months prior to to Deployment Day (or D-Day). This is considered Pre-mobilization phase where command has a "Warning Order" for a possibility that the unit will be called on to duty. For Active Duty Soldiers, they have a short time frame since it's their full time job to be prepare at a moment notice. For Reservist/National Guardsmen, it will take longer for them to prep for mobilization or MOB.
 The Military Physical is a comprehensive check to see if you are able to withstand the rigors of deployment. Depending on what Military Occupational Skill or MOS you have, if the job depends on good health, the Military doctors will ensure that if you have a medical condition, you will not be deployed. The Records check consist of making sure your military records are up-to-date and that your Family Care Plan is active and functioning. Also, if the you are getting close to Expiration of Tour of Service or ETSing, the Army Career Counselor will be knocking on your door to see if you want to re-enlist. Depending on the length of Mobilization, will depend if you will be deployed. If you ETS before the end of deployment, chances are, you will not be going or you might extend your enlistment to the end of deployment. So be aware of this before going.
 It can be hard to do when Reservist units get deployed when that the person who you used to call you Johnny from your work at the civilian office is now Sargent Smith during deployment-get use to it from day one of orders. Also, Active Component does not have that rapport luxury that Guardsmen/Reservist have so they may feel resentful towards "fraternization". They will call you out for it. So, be mindful of Military Bearing (or in civilian terms-respect of stature).
 It is their right yet, the helpfulness of the Family Support Group or FSGs can be helpful for young wives or wives who need moral support of those lonely days and nights. No family should be an island. Including your children will help understand why you must leave for a period of their lives. A Unit functions has fun things like live demonstrations, static displays of military vehicles and even the great army foods they serve. (as long as they don't serve Meals Ready for Eat (MREs)

, Many soldiers, young and old, have the belief that once they have mobilization orders at hand, they have the ability to be immune from stupidity. They want to drive 100+ MPH and flash their Military CAC card and act as if they have a get out of jail card. Last thing a commander wants is a person who has drama baggage looming at the end of the deployment. So, smart commanders will not deploy those drama king/queens. Mobilization to a combat zone must be focus on the mission. If a soldier's mind wanders around because the law is waiting at the end of the mobilization tunnel, because he forgot to pay child support throughout their deployment, that soldier is a risk to the unit. So, stay away from trouble and don't make trouble.

