 Doing what you love can distract you from thoughts of loneliness and make you feel more at ease. Whether you love to play video games or watch classic movies, take time for yourself. Just be sure to balance this with socialization so that you don't isolate yourself. Consider trying new things along the way, such as the following:Doing art projects such as painting, drawing, or crafts.
Building things or completing home projects.
Getting outdoors to run, hike, bike, ski, swim, or play.
Exercising or going to the gym.
Listening to or playing music.
Reading books you love or writing stories.
 Your thoughts and feelings are connected to your overall physical health. The more you take care of your body, the more you will feel happy and empowered to take care of yourself. If you feel more rested and relaxed, you'll likely feel less lonely.Get plenty of rest.
Eat healthy and drink plenty of water.
Relax with a hot bath or shower.
Practice deep breathing, meditation, or yoga.
 Modern technology has this wonderful ability to connect us, as well as remind us of what we don't have. If you are an avid social media junkie, you may find yourself seeing happy faces and cute photos of friends and family during the holidays. This may lead to loneliness or envy. Step away from social media and focus on you.Limit your time on social media. Avoid using it throughout the day. If you feel the need to check it, consider doing it once or twice in the middle of the day. Try to make a few positive, encouraging statements on others' posts to help keep your attitude in check. Don't look at social media sites such as Facebook or Instagram right before bed. You may be more vulnerable to feeling lonely late at night.
If you need to feel connected, consider calling a friend or family member, or messaging someone directly. Passively checking social media could make you feel more isolated even if you are scrolling through other people's personal lives and thoughts.
 Therapy can help to provide you with skills and self-awareness. If you have persistent feelings of loneliness that seem to linger for weeks or months, it may be better to seek help from a counselor. They can help you navigate your feelings.Therapy can help you to focus on you. Use it as a way to discuss your feelings of loneliness in a safe space.
Discuss about what expectations you have for the holidays and for yourself. A therapist is trained to tease out what may be really bothering you. If you already have a therapist, consider scheduling ahead in anticipation of the holiday season to ensure that you are on the books.
 Avoid using substances such as alcohol or drugs to cope with loneliness. Alcohol is a depressant, and can make you feel more down. If you are having thoughts of self-harm or suicide, see immediate help. You're not alone.


If you would like assistance with substance abuse treatment options or programs in your area, contact SAMHSA's National Helpline: 1-800-662-HELP (4357) or http://www.samhsa.gov/find-help/national-helpline

If you are having thoughts of suicide or self-injury, contact the National Suicide Prevention Lifeline at 1-800-273-8255 or https://suicidepreventionlifeline.org/


