 Many people exclusively use generic white bread for this recipe. However, most kinds of bread can be used to make cinnamon French toast. When choosing bread, avoid bread with large holes in it as it won’t hold the custard mixture very well. Instead:


Use slices of homemade cinnamon swirl bread to enhance the cinnamon flavors in this recipe.
Crumbly country-style breads make a sturdy, eggy French toast.
Use slices of French bread to make decadent, chewy cinnamon French toast.
For a firmer texture, use stale bread instead of fresh bread.;
, Whisk the eggs, milk, and cinnamon together in a large mixing bowl. If you don’t have a whisk, use a large fork instead. Stir the mixture until the eggs are completely incorporated into the milk.
 Choose a large flat-bottomed metal or cast-iron skillet. Place the skillet on the stove over medium heat and add two tablespoons of butter. Once the butter has melted and is bubbling, the skillet is hot enough to use.









If the butter begins turning dark brown or smoking, turn down the heat to avoid burning the butter.
 Place a slice of bread into the custard mixture and press it down gently with a fork. Use the fork to flip the bread over and soak the other side. As soon as the bread is completely soaked, remove it from the custard mixture and place it on the skillet.








Fresh bread should be soaked quickly to avoid crumbling. Stale bread can be soaked slightly longer as it’s sturdier.
 Let the French toast brown in the hot butter until the bottom is golden brown. Check the color by using a fork to peek under the slice. Next, flip the toast and allow the other side to cook until it’s golden brown.








If your skillet is large enough, you can cook several slices at once. However, take care not to crowd the pan or the bread won’t get crispy.
 After the French toast is golden brown, remove it from the skillet and set it aside on a plate. Continue dipping and frying slices of toast until you’ve used up all of the bread. If you run out of the custard mixture, mix up another batch and continue cooking.


Keep large batches of French toast warm by placing them in the oven at 350 degrees Fahrenheit (176 degrees Celsius.), Find a deep metal sauce pan with thick sides. Next, add the white sugar, brown sugar, flour, cinnamon, water, and vanilla extract. Use a whisk or large spoon to mix the ingredients into a slurry., Place the saucepan on your stove over medium-high heat. Heat the mixture, stirring constantly, and let it come to a boil. When the mixture is boiling, you will see large bubbles rising rapidly to the surface.
 Once the mixture is boiling, lower the heat and let it simmer. A mixture is simmering when small, active bubbles rise to the surface. Continue simmering the mixture until it thickens into a syrup. This process will take about ten minutes.Stir the mixture while it simmers.
 Remove the syrup from the heat and set it aside. Let the mixture cool for about ten minutes, stirring occasionally. Once the syrup is room temperature, serve it over cinnamon French toast, pancakes, sausages, or waffles. , Many people enjoy eating cinnamon French toast with standard French toast toppings. Most toppings are sweet or creamy and add a delicious variation of flavor. These toppings can include:









Sweet syrups, such as cinnamon syrup, maple syrup, or fruit syrup
Butter
Whipped cream
Fresh berries
Crumbled bacon

, The sweet flavors of cinnamon French toast pair perfectly with crunchy, savory sandwich fillings. Add some fillings to two pieces of toast and serve the sandwich dry or with maple syrup. For example:









Create a sandwich with breakfast foods such as bacon, a fried egg, and sausage.Make a cinnamon Monte Cristo with melted gruyere cheese and sliced ham.Craft a decadent, creamy sandwich by filling cinnamon French toast with crispy bacon and tangy goat cheese.
 Cinnamon French toast makes an excellent dessert. First, place a slice of hot French toast on a plate. Next, add a generous scoop of French vanilla ice cream. The warm cinnamon flavors pair wonderfully with the cold, creamy vanilla notes of the ice cream.Top the dessert with whipped cream, cinnamon syrup, or a dash of cinnamon sugar.


