 Take your Chromecast and plug it into a vacant HDMI port on the back of your TV.;
, The dongle needs power, so insert the microUSB connector into the jack behind Chromecast. Next, plug the USB connector at the opposite end of the power cable into a USB port on your TV.


If your TV doesn’t have a USB port, or if you do not want to use the port for whatever reason, you can use the power adapter that comes with your Chromecast. Plug the USB connector to the adapter, and then insert the adapter into a power outlet.
 Grab your TV remote and press the “Source” button, and select the HDMI input you plugged the Chromecast into.
 Download the “Chromecast” app from the Google Play Store, and install it by tapping on the green “Install” button in the app’s description page. Launch the app on your Android by tapping on the rectangular icon with the Chrome browser icon inside.
 Tap “Accept” on the lower right of the Terms and Agreements page, and then select your Chromecast for the list with a tap. Tap the “Set Up” button at the bottom of the screen, and take note of the code on the lower right of your TV screen.


Press the blue “I see the code” button at the bottom of your Android’s screen, and then set a name for the Chromecast in the text line at the top. Tap the “Set Name” button to finalize, connect the Chromecast to your wireless network by entering its password in the appropriate line, and then tap “Set Network” to continue. The Chromecast app should tell you that your Chromecast is ready for casting.
 Tap the Apps icon on your home screen, and then tap the Pebble icon denoted by the orange Pebble watchface with the text “Hello.” This will open the Pebble application, where you can manage your watch’s apps.
 After opening the app, you should see the MANAGE CONNECTION screen. This is where the app will scan for available Pebbles to pair with. Look for your Pebble in the list, whose unique ID should show up.


You can determine the ID of your Pebble by pressing the middle button of the watch, going to the Settings menu, and pressing the middle button again to open Settings. Press the middle button when Bluetooth is highlighted, and you should see the ID of your Pebble under the Bluetooth menu.
 You should feel your watch vibrate and show on-screen that a phone wishes to establish a connection. Press the Up button to accept it, and look at your Android to see the “Tap to pair with Pebble” notification entry in your notification panel. Tap the ALLOW button on the box that will appear, and you will have finished pairing your device.
 On the Pebble app on your Android, swipe in from the left edge to summon the control panel. Tap the GET APPS button to launch the store.
 Type in “Music Boss” in the search bar that appears after you tap on the magnifying glass icon in the top right. A list of results will appear at the bottom, so tap the Music Boss app to proceed.
 Notice the ADD button on the upper right of the description page for Music Boss. Tap it, and it will begin downloading the app into your Pebble’s app list.


Music Boss is only available for Android. As of the moment, there is no iOS counterpart.
 A companion app is necessary so the phone can interpret the controls coming from your watch. Do this by tapping on the APP REQUIRED button at the right end of the description page for Music Boss. Tap the “Go get it” button to open a direct link to the Play Store, and then tap the INSTALL button at the right edge of the Play Store screen. Wait for Music Boss to finish downloading and proceed.
 Launch the YouTube app in your Android by tapping the rounded red rectangular icon with the Play icon in the middle.
 Tap on a video you want to watch on your TV through Chromecast. As the video plays, you will notice a rectangular icon at the upper right corner of the video window. This is the Chromecast icon; tap it to open a list of available Chromecast devices. Select the Chromecast you’ve set up just earlier, and the TV will display the YouTube splash screen and begin playing your selected video.


As the video plays, browse through more videos and tap on them (they won’t play just yet when connected to YouTube TV on Chromecast), and a box will appear in the middle of your device’s screen with the “Play Now” and “Add to Queue” buttons. Tap on “Add to Queue” to add the video to the playlist.
 Now you can press the middle button on your Pebble to open the app list. Scroll until you reach Music Boss and open it by pressing the middle button. You will see that the currently playing video’s title is displayed on the watch. Controls for playback while on Music Boss are as follows:


Play/Pause—Toggle Pause and Play by briefly pressing the middle button.
Next/Previous Videos—Long-press the Down or Up buttons on the Pebble to play the Next/Previous video respectively.
Increase/Lower the volume—Short-press the Up/Down buttons on the Pebble to increase or lower the volume respectively.

