 Unless you're a very generous benefactor, it's likely you won't have a clubhouse or member's rooms, so as with a book club, consider having the coffee club rotate between member's houses. You can also benefit from visiting cafes and coffee houses as part of the meeting circuit, which is a great way to get out and about and enjoy yourselves.;
, Look for books that detail the history, the manufacturing process, the methods for making coffee and coffee recipes. All sorts of books about coffee exist, so have a search through online sales for ideas. These books will serve as a source of information for members to prepare information sessions, write newsletters, decide on events to hold, etc.


Offer to house the books and materials to begin with but be ready to institute a lending system as the club grows stronger.
 Ask people you know love coffee and that you enjoy spending time with first. As time goes on, they'll invite more people to join. Initially you might want to waive any fees and rules but these are things to consider for covering costs and keeping things clear once the club is more certain.
 At this meeting, discuss the sorts of things you'd like to do as a club, plus any grand goals such as tours of coffee regions of the world (it can't hurt to dream large from the start). Have new members suggest what they'd like to do and have a list of prompts to help guide the conversation. Things that the club might like to do include:


Taste different coffees each meeting
Do blind tastes for fun
Try cooking with coffee and sharing the results with everyone
Publishing a club newsletter with coffee tips and information
Get bulk discounts on coffee purchases as a club
Visit local cafes to enjoy different coffees styles
Read or discuss information about coffee within each meeting
Plan a tour of a coffee region in a year or so.
 Once the club becomes more formalized, elect position holders who are responsible for various aspects of running the coffee club.
 Ensure that all members are getting something out of belonging to the club and it'll endure for a long time.

