 It is important to model good listening behavior for your children by listening politely to them when they are talking, just as you would when speaking with an adult. Show your child what active listening looks like by giving them your full attention and acknowledging their requests. When your child comes to you, stop what you are doing, look them in the eyes, and acknowledge their feelings or perspective.If, for example, you are trying to get your child to try a new food, let them know that you understand what they are saying. Tell them, “I understand you think it will taste bad.”
The more engaged you become in the conversation with your child, the more likely your child is to mirror you and become engaged, themselves.
Allow your child to see you and know that you are fully interested in them and what they may be doing. Turn off any electronics (television, phones, radio, etc.) that might distract you. Also, put down the book or newspaper if your child wants to talk.
Allow for privacy between you and your child. Unless absolutely necessary, other people do not need to be involved in a conversation between you and your child. This is especially important if your child chooses to disclose something they find personal or upsetting. They came to you in trust. Honor that trust and allow for privacy.
Bring yourself down to your child's eye level when you are speaking with them. Don't tower over them and look down on them.;
, Whether you mean to or not, you may be showing your child that it’s alright to be stubborn when you talk to others. Practice listening to and compromising with others when your child is around. Give your conversation partner the same attention and positive attitude that you would want from your child.Show your child how to acknowledge others when they are speaking by looking them in the eyes and not interrupting them.
Demonstrate further acknowledgement by showing that you understand what they are saying. Try letting your conversation partner know, "I understand you feel sad because..."
If there is a serious matter that you need to discuss that may not warrant a positive attitude or compromise, try to not have the conversation in front of your child if possible.
 Show your child good daily listening skills by taking time each day to show interest in what they are doing. Sit down with them, ask them questions, and offer your company or assistance to show them what it is to actively hear someone.If, for example, your child is playing with their toys, ask them, “What are you playing?” and “Can I play with you?”
Practice this every day to show your child how to build a connection with others.

