 Some evidence suggest that MS may cause changes in your immune system that impact your mood.You can combat these changes by making sure you’re doing things to promote your overall health. For example, eat foods that support a healthy immune system and the body’s production of chemicals like dopamine and serotonin that fight depression.Eat plenty of fresh vegetables and fruit. For example, you might add blueberries to your morning oatmeal or have a spinach salad with your dinner.
Drink water, flavored water, or decaf tea rather than drinks that are high in sugar, caffeine, or from concentrate.
Avoid refined grains and processed foods. For instance, instead of a bologna sandwich on white bread, try a shredded turkey breast wrap using whole grain pita bread.
Include proteins, like chicken, nuts, and fish in your daily diet. You might have a handful of almonds as a snack, for example.
 MS can cause physical challenges and fatigue that make being active challenge. In addition, major depression can also leave you feeling like you don’t want to and can’t do anything. But regular physical activity can improve your health and decrease your stress. If you’re already seeing a physical or occupational therapist for help with your MS, ask them about ways you can get physical activity at home to help treat your depression.Try low-impact, calm activities like yoga or tai chi that will be easy on your body, but still give you physical and mental benefits.
Practice some of your therapy exercise at home on your own. Ask your physical or occupational therapist which moves would be good for you to practice at home.
Take a daily walk or try things like parking a space or two farther away from store entrances so you have to walk a few more steps.
Find a workout buddy. Exercising with another person helps keep you accountable and makes exercise more fun.
 This is a great way to treat major depression and MS because it helps calm and relax your mind and body.You don’t have to try to meditate for hours like a swami, but a few minutes of meditation may help you release stress and tension.


Try sitting or lying quietly somewhere comfortable where you won’t be disturbed.
Focus your mind on your breathing or on a word or phrase like, “Peace,” “Inhale, exhale,” or “I am relaxed.”
Gently redirect yourself when other thoughts enter your mind. Allow them to pass through your mind and then return your focus to your breathing or phrase.
 Depression and MS can both cause changes to your sleep habits. The physical challenges of MS along with the fatigue associated with both disorders may have you sleeping more than you would like or need to. At the same time, you may find that you have trouble sleeping because of the symptoms of your disorder. Create a sleep routine and stick to it so you can make sure you're getting the right amount of sleep.Set a regular time waking up and going to bed each day. Even if you don’t feel like getting out of bed try to do so. And even if you don't feel tired, when it's time to go to bed, go lie down.
Create bedtime and waking routines. For example, you might take a shower, have some decaf coffee, and read a book each night to get ready for bed. Avoid things that might wind you up, such as reading a thriller or journaling if it makes you very emotional (journaling before bed may be very helpful for others, however).
Turn your electronic devices, lights, music, etc. off when you’re getting ready for bed. Put your alarm on the other side of the room so that you have to get up each morning.
 Although some people think using alcohol or other substances helps their depression, it usually makes things worse.This can be even more so when you have MS because of the interactions the substances or alcohol may have with your medication and the negative impact this can have on your body. You can better treat your depression when you have MS if you limit your alcohol use and avoid abusing any substances.


No one should use illegal substances and if you are under the age of 21, you should not use alcohol at all.
Substance abuse includes using your antidepressants or other prescriptions in a way other than how they were prescribed.
Talk to your healthcare professional if you are abusing drugs or alcohol. They can help you seek treatment.
 Evidence suggests that quitting smoking can help improve your overall health (which will make your MS easier to manage) as well as help treat depression.Ask your health care professional about ways to help you stop smoking.


For example, you might say, “What are some strategies or treatments we can try to help me stop smoking?”
Ask family and friends to help you stop smoking. Your loved ones can provide you with encouragement when you’re trying to quit and keep you so busy that you don’t have time to smoke.
Get information about smoking cessation support groups and online forums from a source like MedlinePlus at https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007440.htm.

