 Epsom salts are approved by the FDA for use as a short-term laxative. If you have some Epsom salts at home, then you can mix 1 to 2 teaspoons of Epsom salts (check the package to be sure about how much you should use) into eight ounces of water and drink the solution. This should produce a bowel movement within 30 minutes to six hours.You can also take a bath with Epsom salts to help relieve your constipation. Fill a bathtub with warm water and add about one cup of Epsom salts to the water. Your body will absorb the magnesium in the Epsom salts through your skin.;
, Osmotic laxatives work by helping fluids move through the colon. However, keep in mind that long-term use of laxatives can lead to negative side-effects. They can cause an electrolyte imbalance, which may result in abnormal heart rhythms, confusion, and weakness and seizures. Long-term use may also lead to dependency and result in decreased bowel functionality.Some of the examples of osmotic laxatives include:


Milk of magnesia.
Magnesium citrate.
Lactulose.
Polyethylene glycol., If your constipation is severe, then you may want to take a laxative to get fast relief. There are number of different laxatives that are available from your local pharmacy or drug store. Stimulant laxatives work by helping fluids move through the colon. Some of the examples of stimulant laxatives include:Dulcolax
Senokot
Purge
Correctol

, A sodium phosphate enema is one way to relieve occasional constipation. It requires you to insert the enema tip into your rectum and then squeeze the bottle until enough of the substance is in your rectum. You will then have to stay in position for up to five minutes. After that, you will feel a strong urge to go to the toilet.These enemas are available at most supermarkets and drugstores.
 Severe constipation can lead to impaction and this can cause serious problems. If it has been three or more days since your last bowel movement and nothing seems to be helping, then call your doctor for advice. Your doctor may recommend an over-the-counter laxative, suggest visiting the office for an exam, and make other recommendations to help you have a bowel movement. Your doctor will generally only recommend such medications if over-the-counter laxatives have been ineffective., Warm liquids are a great way to get things moving in your digestive system and they can also help to keep you hydrated. If you are just starting to feel constipated, then start by drinking a cup of warm herbal tea, such as peppermint or chamomile, or a cup of warm water with about a teaspoon of lemon juice added to it.

Sip the warm fluids slowly and wait to see if this helps you have a bowel movement. You may feel the urge to go while you are drinking the warm fluid, or it may take a while.
 Prunes are well known for their ability to produce bowel movements. If you have some prunes or prune juice around your house, then try eating or drinking some prunes to help you have a bowel movement.You don’t need to overdo it, just have a few prunes or one cup of prune juice.
 Light exercise a great way to stimulate your digestive system as well. If you have been sedentary for a while, try getting up and taking a walk around your neighborhood to get your bowels moving.Even if constipation is making you feel uncomfortable, don’t sit or lie down. Get out and move around every day.Going for a daily walk or run can help ease constipation., A mixture of baking soda and water may also help to relieve your constipation. Mix a teaspoon of baking soda with ¼ cup of water and drink the solution. This remedy can also help to relieve gas or an upset stomach along with your constipation.Keep in mind that baking soda is high in sodium so this remedy is not ideal for people following a low-sodium diet.
 Stool softeners are for oral use, and are a relatively gentle laxative. Stool softeners are good products to use at first if you have occasional constipation. A stool softener, such as Docusate, works by increasing the amount of water the stool absorbs. The stool then becomes softer and easier to pass.Follow the instructions on the package. Generally you will take a stool softener once a night before you go to bed.
This is a good option if you are just starting to feel constipated because it is gentle. Stool softeners can also take a little while to work, such as one to three days.Do not take it for more than a week unless advised to do so by your doctor.

