 If the leather is wet, or appears to be covered in mold or mildew, you need to remove any dampness quickly. The moisture can damage the leather permanently and create a smell that will be very difficult to get out. There are several simple methods for drying out the leather:Place the leather in a spot in your home that gets indirect sun. Direct contact with harsh sunlight can cause the leather to crack, chip and wear out. Choose a spot that is by a window that filters sunlight or that is behind a screen.
Use a blow-dryer on a low heat setting. Avoid bringing the blow-dryer too close to the leather as this can cause it to crack or chip. Run the blow-dryer at a distance over the leather to soak up the moisture and prevent big water stains on the leather.
Use a clean dry cloth to wipe the leather dry, especially if you are trying to treat a pair of leather shoes, a leather jacket, or a leather purse. Skip alcohol based products or odor-masking products, like perfume, and use a clean dry cloth to give the item a good wipe. The chemicals in these products can get into the pores of the leather and possibly damage the item.;
, The porous quality of newspaper and packing paper means they are both great for absorbing any bad smells in your leather item. Always check that the leather item is completely dry and that you are using dry newspapers. The loose fiber in newspaper makes it softer and more absorbent than other options, like office paper.Crumple up several sheets of newspaper in a box and place the leather item in the newspaper. Close the box and leave it sealed for one to two days.
Check the leather item to see if the newspaper has effectively drawn out the bad smell. You may need to leave the item in the newspaper for another day.
 The acid in the vinegar will help to counteract bad odors and the smell of the vinegar, which could be a bad odor to some, will also dissipate with the any other bad smells in the leather.Before you use any acid based cleanser on the leather item, do a spot test to make sure it won’t discolor the leather. Mix equal parts distilled white vinegar and water. Choose a very small area on the item and dab the vinegar solution on the leather. If there is no discoloration or cracking on the leather, proceed with cleaning the item with the vinegar solution.
Use a clean cloth to wipe the surface of the leather with the vinegar solution.
You can also use a spray bottle to spray the leather with the vinegar solution and then wipe it clean with a cloth.
If the odor is really bad, you can try soaking the leather item in the vinegar solution for five to ten minutes. Make sure you dry the leather well after the vinegar soak so it does not get moldy or full of mildew., Baking soda is great for absorbing bad odors and it is safe to use on leather. You will need baking soda and a pillowcase or a zip-lock bag that is big enough to fit your leather item.Place the leather item in the pillowcase of the zip-lock bag. Sprinkle a thin layer of baking soda over the surface of the leather. You can also sprinkle the inside of the leather item to remove any odors on the inside of the item.
Tie the end of the pillowcase or seal the zip-lock bag. Let the item sit in the baking soda overnight, or for 24 hours.
Remove the baking soda by using a small vacuum or a clean cloth. Brush the baking soda off gently to avoid scratching the leather.
Repeat the baking soda process until the bad odor is gone.
 Due to the nature of leather, smells that absorb into the leather, from cigarette smoke to the “new smell” of the tanning process, will gradually lessen over time. Instead of trying to mask the smell with perfume or odor-masking agents, which will actually prolong the time it takes for the odor to pass, use your leather item often. If you can stand the bad odor, wear your leather jacket, your leather shoes, or your leather shoes on a daily basis to help the leather age.The aging process will also soften the leather, effectively opening the pores of the leather, and releasing the bad odor.

