 When you open up the website, there are two options. Go to zimmertwins.com and select "Kids and Families". Select this because this assures that you're going to the correct website.;
, There is a section labelled "Login" in the sidebar to the left. Either log in into your account or go through the steps to make one by selecting "Join The Site".
 You will be greeted by various clips that you can use as the prompt for your movie. You can also make movies from scratch. To use a starter, click one of the clips and click the link labelled:"Make movie from ". To make movies from scratch, just click the button that says "Make From Scratch".
 When you create a movie, you will be greeted by a movie-making screen. Most of the screen is taken up by the Clip Selection. There are four categories of clips. Take a look around with the buttons at the top-right corner at all the clips. There is also an area to preview your movie that looks kind of like a YouTube video player. At the bottom is your Timeline. We'll get to that later.
 Once you find a clip you like, click it and it will go into your Timeline and Preview Screen for your modifying. There will be a strip between the Timeline and your other components that summarizes the Clip in text. The green underlined words are the modifiable parts. For example, you can change the characters, what they're holding, and where they are. Play around with this.
 To modify text, click the text field in the Preview Screen and just type. Make sure you don't type anything inappropriate, because this site was designed for kids!

, In the Preview Screen area, there are two buttons: One to rewind to the beginning of your movie and one to play the movie. Rewind to the beginning (or drag the slider to where you want to preview) and push the play button. Your movie will then play.
 If you know anything about the writing process, it is advised that you proofread your movie for any errors before you publish it.


To select a clip so you can change the characteristics or text, click it in the timeline.
If you don't want a clip anymore, select in the Timeline and click the little red X that appears in it.
Again, edit out all inappropriate content!

, Click the button in the top-left corner to save your movie. Give a title for your movie and a description (optional) then click "Save".
 Go to the "Watch A Movie" page, located right above the Make A Movie button. There are three sections: Must-Sees, Crowd Pleasers, and Now Showing.


Must-Sees are movies hand-picked by the website moderators that they feel deserve to be seen by everyone!. Must-Sees are usually awarded once a week, but if your movie isn't chosen to be a Must-See, don't let that discourage you! You have plenty of chances. Stay positive and most importantly, stay creative!
Crowd Pleasers are movies that have gotten 3 or more 5/5 ratings by other members. Crowd Pleasers are much more common than Must-Sees.
Now Showing movies are newly published movies. Once you publish a new movie, it will appear here. If you're lucky, a moderator might watch your movie and make it a Must-See!

, A VIP membership is essential to becoming well-known on Zimmer Twins. VIP allows your new movies to be published to the Watch A Movie page for everyone to see, comment on, and/or rate. This also gives your movies the opportunity to become a Crowd Pleaser, or a Must-See (an award given specially by the website's moderators).
 Instead of saying "hay eva, im getting us a kitten" you should say "Hey Eva, I'm getting us a kitten". This makes your movie more pleasant on the eyes and more easier to watch.
 Try to have a good sense of humor!.

