 Because your body produces adrenaline, it may be hard to become aware of the addiction. The best way to see if you have an adrenaline addiction may be to actually stop all activity and see how you feel. If you normally go rock climbing or BMX racing, hold off for now. Shut off your electronics, take some time off of work, and try to spend a day or two just relaxing — can you do it? Adrenaline addicts may experience withdrawal symptoms when unable to engage in novel, stimulating, or high-risk activities.Do you often feel bored, restless, or under-stimulated? Do you find yourself bored with what normal people would consider intense or stimulating experiences?Are you drawn to "extreme" sports or activities? This may include rock climbing, bungee jumping, skydiving, riding a motorcycle, racing cars, skateboarding, MMA fighting, traveling to unsafe areas, snowboarding, or anything that could be considered a dangerous or risky activity.
Are you in a particularly dangerous line of work or a high-stress position, such as a firefighter?
Are you willing to take major risks to your health and safety to experience something novel?
If this sounds like you, you may have an adrenaline addiction.;
, Like any addiction, change cannot be initiated until the addict admits that they have a problem. Not only do you need to admit that you have a problem, but you also need to have a sincere desire to fix the problem.Once you have acknowledged the problem and you have decided to fix it, do not hesitate to get support from a therapist to help you recover from your addiction.
 Let your peers, coworkers, and family members know that you are trying to overcome your addiction. They can encourage your efforts and help keep you accountable.


Say, for example: "I have realized that I'm taking a lot of risks with my health and safety because I'm looking for an adrenaline rush. I am trying to learn to meet this need in a healthy way, and would appreciate it if you help me refrain from any dangerous activities."

, A therapist can help you identify and confront underlying issues that are causing the addiction. Underlying issues can range from self-esteem and self-confidence issues, to traumatic experiences, anxiety disorders.Your therapist can also help you make lifestyle changes to channel your thrill-seeking behavior into constructive and positive activities and manage symptoms of withdrawal.


Adrenaline addiction is not totally understood. It is possible your adrenaline addiction was not caused by an incident, but simply means your brain processes stimuli differently from those who prefer more stability and structure.