 How much you feed the puppy will depend on how much they weigh. If you are using a brand of puppy milk replacer, they may have directions on the side of the box. Otherwise, you can follow these general guidelines:


If they are under eight ounces of weight, you should feed them one cc of milk per ounce of weight.
If they are between 8 and 24 ounces, you should feed them one and a half cc of milk per ounce of weight.
If they are over 28 ounces, you should feed them one ounce of milk per pound of weight., You can buy powdered or premade puppy milk replacer at a pet store, vet’s office, or online. You can also make your own. Prepare the milk substitute according to its directions, and place it in the microwave to heat it up for 3 to 5 seconds. Make sure that the milk is warm, but not hot, before feeding the puppy.


You can make homemade puppy milk substitute by mixing 10 ounces of goats milk, one tablespoon light corn syrup, one cup of plain white whole milk yogurt, and one egg yolk. Always use whole (not low-fat) dairy products.Just Born, Nurturall, and Esbilac are all commercial brands of puppy milk. You can buy these in pre-prepared cans or in powder form.
If you cannot get puppy milk replacer or make a homemade substitute in the first 24 hours, you can use pedialyte instead. This is not a long term solution, however., In general, you should use a 12 cc feeding syringe (or a syringe without the needle). Using the measurements on the side, fill it with the proper amount of milk substitute based on the puppy’s weight.
 This is a long tube that will be placed down the puppy’s esophagus. Once you have attached it, draw a little formula through the tube until a drop or two comes out the other side. Place this tube in the puppy’s mouth. They may suck on the end of the tube, helping you slowly guide the tube to the back of their throat.If you have never tube fed a puppy before, ask your vet to show you how to properly do this part. Your vet may be able to provide you with a feeding tube, and they can mark on the tube exactly how far the tube should go.
 Lay the puppy on your lap with one hand behind the puppy’s head. Hold the syringe vertical above the puppy’s head, and slowly press down on the plunger. If you go too quickly, the milk might go up into their nose or they might get air in their stomach. If you notice milk dribbling out of their nose or mouth, stop.Once you are done, pinch the end of the tube, and quickly remove it from the puppy’s mouth.
 Hold the puppy up against your shoulder, with their belly against your shoulder and their head on your shoulder. Gently pat their back until they burp. This will help release any air that accidentally got in their stomachs during tube feeding., Typically, the mother licks the puppy to help the puppy relieve themselves before or after nursing. In the mother's place, you will have to do this instead. Take a warm, damp washcloth, cottonball or tissue. Gently rub around the puppy’s genitals and anus until they urinate and defecate.If you cannot get the puppy to eliminate after nursing, you might try doing this beforehand.
 Newborns may need to be fed every two hours for the first week or two. After that, you can start feeding them every three to four hours. By the time they’re 12 ounces, you can start feeding them every five hours.