 This may sound vague, but that’s partly because different people have such widely divergent interests. The theory is that doing something you enjoy will improve your mood by reducing your stress and distracting you from the bad mood. You know your own interests better than anyone, so think about what makes you feel happy and give yourself permission to go and do that thing.;
, Having a spiritual life often makes people feel happier. Meditation or prayer can give you a break from your current environment and allow you to experience a mental refresher. To meditate, find a quiet place to sit comfortably. Take slow, deep breaths. Focus on your breathing and on clearing your mind of other thoughts. Try to picture your bad mood leaving your body with every exhalation.
 Studies have shown that having vicarious experiences through others (which happens with both reading and watching well-known characters on a favorite TV show) can make you feel happier., Some people report feeling happier after going shopping, doing chores, or otherwise distracting themselves from the source of their bad mood. The benefit of pleasant distraction is both the time away from the environment that was upsetting you and the feeling of getting to spend time on yourself.
 Laughing can actually change the chemistry in your body. It can override other feelings such as depression and anger. Things that can make you laugh may include:


Talking to a funny friend
Watching a humorous video or clip from a funny TV show
Remembering a funny occurrence in your life
Reading satire or funny articles or comic strips

, There is a strong connection between moderate exercise and mood elevation.Most people experience an improved mood within 5 minutes of exercise.There are many different types of exercise, and anything that elevates your heart rate and causes your body to release endorphins may improve your mood. However, consider the following activities for a powerful mood boost:


Yoga: Yoga combines physicality and mindfulness, so it has the benefits of both exercise and meditation. If you can’t get to a yoga studio, try streaming an internet yoga video.Aerobic activity: Aerobic activity such as running, jogging, swimming, or a dance or exercise class can elevate your heart rate and improve your mood., This means don't force yourself to get out of bad mood or, most likely, you will fail. Our level of efficiency(or our best) is different at different times in our life. For example: Your efficiency when you are feeling enthusiastic and when you are feeling down, would not be the same. So don't compare like, 'I did such complex job with a great efficiency that day and now I cannot do such a simple thing, properly". However, you can always do your best as much as your current mood(or state of mind) allows you to do. For example; if your current mood allow you to be 20 percent efficient, at best, then take action at the same level without forcing yourself to perform better. Then you will see how this mental static (bad mood) dissolves naturally, without any effort on your part, all while your efficiency gradually gets better., Dancing both gives you a bit of an exercise boost and activates the pleasure centers of your brain.Close your office blinds, put on your headphones (or not) and dance to your jam!

, Diet has been tied to mood, even beyond feeling angry when hungry (which is quite common). Eating a nutritious diet full of whole foods can make you feel healthier and happier.


Include whole grains, fruits, vegetables, and protein in your diet.Getting healthy fats can also make you feel full longer.
Avoid fat-free and overly processed foods. These often lack adequate nutrition and may leave you feeling dissatisfied. Anti-inflammatory foods and those containing Omega-3 fatty acids may be of particular help with boosting mood.Some specific foods that fall into this category include leafy greens, avocado, asparagus, walnuts, dark chocolate, and green tea., Feeling like you are indulging in chocolate can ease tension, and the antioxidant properties in dark chocolate may actually make you feel better! Try to limit your consumption to a small portion (one ounce per day); take small bites to make your chocolate escape last longer!, Everyone knows that people smile when they are happy, but did you know that smiling can actually help make you feel happier? Acting happy with good posture and a big smile can actually boost your mood; your thoughts and feelings respond to the action of smiling.