 The inside of the gel liner will be in constant contact with your limb. Because of this, you'll want to make sure your gel liner is kept clean to prevent health issues and make your liner last longer. You'll want to clean your liner once every day. Cleaning the liner is a simple process and can be done by following these steps:Remove the liner from the prosthesis.
Spot clean the outside of the liner if needed.
Turn the liner inside out.
Wash the gel section of the liner with anti-bacterial soap and warm water.
Fully rinse the soap off of the liner and dry it with a clean cloth.
Turn the liner right side out and store it for future use.
 Wearing a prosthesis sock or sheath for more than a day can cause the sock to quickly wear out and may pose a health risk. You'll want to make sure that you are washing your prosthesis socks on a daily basis and are always wearing a fresh one. Most manufacturers will provide their own cleaning instructions which you will need to follow to ensure that your sock or sheath is properly cleaned and cared for.If your sock becomes soaked with perspiration, you should change it as soon as possible.
Washing a sock will help keep it clean and restore it to its intended shape.
 Although your skin won't come into direct contact with the prosthesis socket, you'll still need to keep it clean. Cleaning the socket will keep your artificial limb functioning properly and can help reduce unnecessary wear. Follow these steps to completely clean the inside of the prosthesis socket:Clean the inside socket at least once a week with soap and water.
Lightly spray the socket with an alcohol-based cleaner.
Wipe the socket dry.
Make sure to keep any locking or pin mechanisms clean and free of obstructions.
 Your prosthesis may have certain parts that could be damaged, broken or otherwise ruined during a cleaning. Electrical components, mechanical devices and certain models of prosthesis can all be damaged by water or corrosive cleaning agents. Talk with your prosthetist to learn more about how to safely clean your unique prosthesis.Long-term exposure to salt water can corrode parts of your prosthesis.
Make sure there is no dirt stuck in the pin lock system, should your model have that feature.
Always remove and clean the inside of a foot shell to avoid trapping corrosive or damaging material inside.
Avoid getting your prosthesis wet if it has electronic components.

