 Fruit is one of the best snacks you can provide your toddler. Not only does fruit contain many vitamins that your toddler needs to grow healthy, but they contain fiber. Ultimately, by serving your toddler fruit, you’ll be creating the foundation of healthy nutrition habits for the rest of their life.


Provide fresh fruits like apples, peaches, pears, bananas, grapes, strawberries, and oranges.
Give them dried fruits like apples, apricots, peaches, raisins, and cranberries.
Make sure to slice fruit thinly, pit fruit that needs to be pitted, and remove other potential dangers.
A snack of fruit should consist of about 75 calories. This will typically translate to about one cup of berries or one small fruit (like a banana, pear, or apple).;
, Like fruit, vegetables are one of the best healthy snacks for your toddler. By providing them vegetables for snacks, you’ll be helping your toddler get the vitamins they need and you’ll create the foundation for healthy eating habits.


Give them vegetables like carrots, green beans, cauliflower, broccoli, spinach, or avocado slices.
Feel free to cook or steam vegetables. Avoid using butter or oil to cook them.
Vegetables should be thinly sliced or should be bite sized.
A snack of vegetables for a 2-year-old should be about 2 tablespoons for most vegetables. However, toddlers can eat more of some vegetables, like celery or tomatoes. For example, you may serve your toddler half a dozen three to four inch pieces of celery or one or two small tomatoes., When it comes to serving fruits and vegetables to your toddler, you should allow them the ability to pick what they want to eat. This is important, as you want to promote independence and give your child the ability to develop their own tastes. Ultimately, if they’re choosing a fruit or vegetable, they’ll be picking something healthy.


Give your toddler the choice between two or three types of fruits or vegetables. For instance, if you’re serving vegetables as a snack, ask if they want broccoli, tomatoes, or cucumbers.
Don’t always give them the same choices. Rotate what you offer, so your toddler winds up choosing different vegetables., By creating a snack plan, you’ll have an idea of what healthy snacks you’ll give to your toddler over the course of a week. Thus, you’ll be able to make sure you have all the ingredients you need.


Plan to provide three snacks every day, in addition to three meals. This way, your toddler will be eating something every three or three hours.
Vary your snacks throughout the day. If you provide a dairy-heavy snack in the morning, focus on vegetables on fruits in the afternoon.
Map out your snacks for the entire week. For instance, sit down at the beginning of the week and plan all your snacks., Whole grains an important part of creating a balanced snack menu for your toddler. They are also a great source of fiber for toddlers and adults alike. Thus, you should focus on whole grains when providing your toddler with snacks. Remember:


To think about whole grain crackers and similar snacks. Rice cakes are another good snack.
To use whole wheat bread when making any sort of snack.
To look for whole grain cereals free from added sugar (or with very little added sugar)., Snacks that include dairy are important because they contain calcium, iron, and other important vitamins. Thus, you need to make sure you include dairy products in your snack plan.


Your child should have three servings of dairy a day. When it comes to processed cheese, this equates to 1 slice, 1 mini string cheese, and 1 mini baby bell. Feel free to include these in your toddler’s snacks.
One small pot (about 125 ml) of yogurt makes for a great snack. At the same time, you can serve half of a small pot of yogurt with fruit or vegetables.
Consider providing your child with a 3 or 4 ounce cup (100 to 120 ml) of milk with their snack. Use semi skimmed milk for toddlers over 2 years old. Those under 2 years old should be served 3 ounces (100 ml) or less of whole milk., Like dairy, meat is an important source of iron and other vitamins that toddlers need. As a result, make sure to include meat in their snack rotation. However, you should also limit the amount of meat and type of meat your toddler consumes.


Focus on lean meats like fish, good cuts of beef or pork, or chicken and turkey.
Avoid processed meat, if you can. This includes many types of lunch meats like salami, bologna, some types of ham, and pepperoni. When shopping for lunch or deli meat, look for meats that do not include nitrates or nitrites.
The total amount of meat a 2-year-old should consume per day is 2 ounces. Toddlers that are three years old can eat 3 to 4 ounces (85 to 113 grams) of meat. Make sure you account for your toddler’s daily consumption when serving them meat for snacks.
Provide ½ to 1 egg (poached, boiled, or fried) as an alternative to meat., Despite the claims of some fruit juice makers, drinking a lot of fruit juice can hurt a toddler’s health. Ultimately, fruit juice contains a lot of sugar, and should be limited.


Avoid juices with added sugar.
Juices advertised as 100% fruit juice still have a lot of sugar – often equal to the sugar and/or calories contained in a soda.
Toddlers should drink no more than 4 ounces (120 millimeters) of fruit juice per day., Snacks with added sugar are one of the worst things you can give your toddler. Not only are they unhealthy, but they help establish bad eating habits. If your toddler gets used to eating foods with added sugar, they’ll continue that habit into adulthood.


Avoid cereals with added sugar, like Frosted Flakes.
Snacks high in sugar could aggravate conditions like juvenile diabetes.
It is okay for your toddler to have things like birthday cake, ice cream, or similar snacks as a treat. However, don’t establish it as a habit., Not only are these foods unhealthy over the long run, but they can cause digestive problems like diarrhea. Avoid:


Fried food. For example, mini corn dogs are not a good snack for your toddler.
An excessive amount of cheese.
Fatty cuts of meat. Limit consumption of sausages and some cuts of beef or pork., By combining two simple things together, you’ll create a tasty snack that your toddler might get really excited about. When preparing the snack:


Use peanut butter with no added oils. Natural peanut butter will only contain peanuts and salt.
Serve a quarter to a third of a small apple to your toddler along with a quarter or half of a tablespoon of peanut butter – the amount varies with age.
Make sure you slice the apple thinly, so your toddler can eat it easily.
If food allergies run in your family, consult your pediatrician before serving peanut butter to a toddler for the first time., Whether a toddler or an adult, many people enjoy the combination of cottage cheese and peaches. In the end, this is a simple, healthy, and delicious snack that your toddler may love.


Set aside no more than a quarter cup of canned peaches. Make sure the peaches have been canned in their own juices.
Add no more than 1 or 2 tablespoons of cottage cheese on top of the peaches., Cucumbers and hummus are a healthy combination that your toddler may get excited about. When eating cucumbers and hummus, your toddler will not only get vitamins from the cucumber, but protein from the hummus.


Thinly slice 1/4th of a medium cucumber and place them on a plate.
Portion out 1 or 2 tablespoons of hummus next to the cucumber.
Consider substituting hummus for low fat salad dressing.
Think about substituting cucumbers for red peppers or a similar vegetable.