 Automobile loans are largely determined by the borrower's credit score; the better the borrower's credit score is, the lower his interest rate will likely be.Knowing your credit score before you apply for an automobile loan can help ensure that you get the best possible loan terms. You can obtain a free copy of your credit report (one free copy is guaranteed every 12 months) by visiting AnnualCreditReport.com or by calling 1-877-322-8228.Your credit report won't explicitly contain your credit score, but it will contain information that determines your credit score. Because of this, it's tremendously important to review all of the information contained in your credit report and understand what determines your credit score to ensure that there are no errors.
If your credit score is low, you may need to improve your credit score. Improving your credit score will likely get you much better terms on your loan. If you can hold off on purchasing your vehicle until you've repaired your credit, it may be worth waiting.Consider contacting a credit counseling organization to help you rebuild your credit. A credit counselor can work with you to build and stick to a budget, and can even help you manage your income and your debts. You can find a credit counseling organization near you by searching online - just be clear on the terms and fees of the services offered before signing up with a credit counselor.;
, Most dealerships offer automobile loans at the dealership, which can make it convenient for buyers. However, the dealership may not be offering the best available loan. Many automobile dealers arrange loans by acting as a "middle man" between you and a bank, which means that the dealership may charge you extra to compensate for its services.Even if the dealership's fees aren't unreasonable, it's likely that the dealer will then sell your contract to a bank, credit union, or finance company, and you may end up making payments to that third party.Even if you end up going with the dealer's financing option, it's worth shopping around for a better loan from a local bank or credit union.
 Every loan term is different, depending on factors like your credit score and the amount you're requesting to borrow. Smaller loans typically have very high monthly finance charges, because the bank makes money off of these charges and they know that a smaller loan will be paid off more quickly.If you intend to take out an auto loan for only a few thousand dollars, it may be worth saving up until you have the whole amount that you'll need to purchase an automobile, or purchasing an automobile that fits in your available price range., Pre-approved loans are arranged in advance with a bank or financial institution. This may be helpful, as many people feel pressured to go with the loan options that a dealer offers at the car lot, and end up getting a loan with high finance charges. If you get a pre-approved loan beforehand, you'll know exactly how much you can afford to spend on an automobile, which will also help you stay within your budget., Leasing a vehicle allows you to use your vehicle for an arranged duration of time and a predetermined number of miles. You won't own your car, but lease payments are typically lower than what the monthly payments on a loan would be for the exact same vehicle.Some lease terms also give you the option of purchasing your vehicle at the end of the leasing period. Before you decide to lease, it may be helpful to consider:


the lease costs at the beginning, middle, and end of the leasing periodwhat leasing offers and terms are available to youhow long you want to keep the automobile