 Are you doing it for attention? To look cool? If you are, then stop right there. Having a Gothic wedding because you think it would be cool isn't the way to go. If you are doing this because you have been a member of the Gothic subculture ever since you are a teenager and it is your lifestyle, don't hesitate and go ahead.;
, If you're having a Gothic wedding, you may want to have it at a Gothic castle. This helps set the mood and gives it a good outlook. If there are none in your area, you may want to think about finding one in your region and staying overnight before the wedding.
 What do you want your guests to be eating? Ask around and make sure you get something on there everyone will enjoy but remember that you can't please everyone. Just go for the choice you think would be the most enjoyed.
 Not everyone is a fan of themes, but some people are. Since this would be a Gothic wedding you may chose something to do with a Gothic movie, or even a Nightmare Before Christmas wedding. Be creative this idea, you're already having a Gothic wedding and that's unique enough.
 Just because it's going to be a Gothic wedding, doesn't mean you have to have it on Halloween. You could if you wanted because it'll be great but it's up to you depending if your venue will hold it on that date.
 You can have your wedding reception in a church (depending on if you're religious) or a registry office. Or you might just decided you want to get married at your venue. It's up to you to decide.
 You need to decide how many people are coming, how many adults and how many children (if you want children that is). You also need to decide if your venue too small or too big for them. You want a reasonable enough room. If you think your venue is too small then you could try to find another room within the venue or if you wanted, you could have a marquee outside (just wish for a nice day). If all else fails, you're going to have to find somewhere else.
 Your bridesmaids should be your closest girlfriends for example, your sister or your daughter. Your fiances best man could be his best trustworthy friend.
 The colour you want for your bridesmaids dresses is going to be the same colour as the ties of the suits for your men. The groom could wear a different colour to make it easier to point out that he is the groom.
 You usually send them out 6 weeks before your wedding. There are hundreds of different designs and templates you could have for your wedding invitations. You could have them darkly coloured.
 This the part where you think about what you (as the bride) is going to wear. As you are having a Gothic wedding, you may what to have a dark coloured dress. Black with purple or red is a great choice, but it doesn't mean you have to have it that way. Find lots of different styles and try them on. Some styles are:


The Mermaid wedding dress (this is if you have a nice figure and you want to show it off)
The Princess style wedding dress
The A-line wedding dress
The Empire wedding dress
Grecian wedding dress
The Sheath or Column wedding dress
The Ball Gown wedding dress

, You need to chose:


Tiara, jacket or veil (not all of them because it doesn't look right + there's too much).
Shoes; heals or flats?

, You might have to find someone to do these for you as it will look nice as it's done professionally. There are tons of styles to chose from and there will be a one that fits you. Don't be afraid to wear dark make-up either. Wearing make-up that you feel comfortable in will make you feel confident with yourself. This is important for your day in the spotlight!

, You might like your men to wear a darker colour such as black or grey. Most people wouldn't want men to wear black suits because they are usually worn at funerals and represent death but in a Goth's case, black represents beauty.

Buttonholes
Photographer (you want to make sure they have experience and make sure they have a portfolio because they can be very expensive).
 Chose your wedding cake, you have many different styles. Chose how many layers you want on your cake and what flavour they are going to be. You could chose from a number of styles for example cupcakes or tiered. You could always have a fake tier to keep the cost down - not everyone is made of money.
 You could have anything you want. For example, you could have


Candles
Feathers
Flowers
Sparkly decoration... use your imagination. Your decorations can be as small and as big as you want. Just make sure guests can see each other.
 If your venue is close enough, you could have something traditional for example a horse and carriage. If you want to be more modern, you could go for a limousine. Some other ideas are:


Helicopter (unique)
Rolls Royce or Bentley (classic cars if you didn't want a limousine)... and so on. Don't be afraid to turn up in what you want, you could even get there in a tractor, there's nothing stopping you!

, If you're going to have a Gothic wedding, you'll want some Gothic music right? But you still want people to dance, so make sure you don't always have Gothic music playing. Playing a bit of Lady Gaga or P!NK will never hurt anyone! There are however some gothic or goth friendly songs that are also club worthy such as suicide commando, combichrist, ayria, blutengel. (future pop is a good genre.) Some good suggestions for gothic music are:


Switchblade Symphony
Clan of Xymox
Bauhaus
Siouxsie and the Banshees.... you want to make sure you have a wide range of artists on there. You might even decide to have a live singer. Not everyone has a DJ.
 Throwing any wedding shouldn't feel like a chore. This article is for people who wouldn't know where to start. You don't have to completely follow this article step by step either, for some it may just be a little lift.

