 Take your rope or fine chain in each hand and stretch out your arms to either side. Hold your rope or chain at the measure of this distance and add to this length the distance between your shoulder and the floor. This is the ideal length for the line of your rope dart.Add a little extra length to your rope dart, six inches (15.25 cm) should be more than enough, if you want to add a handle to the end of your line opposite your dart.
 Your rings can be made of tied cloth, or you could use needle nose pliers to bend metal rings onto your dart. Metal rings can be purchased at your local hardware store and will create a jingling noise when you practice with your rope dart.


In either case, take your rings and attach them to the base of the dart.
Depending on your dart, you may be able to thread your rings through a gap in the base.
You may have to knot/bend your rings onto the base of your dart.
Traditionally, four to five rings are attached to the dart.
 Streamers or ribbons, along with other accents, were tied to the dart is to stop blood from making the rest of the line slippery and create drag as well.Both these allow for better control and manipulation in and out of combat.


Six inches (15¼ cm) should be a sufficient length for your ribbon.
 Bright, colorful flags and feathers would distract adversaries on the battlefield, making the rope dart more effective.By adding a flag or feather to your rope dart, you'll also make your practice more visually pleasing to those observing you. The bright colors will create shapes as you swing the rope dart.
If you are using a stake for your dart, it may not penetrate into targets like a real rope dart would. To correct this, you can sharpen your stake with your knife.
 If the end of your dart has a space where you can thread your rope and tie a simple knot, do so with your line.If no such space exists, you might use a another knot, like a pile hitch, which can be tired by:


Looping the dart end of your line.
Wrapping the loop once around the base of your dart.
Crossing the loop over top your line.
Sliding the loop over the end of your dart and down to join where the loop wraps., A simple handle can be made by sliding a thick wooden bead onto the end of your rope dart and adding a simple knot to the end of the line to keep the bead in place. You can also tie off the end of your rope dart in a loop to serve as a handle by tying a bowline knot:


Form a loop where you want the base of your loop to be. The length between your loop and the end of your rope will form your handle.
Thread the end of your line up through the loop.
Bring the end behind the line and back down through the loop.
Pull tight to fasten the knot securely.