 Food is simply a source of nutrients and calories. It is not a moral entity or a thing you should feel guilty about. Stop thinking of your favorite foods as “guilty pleasures” or “weaknesses.” Replace those negative connotations with positive, encouraging ones that promote health and weight loss instead of shame and guilt.For example, instead of saying that chocolate cake is your guilty pleasure, tell yourself that you love chocolate cake because it’s delicious, and that’s okay. To lose weight, you now simply stop at a small serving of the cake rather than eating two big pieces.;
, Don’t make any foods off-limits. Instead, focus on eating foods you love in moderation. Allowing yourself moderate portions of foods and drinks that you love will stave off binges and help you feel less deprived, which in turn will help you lose weight.


Swearing off pizza or beer, for example, might sound like a good approach to weight loss for you if you love them. Unfortunately, if you deprive yourself of these treats, then you’ll likely sabotage yourself in the long run and binge on them. Instead of denying yourself the pizza, realize that it will be a part of your diet occasionally, and other foods like salad or fruit will complement that to give your body what it needs.
 Your body needs fuel to operate optimally. Food is neither your enemy nor your friend. It is there to keep you healthy and alive. Eat as much as you need to feel satisfied, and avoid severe calorie restriction as a weight loss tool, as this can lead to health problems and disordered eating.A good approach to gauging your level of fullness is to rate your hunger on a scale of 1 to 10 during your meal. If 1 means you’re extremely hungry and 10 means you’re miserably full, aim for a score of 5 or 6 when your meal is over, to ensure that you’re not overeating and slowing down your weight loss.
Try addressing your nutrition needs by eating the necessary nutrients first, then anything else after that if you are still hungry.
If you eat only until you’re not hungry, as opposed to full, then you are practicing moderation with your eating. Even if you still occasionally incorporate your favorite unhealthy foods, eating them in smaller quantities will help with weight loss.
 When we are deficient in vitamins, minerals, and fat, we develop cravings for the wrong foods. To stave off these cravings and promote weight loss, be sure to eat a variety of nutrient-rich foods and take a multivitamin supplement, if needed.


Fruits, vegetables, and other fiber-rich foods are great sources of vitamins and minerals. These foods also tend to be low in calories, so filling up on these foods will help promote weight loss.
 Your brain requires fat to function, so don’t be afraid of eating healthy fats like those found in avocados and fish. Studies have shown that very low fat diets are not ideal for weight loss or overall health because fats help with brain function, vitamin absorption, and help keep you fuller for longer.Avoid dangerous types of fat like trans fats, which have been linked to a variety of health problems like diabetes, high cholesterol, heart disease, and stroke.Make sure you read food labels and do not buy anything with trans fats (sometimes called partially hydrogenated oils).
If you don’t enjoy eating fat, you can try a fish oil supplement. Be sure you store these supplements in the refrigerator to preserve freshness, and choose a brand that specifies that their supplements are free from Mercury.