 Don’t try to convince yourself that weight stigma doesn’t bother you. In the long run, it will only make you feel worse. One of the first steps in avoiding weight stigma is to acknowledge how certain comments, images, and opinions make you feel.Pay attention to what emotions you feel when you experience weight stigma. For instance, do you feel angry, hurt, embarrassed, or sad?
Make a note of what exactly made you feel that way. Was it the assumptions behind the comment? Or, perhaps who made it?;
, You don’t have to get into a physical altercation if someone is stigmatizing you because of your weight. You should stand up for yourself, though. Letting people know that their comments, jokes, and actions bother you may stop them from doing it in the future.Some studies indicate that standing up for yourself is one of the most used ways of coping with weight stigma.
You might say something like, “I didn’t like your comment about obese guys. I’m not the weight you think I should be, but I’m happy with myself.”
You can also ask them not to stigmatize you (or anyone else) because of weight again. For instance, “Please don’t make jokes about overweight people. It’s really offensive and insensitive.”

, If you don’t express your feelings in some way, it can You can avoid weight stigma by keeping a journal about your feelings instead of letting them build up inside you.Write about how negative situations make you feel. For example, you might write about how a joke a co-worker made about overweight people hurt your feelings.
Write about your positive experiences. For instance, you could write about that cute salesclerk that flirted with you.
Write about your accomplishments and achievements. For example, you might write something such as, “I earned first chair in the orchestra!”

, It can be easy to start thinking negative things about yourself when you are battling weight stigma. You may begin to believe the messages the media, society, and even people around you are giving you about weight. Combat low self-esteem and weight stigma by reminding yourself how awesome you are.Make a list of your good qualities if you need help thinking of positive things to tell yourself.
Anytime you feel stigmatized because of your weight, tell yourself something like, “My weight is only one part of me. I’m also really cute, witty, and fun.”
Make positive self-talk a regular part of your day. For instance, give yourself a compliment when you wake up, when you leave the house, and before bed.
 Relying on friends and family is a great way to avoid weight stigma. Some studies suggest that it is one of the most popular and most effective ways to cope with weight stigma.Your support system can be there to listen to you, encourage you, and even stand up for you.


Talk to someone close to you about it when weight stigma is really bothering you. Or, even when it is bothering you just a little.
For instance, you might say, “Could we talk for a minute? One of our classmates made a fat joke and it kind of bothered me.”
Or, for example, you could try, “Can I vent to you? This salesclerk just made me feel really bad about my weight.”
Listen and believe it when people that care about you give you a compliment. They’re saying it because they love you, but also because it’s true.
 Volunteering and participating in positive activities and events in your community can boost your self-esteem and give you the opportunity to meet supportive new people.It also will give you the chance to learn something new, enhance your skills, or give back to your community or a cause you support.


Volunteer to mentor or tutor young children in your community. You can help shape a young mind and gain a positive outlook on life from the kids.
Participate in a group exercise or martial arts class like tai chi, yoga, taekwondo, or even a hip-hop aerobics class.
Learn a skill like painting, sewing, drawing, or photography.

