 Many people find relief using essential oils to treat everything from headaches to bug bites. For example, some oils have analgesic results when used on the skin (relieving pain) or anti-inflammatory effects on muscles. For example, chamomile essential oil has been known to stop headaches and muscle spasms related to PMS.
Lavender essential oil is commonly used to treat insomnia because its scent promotes relaxation.
Peppermint essential oil is often used to relieve headaches and muscle aches because of its anti-inflammatory properties. (This oil should be avoided around children under age 6.)
Essential oils should be diluted with a carrier oil like olive oil or coconut oil and rubbed onto the skin. It is very important to only use two or three drops at a time, and to always use them with a carrier oil to keep them from irritating your skin. Do research before using them on children.;
, Herbs are another treatment option that many people use. Most kitchens are stocked with herbs for cooking, making them cheap and easy to access.For example, the spice turmeric can relieve muscle soreness because it reduces the enzyme that causes arthritis swelling.
Another useful herb is ginger, which is often used to reduce nausea. Its properties block serotonin and free radical production, both of which cause an upset stomach.
Garlic has a host of benefits, including reducing blood pressure, promoting cardiovascular health, and preventing strokes.
Most herbal remedies can be diluted into water (like when making tea) or added to healthy dishes (like a salad). Many, however, can be purchased in capsule form and swallowed like vitamin tablets.
 Herbs are not the only things you can eat or swallow that can provide a cure to physical ailments. Different foods, when consumed more frequently when you need relief, can bring quick physical aid. Although food is often more helpful as a preventive measure, some foods can provide relief in a day or so.For example, yogurt, when eaten without added sugars, can aid digestive health and reduce gas.
Dark brown honey can relieve a cough (though don’t use this solution for babies under the age of 12 months). Two teaspoons diluted into a cup of tea is an effective way to consume honey.
Orange juice can resolve afternoon drowsiness and renew your energy.
 Holistic doctors (or alternative medicine) are especially good at treating musculoskeletal pain and relieving it quickly. Many patients turn to homeopathic doctors to solve immediate physical ailments, finding relief without having to deal with the side effects of medications. Sometimes these treatments can even find the root cause of pain, resolving pain so that it does not return.You will need to find a holistic practitioner in your area, and a session can cost anywhere from $20 to $100 an hour or more. Check with your health insurance before going, as a growing number of holistic alternatives (like chiropractors) are starting to be covered.
Holistic medicine includes chiropractic, acupuncture, massage, and physical therapy, among others.

