 View behind the scenes info at the movie page entitled "Run from tyranny to liberty".,,, C.L. Bryant, a featured character in the story, who refers to himself as the “runaway slave.” A former NAACP chapter president, he left the organization after "concluding its goals were more about political posturing than actual civil rights". Rev. Bryant says he had been taught that "blacks must think a certain way", but he now says he has: "Escaped the bondage of progressivism" to individualized, personal responsibility.
"Denounced the shackles of entitlements" (to make self-empowerment) to get out of slavery to government hand-outs.
"Committed himself to helping others" -- to stop the racial group stereotype/stigma and launch as equal, as individuals.
 Rev. Bryant takes viewers on a historic journey across America that traces the footsteps of runaway slaves who escaped to freedom along routes that became known as the Underground Railroad. Consider how he says that he now travels a “new underground railroad” upon which black conservatives are speaking out against big government policies (and leaders) having established a “new plantation” including:Civil rights leaders. Check why he says that the NAACP and other so-called civil rights leadership help "keep the Black community 95 percent beholden to one political party". While Rev. Bryant’s compelling story helps launch the film, we soon discover he is not alone as he treks across the new Underground Railroad in America.
Interviews. View and listen to RUNAWAY SLAVE featured interviews with politicians, community leaders and everyday Americans, including the founder of the "FDR: Frederick Douglass Republicans" national organization, related to the philosophy of the 19th century runaway, Frederick Douglass -- who after escaping slavery, became a respected, storied black leader, a Republican, in the abolitionist movement. Douglass was the intellectual, living embodiment of the Black answer to slaveholders' self-serving arguments that slaves did not have the intellectual capacity to live independently. He engaged American citizens by his knowledge, incisive oratory and lucid, antislavery writing, as an exemplary citizen, a runaway slave, wikipedia:Frederick Douglass. The Runaway Slave movie salutes Frederick Douglass Foundation.
 View the RUNAWAY SLAVE’s numerous heroes -- who are featured “Conductors” on the new Underground Railroad -- and who speak of liberating all Americans from the "Government Plantation that has left the black community dealing with this new form of slavery". And, they are black conservatives speaking out to say that all Americans can truly be, “Free at last!” -- some who are very well known, including: Dr. Alveda King -- the daughter of the late, slain civil rights activist, Rev. A. D. King (MLK's slain brother) and Naomi Barber King is niece of Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. She is a Minister in her Church, a prominent pro-life activist, and author. She commented, "Runaway Slave exceeded my expectations";
Deneen Borelli -- a Fellow with Project 21, a national public policy group and network of black conservatives based in Washington, D.C. Deneen currently regularly appears on MSNBC, CNN, the BBC and C-SPAN and serves as an official contributor on many of the Fox News Channel programs. Deneen’s commentaries "promote the importance of freedom and limited government", and she points out the connection between "personal responsibility and social advancement".
Thomas Sowell -- black American economist, social theorist, political philosopher, and author of more than 30 books. Dr. Sowell has served on faculties of universities, including Cornell and UCLA, and worked for "think tanks" such as the Urban Institute and at the Hoover Institution since 1980;
Allen West -- U.S. Congressman of Florida had previously risen in the U.S. Army to Lieutenant Colonel. After 22 years in the Army he retired, but returned as a civilian advisor to assist Afghan troops;
Herman Cain -- a candidate for the 2012 U.S. Republican presidential nomination has a background as a successful business executive (Godfathers Pizza, etc.), syndicated columnist, and radio host. Before his business career began, he worked as a degreed mathematician in ballistics as a civilian employee of the U.S. Navy;
Star Parker -- commentator and syndicated columnist and founder and president of CURE, the Center for Urban Renewal Education -- created CURE to fight dependence and poverty. Before Star's personal "transformation from welfare dependent to conservative crusader", she had seven years of first-hand experience in the grip of government, welfare dependency. Star is a regular commentator on CNN, TBN, CSPAN, CBN, and FOX News.
 So, is the community truly 'free at last?' " Message of Rev. C.L. Bryant in the film:“Run away from economic slavery. Run toward the blessings of liberty. Let us remain strong in this fight. Run away from socialism, run away from progressivism. And if you get tired, America… run harder!”


