 You need to be absolutely clear about the details of your house arrest. House arrest is used in a variety of different cases and in a variety of different ways. If you are uncertain about what rules you have to abide by in order not to violate the terms of your house arrest, speak to your lawyer or attorney and double-check everything.


The penalties for violating the terms and conditions of house arrest can be heavy. You could end up in prison for an infraction.Make sure you know what you can and can't do, and where you can and can't go.;
, One of the advantages to being under house arrest rather than incarcerated in a prison is that, in some instances, you can continue to work. Finding work after spending time in prison can be difficult so if you can maintain employment during your house arrest you will be in a much better position when it comes to an end.

If you are able to work, the hours you can do will have been agreed as part of your court ordered house arrest.
You will have to provide detailed information to the court or the office who oversees your case. This will include information about where you are working, what hours you are there, and how long it takes you to get there.Take extra care to be precise in the information you provide to avoid any potential problems.
 In most cases, people under house arrest are required to contribute towards the costs associated with the maintenance of the electronic monitoring device. Make sure you have the full picture about how much and how often you will be required to pay. Don't forget you will also need to pay court fees and filing fees as well. These costs will make it even more important that you are able to work. This option might be removed if you fail to abide by the conditions of your house arrest.The costs you can be expected to pay vary on a case by case basis, and each probation department is different.
If it is is worked out on a sliding scale, you may have to pay around 1.1% of your annual earnings.This is by no means a fixed amount, so ask your attorney if you are unsure.
You can expect to pay either monthly or weekly., As frustrating as it will be to have an ankle monitor, it's important to understand the consequences of interfering with it or removing it. This will be a violation of the conditions of your house arrest and can result in you being transferred to a prison and required to serve the rest of your sentence there.Your ankle monitor will be regularly inspected for any signs of tampering or damage. The device may send a signal to the receiver if you try to tamper with it.
It is a criminal offence to remove, tamper or alter an electronic monitoring device. You can be arrested if a police officer has probable cause to believe you have done this.
Not recharging the monitoring device can also count as interfering or damaging it., Unlike time spent in jail, under house arrest there is no possibility for your sentence to be reduced due to good behaviour or accumulating time credits. If you are sentenced to 100 days under house arrest, you will be under house arrest for 100 days. There are no time credits and you must observe the terms and conditions for the full period.