 Many libraries subscribe to lists that automatically send them books from certain publishers. You will want to avoid doubling up on books, or buying something that the library doesn't need.;
, Many libraries make the majority of their acquisitions at the beginning of their fiscal year. This is a good time to buy books, if you are part of library staff, but if you want to donate, you may want to help out later in the year.


Ask if the library needs a purchase order for every book it purchases. Many libraries are publicly funded, and a purchase order, or PO, helps them keep track of their budget.
 Friends of the Library is a common non-profit organization that helps to support library collections and presentations. They often have a fund to help the library receive books or collections they need most.
 Most libraries put an emphasis on acquiring very new books; however, they may also be in need of replacements for lost or stolen copies.
 Most libraries prefer library-bound or hardcover books because they stand up to more circulation than paperback books.


Library bound books are bound with extra stitching and a hardcover, but are often less decorative than the original covers. Most library bindings are made through a special service, although some publishers have started to provide library bindings.
 Libraries aim to keep copies of new books on hand for patron use, so they often pay the full price from the publisher. Library binding also adds money onto the process, which the library hopes will add value with further readings. Few new releases are acquired for less than $25 (18 euros, 16 pounds).
 Book stores and even Amazon.com often give a discount to libraries and schools.

Some small to mid-sized libraries have Amazon accounts that receive an extra discount. If you go onto this site, you can buy books from their wish list.
 Unlike other book purchases, sometimes payment is required within 30 days of receipt of the books. This allows the library to put it into the system.
 If the book is not library bound, ask if you should arrange for a library binding to complete your library book purchase.

