 The first paragraph of a friendly letter is usually warm and lighthearted. It's a way to set the tone of the letter, letting the recipient know that what's to follow will be more friendly than businesslike or serious. Use the first few lines to say an extended hello, tell a joke, or reference the season.


"How are you doing?" or "How have you been?" are common ways to start a letter. Asking a question helps make the letter feel like part of a longer conversation. If you'd like a reply to your letter, feel free to pepper it with questions throughout.
You can use the first paragraph to inquire more deeply about the recipient's life. For example, "I hope little Julie has been enjoying kindergarten. I can't believe she's gotten so big!"
Referencing the time of year is another common letter opening. Think of it as the equivalent to making small talk before you launch into a deeper conversation. For example, "I hope you've been having a wonderful fall. The trees in my neighborhood are more brilliant than they've ever been before. I think we're in for a cold winter, though."

, Now it's time to get to the meat of the letter, your purpose for writing it. Why are you opening this correspondence? Do you want to get back in touch with a long lost friend, express to someone that you are missing them, or thank them for helping you out in some way? Be forthright, open, and articulate to communicate your message effectively.


Write about what's happening in your life. No matter what it says, your letter will probably be appreciated, but the recipient will feel much closer to you (and therefore the letter will be more effective) if it's revealing. Tell what events have occurred, what emotions you've felt, and what plans you have for the future.
Don't create an airbrushed picture of your life; that defeats the purpose of a friendly letter. Avoid a holiday newsletter-style update; your friend will start skimming to the bottom if you just list everything you've accomplished since your last letter. You don't have to go too deep into your troubles, but try to portray your life realistically.
 What was your friend up to last time you talked? Was she on the verge of breaking up with her boyfriend? Was he in the middle of a difficult season on the soccer team? Follow up by making references and asking questions to show you're interested in your friend's life.


You can also discuss topics of mutual interest. Write your thoughts on art, politics, current events, or any other subject that you'd discuss with your friend in person.
Consider suggesting movies you've seen that you think your friend would like, or books you've read that you want to recommend. Sharing good information is always welcome in letters.

