 Your state may have a form that you can fill out to report an error in your criminal record. Find out by contacting your state bureau of investigation or other criminal records office.You may be able to find a form online that you can download. Search for "criminal history error resolution" with the name of your state.
Typically you also can get one of these forms from a state police office. If the error correction form is available somewhere else, a state police officer will let you know.
When you get the form you need, read over it carefully so you'll know what kind of information you need to submit to get the error corrected.
 If you see something on your criminal record that you believe is an error, the state will require proof that the information in your criminal record is incorrect. Your personal testimony typically is not enough.The type of evidence you'll need depends on the error on your report. For example, if your identity has been mixed up with someone else, and entries from their criminal history are showing up on your criminal record, personal identity documentation may be all you need.
However, if you were convicted of a misdemeanor that has been reported on your criminal record as a felony, you typically need a certified copy of the original court order.
To get a certified copy, you must make a trip to the clerk's office of the court that entered the order convicting you.
In some circumstances, the problem with your criminal record may be a mere clerical error. You still must provide some kind of documentation or evidence of what the record actually should be.
 If you're having difficulty finding evidence to support your claim that your criminal record is incorrect, an attorney may be able to assist you. For this sort of thing, you may be able to get free help from your local legal aid office.A criminal defense attorney typically is the type of attorney you need to find. They usually give free initial consultations, so you won't really lose anything to schedule a consultation and ask your questions.
Particularly if you've found an error on your federal criminal record, an attorney may be necessary to help you navigate the procedures. Since the FBI gets its information from state authorities, the error may exist in more than one place.
If all you need is help getting the error on your criminal record corrected, an attorney typically will help you with that for a relatively low flat fee.
 Once you have everything your state requires, gather it along with any fee and send it to the appropriate office for review. Typically you can mail it, but in some states you may have to go to a law enforcement or criminal records office in person.Make sure you have all the forms and documents you need. Any court documents you submit typically must be certified copies, which will cost you probably $10 or $20 to get.
Most states charge a processing fee for error correction requests – usually less than $20. If you aren't able to pay the fee, you may be able to have it waived in some states. Ask at the office where you got your error correction form.
Make a copy of everything you send for your own records before you send them, and make note of the date you mailed the documents. You may need this information later if there's a problem processing your request.
 It may take a number of weeks before your request is processed and the error is corrected. In the meantime, a government official may contact you if they need further information.Typically you'll get a notice from the state letting you know that the error has been corrected. However, you may want to order another copy of your criminal record to confirm that the changes have been made and no other errors have been introduced.
Talk to someone in the office that handled your request to find out if there's any way you can get another copy of your criminal record free of charge so you can verify that the change was made.
Once an error is changed in one place, you may have to take additional steps to get it changed elsewhere. Unfortunately, until you check those other criminal records there's no way to know for sure.
However, an agent in the office that handled your request may be able to tell you whether the change will be reflected on other criminal records.

