 This is necessary for all varieties of succulents. They have thick roots that spread out and require a wide diameter for proper growth. If your variety grows large and top-heavy, aim for a sturdy pot that won't tip over. Terra cotta is a good choice.


Make sure the pot has drainage holes at or near the bottom. If you're repurposing a container, avoid glass or other materials that you can't add holes to.
Varieties with roots that remain close to the soil surface will thrive in a shallow pot. Those with taproots that penetrate deeply into the soil require a taller pot. Read the care instructions that come with your plant (usually on a plastic tab that sticks in the soil) for details.;
, Look for cactus soil mix at your local garden center. Read the label to make sure it contains equal parts compost, horticultural sand, and grit. Double check that all ingredients are horticultural-grade., Invert the original pot and tap it gently to loosen the plant. Carefully clear the soil away from the roots using a chopstick or toothpick. Then, place the plant in the new pot. Use soil mix to cover the bottom of the plant to the same point that it was covered in the original pot.


Repot your succulent every year. The new pot should be slightly larger than the old one to allow for new growth., If you live in a hot climate, put your plant in a location that gets a few hours of filtered sunlight each day. In colder climates, six hours of full sun is acceptable. For indoor plants, rotate the pot at least once a day so that the entire plant receives sunlight.Don't put your plant in a south-facing window if you live in a hot climate. If you live in a cooler climate, test any south-facing windows for too much heat in the afternoon. The plant can literally become sunburned with too much sunlight.
If you have a “-veria” succulent, keep it out of the direct afternoon sun to avoid sunburn., The frequency of waterings depends on the variety of the succulent. Make sure the soil is moist at all times during the spring and summer months. Follow the care instructions for details specific to your variety.


Avoid overwatering, which can cause root rot., Like deciduous trees, succulents enter a dormancy phase during the fall and winter months. Allow the soil to dry completely before rewatering during this time. Depending on the variety, this can be as little as once a month.Some flowering varieties need more water than ones that don't produce flowers. Read the care instructions for details.