 This is the most basic verbal method for telling if your spouse is lying. Try to use logic. If a person hears an unexpected loud noise, then he will look towards it. So if he says they ran away without looking at all—he is probably lying. This can be difficult if you don’t have all of the information regarding the situation your spouse may be describing.For example if you ask your spouse “Did you come straight home from dropping the kids off at school?” He might say he did. Later you notice the car’s odometer is reading double the mileage it should for the day without it having been used again. That would be an inconsistency.
A more verbal inconsistency might be you asking your spouse “Did you buy tickets to the concert today?” The spouse may say yes, but you knew couldn't have because the news said it was already sold out.
 Another name for this is “tripping them up.” This is more useful if you suspect your spouse has told several lies. You want to catch her by asking her something that is now impossible or embarrassing because of her dishonesty.One example of this might be for a spouse that has repeatedly hidden bad financial investments from you and lied about it. You could try asking her, “Let’s go to the bank and ask the agent to provide us all the tax forms.”
Another example could be for a spouse that is habitually lying about hanging out with friends late at night so you tell her “I’ve gotten us two tickets to the theatre tonight.”

, Notice if you get too much detail or rambling from your spouse. If your spouse is in an uncomfortable situation, or one he feels guilty about, he may have over-thought how he will get out of it. A lying spouse may ramble on and on about what he was doing, where he was, and who he was with if he put a lot of care into the lie to cover his tracks.An example might be you asking your spouse why he is three hours late to your dinner date and he answers something such as, “I was driving in rush-hour traffic, there was an elderly lady crossing the street, an ambulance had to get by, construction blocked the road, and it was down to one lane on the bridge…”

, This can manifest as hesitation in the voice. This may be a sign of anxiety from your spouse for lying. If there are a lot of pauses in the speech patterns of your spouse then this can be an indicator of lying.An example of this could be you asking your spouse about where she has been all day and she lies with an answer such as, “Oh, I…um… have been…. Um… with my friend Jane.”
Lots of pauses in speech or stumbling may suggest lying because it takes more mental energy to maintain and tell a lie than simply tell the truth.This is especially true if the person is asked a more complex question — she will need time to formulate an answer that is consistent with her story., One way to catch your spouse in a lie is to find someone else to contradict his version of events. You need to be careful with this method as the witness is also capable of lying or being inaccurate. It may be helpful to talk to multiple witnesses to get more consistency in an answer. If you ask only one co-worker then she may say your spouse was there—but could be covering for him. However, if two or more co-workers all say your spouse was there, then this is most likely true.


For example you may ask your spouse if he was at work during business hours like he claimed to be. Then you can ask witnesses, in this case co-workers, if your spouse was telling the truth.
But if two or more witnesses claim your spouse was lying then you know with more certainty this is the case.

