 Huge multinational brands plan their after-Christmas sales well in advance. To maximize their sales, they will publish this information in business publications, magazines, and so on. Usually, this information will be run online on Christmas day or slightly before it, making this a convenient way to look for bargains.


One good place to start is the International Business Times, which runs a yearly online article on after-Christmas sales at well-known retailers. For example, here is IBT's article for 2014., Local mom-and-pop stores usually run after-Christmas sales just like bigger brands. However, you won't often be able to find information about these sales online as easily. Try looking in the ads section of your local newspaper or visiting a community bulletin board for information on after-Christmas deals in your local area.


If you have the time, you can also try looking on individual stores' websites or social media pages for information. As a last resort, you can call stores one by one — this is somewhat more time-consuming, but it works just as well as the methods above.
 You don't necessarily have to leave your house to get great savings after Christmas. Large online sellers (like Amazon.com, etc.) usually have drastic after-Christmas sales just like their brick-and-mortar counterparts. Best of all, it only takes a few clicks to check these sites for deals, so you can do it the day after Christmas in a matter of minutes.


See our guide to smart online shopping for more info.
 Not all retailers will allow you to "stack" coupon savings on top of after-Christmas discounts, but if you do get this chance, you can save even more than you normally would. Always be on the lookout for a good deal.


Traditional paper coupons can be easily found in your local newspaper. However, today, electronic coupons are even more convenient. Try searching your retailer's site for deals you can print or download to your mobile device and redeem at the store.Also be aware that sites like Coupons.com, Groupon.com, and Thekrazycouponlady.com offer numerous coupons year-round.

