 You can use your device’s native browser app or other third-party applications likes Google Chrome, Mozilla Firefox, Opera, or Dolphin browser.;
, Framaroot is a stand-alone application that roots your Android device without having to use a PC. You can download the latest version of this app straight from Framaroot’s website (http://framaroot.net/).
 Tap the downloaded APK to install it on your device.


If your device’s not set to install third-party applications, a prompt will appear asking confirmation to install Framaroot. Simply enable the “Unknown Sources” option on the prompt to continue.
 After installation, tap the app icon from your device’s home screen to launch Framaroot.
 Framaroot will require you to choose from three kinds of exploits that will root your phone, namely, “Sam,” “Frodo,” and “Aragorn.” You can select any of the three exploits listed. Just tap each one and find out which one is working.


Some exploits will not work on your device depending on the make, model, and version of Android OS it’s running on. When this happens, a message prompt will appear on the screen telling you that the exploit “failed.” Just select another one from the three until you find one that will work.
After choosing a working exploit, a message will appear notifying you that the exploit is successful and superuser settings have been installed on your device, which means that you have rooted your phone or tablet.
 Press and hold the Power button of your newly rooted Android device to reboot it.
 Tap on Google Play’s icon your home screen or app drawer to open it.
 On the search bar at the top, type in “Root Checker” then tap on the search icon (magnifying glass).
 Tap on the app’s name to view its details.
 Tap the “Install” button to download and install the application on your Android device.
 Tap the app icon from your device’s home screen to launch Root Checker.
 Tap the “Verify Root” button to check whether your phone or tablet is rooted or not. If you used Framaroot correctly, a message prompt should be displayed on the screen telling you that your device is rooted.

