 Teachers want to help your child succeed and like it when you communicate with them because it shows your love for your child.


Most schools have interpreters and some teachers speak multiple languages.
If you don’t have time to go to the school, then give the teacher a call or send the teacher a note, email, or text.
Remind yourself, “Parent-teacher communication is good and I can’t get help if I don’t ask for it.”
Tell yourself, “This teacher wants what’s best for my child. She won’t look down on me for asking for help. She’ll know I’m trying to be a good parent.”

, Asking a teacher for help early on may prevent the issue from getting any bigger.It also gives the teacher the opportunity to be proactive and stop problems at home from impacting schoolwork so much.


Don’t wait until report cards or progress reports come home.
If you notice that your child is struggling with homework or their grades are falling, you should ask the teacher for help immediately.
If your family is dealing with major stress like death, divorce, financial issues, or even moving you should ask the teacher for help supporting your child through it.
 As a parent, you might need to ask for help with your child’s academics, social life, or even for help with something in your personal life. Knowing how you want the teacher to help will make it easier for you to get the help you need.


You might need advice. For instance, you might need to ask for advice about encouraging your child to make better choices in friends.
Some parents need assistance. For example, you may need to ask for help paying for the upcoming field trip.
You may want information. You might, for example, want to ask for help becoming more active at your child’s school.
 Contacting them at the right time will give them more time to help you.Before school and after school may seem like good times to call or go see a teacher to ask for help, but teachers are often very busy at these times.
If possible, contact the teacher ahead of time via note, phone, text, or email to schedule a time for you all to talk.
For example, you could send an email that says, “Greetings! I would like to ask your help with something. When is a good day and time for us to talk?”

