 The Ganzfeld technique is one that utilizes sensory deprivation to produce hallucinations and other unusual mental states. In order to block out the sight you will be using ping pong ball halves, placing them over your eyes. Get a ping pong ball and cut it directly and evenly in half to begin.Draw a guideline with a marker or pen to make sure your cut will be even and straight.
You can try cutting the ping pong ball with a razor or sharp knife.
 In order to block out your sense of sound the Ganzfeld technique suggests that you play white noise or radio static. This noise will prevent you from hearing other distinct sounds and may allow you to experience auditory hallucinations within the meaningless static.


You can find white noise generators on-line.
If you have a radio you can try tuning it to a station that is only static.
It's best to use headphones to ensure that the only sound you hear is the white noise.
 You will need to find a level of lighting that is not too dark and not too bright in order to get the most from the Ganzfeld technique. The ideal lighting should be dim and indirect, allowing you to see the light through the ping pong balls but not brightly.You can try using a lamp, moving it closer or further away from you to control the brightness.
The original Ganzfeld experiments used red lighting.
 Once you have created the rest of your space, finding a source of dim lighting and white noise, you can now tape the ping pong ball halves over your eyes. Taping the ping pong lids over your eyes will block your sense of sight almost entirely while allowing only the indirect lighting to come through.Use a gentle and easily removable adhesive tape to affix the ping pong halves over your eyes.
Make sure the ping pong ball fully covers your eyes.
Be careful when taping the ping pong balls to your eyes.
Once affixed, keep your eyes open under the cover of the ping pong ball halves.
 The sensory deprivation will allow your mind to wander and create very detailed and interesting experiences. Your eyes and ears will try to fill in the details that are denied by the white noise and soft light entering through the ping pong balls. Stick with it for a few minutes, relaxing and awaiting any strange or unusual sounds or sights that your mind may produce.You may see something simple at first such as a swirling light or mist.
You may experience very clear mental images.
You may hear noises that sound as if they are nearby or in the room with you.
You may experience very engaging and realistic hallucinations that involve all of your senses.
If you feel uncomfortable or any unwanted effects occur stop immediately.

