 Talk to the guy in there, and choose the last option. He's going to tell you to get a costume, so go ahead and suit up! You don't have to wear the whole costume; you can just wear the shirt and pants and you'll be good to go.;
, You're going to need this in order for the policemen and women to let you into crime scenes.
 Talk to the scientist.


The lab person will give you anti-power handcuffs.
The policeman with the gray mustache will give you a file with all the super villains' profiles.
 Copy cat will laugh and throw a canister of smoke, and then multiply herself and run away.
To get Copy Cat, you must find all her clones before the smoke fogs up your screen. ALL you need to do is run over all her copies, you don't need to click on them or anything.
Once you have caught all of them, you will be taken back to the prison.

Continue past the bank and down to the subway. There will be police there. Enter the train.
To get Speeding Spike, you must head right through the subway cars until you reach him. Then stand by the door and when he comes running at you, jump. Repeat until he slips.
Again, you will be sent back to the prison. This happens every time you capture a villain.
 When he attacks you with rocks, try to jump up near him while the rocks come towards you. Then he'll get mad and whoop you with the ground.
If you stand on the ground, he'll levitate a small piece under you in order to whoop you. Get the big rock, and aim at him. To do this, you'll need to stand next to the rock. The rock will bounce off and--hopefully--hit him.
After you knock him out with the rock, capture that sucka!

,
Dodge the bees, and get to him.

Undo it, and he will get crushed.
Capture him.
 He will give you a tip. Follow what he says in order to defeat Betty Jetty.

Grab her, and she will go down. Then Ned the comic guy will save you.
 If you haven't already, go to where the hotdog man is and talk to him. You will receive a hot dog. Run back to Ned (who's in the comic shop) and he will give you a medal in return for the hot dog.
 You have defeated the island!

