 Cut a skinny strip out of white crepe paper or tissue paper. Fold it in half several times, then cut a long, skinny petal shape out of it. This should give you several petals. Repeat this step until you have about 20 to 24 petals.


Have the petals taper into a skinny tab at the bottom so that you can secure them more easily.;
, If you used crepe paper, you can gently pull the petals apart at the center to widen them.If you used tissue paper, you can fold the petals over a toothpick or skewer lengthwise to create a slight crease.Make the petals more realistic by cutting a notch into the tip

, Begin by cutting a 1 to 2-inch (2.54 to 5.08-centimeter) tall rectangle from green tissue paper or crepe paper. Next, cut a jagged, grass-like fringe into one of the long edges.This will make the base of the daisy and help cover up the bottom part of the petals.


Plan on making the rectangle about 5 inches (12.7 centimeters) long. You can always trim it down later if it's too long.
 Begin by folding a piece of green tissue or crepe paper in half. Cut a half-oval out of it, then cut notches into the curved edge of the oval. Unfold the oval to reveal your leaf.You can make as many leaves as you want. 2 to 3 would be ideal, however.
 The ball needs to be proportionate to your flower; something around 1 inch (2.54 centimeters) in diameter would work for most flowers. You can also roll some aluminum foil to a teardrop shape instead.For a more realistic center, gently flatten the curbed part of the teardrop.
 If the teardrop is loose, pull it off, fill the hole with glue, then push it onto the wire again. Make sure that the wire doesn't pop out of the top part of the tear drop.


If you can't find any wire stems, you can paint a skewer green and use that instead. Don't use regular wire or pipe cleaners.
 You don't have to do this if you used a Styrofoam ball, but you might want to if you used aluminum foil. Paint the teardrop with glue first, then dip it into ground rice.Let the glue dry, then seal it with another coat of glue.


You only need to coat the top part of the teardrop.
If you can't find ground rice, try something else that has a grainy texture, such as ground/steel cut oatmeal or ground buckwheat.
 You may need to add a few coats of paint to completely cover the base material. Let each coat of paint dry before adding the next one., Apply some glue to the side of the teardrop, from the bottom point up to where it starts to curve into a dome. Press your first petal, tabbed side down, into the glue. Continue gluing the petals, one by one, until you complete your first row.Hot glue sets quickly, so work only one petal at a time.
 If you look at your teardrop, you will see some gaps between the petals. Fill those gaps with glue, then press more petals into the glue., Coat the bottom portion of the teardrop with glue. Wrap the fringe around it, with the jagged side facing up. The bottom edge should extend past the bottom of the tear drop and onto the stem.Cut off any excess fringe hanging off the side.
 Gently pinch the bottom part of the fringe, then twist it slightly around the wire. If you need to, secure the twisted part to the wire with a strip of florist's tape., Begin wrapping from the base of the fringe, where the pinched/twisted part is. Continue wrapping all the way to the bottom of the stem., Place the bottom point of the leaf against the stem and pinch it. Give it a slight twist, then secure it with green florist's tape.Repeat this step for all of the leaves you made. You can have them as close together or as far apart as you want.
 Some daisies are open all the way while others are closed. You can leave your daisy closed, if you want to, or you can gently pull down on the petals to open it up.