 In order for you to know how well you like a mattress, you must test it out in the store. Search around looking for mattresses that meet your criteria, and then lay on each to see how you like them.


Lay on each mattress for at least 2-3 minutes, and up to 15. The floor models are out specifically for this reason, so don’t be hesitant to lay in the store for a bit.
Ignore descriptors on tags such as “ultra plush,” “super soft,” or “extra firm.” These aren’t regulated terms and are used freely within each mattress brand without consistency between them. Instead, just lay on the mattress to get a feel for how soft or firm it is.
Try a firm, a plush, and a pillow-top mattress to get a feel for which type you prefer. Compare these types all within the same mattress brand to get the most accurate idea of which you like best.
Ask to see a cutaway of the mattress if it’s available, so you can see exactly what it is you may be sleeping on.
 A comfort guarantee varies between brands, but is a certain period of time after you’ve purchased your mattress in which you can return or exchange it for free.


Always do this before you purchase and verify at purchase to make sure you are getting the correct information.
Find out how long the comfort guarantee lasts for, as this can be different depending on each brand.
Learn if you must pay for shipping to/from your home if the mattress doesn’t work out for you. This way you won’t be surprised by extra costs later.
 Many mattress brands and stores allow you to test the mattress in your home for up to thirty days. If you can, take this opportunity to verify that this mattress meets your sleep needs.
 Make sure that the mattress you are purchasing offers a minimum ten year, non-prorated warranty.
 Although buying just a mattress is all that seems necessary, you must also purchase a minimum of a box spring to support it as well.


Always buy a new box spring with your new mattress, as old box springs wear out over time and lose the desired support and firmness.
Purchase a waterproof mattress protector to cover your new mattress. This not only makes cleanup easier should something spill on it, but will keep the warranty intact. Many warranties void out if the mattress is stained or spilled on., The prices of mattresses can often be lowered with a little bartering done with a sales associate or store manager. Use the numbers you found online earlier to determine if you are getting a good deal.


Include the cost of old mattress pick-up and the delivery and setup of the new mattress in the total cost.
Ask for freebies; many stores will throw in free services if they are simply asked.