 You can cut them as long as you'd like, but bear in mind that with thick craft lace about 3 feet (1 m) of craft lace will yield about 3 inches (7.6 cm) of lanyard.


Thinner gimp and boondoggle laces will yield more length in the final product.
Using two different colors will be easier at first while you're learning the crown sinnet method.;
, All you need to do to find the centers is fold the strands in half until the ends are even. Then hold your thumb and finger around the centers so you don't forget where they are.
 Lay the two centers over each other on the top of your working station, arranging the strands in a plus sign.


Securing your lanyard strands at the end with a clip or keychain may make it easier to thread. Slip it onto the bottom strand and gently move it toward the center. It doesn't have to be exactly at the center right now, you can adjust it later.
 Holding one finger down on the center for the entire first stitch so that the two strands stay where they are, use your other hand to grab one end of the bottom strand. Draw it up over the center, creating a large loop. Grab the other end of the bottom strand and do the same thing.









Do not cross the strands as you draw up the loops; just make sure they both loop over the finger that's holding down the center.
 Grab one of the ends of the top strand, draw it toward the center, and simply weave it over the first loop it encounters but under the second loop.









Your two ends for the top strand should now be facing the same direction.
 Grab the other end of the top strand, draw it toward the center, and simply weave it over the first loop it encounters but under the second loop.









Make sure the strand you're weaving isn't the one you just weaved through a loop and draw it toward the center.
Note that the loop your second top strand went under is the loop your first top strand went over.
 Remove your finger from the center and place it on top of the first stitch (the two weaves you just completed). Use your finger to steady the center while you tighten the stitch.
 With your free hand (the one not holding down the stitch), gently tug on each strand in succession to tighten the stitch. You might have to go around a few times to get it tight enough.









Flip the stitch over and make sure your hook is in place. It should be directly over the "box" you just created. Continue tightening the stitch after you move the hook.
 Repeat what you did for the first stitch: using the same color that was the bottom strand during the first stitch, draw up two non-crossing loops again. Then, with one end of the top strand, go over the first loop and under the second one; repeat this with the other end of the top strand. Tug the strands to tighten the stitch.
 You will continue this same process until until you almost run out of lace. Stop before you run out completely, because you may need to make a final stitch to secure the end.
 How you finish the lanyard will depend on what material you're using.









If you're using a thread-based material, such as craft lace, simply cut the ends close to the lanyard and burn them with a match or secure them with crazy glue.If you're using gimp or boondoggle material, you'll need to do a finishing "stitch." Loosen the loops of your last stitch a bit first. Then take one of your strands and pull it through the loop of the other strand of the same color, going under the same-color strand as well as the different-colored strand beneath it. Finally, pull your strand up through the center of the lanyard. Repeat this for all four strands, pulling each strand tight when they're all through, and then trim the strands to your desired length.

