 Rinse your hands for 10 seconds.Before applying the medication, it's always a good idea to perform this step. You don’t want bacteria on your parrot’s eye because it can worsen its vision.;
, It can be difficult to open the bottle when holding your parrot. You want this to be fast as possible, so your bird won’t be irritated.
 Your parrot may be moving around when applying the treatment, so having someone around is helpful., The reason why not to cover the parrot and pick it up from the perch is because your parrot will grip the perch with its nails which can harm it. The parrot will resist.
 Ensure your parrot’s head is out of the towel.


Your parrot will escape if it knows you are approaching with a towel because it is intrusive, so try to do this silently.
 You should be holding the parrot like you are holding a taco.


The towel on the bird should be snug, holding its wings. Don't place your hand on its chest.
 You want to make sure the area is clean.


If discharge is present, clean eye with sterile eye wash solution.
Place tissue aside and dispose later because you don't want to deal with reinfection.
 However, birds will typically bite on the towel, so for some birds you don't need to hold chin. This ensures that the medication will be applied precisely in the eye.
 Don't touch the tip of the bottle or the birds eye to minimize contamination and blinking. Allow ten seconds for the drop to disperse in the parrot’s eye.


If your parrot continues to blink, you can apply a drop in the nostril and some will travel to the eye.
 You should follow your vets instructions. If you aren't sure, the frequency is printed on the side of the prescription.


Some eye drops for specific infections or swelling need to be applied every two hours, once a day, or twice a day. In that case, it's imperative to check the label on the prescription.
 Your parrot will gain a positive experience and would be easier to apply eye drops when needed.
 Ensure the parrot's water bowl is full because it was probably struggling to escape when applying the medication.
 Reseal medication to ensure its effectiveness.

