 In the winter months, water bowls and water bowls can potentially freeze. This will leave your rabbit without water, which he needs even in the winter.


Check water bottles and bowls a few times a day. If they freeze, replace them promptly.Insulating water bottles can reduce their risk of freezing. You can wrap a water bottle in an old towel. You can also buy water bottles designed for winter use, which come wrapped in materials that keep them warm.Make sure to have lots of spare bottles handy. Plastic bottles especially may crack in the winter months. You do not want your rabbit to go without water in the event his bottle breaks., If your rabbits sometimes play outdoors, they may get wet in the snow. You want to make sure to dry your rabbits off before putting them back in their hut. Dry your rabbits with a towel. If they're still wet, let them warm up indoors. Allow them to dry indoors naturally. Do not put them by a heater to dry., If you have more than one rabbit, try to keep them in pairs over the winter. This will both provide socialization and help keep your rabbit warm. Rabbits can snuggle with one another in the winter months for heat.If you haven't introduced rabbits, take some time with the introduction process before winter. It may take awhile for rabbits to get comfortable with one another. Make the first introduction in neutral space, like a room in your home. Rabbits are territorial and throwing them in a cage together right away can be a disaster.Introduce the rabbits in 20 minute increments. In the event of fighting, separate them and then try again in an hour or so. You can use a water bottle to break up fights.Keep your rabbits in eye contact with each other when they're not interacting. Once they seem comfortable with one another in a neutral space, you can try caging them together for short periods. Eventually, you should be able to move your rabbits into the same cage for the longterm.
Some rabbits may simply not get along, even with your best efforts. If your rabbits continually fight, it's better not to cage them together. If rabbits get aggressive or territorial, they could injure one another., As it grows colder, make sure you regularly clean your rabbit's cage. Urine can cause bedding, straw, and hay to dampen and even freeze. This can cause health problems if not dealt with properly. Remove any clumps of urine from your rabbit's cage on a daily basis, paying special attention to his bedding area.