 Reading books about the spiritual and religious experiences and ideas of others will help keep you excited and inspired about your own spiritual life. Remember to write about what you are reading in a journal and reflect on what you've learned.


A famous example of theological book about Christianity is C.S. Lewis’, Mere Christianity.
A famous book about the history, meaning and practice of Zen Buddhism is The Way of Zen by Alan Watts. There are religious bookstores or stores with sections on religion to help aid you in finding texts to read. The internet also has an abundance of information and forums to help you.
Consider joining a book club that is reading theological or spiritual books.
 Follow up with them about how things are going for you in your spiritual life. Pastors and spiritual leaders hope to see individuals grow in their faith and are also prepared to support you when you go through hard times.


Establishing contacts with members of your church, mosque, temple, or place of worship, will help you feel connected to the spiritual community. Talking to another person who is knowledgeable about your faith can also help you make sense of your own spiritual life.Ask for advice or help from people within your religious or spiritual community. In some instances, the aid given to you by religious or spiritual people will differ from the advice given by people who are outside of this community. You may be challenged to think outside of a self-centred mentality and that might mean being nice or doing good for the people or situations where you have been wronged.
 Getting to know a small group of people will help you establish more meaningful relationships with people who are interested in growing in their spiritual life.


Going to a spiritual small group will help you stay active in your spiritual community. These groups great places to learn about spiritual life, share food, grow, practice spiritual practices together and share the struggles and joys of life together.
These groups will help you with a sense of belonging and bring you closer to individuals who share your spiritual journey. 