 Many windows have built-in locks you can latch shut with a key to prevent the window from opening. If your windows have keys built-in, this is your best option for baby proofing your windows. If your windows do not have keys, however, use another method. Installing keys is costly and time-consuming and it's far easier to use an alternative window locking method.


You should have window locks somewhere in your home if your windows have built-in keys. They were likely given to you when you bought your home. If you're renting a building, ask your landlord for the keys to your window locks.You can also replace the lock barrels in the event you cannot find window keys. You can find replacement barrels online or at a local hardware store. How to replace lock barrels varies in terms of the type of lock used in your window. Barrels should come with manufacturer's instructions explaining how to install them.If you're unsure how to replace lock barrels yourself, hire a locksmith or handyman to do the work for you. You want to make sure the barrels are replaced correctly as it's important to lock your windows for the safety of your child.;
, If you have windows that slide open, a window stop is a handy plastic device you can use to stop windows from opening. You can buy window stops at most hardware stores. You can also purchase them online.Window stops are triangular shaped pieces of plastic that work by wedging the window shut. In the indent where the window slides up and down, you would wedge a window stop against the brim of the window. This should prevent the window from being opened.You want to make sure you get the right size window stop. Measure the length of the indent on your wall. Make sure the window is not wider than that indent.
You can have a window opened slightly with a window stop in place. If you choose to open your window, make sure the opening is no wider than four inches. A child should not be able to fit between a gap of this size or less., A charlie bar is another device you can use to keep sliding windows closed. This is a metallic stick that fits between the top half of a wedged window and the portion of the window that slides up. If your window opens sideways, you can also fit a charlie bar into your window horizontally to keep it open. Keeping a charlie bar in place will prevent a child from opening a window.Keep in mind, as your child grows older, he or she may be able to stand and reach the charlie bar. If your child is walking and getting taller, consider a method other than a charlie bar.
 Crank windows are windows that can be opened by turning a small crank. Keeping cranked windows closed is very simple. You can simply remove the crank. For the most part, the crank can be removed by simply twisting it off. However, you may need a screwdriver to remove some screws in some crank windows.