 You can download Scopy using Apple’s proprietary app store. Open up the iTunes App Store by tapping on its icon on your home screen.;
, Enter “Phoster” in the search bar. When the results come up, click on the first app.
 Phoster costs $1.99, so make sure you have enough iTunes credit in your account, or you can pay via Credit Card. Tap on “Buy” and a window will pop up requesting for your Apple ID and password.


Enter the necessary information and tap on “Buy” again to confirm your purchase. The app will download and install on your device.
 To launch the app, just tap on its icon found on the home screen of your iOS device.


The Phoster icon has the words “Phoster” on it with snow-capped mountains as a background.
 Firing up the app takes you to a screen with two buttons: The “Gallery” button and the “Create New” button.


The “Gallery” button allows you take a look at the posters you have created.
The “Create New” button lets you create new posters.
 To begin, tap on the “Create New” button.
 Tap the blue ribbon with three horizontal bars for access to shapes that you can add to your new poster.
 You can select any of the different styles already available in the app, just tap on any one of them to select the one you want to use.


Blocks with the small grocery cart on their top left indicate additional themes that are available for $0.99.
 A pop-up bar will appear asking if you want to add any photo from your photo album or take a picture with your camera. You can select any of the options to add a photo or you can leave the poster as is, without a photo.
 You can do this by tapping on the three horizontal bars at the bottom.
 Tapping the capital T button will allow you to insert or change texts.


You can also change the font style, size, and color.
 Do this by clicking the plus (+) sign.
 When you like what you see, just press “Next.”

, The app will now give you various looks of the poster you created with different effects on each one. Tap the one that you like.
 When you’re done creating your poster, select “Save.”


If you don’t like what you created and want to make changes, you can click on “Go Back.”
You also have the option to share your poster; just tap “Share.”

