 In many contact and non-contact sports that carry a potential risk of head injury, helmets are encouraged or required. For instance, when riding a bike or playing football, helmets are used to protect the head, and can prevent concussions.Choose a helmet that fits. Depending on your age and the size of your head, your helmet will fit differently than your friend’s helmet. All helmets should fit snugly — but not tightly — with no spaces between the soft foam of the helmet and your head.Ensure the helmet you’re wearing is certified for use and worn appropriately. For instance, don’t wear a bike helmet when riding a motorcycle; instead, wear a motorcycle helmet. Similarly, wear your helmet with all straps and fasteners connected securely.Wear your helmet every time you engage in an activity that would require a helmet. Make it a part of your activity gear. For instance, when getting ready to play baseball, pack your bag, glove, baseball, and batting helmet.;
, Ensure someone is present to monitor you and your team when playing a contact sport.Your supervisor could be a coach, physical fitness instructor, doctor or another person. Whoever you have supervising your play, they should be properly trained and qualified to identify situations in which a concussion could occur. If the monitor sees that someone in the game is at risk for a concussion, they must take the necessary steps to prevent it.
 Ask your coach to educate you and your teammates about concussions and their symptoms.For example, they might tell you to watch for nausea, vomiting, slurred speech, confusion, and dizziness following a serious head injury.Concussions can also produce a variety of delayed symptoms such as disrupted sleep patterns, headache, memory problems, difficulty concentrating, and disorders in taste and smell.


Speak up if you have concussion symptoms. Accept the decision of your coach if they believe you are at risk for a concussion.
Help your friends and parents understand concussions as well. A culture in which everyone is alert to the dangers of concussions will help prevent them from occurring.
 Exercises like moving the head up and down, with the chin touching the chest, can strengthen the neck. Moving your head from side to side so that you can look behind you and over your shoulder may also improve neck strength.
 Examine the playing field for holes or uneven terrain.No matter what sport you’re playing, you’re more likely to suffer a concussion if the terrain cannot be easily traversed. Check the field before playing to ensure it is free of holes and patchy areas. Insist that any holes are filled in before beginning play.


Ensure end posts and equipment are padded.End posts on a football field, or the sides of soccer goals, should be padded to ensure that players do not strike their heads against them accidentally. Sports padding is available from major sporting goods stores and manufacturers of sports equipment.
 If players are less aggressive on the playing field, they will be less likely to both inflict and suffer concussions.


Helping others up when they fall (even when they are not your teammates), apologizing and admitting to foul play, and shaking hands at the end of a game are all examples of how you can demonstrate good sportsmanship.
Do not play with others who will not play by the rules and demonstrate respect for others both on and off the field.
 Instead, focus on developing general fitness, agility, and hand-eye coordination in non-contact sports such as baseball, basketball, and golf.
 In a contact sport like football, using the proper technique to tackle is important in minimizing injuries. Coaches and parents should focus on teaching good technique. For instance, it is not acceptable to "spear," or lead with the head, when tackling. The head should never make contact first — shoulders should be used to hit, not helmets.Head-first contact can be observed in sports other than football. It is imperative you emphasize that this is not a safe technique and can lead not only to concussions but also serious neck and cervical-spine injuries.