 As with reviews, you’ll need to create an online presence. You can start a blog using a template such as WordPress, or you can create an entirely new website you’ve designed yourself. If you choose to use videos in your gameplay tutorials, a YouTube or Vimeo account will be a necessity, as well., A tutorial should be quite detailed and involved; after all, people are seeking out help. Provide step-by-step accounts of certain difficult spots, or provide a detailed overview of the game as a whole, taking photos or videos of areas of the game that are tricky or particularly interesting., If you are able, record your gameplay to give your readers/viewers a visual account of what the game should look like. If you do not want to record, you can take pictures to illustrate your points and give visual learners a better means of understanding., Use social media to promote your online presence. Facebook, Twitter, and Instagram are all great ways to promote yourself. Use hashtags and regular posting habits to keep your name and brand relevant. If you have friends who are active in online gaming or tutorial sites, ask them to share your information, as well. , If you choose to go the route of a site versus a YouTube or Vimeo channel, make use of Google AdSense, a program that uses your online space to advertise with predetermined companies. Typically, AdSense shows up as ads in the sidebar, or ads across the bottom of the webpage that can then be clicked out of.

Use discretion when choosing online ads for your site. Although most people do not mind a few ads, being overwhelmed by ads on both sidebars, as well as pop-ups and mid-text ads may discourage viewers from visiting your site in the future. If your site seems cluttered or difficult to read, scale down on your ads.
 If you prefer to use YouTube exclusively to get your content out, enroll in YouTube advertisements. Although the amount of money you make will be directly tied to the number of views you receive, this is a great start in making money playing video games.