 Choose old eyeshadow or some from the dollar store. It's probably best to not use your good quality, expensive makeup.;
, Use a fork, end of a butter knife, or similar to help you mash it up in a bowl.
 This will form the "dye" for your hair. Stir to mix well.
 You need to be somewhere that it's okay to make a mess and easy to clean up afterward. You may even wish to lay a tarpaulin sheet over the area where you're doing this.


You may also find it helpful to be in front of a mirror.
 If the dye from the eyeshadow runs, it may stain your clothing.
 Wash your hair as usual, use shampoo and conditioner.
 Place an old towel around your neck and wear old clothes.
,, It'll be a little darker the longer you leave it.
 Wear it out to a fun occasion., Use shampoo and conditioner as normal, to remove the eyeshadow colorant. Apple cider or white vinegar will definitely get it out if any is left after shampooing; just put a rinse of vinegar through to get the color off, then repeat with shampoo and conditioner to finish.
 You need to be somewhere that it's okay to make a mess and easy to clean up afterward. You may even wish to lay a tarpaulin sheet (or similar cover) over the area where you're doing this.


You may also find it helpful to be in front of a mirror.
 If the dye from the eyeshadow runs, it may stain your clothing.
 A baby wipes or plastic food container are suitable choices. If it has a lid and you have leftovers, you can store what's left.
 As with Method 1, consider using up your old eyeshadow(s). You'll also need baby powder.
 If you are mixing colors, start with the eyeshadow you're thinking of using up completely, then add other colors as needed, gradually until the desired color is reached.
 Cut it up with a butter knife, then crush it with the rounded end of the knife.
 Do this gradually, so that you keep control over the color.
 Don't overdo this, or you will find it stiffens your hair when applied. There should be enough powder mix to cover your hair.
 Remember those old clothes! Dip the brush you're using into the mixture you've just created. Begin brushing the color into your hair, getting all of the strands you want colored.
 It will dry and stiffen on contact with the oils in your hair, so there shouldn't be any flaking off after application.
 Wash out with standard shampoo and conditioner when you're done with it. If it is a bit stubborn, use apple cider or white vinegar to get out any remaining color.

