 If you try to delve into new, difficult topics shortly before your therapist goes on vacation, you might lose your momentum over the break. Worse, you might uncover unpleasant feelings and then have to deal with them on your own. Use your last few sessions before the vacation to tie up loose ends instead., A good therapist will understand that their clients may become anxious when they go on vacation, and they probably have some ideas for how you can manage during the break. If you’re worried about not having your regular sessions for a few weeks, tell your therapist how you’re feeling and they can help you prepare., Some therapists may be willing to answer email or have a brief phone conversation with you if you have a crisis while they’re away. Others have a strict no-contact rule for vacations. Make sure you understand your therapist’s stance on this before they leave.
 A transitional object is something that reminds you of your therapist. If you feel abandoned or anxious when your therapist is on vacation, the transitional object serves as a comforting reminder that your therapy relationship still exists. Transitional objects could include a recording of your therapist’s voice, a small item from their office, or a note your therapist wrote for you.Keep in mind that having this time apart from your therapist is a great opportunity to practice and implement some of what you have been learning.
 Your therapist might be your primary emotional outlet, but other people in your life can help you, too. Ask your family and friends for some extra emotional support and understanding while your therapist is away., Talking with other people who are dealing with the same issues as you can be very therapeutic. Look for a support group in your area or online, and consider going to meetings when your therapist is out of town.If you are religious, your church, synagogue, or mosque can also be a great source of support.
 Journaling is a good way to process your emotions on your own. If you uncover any interesting thoughts or insights during this time, you can write them down and discuss them with your therapist when they return.You can also write letters to your therapist and share them when they come back from vacation.
These reflections may help you to see how you deal with issues when you have time away from your therapist. It may also show you that you have more personal resources that you knew you had.
 Your therapist’s break might feel difficult to get through, but it’s actually an opportunity to put your skills to good use. Think back to the things you’ve worked on in previous sessions with your therapist and look for ways to apply them to your situation now.Ideally, therapy shouldn’t last forever. Even if you’re not ready to strike out on your own yet, your therapist’s vacation gives you a preview of how well you’ll cope when you do decide to stop therapy.
 It’s normal to have more difficulty than usual coping with life while your therapist is away. You’ve been working on dealing with painful emotions and memories, and now the person you trust and rely on to help you isn’t available. Don’t beat yourself up if you notice you’re feeling more fragile or anxious than usual.Treat yourself with the same compassion you’d show to a friend in your situation. You wouldn’t judge them – you’d empathize and try to help them.
 Missing your regular therapy sessions can cause stress, so keep the rest of your life as stress-free as possible. Make time to relax every day, and avoid taking on more responsibilities than you can handle. If you have big projects due at work or school, work on them ahead of time so you won’t have to face a looming deadline.Using relaxation techniques regularly can help you manage your mood while your therapist is on vacation. Try meditating, breathing deeply, and practicing mindfulness to stay calm and centered.
 You’ll feel better mentally and emotionally if you take good care of your physical needs. Sleep, regular exercise, and a nutritious diet can help you stay on track and manage your feelings constructively.Resist the temptation to smother your worries with a pint of ice cream. Junk food might make you feel better for a few minutes, but your feelings will return later, and you’ll also have a sugar crash or stomachache to deal with.
Avoid drinking alcohol or using illicit drugs to soothe your emotions. These substances will only compound your problems in the long run.
 Find ways to distract yourself while your therapist is on vacation. Start working on a new project, schedule extra visits with your family and friends, or treat yourself to a new book or movie. Keeping your mind busy will make the time pass more quickly, and you might even find yourself enjoying the break.