 Once you have completed your course work, passed any preliminary exams, and defended a dissertation proposal, it is time to determine when you will try to graduate. Only you know how quickly you can write, or how well defined your idea is. If you must do interviews, fieldwork, or lab work in order to write, this process will take longer for you. Create a realistic writing schedule for yourself, and use this to determine when you will be able to complete your doctoral work., There are a number of deadlines that you will need to meet in order to satisfy the requirements of your dissertation. First, find out when you will need to have the approved document submitted to your university. This is usually almost a month prior to graduation. Once you know this date, you can work backwards to create other milestones and due dates.Let’s say you must have your document submitted by April 12 (for a May graduation).
Your defense can be no later than April 5. (You will need at least a week for final edits and last minute formatting.)
You must have your dissertation submitted to your committee by March 5. (They need four weeks to read it.)
You will need at least two weeks for final revisions, and your advisor will need at least three weeks to do a final read-through. So you need your finished draft to your advisor no later than January 30.
 Once you have determined when you think you can graduate and thus, when you must have a finished draft, continue to work backwards to create a more specific timetable. This is a process best done with the help of your advisor.


You may consider giving yourself four weeks of writing time per chapter. If you will have 5 chapters, this means you will need 20 weeks to write. You will also need additional time for reading and research.
Set down due dates for each chapter.
Remember to account for the time it will take for your advisor to return your pages and for you to complete revisions on each chapter.
Also, remember to continue writing while your advisor has your pages. Do not wait for revisions to resume your work.
 Now that you have a timetable, you will need to make a more specific schedule. A good rule is to try to produce 2-pages of solid writing per day and/or to write in 3-4 hour chunks. If possible, it is also a good idea to write at the same time each day.


Pencil in writing times for yourself into your schedule.
You will need to protect this time for yourself. Do not use this time to schedule meetings, prep your classes, or do other errands or work.
 Writing a dissertation is a very long process. Because of this, many people become disheartened at times. You can keep the dissertations blues away by celebrating each milestone. Every time you turn in a chapter, take a day off to celebrate. Every time your advisor approves a chapter (meaning it no longer needs any revisions), treat yourself to something nice.
 A good rule of thumb is to have a full, finished draft of your complete dissertation one full semester prior to your intended graduation date. For example, if you plan to walk across the stage in May, you should have a complete draft by the end of the fall semester (usually mid-December).