 Often, you may not have the luxury of being able to plan an entire day around the mission of chilling out. Whether they're caused by work, school, personal relationships, or some other outside force, stressful feelings and thoughts can occasionally pile up and become intensely unpleasant. In these cases, it's not enough to plan a day off in the future — odds are that you'll want relief now. Start by taking the earliest opportunity to stop what you're doing, leave your stressful situation, and give yourself a brief opportunity to do nothing.


Removing yourself from the source of your stress — even just for a little bit — can be a huge help in relaxing. It's well-known among psychologists and business experts that semi-frequent short breaks can be a huge boon to creativity and morale, leading workers to be happier and more productive in the long run., Chilling out in a stressful situation is often just as much about your thoughts as it is about your actions. If you feel yourself getting stressed and agitated, don't let these negative thoughts overwhelm you. Try to think about your problems from a logical, detached perspective. Try to figure out why exactly you're stressed out. Is it because you believe you're being treated unfairly? Because you've been given too much to do? Because you aren't able to do things how you'd like them to be done? Thinking about your thoughts, rather than just focusing on the way you feel, can completely change the your attitude in a matter of minutes and even sometimes give you unexpected insights.


For example, let's say that you're almost ready to leave work on a Friday afternoon when your boss pops into your office and gives you an unexpected assignment for the weekend. At this point, as you feel the frustration building inside you, you can either give in to these feelings and fume over this injustice for the entire weekend or (preferably) start to think about why this peeves you so much. For instance, is it because you feel like your employer doesn't adequately reward you for the time and effort you put into your company? If so, you may want to make a long-term effort to find a new job or negotiate for a better arrangement.
 You never have to deal with stress alone! If you have the opportunity, try talking to someone else about the issues that are giving you stress. Explaining your problems to a friendly listener can help you understand them and psychologically "vent" by opening up about your negative thoughts. However, the American Psychological Association (APA) notes that it's important to talk to someone who's a patient listener and not someone who's likely to make you more stressed out.For example, in the situation above, it might be a good idea to call home after work to vent about your problems with a parent or sibling. On the other hand, it's probably not a good idea to talk to your annoying roommate about it — especially if tensions are already high because he's behind on rent.
 The last thing an angry, stressed-out person usually wants to hear is, "Hey, turn that frown upside down!" However, as obnoxious as it may seem, there's a kernel of truth to this advice. Smiling (and other "happy" behaviors like laughing) actually can make you happier because they trigger the release of chemicals in the brain responsible for elevating mood. By contrast, frowning and other "unhappy" behaviors can have the opposite effect, increasing negative feelings., One good way to deal with pent-up stress is to channel it into an outlet where the extra energy and tenseness will do you some good. For example, feelings of anger and frustration can make it easy to complete a long, intense workout (on top of this, exercise is a good way to moderate stress levels and improve your mood — see below for more information.)Other good ideas include channeling your energy into creative pursuits, like writing or playing a musical instrument.


In our example with the unplanned weekend workload, a constructive thing to do in this situation might be to head to the gym after work rather than go straight home. Here, we can take out our frustrations in a healthy way by going for a run, lifting weights, or, if we're really mad, clobbering a punching bag.
 Though it may sound pretentious or obnoxiously "new-age" to some, meditation skills have been proven to help some people manage feelings of stress and otherwise chill out. There's not really any single "right" way to meditate, but, in general, meditation involves removing yourself from distractions, closing your eyes, slowing your breathing, and focusing on untangling your stressful, worrisome thoughts. Some people hold complicated yoga poses while meditating, some mentally visualize ideas or images, some repeat a simple word or mantra aloud, and some even meditate while walking around!


For information (including detailed instructions on how to clear your mind of stressful thoughts), see our excellent meditation article.
 While all of the tricks above can be extremely useful if applied wisely, the most satisfying way to get rid of stresses for good is to deal with them. It can be tempting to run from stresses at work, school, or home, but confronting them head-on is usually the quickest path to relief. Plus, the satisfaction from doing a good job can lead to lower stress in the long run even if you have to buckle down at first to achieve it.


In our example situation, the best course of action is probably to complete our assignment as quickly as possible Friday night or Saturday morning so that we'll have plenty of time to do the things we want to over the weekend. When we get back on Monday, we may want to meet with the boss to discuss an arrangement that will avoid these sorts of "crunch time" scenarios in the future.
Resist the urge to cope by procrastinating. Delaying work now just leads to more stress later, especially if you have to scramble to meet a deadline. Once you've completed your task, you'll be able to appreciate your chill out time fully without lingering worries about how you'll deal with the commitments you've put off.

