 Most kidney bean plants do not survive the transplanting process, so you should plan on directly sowing the seeds instead of getting starter plants.;
, Kidney beans need full sun in order to thrive, so you should plan on growing them in a spot that gets at least six hours of direct sunlight a day, if not more.


If possible, find a spot with soil that is naturally somewhat loose. Loose soil drains water more effectively, and this is crucial if you want to grow a healthy kidney bean plant. If you notice that the water settles or pools in a given area when it rains, you should consider choosing another location.
Practice crop rotation from year to year. Do not plant kidney beans in soil where other legumes have grown within the past three years.
 The soil needs to be fairly light and loose so that water can drain. If your soil is too heavy, you will need to amend it with enough organic material to even it out. The pH of the soil also needs to be near neutral.


Good soil amendments include manure and compost. Either option will help loosen the overall density of the soil while also providing plenty of nutrition for the plant as it starts out.
Amend the soil by mixing these extra components in with a trowel or small garden rake a few weeks before you plan to plant.
The pH of the soil should be between 6.0 and 7.0.
Consider mixing a powdered inoculant into the soil, as well. This is a type of natural, healthy bacterium that makes it easier for beans to absorb nitrogen during the earliest and most crucial stages of growth.
 While many popular kidney bean varieties are bush beans, there are a few pole bean varieties. Pole beans grow vertically, so you will need to fix a stake or trellis to the growing location if you want these varieties to produce their maximum yield.
 Kidney beans require adequate warmth and humidity to thrive. Plant them in the spring once you feel fairly certain that the last frost has already passed.


The temperature of the soil should be between 70 and 80 degrees Fahrenheit (21 to 27 degrees Celsius). If at all possible, avoid letting the soil temperature drop below 60 degrees Fahrenheit (16 degrees Celsius).Ideally, the air temperature should be between 65 and 80 degrees Fahrenheit (18 and 27 degrees Celsius) throughout most of the growing season.
If a frost does arrive unexpectedly after your kidney bean plants have sprouted, cover the seedlings with a bit of mesh cloth or canvas to help protect them from the freezing temperatures.
 Kidney bean seeds should be planted 1 to 1-1/2 inches (2.5 to 3.8 cm) deep.Many gardeners prefer to space seeds 1 to 2 inches (2.5 to 5 cm) apart initially. After your seedlings reach a height of roughly 3 inches (7.6 cm), thin them out to a more appropriate spacing, removing the weakest seedlings when possible and preserving the strongest.
 For most varieties, you will need to sow separate kidney bean seeds 3 to 4 inches (7.6 to 10 cm) apart from one another.


More specifically, pole or vine varieties do well when spaced 4 inches (10.16 cm) apart, while compact bushes may benefit more if spaced up to 8 inches (20.32 cm) apart.
The seeds should germinate within 10 to 14 days.
 While container gardens do not provide the most beneficial set of conditions for kidney beans, these plants can grow inside of containers when taken care of properly. For each kidney bean plant, you will need a pot with a diameter of 12 inches (30.5 cm).


When choosing to grow kidney beans in containers, you should opt for a bush variety instead of a pole variety. Bush varieties tend to do better in more confined spaces.
The main reason that kidney beans are not typically grown in containers is simply that the yield of an average plant is not enough for one person. You will usually need to plant six to ten plants if you want to supply yourself with enough beans for regular use. You should only plant one kidney bean plant per pot, however, so you will need six to ten separate pots if you plan on producing enough for yourself.
 Before you add any soil to the container, you will need to spread a layer of gravel at the bottom to improve drainage. Otherwise, kidney bean plants can quickly become waterlogged inside of pots.
 As with a standard garden, you need to plant a kidney bean seed 1 to 1-1/2 inches (2.5 to 3.8 cm) deep. Sow the seed in the middle of the pot.
 The soil should never be allowed to get too soggy since the roots of the plant are easily damaged when waterlogged. As such, you should only give the plants extra water if your area has experienced a drought.


Instead of watering the soil in an effort to keep it continually damp, you should only water it if you check the soil and determine that it has dried out at least a full 1 inch (2.5 cm) down from the surface. You can test it by gently sticking your finger down into the soil and feeling for moisture.
 Even though nitrogen-based fertilizers will make your kidney bean plants look vibrant and leafy, these fertilizers actually do more harm than good since they encourage the plant to send its energy to its leaves rather than its fruits. Large doses of nitrogen will produce an impressively leafy plant that bears very few edible beans.


After the plant gets started, kidney beans actually produce their own nitrogen inside their roots. A fertilizer with high levels of nitrogen will inevitably end up feeding the plant too much nitrogen.
If your plants are suffering and in need of more nutrition, use a small amount of organic fertilizer that does not supply a hearty amount of nitrogen.
 The roots of the plant are quite shallow, so when you dig up weeds, you need to do so carefully to avoid accidentally disturbing or damaging the roots of the kidney bean plant.


Never chop up the weeds around a kidney bean plant using a hoe or trowel. Instead, you should pull the weeds up by hand.
You could also help keep weeds out by spreading a 1- to 2-inch (2.5- to 5-cm) layer of mulch on around the plant after it sprouts. Additionally, mulch provides the extra benefit of maintaining adequate warmth and humidity while preventing pods from rotting once they touch the ground.
 Some garden pests do target kidney beans, and the plant is also vulnerable to a few different diseases. If you run into problems, you may need to apply an appropriate pesticide or fungicide.


Beetles, slugs, cutworms, and leafhoppers will go after the leaves of the plant. These can be removed easily if you check your plants regularly and pick them off as you see them. If this is not an option, though, look for a pesticide that specifically targets these insects.
Aphids may also attack your plant, but these cannot be picked off by hand. Treat the plant with an appropriate pesticide once you spot aphids since these pests can spread bean mosaic virus.
Bean rust is a reddish-brown fungus that can show up in patches on the leaves of a kidney bean plant, and it should be treated with a fungicide as soon as you spot the first signs of it.
Powdery mildew may attack your plant, as well. It will look like a fine white powder. You should treat the plants with a fungicide as soon as possible and reduce the amount of watering you do. Humid conditions produce mildew, so make sure that the plants are only watered at the soil level and not on the leaves.
If squirrels, deer, or rabbits become pests, you can keep them out with fencing or netting.
 Bush varieties should be harvested once at the end of the growing season. Pole varieties can be harvested several times throughout the season, but the largest harvest will usually be at the end of the season.


Depending on the variety you chose, kidney beans should be ready to harvest after 90 to 150 days.
Pole varieties produce a harvest on a regular basis for one to two months.
Adequately mature bean pods will be dry to the touch, and the beans inside the pods will feel very hard.
Check the beans of one pod before you harvest the other pods. You can check to see if the beans are done by carefully biting down on one. If your teeth can dent the bean, then the rest should be allowed to dry for a longer period of time before you harvest and shell them.
 If dropping temperatures or other unfavorable conditions threaten your harvest, you can pull kidney bean plants early and allow the beans to finish drying the rest of the way afterward.


High humidity can also make it difficult to dry the beans on the plant. In this instance, you will need to finish drying them inside, as well.
Remove the plants and hang them upside-down by the root for several days or weeks until the pods seem dry and the beans inside are hard. Make sure that most of the foliage has died before you pull the plants.
Keep the beans in a warm indoor location with lots of circulating air as you dry them.
 After you have plucked the pods from your plant, you will need to break them open and pull out the beans hidden inside. If you allowed the plants to mature correctly, the beans should already be hard and dry.


You can shell a small harvest by hand, but if you have a larger harvest, you may want to shell them in batches. Place the pods in a pillowcase or similar bag. Carefully step on the pods through the pillowcase to crack them open. When done, sift through the pieces to sort out the beans and leave behind the broken pods.
 Place the harvested kidney beans in a jar and store them in a dry, dark location until ready to use.


Dried beans can last up to a year in the right conditions.
For best results, store the beans in airtight jars or bags.