 This method requires no specialized materials, but it is only suitable for thin booklets made from a few sheets of paper. Your stapler needs to be powerful enough to deploy a staple through the booklet when there is no supporting surface behind it, so do not use a stapler that is rusty or jams easily.


If you have a large number of booklets to staple, you may wish to save effort by using the Specialized Stapler method.
 Select two books that are exactly the same height when laid flat on a table. Place them flat on a table or other hard surface, leaving a tiny gap between them. The gap only needs to be wide enough to staple the booklet over it without attaching the staple to the book; 1/2 to 1 inch (1.25–2.5cm) should be plenty.
 Make sure all your pages are in order and aligned, then lay the stack of paper over the two books. The center of the outside cover should be directly over the gap.
 Pull the arms of the stapler apart. If only the cover comes off (revealing the staples), put it back and on and try again while holding the sides of the upper arm more firmly.
 Hold the booklet in place with your hands or by placing a heavy object on top of each side. Align the stapler arm so the head of the stapler is oriented in the middle of the booklet, where you'd like the first staple to be. Depending on how large the booklet is, you will probably want somewhere between 2 and 4 staples, spaced evenly down the spine.
 Because there is nothing but air underneath the spine, you will have to push down quickly to get the staple to deploy. Hold the paper in place as you do this to make sure it is not dragged down with the stapler. Do not push so hard that the paper tears; the motion should be firm but over quickly.
 Pick up the stack of paper and see if the staple went through the paper. If it did, all you need to do is bend the two prongs of the staple flat against the paper, pointed toward each other. You may do this with your fingers, avoiding the sharp point, or by gently hammering them down with any hard object.


If the staple did not pierce through the whole stack of paper, your stapler may not be strong enough for this method, or you may not have pushed hard enough. Try again after pushing the two books closer together, and make sure the paper is held down firmly when you apply the staple.
 Continue until the spine has enough staples to hold the paper in place firmly when folded to form a booklet. 3 is enough for most projects, while a particularly thick or tall booklet may require 4 or more staples.

