 Choose a shampoo that strengthens hair. This will ensure your hair is strong enough for teasing. A few to try include FiberStrong, Aveeno Nourish+Strengthen, and Pantene Pro-V Full and Thick.

Many traditional shampoos strip hair of its natural oils. Look for labels that say “strengthening,” “anti-breakage,” or “restorative.”;
, Use a conditioner that strengthens while deep conditioning. A good conditioner should infuse protein, amino acids, and strengthen damaged hair.Some conditioners to try are Redken Extreme Conditioner, FiberStrong conditioner, or Bumble and Bumble Thickening Conditioner., This will help repair damaged hair. Put deep conditioner on your hair and leave it on for at least three minutes before rinsing.

A few deep conditioners to try are Aussie Deeeeep 3 Minute Miracle, Bee Mine Bee-U-Ti-Ful Deep Conditioner, and Alikay Naturals Honey and Sage Deep Conditioner .Make a homemade hair mask. One recipe includes 1 egg yolk, 2 tablespoons of coconut oil, and one tablespoon of honey. Combine ingredients until blended and then apply to damp hair, letting the mask sit for 30 minutes before washing out., This will protect your hair during a blow dry before you tease. Choose one that is aimed at your troubled area. Heat protectants exist to help frizzy, limp, color-treated, or thick hair.Try John Frieda Frizz Ease Hair Serum for frizzy hair.
Tresemmé Thermal Creations Heat Tamer Spray helps protect limp or fine hair.
L'Oréal Color Vibrancy Dual Protection Spray helps keeps color vibrant while conditioning hair.
Dove Style+Care Frizz-Free Shine Cream-Serum helps keep thick hair tame.
 Blow dry your hair before teasing. Teasing curly or naturally wavy hair can tangle hair. Straight hair will be less likely to tangle and damage.

Make sure hair is completely dry before styling. Hair is weakest when its wet., A long tail comb is helpful for sectioning off pieces of hair.The right comb will help you tease your hair properly while maintaining its strength. Good combs to try are the Tortoise Backcomber by Tool Structure, Metal Tail Comb (with fine teeth) by Tearsheet, or the Purple Teasing Comb by Teeze with Eez.

Some stylists prefer a soft bristle brush for teasing, such as the Wonder Boar-Nylon Bristle Teasing Brush by Spornette or the Concave Bristle Shape Teasing Brush by Phillips. These combs can be gentler and less-damaging.
Other salon-grade combs have a lift section on the backend such as the Comare Mark II Gripper Comb with Stainless Steel Lift or the Teasing Comb by Cardiff Brands.
A thick wide-tooth comb is less damaging for curly hair. Consider trying the Double Dipped Teasing Comb by Tool Structure, the Cricket Ultra Smooth Conditioning Comb, or the Sandalwood Hair Comb by Breezelike.
 It’s easy to tease your hair. Once your hair is healthy, you can attempt to tease it. Decide on how much you want to tease. Search teased hairstyles on Pinterest to get an idea., This can vary depending on the style you want. It may be easiest to keep your natural part. If styling your hair straight back, you won’t need a part. , If you have a long tail comb use the end of your comb to grab a 3-inch wide section of hair near the front of your crown. You can also grab a section carefully with your fingers. Brush this section straight up."The crown” is the circular area on the top of the head.Imagine a crown or hat sitting atop your head. The area under that space is the crown. This is the primary area you’ll tease.
Teasing the crown of the hair gives your normal hairstyle added volume. Teasing the sides gives your hair a lot more height. Teasing just the top gives the intended look.
If you want the look to be looser, take larger sections of hair.
 Tilt your chin down slightly. Position your comb on the underside of the section 3-4 inches down from your roots. Hold the end of the hair section with your other hand so that one hand is combing and the other is holding the section straight up., Comb from the ends of your hair toward the crown. Make sure to only comb in the down direction as combing up and down damages hair.Repeat this technique on the same section 5-6 times. Keep your chin down as you work and set the teased section over your face to keep it separated.

Keep your grip holding the end of the section very tight so that teasing works effectively.
Avoid combing forcefully, as this can damage hair., You can put your hair back in a ponytail or bun if you so choose. You may decide to use bobby pins to hold sections back. Browse Pinterest for different hair styles to wear with teased hair.

Get rid of metal fastener ties. Fabric ties don’t allow you to stretch so tightly, which protects hair from damage.Wear hair down to give it a styling break between “up” days.Switch your ponytail height. Try a low ponytail one day and a high ponytail the next. This way ponytail pressure won’t always be put on the same place., Use hairspray to maintain your new volume all day. Spray at the roots. Mist each section separately.


Buy a hairspray with a medium hold. Most medium level sprays say Level 2 hold on the bottle. Using a hairspray with a medium hold will allow for good teasing, but won’t make your hair look and feel stiff. This will also allow you to brush out your tease at the end of the day.
Some hairsprays to try include Bumble and Bumble Thickening Hairspray (which thickens hair while holding it), Big Sexy Hair Volumizing Spray, and Pantene Pro-V Hairspray.
Don't use too much hairspray, as it can make your hair look stiff. By teasing your hair, you are giving it added volume and height. Spraying too much hairspray won’t give your hair the flow that teasing tries to achieve.
 Add a little dry shampoo to teased sections to help bulk up the volume.Some dry shampoos to try are Batiste dry shampoo, Captain Blankenship Mermaid dry shampoo, or Rahua Voluminous Dry Shampoo.