 Bostonians have different words for some common things. For example, if you say “water fountain,” people will know you’re not from Boston. A Bostonian would call it a “bubblah.”


It's important to master how slang is used in common language, especially if you are practicing a Boston accent for a movie role. In some areas of Boston, sandwiches are called “spuckies.” They are also called subs. If you are trying to find a liquor store, ask for the packie.
Bostonians don’t drink soda or pop. They call it “tonic.” So if someone offers you tonic, they aren’t offering you gin in Boston. They might be offering you Pepsi.
Steamed clams are one of the most common local foods. They are called steem-ahs.
Roundabouts – those circles in roads – are called rotaries in Boston (but pronounce it rotah-ree). Instead of turn signal, say "blinkah." Instead of remote control, say "clickah." Instead of trash can, say barrel.
 This is one of the most distinct Boston terms. If you like something, say it’s wicked.


For example, if you think the Boston Red Sox are a good team, tell people you think they are wicked good.
The word pissa means something is great. Often, people in Boston will combine it with the word wicked to say something is wicked pissa (but remember to pronounce it "pissah").
 If you don’t have a handle on how to say words relating to the local geography, it’s not going to matter if you drop your rs.


If you say you want to go to the Public Gardens or Boston Commons, everyone who is really from Boston will know you aren’t. These are singular words. So, you should refer to Public Garden and Boston Common, instead. But if you really want to do it right, say "Public Gahden."
Tremont should be pronounced "Treh-mont." Say COPley, not COPEly Square (but pronounce it "Squayah").
The way you pronounce many Boston locations is very different from how they are spelled. So don’t try to puzzle it out phonetically.
Avoid Boston clichés. It annoys people from Boston when you refer to the city as “Beantown.” Only tourists call the city that.

