 Etsy does not have any membership fees; it’s free to set up an account and public profile. It only members costs 0.20 USD to list one item for 4 months or until making a sale, whichever is first. When the item sells, Etsy collects a fee of 3.5% of the selling price. Also Set up your account as mentioned above in second method. Having an account will give you the authority to carry out transactions of any kind on Etsy, as well as use other tools available on the platform.
 Your bio and profile are a way for sellers to know your background. The first step is typing in your bio on the ‘About’ field which you can access through Account - Account settings - Public profile. Here you may introduce yourself, interests, hobbies, education and craft, all what might be of interest to Etsy peoples. Also put up a profile picture.
 Choose a name that stands out. It should be memorable and related to what you want to sell. Search on Google and social media to ensure no one is using it, because you want this name to be consistent across every online site you will be on. Next, choose a banner from Etsy’s free banners, on which to display your store name. You can also design your own banner if nothing on the pre-designed templates impresses you.
 Take good pictures of your products – ensure the background and lighting is good, and use a steady hand. Many resources are available on how you can do this. Next, ensure your product descriptions stand out. Explain why anyone would want your products – special features, unique material or craftsmanship or a catchy backstory for vintage items for instance.
 Be brief and concise on your about description. Use natural flowing language and some pictures to make the page easy to follow. Tell potential customers why your shop exists and what the motivation is for what you do. Have your picture and mini-bio on the side.
Define your seller policies and disclaimers so that potential buyers know what to expect. For instance, outline payment and shipping terms, refunds and/or exchanges, and address other additional questions common to your line of sale.
 In deciding how much to charge for each product, you should consider not just production costs, but also shipping and Etsy fees. Ensure you will have some good profit after everything. But again, this price should compete well with similar products; else you won’t have too many buyers coming in.
 Use various platforms to market yourself. Make your content more search engine optimized to show up on search engines, market through social media, blogs and other online avenues. Try direct email marketing and other tools to be visible. If you do not know how, enlist the services of a professional. Then be patient and watch your business grow.

