 Your core muscles, such as your abdominals, back, and pelvis muscles, help your body move with smoothness, stability, and coordination. Developing strength in these muscles will give you better control over how your body moves, which will help reduce clumsiness.Exercises such as ab crunches, single- and double-leg abdominal presses, the “Superman”, and planks all build functional core strength and can done at home or at the gym.
Exercise tools such as balance balls and wobble boards can help you build stability while increasing core strength.
 In addition to improving your core strength, you should also work on developing your flexibility to battle clumsiness.Studies show that athletes who focus only on strength training and don’t incorporate agility and flexibility exercises have a 70% chance of re-injury, as opposed to 8% for athletes who use both.In addition to the obvious exercises such as yoga and pilates, exercises such as dance and martial arts can also enhance your flexibility.Daily stretching is also useful for enhancing flexibility. It increases blood flow to your muscles and allows your joints to move more freely., Building core strength and increasing your flexibility are necessary components of training your body to avoid accidents, but so is enhancing your balance. There are several simple exercises you can do daily to improve your sense of balance.Shifting your weight from side to side, standing on one leg, and the Crane pose can all help improve your balance.
 “Vestibular Ocular Reflex exercises” is a fancy way of talking about exercises that improve hand-eye coordination. These exercises achieve this improvement by getting your brain, your inner ear and vestibular system (which are partly responsible for balance), your eyes, and your body to all work in sync with each other.Try this simple exercise to start: While sitting, bend your head down until you’re facing the floor, then look toward the ceiling with your eyes. Gradually move your head to follow the direction of your eyes. Repeat 10 times.You can also try this gaze stabilization exercise: While sitting, fix your gaze on a stationary target between 3-10 feet away from you. It should be at eye level. Move your head from side to side while maintaining your focus on the target. Repeat 3 times. Do this 3 times a day.These exercises can cause dizziness, so take it slow. If you feel nauseated or dizzy, stop and take a break.

