 Doctors suggest that drinking plenty of fluids can help reduce your cold symptoms. At the first sign of a stuffy nose, start drinking lots of water. Increase your usual intake to help keep your throat from becoming sore.Green tea is particularly helpful when you have a cold. It is full of antioxidants that help your body ward off infections.
The more fluids, the better. Becoming dehydrated would only worsen your cold.;
, One of the worst parts of having a cold is that you will likely feel worn out. Don't try to push yourself too hard. One of the best ways to beat your cold is to get plenty of rest so your body can focus its energy on fighting your cold. Try to go to bed earlier than normal.You should typically try to get seven or eight hours of sleep per night. When you're not feeling well, aim for an extra hour or two. The rest will help your body to heal.
 Your mom gave good advice: chicken soup can actually help ease your cold symptoms and help you feel better faster. Scientists are still conducting research, but several studies have shown that chicken soup reduces the spread of mucus, and in that way, reduces your upper-respiratory cold symptoms. Reports say that you will get the same effects from homemade and store bought soup.Other foods have also proven to be helpful in easing your cold symptoms. For example, yogurt contains "good" bacteria that helps your body fight infections.Garlic contains many immune-boosting properties. Add some to your chicken soup to get extra benefits.
Eat ginger. It can help ease upset stomachs. This would be another great ingredient to add to your chicken soup.
 Echinacea has long been used to help strengthen the immune system and treat illnesses. Recent reports indicate that taking echinacea can actually help you recover more quickly from a cold. However, echinacea, and all other herbs, can cause side effects. Talk to your doctor before taking an echinacea supplement, as it may react negatively to other medications or supplements you are taking.Elderberry supplements can help treat your cold symptoms. You can get this substance in either liquid or pill form. It can act as a decongestant.
Slippery elm may reduce the discomfort caused by a sore throat. Many herbalists and physicians caution against taking this herb if you are pregnant.
 If you feel up to it, you should try to get some moderate exercise. Going for a short walk outdoors before lunch can be very beneficial. Light exercise can open up your nasal passages and provide temporary relief from your cold.Don't try to do an intense cardio workout if you are having trouble breathing due to a stuffy nose. Take it easy on yourself and go for a light to moderate workout.
Exercise is a natural mood booster, so you will likely feel less miserable after moving around a bit.
Do not exercise if you have a fever, have a cough, or an upset stomach, or if you feel fatigued or achey., Try taking a hot shower. Not only will it ease muscle tension, it can help reduce your nasal congestion. While you are in the shower, try gently blowing your nose one nostril at a time. You will notice that the steam helps you breathe more freely.If you don't have time for a shower, you can still utilize steam. Run hot water in the bathroom sink and bend over the bowl with a towel over your head. Breathe deeply to get the full benefits of the steam.
Try adding herbs to your steam treatment. Try adding a few drops of eucalyptus oil to your bath. Some reports indicate that eucalyptus can help reduce coughing.Peppermint is also useful. Menthol, which can ease congestion, is the main active ingredient. You can add peppermint oil to your bath to get greater benefits from the steam.