 Some colleges offer a variety of activities before fall classes start. This could be a week-long trip spent volunteering in the area, or a camping trip where you and your future classmates would form bonds that could last forever. Your school may also have local incoming freshman meet-ups in your area in the spring before school starts; go to these with a big smile on your face. Though this kind of thing may sound corny, or like doing more work before school, it will definitely pay off when it comes to making friends.


You may not meet your new best friend at these events, but you're likely to meet a few people that you can hang out with who will make you feel less afraid of socializing. And the more people you know, the more likely you are to meet someone you really like.
 When you get to college, everyone will be incredibly friendly, eager to shake your hand and ask for your number, and to talk openly about their high school experience and college plans. This is absolutely a fact: for the first few weeks of school. If you spend those first few weeks being homesick, calling your best friend, or generally engaging antisocial behavior, you will miss your chance to randomly introduce yourself to people in the cafeteria, in your class, or in your dorm.


If you wait too long, people will start listening to their iPods, drifting into their set groups of friends, and closing their doors to new people. This may sound harsh, but that's the way it goes.
When you meet a new person, don't be afraid to ask for his or her number, whether it's a potential friend or love interest. In the beginning, this is completely socially acceptable and won't come off as creepy.
When you meet new people, it's also a good idea to make plans with them. Say, "Hey, are you going to that party tonight?" or "Are you checking out the a cappella show too?" Finding something cool to do will make people more likely to agree to hang out.
 Though about 1 in 1,000 college long-distance relationships have proven to last, it's just not worth it for you to keep up this charade. You're only 18, or 22 at most, and you should spend this time meeting new people, exploring your options, and spending your time outside your dorm room -- not on the phone with your boyfriend who is all the way up in Michigan, planning your fourth visit of the month. Nothing will isolate you from your potential friends or make you feel lonely faster.


You don't have to meet the love of your life in your college -- heck, you probably won't -- but closing yourself off before you begin the search is guaranteed to make you more antisocial.
If you really are devoted to your long-distance relationship, make sure to keep your phone conversations relatively brief and to plan as few visits during the first few months of college as possible.
 Sure, your roommate seems kind of normal and is pretty nice. Does that mean you should spend the next four years glued to this person? Probably not. Your roommate is a great person to hang out with for the first few weeks of school, and who can help you meet some new people. But if you just have the sense that you're not friend soul mates, stop using your roommate as a crutch.


You don't have to ditch your roommate completely. Just be prepared to go out and do your own thing instead of following him around.
Sometimes, it's better if you and your roommate have a friendly, but not too close relationship. This can help avoid future awkwardness if you start having issues about living together.
 Your college will be filled with an endless variety of people. Some of them will be shy, and others will be about as shy as Justin Bieber. You should find a balance of friends, of course, but you should pick out at least one person, or even a few people, who have really great social skills, are excited to meet knew people, and are always up to something exciting.


This will maximize your chances of meeting as many people as possible -- and of finding the few people who really matter to you.
 Though college is all about making mistakes and bad decisions and living to regret them, you should try to avoid making a spectacle of yourself -- too much. Have some fun, get crazy, and dance wildly with your friends, but don't be the girl who pukes in the shower or hooks up with three guys on the first night of college. Unfortunately, you will be remembered for your mistakes, not for all of your great qualities.


Don't be afraid of stepping out of your comfort zone and trying new things; but do be wary of developing a bad reputation early on.
Having sex in college may be glamorized in the movies, but it will have many costs to your success in college, such as the possibility of STDs that could be deadly or getting someone pregnant when you are not ready. If you do, make sure you are well protected and try to do it at your own risk.
 Freshman year is a major change and many people flip out and give up. Many freshman still haven't left their nest and the transition from being with close friends, siblings, or with their parents to a new environment might be difficult. This usually happen with students that go to college that is far away from home. Don't let this happen to you. It may take an entire year before you really start meeting people. Some college students who are not in sports, music or theatre, or in some technical program don't meet people really well until sophomore and even junior year!


Realize that once you have a major targeted (or are in a technical program or trade) and are done with your general classes, you'll find several people who have a similar schedule.
This eases the friend-making process tenfold. If you are taking generals, try to have a path too in your major so you can easily meet people with common goals and interests.

