 If you are a minor, you cannot bring a civil lawsuit on your own behalf. If you, as a minor, want to bring a lawsuit against someone who has abused you, you will need to have a guardian ad litem appointed by a court. To do so, someone will have to fill out a court form and file it with an appropriate court. A judge will then appoint an appropriate guardian ad litem to represent your interests.


In California, you would file an Application for Appointment of Guardian Ad Litem (Form CIV-010). You can only fill out this form by yourself if you are over the age of 14. If you are younger than that, someone will have to fill out the form for you. You will need to include information about who you want appointed, what their relationship is to you, and why you are asking to have them appointed., If your state allows some form of corporal punishment, you will not be able to bring a lawsuit unless the physical harm rises to a level that exceeds that allowed by your state's statute. If your state does not allow corporal punishment in some form or fashion, you may be able to bring an abuse case, or something similar.


Check with your state laws by going online or visiting your local library. If you go to your local library, the librarians will often be able to help you find what you are looking for.
Without actually hiring a lawyer, you may be able to talk to one quickly and get an idea of how to proceed. Usually this will be in the form of an initial consultation.
 Unlike a criminal case, if you are taking an adult to court to recoup money damages, you will need to find a law to sue under. If you believe you have been the victim of physical abuse, you may be able to bring a civil case for the torts of battery, assault, and intentional infliction of emotional distress.


To make out a claim for battery, you will have to be able to show that someone intentionally caused harmful or offensive contact with your person without your consent.To sue on a theory of assault, you must be able to show that someone put you in reasonable apprehension of an imminent harmful or offensive contact.Unlike battery, you do not need to be physically contacted to make out a valid claim for assault. Usually, your guardian ad litem and attorney will bring a case claiming both battery and assault.
If you want to sue for intentional infliction of emotional distress, you must be able to show that the adult acted intentionally or recklessly, that their conduct was extreme and outrageous, and that their conduct caused you severe emotional distress.In California, you may also be able to bring a suit for harassment, which is defined as unlawful violence (i.e., assault or battery)., Once you have a guardian ad litem and they think you may have a valid case, you should contact a civil attorney specializing in child abuse cases. Have your guardian ad litem ask their friends and family if they may know of any good lawyers. Your guardian ad litem can also visit your state bar website and use their lawyer referral service. These resources allow you to talk to someone about your issue and they will get you in contact with a qualified attorney.
 To start, you will need to find a form or create your own complaint. In addition, you will need to draft a summons that notifies the other party that they are being sued.In physical abuse cases, including battery and assault, you will most likely have to create your own complaint. To do so, you will need to use specific pleading paper, which can be found online, and you will have to use the correct font and margins. In the body of your complaint, you will need to include the following information:


A statement of jurisdiction and venue explaining why you are in the right court;
A description of the parties;
A statement of the facts, which will include a detailed description of how and when you were abused;
The claims you are making (i.e., that you are suing on a theory of battery and assault); and
A request for relief, which will include asking the court to find in your favor and award a certain amount of money., When your attorney, guardian ad litem, or both have drafted the complaint and summons, you will need to file those papers with the appropriate court. You should choose to file in a state court in the county where the abuse took place or where the defendant resides. When you file your lawsuit, you will be required to pay a filing fee.


If you cannot afford the filing fee, you may be able to get a fee waiver. Your guardian ad litem will have to show that they do not have the income to pay the fees.
 After your lawsuit is filed, you will have to have someone unrelated to the case give a copy of your lawsuit to the defendant. This acts to provide notice to the other party that they are being sued. Once the defendant has been served, you or the person providing service will have to file a signed proof of service.


The most common way of providing service is to have the sheriff's office or another individual over the age of 18 personally give the papers to the defendant.
You can find proof of service forms online at most state court websites., At the beginning of a lawsuit both parties will have a chance to collect information about the upcoming case. During discovery, you and the other party will exchange information regarding the witnesses and evidence you have. Common forms of discovery include:


Subpoenas, which is a court order requiring the other side to provide you with certain information. Subpoenas are a powerful tool you may try to use to force someone to answer questions about the punishment you received. Often times, parents or teachers will be unwilling to submit to voluntary questioning and you may need a subpoena to help your cause.
Depositions, which are in-person interviews of potential witnesses. Depositions will be incredibly important to a case about corporal punishment. You will want to depose parents, teachers, and any other individuals related to the case. This may also include deposing police if they were ever called.
Interrogatories, which are written questions another party is required to answer. Interrogatories are a great way to get information about abuse if you cannot get the witness deposed. You should ask questions about the type and extent of the punishment, how it was administered, and who administered it., At or near the end of discovery, you may want to consider filing a motion for summary judgment. This motion asks the court to rule in your favor without ever going to trial. To succeed, you will have to show there is no genuine issue of material fact and that you are entitled to a judgment as a matter of law.In reality, this means you will have to show the court that all the facts are in your favor and the law is clear. If there is any factual dispute, you will not be granted summary judgment.
For example, if you sued someone under a theory of battery, you would have to convince the judge that all the facts surrounding your case make it clear that the elements of battery are met. If any questions loom as to who is responsible for the unwanted contact or whether you consented, the case will survive a motion for summary judgment.
 Depending on the strength of your case and the amount of time your guardian ad litem has, you may want to consider trying to settle your case before it goes to trial. Have your attorney contact the other party (or their attorney) and try to negotiate a settlement. Most defendants in abuse cases will try to settle in order to avoid being seen as liable. In corporal punishment cases, a lot of defendants will settle on the condition that they do not have to admit fault. During negotiations you should:


Assess the other party's strengths and weaknesses;
Persuade the other party that you are likely to succeed in court and that it would be advantageous to settle; and
Bargain with the other party until an acceptable settlement can be reached (or you go to trial)., If you go to trial, each side will present their case and it will be up to a judge or jury to decide who prevails. Each side will submit witness testimony and exhibits. Each side will have an opportunity to question each side's information. At the end of the trial, the jury or judge will deliberate until a conclusion is reached.At trial, depending on your age and relationship to the defendant, you may be required to confront them. If this is not something you feel comfortable with because of the abuse you have endured, you need to talk to your attorney about your options.

