 Be sure to watch the show Shake it Up. You will get all the episodes starting from season one to three on Dailymotion. You will not only get a chance to see them dance, but you will see their stage presence, moves, talent, stage, and more! If you watch on Youtube, press repeat if there's a move you don't understand.;
, There is a great Disney website that will actually have Zendaya and Bella's (Rocky and CeCe's) real dance instructor teach you the actual moves they do on the show... all in a video!. Some of their cool dance moves are available on YouTube. You can also find their signature Shake it Up dance on YouTube. Try learning some of these moves and actually getting up and following the steps! It is very helpful and will improve your dance skills. The link below will have those videos on the official website and teach you great dance moves from their real instructor, and the actual moves they use on the show!Go to the link below, and have fun dancing!http://makeyourmark.disney.go.com/watch.do?play=cat:c53

, Try creating a dance routine! You can try memorizing it, and all those moves you learned, don't let them go to waste! Before you forget them, mash them up all together to create a routine! Just remember it and show your family and friends. Now, I doubt you will forget those moves any time soon!

, Be sure to learn from others. You probably know many other people that are great at dancing. Look at them! Think of them as part of your role model. Don't copy moves from them but try to get an idea of their dance strategies.
 Getting a partner is a great step to improving your dancing skills and makes it lot more fun! Make sure you can rely on your partner, that your partner likes dancing, and she is not terrible at this!

, Try entering contests. You will not only get great advice (dancing advice) from others, meet new people, but you will get the chance to perform! CeCe and Rocky are big time performers. Getting into this topic is a great start to be a dancer like them.
 Show your friends, enter contests, and show your family. Be prepared for a sudden dance contest, show off your moves! Don't be shy when it comes to dancing.
 If you come up with a routine, learn a routine, learn a dance step, or come up with a dance step, show your friends, family, or partner these moves! They might be able to help you if you need it. Be as public as possible and don't be afraid to show your true dancing talent!

, Nobody wants to dance in the tight new jeans and dressy top. When you dance, feel free to wear a casual top and some shorts, jeans will work, but be sure they are not too tight and I would not suggest dancing in skinny jeans on a regular basis. No matter how cute they are, sweats are also great for just dance practicing and you can wear high tops, tennis shoes, or be barefoot!

, Want to act like CeCe and Rocky, as well as dance like them? Here are some links on how to act like CeCe and Rocky. Enjoy and be yourself, have fun dancing!https://www.wikihow.com/Act-Like-Cece-Jones

,, Try learning a dance move a day. You can make one up, show others, or watch some dance move videos online!

, Try to get used to any stage time when it comes to dancing. Don't be afraid to go on stage and show others how you dance to prepare for less stage fright. Do your best and show off those moves, don't let all that hard work go to waste!

, The dances CeCe and Rocky do is kind of hip hop, pop/rock. If you are not learning the dance moves you want in the lesson, quit the class, you like what you like! I would consider seeing how the lesson is on the first try to if you don't like it, quit. If you like it, stay in the class... congrats!

, Try watching videos of people online dancing. Many others like to dance like CeCe and Rocky, so try watching some of those videos and maybe even trying to learn some of their moves! Be sure not to give yourself credit for any moves you did not make up yourself.
 Be sure to smile and look presentable when you perform. Smiling is probably the most important thing, as well as how smooth you are, posture, makeup and hair.
