 Mass transit systems not only help to reduce smog by cutting emissions per citizen, they can also provide a less smoggy ride for you than taking a car. Transit systems like subways, trams, and light rails are often separated from street traffic by being elevated or buried, which means you'll be breathing less car exhaust when you ride them.
 If you don't want to ride the train, walk or bike around the city. You'll be making a big positive impact by eliminating your transportation emissions, and staying in better shape while you do it.


If your city is especially polluted, don't walk or bike if you can help it. This seems counterintuitive, but it can be dangerous in a city with a serious smog problem. You'll breathe more heavily due to physical exertion, and take in more polluted air as a result.
If you must walk or bike in such a city, do your best to take side streets with less traffic, to avoid catching exhaust fumes from passing vehicles.
 If you need to use a car, don't drive during rush hour any more than you have to. You'll be surrounded by exhaust fumes for the entire trip otherwise.


If you can afford it, consider getting a hybrid electric vehicle to help reduce auto emissions in your city.
 The less often you leave the purified and well-ventilated air of your home, the less you'll have to breathe in the smog of the city at large.


Plan ahead for necessities. Plan weekly trips for things like grocery shopping and dropping off bill payments, instead of taking multiple shorter trips throughout the week. You'll save on transportation costs, too.
Head out. Plan weekend trips outside of the city rather than within it. The farther you get from the urban core, the less pollution there generally is. Develop a taste for day hikes or birdwatching so you have a good reason to get out of town for a day. If you're just not the outdoorsy type, look up tourist-y small towns past the suburban ring of your metro area and plan visits to go boutique shopping and sample the local flavor instead.
 If the smog in your city is just too much to handle, consider wearing a properly fitting N95 particulate filter. In extreme situations, a personal filter can make a world of difference.


For disposal masks, surgical masks are of minimal use to the wearer. They are designed to protect others in the environment from a wearer, not the wearer from the environment. A surgical mask's primary function is to stop liquids and dust particles from entering the user's respiratory tract. They're useful for preventing the spread of airborne disease (by blocking sneezes). Their material is not designed to filter down the correct micron particle-sized level and they do not seal around the face, leaving large air gaps through which the majority of inhaled air is drawn. Disposable N95 masks, ideally with exhale valves, however, protect the wearer appropriately and should be worn in lieu of surgical masks which have minimal benefit. Surgical masks do not filter at the level necessary to block small particulate matter of 2.5 microns, considered by the W.H.O as the primary element of urban pollution to guard against.
 If your situation is dire (for example, if you suspect you might be developing a chronic lung condition from your exposure to smog), and you can't afford to get out of the city, invest in a respirator instead. These devices are relatively bulky, but provide a choice of canister filters for various gases and other pollutants.


A non-disposable respirator generally looks like a slimmed-down gas mask without eye shields. Prepare to get stared at if you wear one.
There are a few different types of respirator available. The cheapest, mechanical respirators, are rated according to their effectiveness, with the most effective being ranked P100 in the United States.
Other types of respirators include chemical cartridge respirators and powered purification respirators. These tend to be more expensive, but offer other advantages such as better airflow and long-term usability.

