 What you should wear varies greatly with the type of concert you're attending. For example, wearing a tuxedo to a rock concert will make you look and feel just as out of place as baggy shorts and a ratty, old T-shirt at an opera. Do your research if necessary or talk to more experienced concert-goers to figure out what you should wear before you show up.;
, Come at least fifteen minutes early to guarantee that you can arrive, claim your ticket, and find your seat well before the concert begins. If you do arrive late, then never seat yourself during a performance. Wait for the break in between songs, or for when the Emcee takes over, and only enter the concert hall or performance space when guided by an usher.
 Find these rules on your ticket or program, or ask an usher if you have questions. For smaller performances, there will often be an announcement at the beginning clarifying any rules you will be expected to follow. For example, many performances allow photography as long as there is no flash, and most prohibit video recordings.
 Having your cell phone ring loudly in the middle of the performance is a great way to disrupt the show and infuriate performers and audience members alike. Don't let this happen: keep your phone on silent, or better yet, turn it off completely. Being disconnected will also allow you to focus more on the music and enjoy the concert more fully.


Texting or otherwise using your phone during the concert is also very distracting. Your phone's bright screen is perfectly visible to anyone sitting near or behind you. Put your phone away and don't look at it until after the show.
 If you are attending a show with a small child, discuss concert etiquette before you arrive and make sure they follow these guidelines throughout the performance. Keep them from talking loudly or running around during the show. Some concerts do not permit kids below 4 years as they may not be able to endure the concert sound; check with concert organizers before bringing young children.
 It can be tempting to whoop or holler to show your appreciation for incredible performances and creative geniuses. However, this is out of place at many concerts and will be taken as rude. Restrain yourself from shouting, stomping your feet, chanting, or making other loud and disruptive displays. Instead, stick to polite applause. For a spectacular performance, you can augment this with a standing ovation, but for the most part simple applause is all that's necessary.
 Respect should be evident everywhere in your behavior, from sitting quietly and attentively during the performance to applauding politely afterwards. Make a point never to speak rudely or abuse the performers or their performance while at the concert. If you were unhappy with a certain element of the performance, keep it to yourself, or discuss it calmly and maturely with a close friend after you leave.
 Keep concert brochures, souvenirs, and any such concert materials and enhance the collection. These materials can help you remember and appreciate each concert you attend, long after it's over.

