 Envision everything from your toes upwards being pulled toward your ribs. Tighten your abdominal muscles to help with the pulling process. This will help your deep muscles to engage and burn off surface fat, even with very little outward effort on your part., Choose a video that breaks down into short segments that cover all of your muscle groups, such as legs and arms. If you have a free moment, complete a set of exercises. Try to select a video that includes lots of movement and interesting music to gain the attention of your toddler too. Encourage them to move along with you or just dance to the music.If your toddler distracts you for a portion of the exercise, don’t worry. Just double-up on the final few movements so that you reach your intended work out time.
 Download a wide variety of dance music onto your phone or a home stereo system. Announce to your toddler that it is time to dance and then crank up the tunes! Jump around on your own and try some new dance moves with your toddler. Switch up the music types to keep the party going.To make the dancing even more interactive, play a number of songs for your toddler and let them select which ones get to be included on the final dance mix.
 Give your toddler a treat, like a sticker, if they help you complete a work out. Or, agree to read them one book for each five minutes you spend working out. You can even place your child underneath you while doing push-ups and give them a kiss each time you press down.Toddlers love to mimic their parents and other people. When you start a work out at home, ask your toddler to stand next to you and repeat your moves. You may be surprised how quickly they catch on., Instead of buying and storing hand weights, just use your child instead. Hold your child firmly in your arms when doing squats or lunges. Use your child’s weight as resistance in abdominal exercises, too.For example, lay on your back and hold your calves parallel to the floor. Position your toddler laying down on your calves facing you. Then, roll up from the ground and back doing, doing modified sit-ups.
 Whenever you need to move from one room to another, lunge instead of just walking. You can complete a lunge by taking a step forward and then dropping your back knee to the ground. Rotate legs as you move forward. This is a great way to sneak in some extra work out time., If you are a toddler parent, you are likely spending a great deal of time on the ground already. Go ahead and do some planks while you are down there. Position yourself on all fours. Tighten your abs and pull your knees slightly off the ground. Try to hold your hips steady.If you feel comfortable, slowly move your hands forward until you are in an extended plank position.
Practice counting with your toddler while you hold your plank. Go down or up from 60 seconds.
 Get out in your backyard and place some toys in a zig-zag pattern that you can run around or chase your toddler through. In the house, position chairs, couch cushions, or toys into an obstacle course that you must maneuver around to make it from one side of the room to another.You can also create a varied movement course where you must do a different type of activity for each section, such as frog jumps or crab crawls.
 If you are trying to work out at home (whether inside or outside), create a bin of unusual toys and games that you only pull out at that time. Set the bin close enough so that you can observe your toddler without them being directly underfoot. When you are finished working out, put away the bin and continue on with your day.For example, an outside activity bin might include sidewalk chalk and a squirt gun or two.

