 Pneumonia can be caused when influenza is contracted and becomes advanced. Because of this, it is recommended that you get the flu shot every year. Since this helps fight against the flu, it will help fight against pneumonia as well.


The flu shot can be taken by anyone over the age of six months.
There is a special vaccine that can be taken by children younger than two and also one for those two to five years old who are at increased risk of pneumonia. Children who go to communal day care should also get the vaccine.There is also a vaccine for those without spleens, over the age of 65, with lung disease such as asthma and COPD, and with sickle cell anemia.
 If you want to avoid getting pneumonia, you need to avoid coming into contact with the viruses and germs that cause it. You can do this through proper hand washing. If you are in public or around someone you know is sick, you should wash your hands as much as possible. Also avoid putting your unclean hands near your face in order to prevent the spread of unwashed germs from your hands to your system. To wash your hands properly, you need to:


Turn on the faucet and wet your hands.
Apply soap to your hands and scrub every part of your finger. This includes under the nails, on the backs of your hands, and between your fingers.
Keep rubbing your hands for at least 20 seconds, which is how long it takes to sing the "Happy Birthday" song all the way through twice.
Rinse your hands in the water to rinse off the soap. Make sure the water is warm to help remove the soap and germs.
Dry them off with a clean towel., A great way to prevent contracting pneumonia is to be in the best overall health you can be. This means you need to stay in shape physically and mentally. Try to exercise every day, eat a healthy and well-balanced diet, and get enough sleep. These things all benefit your health and will keep your immune system in the best shape it can be, which will help you stay as healthy as possible.


Many people think they can skimp off sleep and still be healthy. Studies have been done that link the wellbeing of your immune system to the amount of sleep you get each night. The more high-quality sleep, which is uninterrupted sleep in a sleep-conducive environment, you get a night, the healthier your immune system will be., There are some supplements that you can take to boost your overall immune health. One of the best to help pneumonia is Vitamin C. Take between 1000 to 2000 mg every day. You can get this from citrus fruit, citrus juice, broccoli, watermelon, cantaloupe, and many other fruits and vegetables.Zinc is helpful if you feel like you are getting a cold, which can turn into pneumonia. At the first sign of symptoms, take 150 mg of zinc three times a day.