 If the wound is more serious than a minor scrape or scratch, you’ll need to apply a bandage as part of the first-aid procedure. Take a piece of sterile gauze from your first-aid kit, and place it over the open wound. Then use medical adhesive tape to secure the gauze to the skin on all four sides.If the wound is smaller, just use a standard Band-Aid to cover the open area.
You can use Steri-strips to pull the sides of the wound together if it is a sliced cut, then put on antibiotic cream or ointment and cover with gauze and tape.
 If the wound continues to bleed in small amounts, or if the blood soaks through the gauze bandage, you’ll need to change the dressing. Keep the wound clean and dry, and plan to change the bandage three times per day as long as needed.As long as the wound continues bleeding, redress it with a brand new bandage, along with some fresh antibiotic cream.
 With any wound more serious than a minor scrape, the wounded individual runs the risk of contracting an infection. Puncture wounds are especially prone to infection, since they can heal quickly and keep bacteria inside. If you suspect that the wound may be getting infected, take the wounded individual to a doctor immediately. Common signs of infection include:Increased swelling
Fever
Increasing pain
Redness or warmth
Draining pus
Red streaks coming from the wound and starting up a vein is especially dangerous and needs immediate medical attention, do not wait!

, You should always have a first-aid kit handy in your home and in your car. Always bring one with you if you're in nature hiking, camping, or cycling. Standard stocked first-aid kits are usually readily available at your local pharmacy at reasonable prices.


If your child plays sports or you go on a family vacation, bringing a first-aid kit is also advisable.
 If you would prefer not to purchase a first-aid kit, or would rather customize your kit, you can purchase the necessary supplies at a grocery store, pharmacy, or medical supply store. Make sure to include various sizes of bandages, Neosporin, gauze, tape, scissors, a pair of tweezers, a small bottle of sterile water, and cotton swabs. Disposable instant ice packs can be useful as well.

Store all of these elements together in an easily-opened zippered pouch or a plastic box, such as a Tupperware container. Clearly mark the container as a first aid kit so it can be easily identified in an emergency.

