 Girdling is a method for killing a tree by interrupting the flow of sap between the roots and crown of the tree. You can girdle a tree with or without the use of herbicides to speed the process along. Girdling is the easiest and most popular method for killing a tree without chemicals when no herbicides are used, but the tree will take many months to die from the process. Start by pulling away any loose bark that gives you easier access to the trunk.You should clear the bark in a band approximately four or five inches wide.


The height where you girdle the tree is flexible, so choose a level at which you’re comfortable working around the trunk and making cuts.;
, You have a wide variety of choices when it comes to how you make the cuts. You can use a chainsaw, an axe, a hatchet, or even a wood chisel for very thin-barked trees.Take the proper safety precautions for the cutting tool you use, including protective eyewear.
 The depth of the cut you need to make depends on the thickness of the tree. For very thin trees, you can make the cut around 1/2” into the wood whereas large, sturdy trees require a depth of 1-1.5” Try to make the band as level as possible as you move around the tree.
 To girdle the tree effectively, you will need a second band. The distance apart between the two bands should be roughly 2-4”. Make the second cut to the same depth as the first cut.


If you’re using an axe or a hatchet where it’s more difficult to make exact horizontal cuts, then you can cut a groove into the tree instead. To make the groove, make one downward-angled cut followed by one upward-angled cut where the two cuts meet in the middle. For small trees, this groove around the circumferences can be as small as 2” wide, whereas the groove should be roughly 6-8” wide on large trees. Make the groove to the same depth as you would the two bands.
 If you choose to use herbicide, you’ll want to apply it to the cuts in the tree within five or ten minutes of making them before the sections begin to dry out and harden.Adding herbicide to the girdling can kill the tree in as little as six weeks whereas refraining from the chemical usage can take many months.Commonly available, effective herbicides include glyphosate (Roundup or Killzall) and triclopyr (Garlon or Brush B Gon).Mix the herbicide appropriately according to the directions on your specific brand and apply to the cuts with a spray bottle.You should definitely mix the herbicide ahead of time in order to apply it to the girdling cuts as quickly as possible.
 Now that you’ve interrupted the flow of sap in the tree and possibly introduced herbicide to the root system, you simply have to wait for the tree to die.

