 Place the cans of coconut milk in your refrigerator and let them chill overnight, or for a minimum of 8 hours.


Refrigeration helps separate the thick cream from the coconut water. Do not shake the cans of coconut milk at any time since doing so could combine these two components again.;
, Scoop out the cool, thick coconut cream and place it in a large bowl. Add the probiotics and sweetener, then whisk until well-combined and smooth.


Do not use the watery portion of the coconut milk sitting at the bottom of the can. Using it would result in very thin yogurt.
If using probiotic capsules, open the capsules and use the powder inside. You could also use 2 tsp (10 ml) probiotic powder, 2 Tbsp (30 ml) store-bought coconut yogurt, or 2 Tbsp (30 ml) fermented coconut water probiotic kefir.
Raw sugar works well as a sweetener, but you could easily use the same amount of maple sugar, raw honey, or agave. If you prefer less-sweet yogurt, you can omit the sweetener altogether.
 Pour the coconut mixture into a clean, sterilized glass jar. Tightly seal the jar with a lid.


It's important to use sterilized jars since bad bacteria will ruin the yogurt if it creeps inside. You can sterilize the jars using a dishwasher or boiling water.
 Place the sealed jars of yogurt into your oven. Leave the oven off, but turn the oven light on. Allow the yogurt to sit in the oven for 12 to 24 hours.


A closed oven with the light on will maintain a stable temperature between 105 and 110 degrees Fahrenheit (40 to 43 degrees Celsius), which is ideal for the fermentation process. Do not turn the oven on since doing so will make the interior too hot, which will likely kill the probiotics.The yogurt will become thicker with a longer incubation period. You should give it a minimum of 12 hours, but 24 hours would be ideal.
 Remove the thick, fermented yogurt from the oven and transfer it to your refrigerator. Chill the yogurt for approximately 6 hours, or until it becomes thoroughly cool.


If the yogurt separates during this period, you can recombine the layers by stirring them together. You can also make the yogurt thicker by pouring off the liquid layer and using only the thickened layer beneath it.
 The coconut yogurt is now finished and ready to serve.


Refrigerate any leftover yogurt in an airtight container. Use it within two weeks.

