 The right location will be one that can comfortably accommodate all your guests and pleases you and your spouse. Talk to your partner and exchange ideas about themes you might enjoy at your reception based on what the location is.For instance, if you want to have a wedding reception outside, you might want to find a public park or a local country club that rents space outdoors.
If you want a wedding reception in a rustic space, you could think about locating the wedding reception at the local nature center or mountain lodge.
Get to know the venue. The place you have your wedding reception might look great, but does it accommodate all the guests you’ll be hosting? Does the space have adequate acoustics? Visit a few times with your partner to figure out what the setup will look like the day of the wedding.
If possible, host your rehearsal dinner and bridal shower in the same place your wedding reception will be. This will give you an in-depth sense of what to expect from your wedding reception.
 If you’ve been to wedding receptions before, think back and identify fun activities that you might want to incorporate into your own wedding. If there were activities that you wished you’d been able to do at the prior wedding, write them on the list, too.Have your partner draft a similar list. Compare your lists to come up with some activities that you and your guests will enjoy.
 Hosting a wedding reception can be expensive. Be sure to add up the costs of not only the wedding reception activities, but also of the food and drinks, the DJ, and rental costs for the space. Be sure to tally up everything you want at your wedding reception and compare the total against the amount of cash you’re willing to spend on your wedding.If you find that you’re over budget, look for a more affordable alternative. For instance, if you think catering from the Tex-Mex restaurant is too much, get an order from the Italian place instead.
 You should have a mix of dishes so that everyone can enjoy the wedding reception meal. On your wedding invitations, you should provide options of space for guests to include dietary restrictions, allergies, or other special considerations. Take these requests and special needs into consideration when searching for caterers and venues.Try to include several vegan and vegetarian dishes.
Provide dishes that people with allergies – including nut, soy, and shellfish allergies – can enjoy.
Wedding guests will want to enjoy a full meal, not just one or two items from the menu. Be sure you accommodate your guests. For instance, if you know some guests have dairy allergies, include several dishes (including appetizers, main courses, and desserts) that are dairy-free, not just one or two items from the main course.
 Dancing is a fun way of moving the body to the rhythm of music. Your wedding reception could have ballroom dancing, tango dancing, disco dancing, or all of the above! Talk with your spouse and decide what sort of dancing you’d like to have at your wedding reception.If you have dancing, you’ll need music. Hire a DJ or a live band. A DJ is probably more affordable since you’ll be paying for the services of only one guy (versus the price of three or four guys in a band), but the personal touch of having a live band might be worth it to you.
Compare prices and think about what kind of reception you want.
 If your wedding guests are bringing children, you should provide a few activities for them, too. For instance, you might provide a coloring station with sheets of paper – either blank or with designs – and boxes of crayons. These activities will keep them from becoming bored and crabby, which might make them cause mischief.


Children also love playing videogames. Set up a videogame station where kids can play age-appropriate games together.
Children can also participate in some of the regular activities like cornhole and horseshoes.
If you’re worried about the kids becoming crabby, or if there are many children in attendance, you might have a separate room reserved for the kids. Set up all the kid-related activities in the separate room and hire a babysitter to watch them for the duration of the reception.

