 When a schoolmate dies, let your child talk about their grief. Let your child control the conversation and explain things they way they understand them. Let them tell their story how they experienced it, and encourage them to talk about how they feel.For example, tell your child, "I'm here to listen to whatever you have to say. Tell me what you are going through/thinking/feeling."
Don’t interrupt or try to give advice. Instead, be a listener while they talk.
If the child has trouble talking about the event, suggest that they draw pictures or write a story about the schoolmate., No two children will react the same to the death of a classmate. Some kids will be sad and cry, some may get aggressive or angry, and other may withdraw. Some children will feel intense fear and feel anxiety or have panic about dying or loved ones dying. All of these reactions are perfectly normal.Some students may be distracted, their grades may slip, and they may have difficulties concentrating.
Be supportive of these emotions and help the child express them in healthy ways.
However, watch them to make sure their emotions don’t get out of control. If the child is being overly aggressive, fearful, sad, or withdrawn, talk to them or take them to see a professional.
For example, say, "I understand you are hurting/this is scary/this is difficult, but acting out and being aggressive is not a good way to deal with this. Would you please tell me what happened?"

, It is important to give your child a chance to talk about his or her feelings. Let your child know that you are willing to listen whenever he or she wants to talk. Some things you can do to be a good listener for your child include:Removing distractions such as by shutting off the TV, putting away your phone, or closing your laptop.
Nodding and making neutral statements to show that you are listening. For example, you can say things like “yes,” “go on,” and “uh-huh.”
Asking probing questions to get your child to talk more. For example you might ask things like, “How does this make you feel?” or “Why do you think it is affecting you this way?”

, Your child may be having a hard time figuring out how to express the things he or she is feeling. One way that you can help is to suggest healthy ways for your child to express his or her feelings.


Try teaching your children how to identify and accept their emotions. For example, if your child is feeling angry, then you might help your child to notice that emotion and acknowledge it. Teach your child to say something like, “Right now I am feeling anger because of my classmate’s death. I have a right to feel anger, but I can choose to express it in healthy ways.”For a younger child, you might encourage him or her to draw pictures to represent how he or she is feeling. Try asking your child to draw a picture of how he or she feels and then discuss the picture with your child.
 You never want to see children or teens hurting. However, experiencing the death of a schoolmate, especially if the kid was close to the deceased child, can take time to process. No one deals with grief in the same way, so some children will grieve and move on faster than others.Don’t try to make the child or teen move on or get better before they are ready. Instead, let the child grieve at their own pace and work through their grief.
One of the most important things you can do is to be patient. Grieving takes time. Some children may grieve and process faster than others. Some may be delayed in their feelings and feel emotion later. Don’t try to force the child to get better faster than they are.
 You may feel you need to protect the child or teen by lying to them or not telling them the whole truth. Resist the urge to sugarcoat what happened to the deceased schoolmate to try and lessen the impact. Children can pick up when you are lying, and teens will find out what happened anyway. Be honest with the child about what happened.Some details may be omitted depending on the age of the child. For example, if the child died by suicide refrain from sharing that or the details on how they killed themselves. If the child died via murder, do not want to share all that the police found. However, helping them understand and deal with death can help them learn coping strategies for the future.
For example, tell your child, "Heather died in car wreck last night" or "Heather died this morning."
Try not to use euphemisms, like "Heather went to a better place" or "Heather passed away." Don't beat around the bush by saying things like, "Heather is no longer with us." Instead, be direct.
 The death of the child’s schoolmate may be their first exposure of death, or their first exposure to the death of a young person. They may have a lot of questions, such as “why” and “what happens when someone dies?” Try to be willing to talk about these issues with your child.Children may want to know about physical changes that happen to a dead body. They may also want to know what happens to a person after they die. Talk about these issues within any religious frameworks that you believe.
Help children understand that death is a normal part of life.
For example, say, "Death will happen to everyone. It happens at different ages and suddenly. Most people will not know when they will die." Another thing you can say is, "Though it seems unfair, even young people die. It is not common, but tragedies like car accidents happen."
Help the child cope with death by having them read books about death. Many books have been published that give information about death. They also help put death and grieving into terms children can understand., Try to be patient while the child grieves and heals, but also be aware of any warning signs so you can get help for your child if you think he or she needs it. Some things you can watch for include:Inability sleeping
Not eating or overeating
Withdrawing from family and friends
Severe academic problems or not wanting to go to school
Abnormal aggression
Apathy
Obsession with death

