 The Montana Secretary of State website provides a simple and efficient way to look up the basic information of any business entity registered in the state at https://app.mt.gov/bes/.


Every business entity that has operations in the state of Montana must register with the Secretary of State, so you can find the information you need even if the entity actually is organized in a different state.;
, Using the correct spelling of the full name will narrow your results, while using a partial name or only the first few letters will return broader results.


Use only letters. If the business name contains commas, apostrophes, or other punctuation, simply leave them out. If the business name contains an "&," such as "Smith & Sons," change it to the word "and." You can leave out any other special characters as the online lookup will ignore them anyway.If the business registered within the last 10 days, it might not show up in your search., Your search produces a list of results for you to choose from.


The initial results include a list of names that match the letters or words you entered. Next to each name you also can see the entity type, city, and status.
Clicking on the entity name shows the entity's full address, registered number, the date the entity was created, and contact information for the entity's registered agent., If the entity has an active and current registration, you can print an official certificate for $5.


Certificates of existence are issued to Montana corporations or LLCs in good standing with the Secretary of State. The certificate includes the name of the corporation or LLC, the date of its incorporation or organization, and whether all the taxes, fees, or penalties owed to Montana have been paid.
Certificates of authorization are issued to corporations or LLCs that were formed in another state. This certificate tells you when it was issued, the name of the corporation or LLC, and whether it has paid all the taxes, fees, or penalties it owes to the state of Montana.
You also have the option of downloading a Certificate of Fact for $15. These certificates are issued on request for assumed names, trademarks, limited partnerships, or limited liability partnerships. They also might be issued to a corporation or LLC if they want more information registered than would be listed on a certificate of existence or certificate of authorization., The Montana Secretary of State also gives you the option of viewing the directors, officers, managers, members and partners associated with a specific business at a cost of $2 per search.

