 These pests love stagnant water because they thrive in it. You should remove or cover any objects or areas that offer this amenity.Cover your garbage cans and recyclables container.
Don’t leave glasses of water lying around for long periods of time.
Make sure water is not stagnating in your sink or bathtub.
 Ants are repelled by the smell of vinegar, so spray or flick some white vinegar around your window and door frames to keep them from marching in.








Also, try to clean up after you eat: soiled napkins, crumbs, and unwashed dishes are alluring to ants.
 Fruit flies love sweet things, they can’t help themselves. So give them what they want: a small bowl or cup of white wine will lead them to dive in for a taste – and never return!







, Moths thrive in humid conditions.One way of making it inhospitable for them in one of their common feasting grounds is to hang a stick of chalk in your clothes closet. This will dry out your closet and keep moths away., Roaches like to eat many things. One thing they absolutely can’t stand, however, is cucumber peelings (go figure). So next time you peel a cucumber, don’t throw the peelings away but instead leave them lying around your kitchen counter or bathtub to keep roaches from venturing out into your home.








If you find your cucumber peels are attracting ants, you can always use Borax: sprinkle some where there is high roach traffic and you should see their population drop in about a month. Contrary to popular belief, Borax is only mildly toxic to humans and pets.
 Spiders seem to pop up without reason, but, aside from you targeting their insect prey, there are ways to keep them at bay inside your home. Here are some ideas:


Seal any spaces that lead outside, such as the sealing around your windows and doors.Trap unwanted spiders by placing glue boards in garbage cans, basements, kitchens and bathrooms.If your spider problem is overwhelming, you might need to spray spider insecticide or call a team of professional., Crickets are a popular food source for geckos, so curtailing their population outside (and inside!) your home is a good idea to deter geckos from coming around.









A shallow bowl filled with molasses (or beer) diluted with water will eliminate crickets inside and outside your home: they’ll jump right in!Keep your grass cut short in your yard because crickets thrive in tall grass.