 If you're a busy person or just someone who has trouble making initial connections with people face to face, social media can be a great place to maintain and develop relationships that can lead to a richer social life in the real world.Dating sites like Ok Cupid have settings that allow you to search for people specifically interested in friendships rather than romantic relationships.
Try initiating conversations online with a question about the person's profile or one of their pictures.
Avoid commenting on appearance. People are much more engaged when you try to connect to them based on their interests. If someone is kayaking in one of their photos, ask them how long they've been doing it, rather than commenting about how good they look in their bathing suit.
Using Skype or other video messaging services to catch up with people you haven't seen in awhile is a much more intimate and social way to keep in touch than say, just sending emails back and forth, or the occasional text.;
, One of the best ways to improve your social life is to create new relationships with people. That involves getting to know them, which involves sharing ideas and stories. Ask someone how their day is going or what they plan on doing over the weekend. Compliment their wardrobe or ask them what kinds of movies or TV shows they like.


Cafeterias and office lunchrooms are great places to socialize with fellow students or coworkers. You can also try bars, dog parks, a reading at a bookstore, before or after church, sporting events, a concert, a farmers market, parties, dances, or art exhibits. Be creative. Think about places people gather around things that are easy to talk about. People at a dog beach will be excited to talk about their dogs. People at an art show will be interested in talking about the art.
Approaching a new person can be scary. Take a deep breath and put on a friendly face.
If the person is alone, ask if it is okay if you sit with them.
Show you are interested and friendly by smiling when you initiate a conversation.
Make and maintain eye contact while you talk. This doesn't need to be eye contact that is never broken, but you should be returning to it often to show the person you are interested in what they have to say.
Keep the conversation moving by asking questions about the other person. Follow your own curiosity. "What kind of dog do you have?" "How long have you been interested in comic books?" "So did you play football in high school?"

, Your ability to become a strong listener will greatly improve your social life. When you are talking with people pay attention to what they are saying. Show them you are listening by nodding your head or showing a reaction on your face like smiling or a look of concern. This will help the speaker feel comfortable with you, which will make them want to tell you more things, which will only draw you closer together.


Make eye contact with them as they talk to show you are paying attention.
Listen for things you might have in common. Shared interests are how a lot of people build friendships.
Listen for things that you might want to know more about. Asking questions will allow you to get to know more about them.
Try to listen to their tone as they are speaking. If they sound bored with the conversation try steer it in another direction. If they sound excited then you can keep going with that topic.
 Set little goals for yourself throughout the day. Maybe you try to initiate a conversation with a coworker, or just make a special effort to wish the barista at the coffee shop a good morning. The more comfortable you get with socializing, the easier it will become.Even if you don’t end up hanging out with these people, you’ll still gain a lot by practicing your skills with them.
 Improving your social life isn’t going to happen overnight. A lot of it is going to have to do with the friends you make and the relationships you form and those things take time. Be patient. A little bit of work every day will add up sooner than you think!Make a chart or list of the things you are doing to try to improve your social life. This way, even if you haven't had a particularly successful day, you can see the overall progress you are making. This will help you stay motivated.

