 Ice works jointly to create an environment inhospitable to the virus that causes the sore, as well as to reduce pain that the sore may be causing. Use an ice pack, rather than touching ice directly to the sore, and keep moving the ice around. Do not ice for more than 10-15 minutes at a time.
 A key ingredient in licorice has been shown to increase the healing time of cold sores. Eat regular licorice (made with real licorice and not anise) or take licorice supplements. A bit of the powdered licorice supplement can also be made into a paste with water and dabbed directly onto the sore several times a day.
 A primary protein in the hepatitis virus that causes cold sores can be combated with a protein found in dairy products - lysine. Eat cheese, yogurt, and milk daily and look for lysine supplements at your local health food store.
 Some research has connected herpes outbreaks with the amino acid arginine, which is found in foods such as chocolate, cola, peas, cereals, peanuts, gelatin, cashews and beer. The evidence isn't conclusive at this point, but if you have frequent outbreaks, you may want to try limiting your consumption of these foods and eliminating consumption during outbreaks.
 A few prescription antiviral medications, such as Penciclovir, Acyclovir, and Famciclovir, have been approved for treatment of herpes outbreaks. These medications do not cure herpes, and they have not been shown to be effective in preventing outbreaks, but they can speed up healing and reduce the severity of an outbreak.They are generally most effective if you start taking them as soon as you notice the first signs of an impending outbreak.


If you have very frequent outbreaks, your doctor may prescribe these medications to be taken daily, even in the absence of symptoms, to suppress future outbreaks. Suppression therapy may be effective for some people, but clinical studies have not shown widespread success.
Antiviral medications for the herpes virus work by interfering with the virus's replication rate.The more the DNA replication of the virus is interfered with, the more time your immune system will have fight the outbreak.

