 You’ve built the interior of your hutch, now it’s time to start fortifying it a little more.

Cut lengths of 2”x4” lumber to measurements that are slightly larger than the cage itself. Remember, the cage has to fit in the frame.






Using hammer and nail, construct the frame around the cage.






Attach metal L-brackets to the inside corners or the frame for the cage to sit on. This will protect the wood from direct contact with cage.
 You can make your hutch as tall as you like, but remember that if you’re putting it outside, you want to keep it about 4 feet (1.2 m) off of the ground to protect the rabbits from predators.

Cut the 2”x4” lumber to your preferred length.






Make sure the legs are all the same length or your hutch will be wobbly.






You can also use larger pieces of wood, like 4”x4” lumber, if you want sturdier legs.


Turn the frame upside-down.






Nail the legs to 4 corners of the bottom of the frame. Make sure they are spaced evenly.






Turn the frame right side up and make sure the hutch stands firmly in place.
 You can easily just rest the cage in the frame now, you should be able to remove it with ease.


You can nail the cage to the inside of the frame with braces if you’d like it to remain in the hutch permanently or sit more securely







, Now that the cage is inside the hutch, you need to give it a little more protection.

Measure the sides of your frame and cut two pieces of plywood so that they’ll adequately cover each side.






Nail each side down






Do the same for the back of the hutch.






If you’d like to give your rabbits more ventilation, don’t nail the sides down, but attach them with hinges so that they can be opened and closed.
 You’re almost done! Your rabbits have everything but a roof over their heads.

Measure out and cut a piece of plywood that will completely cover the top of your hutch.






Nail it down securely to the frame.






Add shingles, metal roofing, or plastic to the top of the roof for extra protection.







