 If your eyes start to itch, burn or get tired, this might be a symptom of eye strain. Keeping your eyes focused for long periods of time at the same distance can sometimes cause eye fatigue. If this happens, take a break from what you're doing. A damp washcloth laid over the eyes may help relieve the discomfort.Extended use of computer devices is a major cause of eye strain.
Medical professionals suggest that anyone who uses a computer for more than 2 hours without a break is at greater risk for developing eye strain.
Incorporate short breaks when you can, to give your eyes a rest.;
, Watery eyes, or overproduction of tears from the eye's tear glands, is a common sign of eye strain. Tears, made of water, oil, and mucus, are the eyes natural lubrication. Eyes produce excess tears as a response to irritation or inflammation.Oddly enough, watery eyes are often the result of dryness in the eyes.
Prescription and over-the-counter eye drops may help with watery eyes.
 Blurred vision is when objects appear out of focus and hazy. It's a common symptom of nearsightedness, farsightedness and astigmatism, which require corrective lenses. Blurred vision as a temporary condition is more likely to be the result of eye strain.Blurred vision is one of the more common signs of eye strain.
Blurred vision can also be the symptom of more serious health problems. If resting your eyes doesn't address your problem with blurred vision, see your medical provider.
 Double vision means that the eyes aren't properly processing information received in the brain. Typically, your eyes receive two different images which are combined by the brain into a single image. When the brain cannot combine the images into a single image, the person experiences double vision, seeing two different images of one object. Double vision can be a symptom of eye strain.Monocular double vision occurs when only one eye is affected, but processing in the brain results in seeing two images. It is less common than binocular diplopia, or double vision.
The most common cause of monocular double vision is uncorrected refractive error.
If you experience double vision, rest your eyes well. Make an appointment with your eye doctor if this symptom continues.
 Headaches associated with eyestrain start after using the eyes, especially for long periods of time. If you're noticing headaches associated with continuous use of your eyes to do detailed work, such as reading, sewing or any other task that requires you to maintain your visual attention for long periods of time, you may be experiencing eye strain.Take regular breaks in your visual attention to give your eyes a rest.
If your headaches don't improve, you may be experiencing visual focusing problems. Make an appointment with your eye care professional to get your vision checked.
 If you find yourself squinting painfully in ordinary light conditions, this may be a sign of eye strain. Light sensitivity, or photophobia, as a symptom of eye strain is caused by the pupil opening or closing too slowly, or not far enough, in response to changes in the quantity of light. It may also be caused by temporary inability of the cornea and the tears to work together. A smooth and lubricated eye surface is needed to begin the process of focusing light properly.Working your eyes hard to see in poorly-lit situations is a common cause of this symptom of eye strain.
If your computer screen is poorly lit, has a glare on it, or if there is poor contrast between the text and background of your screen, you may experience increased sensitivity to light and eye strain.
Lower the lights in your environment. Overhead light and other lights compete with the computer screen. If your computer screen reflects the window light, alter the angle or move it to lessen the glare.
Consider investing in sunglasses with polarized lenses and UV protection when you're outside. Certain tinted lenses with special lenses may be helpful when doing computer work. Talk to your eye doctor about options.
 When you turn your visual attention away from the computer, you may experience difficulty focusing on printed material. Or, you may notice afterimages from the computer screen even after you've turned your gaze away. These can be signs of eye strain.These symptoms of eye strain can be observed after sessions at the computer, driving a long distance without resting your eyes, or doing other activities that require prolonged visual attention.
Sometimes difficulty focusing can be caused by underlying eye conditions.
 Intense feelings of exhaustion in the eyes can be a symptom of eye strain rather than fatigue. Using digital screens is hard for your eyes because of the way the pixelated way in which images are produced. Your eyes must focus, and continually refocus, on tiny dots, rather than on the solid images found on a printed page. The stress results in eye strain.


In addition, you're likely to blink less often than you should when looking at a screen. The eye surface then dries out and becomes irritated.
Children may be more susceptible to symptoms of eye strain than adults, but less likely to report it.

