 This suggestion might have started out as an old wives' tale, but some doctors are actually behind it.Put some sugar on a pacifier or your finger. Just lick your finger/pacifier and dip it into a sugar bowl. Have the baby suck on it for a few minutes, and the hiccups will most likely fade away.The (as of yet, very unscientific) thinking is that the effort required to swallow the sugar in its granular form disrupts the diaphragm back into normal, for lack of a better phrase.

Note: try to put only a little bit of sugar underneath the infant's tongue and encourage them to swallow the sugar quickly, before it dissolves.
Another way to do this is to dip a pacifier in sugar put it into your child's mouth.
 A gentle back rub may loosen your child's muscles, giving the diaphragm the okay to relax. Using upward motions, move your hand from the small of the back up to the shoulder, preferably while the baby is still upright. This technique may take several minutes to start working.

Another way to do this is to place your baby on the ground on his or her belly, and allow him or her to move around a little bit. This should help to get rid of any air bubbles causing the hiccups in the first place. Now gently rub your baby's back until the hiccups subside.
 This may help your baby to get rid of any excess gas in their system. They will normally give one last loud hiccup before it's over., Although there is no clinical evidence that gripe water is effective against the hiccups, many parents use gripe water to soothe intestinal discomfort in their children.

Dissolve a little bit of gripe water in a bit of water and administer it in a dropper. Note that your baby may be allergic to one of the many ingredients in gripe water, which includes alcohol, ginger, dill, and fennel, among others., Try to hold your baby upright if you can, or hold their hands as you get them to stand. Your baby may be suffering from reflux after eating something. In this case, doctors may advise to keep your child in an upright position for 30 minutes after eating.
 Distracting your baby with a game or toy can not only keep them happy when they have the hiccups, but can also help to get rid of them.



Play peek-a-boo
Give your baby a rattle
Give your baby a chew toy

, The following methods, while popular folk remedies, could actually hurt your baby inadvertently and are best avoided.These remedies include:


Startling your baby (what works for adults often doesn't work for children)
Pressing down on their fontanels
Pressing down on their eyeballs
Pulling their tongue
Slapping your baby's back.
 While hiccups are annoying, they're almost never a sign that something is seriously wrong. If your child hiccups for more than several hours or for more than a day, it's acceptable to visit your pediatrician. But for most parents, some good-fashioned hands-off patience should be just what the doctor ordered.

