 Most of the measurements you need to make to size a pair of jeans are easiest if you lay them down flat. You can also take all of the measurements in this section holding the jeans vertically, but it can be a little awkward to hold and measure them at the same time unless you have a friend to help.


For the most accurate results, smooth out any folds and allow the jeans to settle before measuring.
Your jeans should be fully zipped up and buttoned before beginning.;
, Pull the top corners of your jeans so that the waistline is tight and flat against itself. For most cuts, the button and zipper should not hang below the rear waistline (however, on some tapered cuts, this will be the case.) Stretch a tape measure from the left side of the waist material to the right. Double this number to get your waist size.


If your waistband is made from elastic material, be careful not to stretch it as you measure or you will inflate the waist measurement.
Make a note of whether the jeans are labeled as "high-wasted" or "low rise." If the jeans are intended to sit somewhere besides your natural waist, when you measure yourself, be sure to shift your tape measure up or down by a few inches to compensate.
 From the crotch seam (the point below the zipper or button where the two legs meet), move about two inches (5 centimeters) down one of the legs. Measure horizontally across the leg. Double this number to get your thigh measurement.
 Smooth one of the legs so that it's flat and tight against the ground. Stretch a tape measure from the crotch seam down the side of the leg to the hem or cuff (the bottom of the leg.) This is your inseam (or "inside leg") measurement.Note that you do not need to double this measurement.
 Once again, pull the corners of the waistband so that it is tight and flat against itself just like you did when you took the waist measurement. Find the crotch seam and stretch a tape measure from here up to the waistline, passing over the button and zipper. This is your front rise measurement.


A less important measurement, the back rise, is measured from the crotch seam back and over the rear of the jeans to the top of the rear waist band. The rear rise will always be bigger than the front rise (especially on women's jeans to accommodate a curvier figure.), In general, the measurements above should be plenty for finding a pair of jeans that fits you well. However, there are other measurements you can take to get an even more precise fit — a few are listed below:



Knee: Measure across one leg at the point where your knee would normally bend. This is usually around 14 inches (33.5 centimeters) down from the crotch, but you may need to adjust a little for especially long or short pants. Double this measurement.

Seat: Measure across the back of the jeans at the widest point of the seat, usually about 7 1/2 inches (20 centimeters) below the waistline.You may need to adjust slightly based on the size of the jeans. Double this measurement.

Hem line: Measure across the opening at the bottom of the leg. Double this measurement.

