 The federal government has adoption resources available, primarily through the U.S. Children's Bureau's AdoptUSKids program. On these websites, you can find detailed information about adopting a child.The AdoptUSKids website at adoptuskids.org is a good place to start if you want to research adoption on the internet. This website has national as well as state-specific information about the adoption process.
Follow links to read information from your state adoption agency as well as private adoption agencies that operate in your area.
You also can learn more about the types of children usually available to adopt, including their ages and backgrounds. Use this information to guide your considerations of the type of child you would like to adopt.
Another good website to research is adoption.com. The website has numerous guides on adoption, including international adoption. You also can look at forums where other adoptive and potential adoptive parents are discussing the adoption process.;
, Depending on where you live, there typically are numerous ways in which you can adopt a child – through a public agency, through a private agency, through a church, or even directly with the child's birth mother.Take a good luck at your family finances and determine your adoption budget. From there you should be able to identify methods that would best fit into your budget.
If there are any other concerns that affect your method of adoption, make note of those as well. For example, if it is important to you that the birth mother shares your faith, you may prefer to adopt through a church or religious organization rather than a public agency.
Different methods also have different timeframes. Consider how long you are willing to wait to finalize the adoption as you look at the methods available to you.
The relationship the birth mother has to the child is another important issue in adoption. Some states and agencies favor open adoption, in which the birth mother knows and has access to the adoptive parents, and the adopted child can contact their birth mother. Other states and agencies work under a closed system.
If you want to adopt a child directly from their birth mother, there are some states in which you are legally allowed to do this. Research the process online by looking at information on the websites of attorneys who serve as facilitators to arrange direct adoptions.
 Public and private adoption agencies typically have a website that explains more about their services and the resources they have available for prospective adoptive parents.You can find adoption agencies at adoptuskids.org or by searching for "adoption agencies" with the name of your state.
Keep in mind that while you can adopt a child who lives in a different state, you may have to go through a different process than if you adopt a child from within the state.
On an adoption agency's website, you can learn more about that agency's process, fees, and post-adoptive resources.
If you find an adoption agency in which you're interested, you often can fill out a preliminary application online to get further information or make an appointment to speak with a counselor or caseworker about becoming an adoptive parent.
 State government agencies and private adoption agencies have specific criteria that prospective parents must meet before they can be considered to adopt a child. You can research these criteria online.You typically must have identification and personal documents available for review when you complete your adoption application. By researching ahead of time, you can find out what documents you'll need and gather them together.
Looking at eligibility criteria ahead of time allows you to prepare your family for the application and home study process. Unless you do a direct, private adoption, you will need to complete a home study. Some states legally require a home study regardless of how you adopt your child.
Home studies can be intense and intrusive if you don't understand the caseworker's role in the process or the types of questions you'll be asked. Doing advanced research online can help you learn what will be expected of you and your family.

