 The edging, or eave flashing, is metal strips that are used to cover the perimeter of the roof. Use your 1¼ inch nails to secure the flashing to the roof. It should overlap the edge of the gutter (if you have them).
 Always begin working at the longest peak to eave point of the roof. Take your first sheet of metal and place it on the roof so that it overhangs the edge at least ¾ of an inch. This panel must be aligned perpendicular (square) to the edge.









Use your neoprene washer head screws to secure the metal to the sheathing. Space the screws about 12 inches (30.5 cm) apart down the entire piece of metal.
Make sure that the screws are all aligned evenly, as you will be able to see them from the ground if they are exposed-fastener metal plates.For exposed fasteners, avoid over tightening the fastener. Each fastener has a durable rubber grommet that seals the roof from the weather. Tighten the fastener just enough to seal the site. If you over tighten and the grommet is displaced, remove and replace.
Continue installing the metal panels, making sure that the edges overlap at lease one inch, or as required, with the adjacent panel. Do this until the entire roof is covered. If you feel the need for sealants, lay a bead of 100% silicone or adhesive silicone before laying the sheet down and make sure the bead is towards the edge of the bottom sheet. This will allow the silicone to squeeze out towards the edges, making it a more tight seal.
 This is the metal trim similar to the eave flashing, except that it is placed over joints in the roof where different sections meet. This should be used in valleys (points where two sections less than 140 degrees meet) and as end caps over the tops of two sides that meet. Be sure to cut this metal at the correct angle before installing it.









The flashing can be bent into a ‘V’ shape to fit over the top of a section (ridge) of a roof, if necessary.
Depending on how wide the flashing you’re using is, you will either have to use one or two rows of screws.
 Make sure that you’ve completely covered the entire roof with the metal, that all edges are smooth and finished, and that there are no loose pieces. Clean up all remaining metal, nails, and screws and enjoy your new roof!.








