 If you find a nest of baby wild rabbits and the mother is not around, or if you see tiny baby wild rabbits hopping around on their own, you may think they are orphans. More times than not, however, this is not the case—their mother is simply not at the nest and will return later. It would be better for you to be certain whether the babies are orphans before attempting to feed and care for them.


Wild rabbit mothers nurse for short periods during the night and early dawn, then leave the nest during the day.Therefore, it would not be surprising if you did not see the mother with her babies during daytime hours.
If the babies’ tummies look nice and plump, you can be confident that their mother is caring for them. If you look closely at their bodies, you may be able to see a ‘milk line’ through their skin—evidence of nursing.If you want to be sure the mother is around, you can place string in a grid pattern over the nest.Arrange the string in the evening and check it in the morning. If it is disturbed, then the mother has returned to the nest.
Baby wild rabbits who appear cold, weak, dehydrated (loose skin stays tented when you pinch it), or injured are likely orphaned.Since baby wild rabbits are extremely difficult to rehabilitate and care for,you should contact a wildlife rehabilitation center as soon as possible. , In the event that you are not able to get to a wildlife rehabilitation center right away, you may need to provide at least initial care (food, general comfort) to the orphaned baby wild rabbits. Regular goat milk is frequently recommended for baby wild rabbits.Kitten and puppy milk replacers are also good choices.Milk replacers are available at your local pet stores.
You may be able to find regular goat milk at your local grocery store. If it is not available there, ask the grocer where you can find it.
Cow’s milk and human baby formula (Pedialyte) are not recommended for feeding baby wild rabbits.If the baby wild rabbits are cold prior to you feeding them, warm them up by placing them in a shoebox lined with a clean, soft cloth. Set a heating pad on low and set in a tabletop. Place the shoebox halfway on the heating pad—this will allow the babies to move away from the heat if they become too warm., Knowing what to feed baby wild rabbits is only half the battle—knowing how to feed them is a crucial component to their survival. Because they are so small, baby wild rabbits can be fed with a syringe (one to three milliliters), which is available at your local pharmacy.Eyedroppers are another good option.To remove harmful bacteria from the milk or formula, warm them up in the microwave or boil them on the stove.Cold milk or formula could cause potentially fatal diarrhea in baby wild rabbits.Keep the feeding area quiet so as not to stress the babies.One at a time, gently pick up each baby wild rabbit and hold him loosely but firmly in a soft cloth. Tilt his head so that it is higher than his back end and place the syringe near the side or bottom of his mouth—these two actions will prevent him from accidentally inhaling the liquid down into his lungs.Do not overfeed the baby wild rabbit. You will know when to stop feeding when his tummy becomes slightly rounded.Visit the website http://www.orphanedwildlifecare.com/rabbitandhare.htm to know how much to feed, and how often, according the baby wild rabbits’ ages.
Make sure to wash your hands before each feeding session., After the baby wild rabbits have finished eating, it is important for them to urinate and defecate to keep their digestive and urinary systems healthy. To do this, stroke the anal area with a cotton ball moistened with warm water until the rabbit urinates and defecates.