 You need to know what your problem is in order to fix it. You will need to get the key members of your team to do a walkthrough with you (and possibly the people helping you with you release system problem) on the current release management process so that you can know exactly where the problems are.;
, You will need to establish a regular release cycle for your software. This has the benefit of creating a routine, which will align team activities and allow you to develop a realistic schedule that will ensure you gain and retain customer confidence. Just remember that your release cycle relies on when you can deliver a quality product, not on when your customer wants it.
 The thing about implementing change is that you need to take it slow. Implement some small ideas and processes that do not need a lot of bureaucratic approval and will not take too much time, training and effort to be accepted by the development and testing team. This way, you can see if these ideas really work and make adjustments to suit your specific team.
 Make sure that the necessary infrastructure is ready to facilitate the deployment and use of the software, before the software engineers are through with the product. Provide the engineers with all that they need to develop the product for instance a salesforce API. Clear up any hardware, licensing, storage issues and any other infrastructural hiccups, and fix any missing links to make sure that when the product is ready, there will be due deployment.
 Automate as many processes as you can so that you can free up manpower for the main business of software development and standardize the processes so that you are consistent at each point of development every time.
 With regard to the release cycles, the development and test teams need to be involved in determining when the product would be ready for deployment. Make sure that the entire team understands what it needs to do, when and why so that everyone is on the same page. Synchronizing your efforts will ensure that you streamline your software release management process.
 The thing about working with people is that if you really want excellent work done then you need to care about them. Make sure every member of the team feels acknowledged, respected and valued. Once you develop great team dynamics, then you will easily improve release management system.

