 This trick involves a bit of preparation. It’s easiest to start the trick with your bottom card facing the opposite direction as the rest of the deck. If you flipped your deck over, it would look the same.


If you are skilled enough at sleight of hand, you can quickly flip the bottom card over after you shuffle the deck. One way to attempt to flip the bottom card after a shuffle is to finish shuffling with an overhand shuffle. Take the last card from your overhand shuffle and flip it back onto the bottom of the deck facing the opposite direction. You have to do this quickly so no one sees. Angle your hands so your audience won’t see the bottom of the deck.
 With your bottom card facing the other direction, fan out the deck without showing the bottom card.


Make sure to fan the cards out more in the middle of the deck.
Angle the cards down slightly so your audience mostly sees the tops of the cards.
 Have your volunteer pick a card from somewhere in the deck.


If you want, you can run your thumb along the outer edges of the fanned out cards and ask your volunteer to say “stop” at a certain point. When your spectator says “stop”, you ask your spectator to take the card your thumb is on.
This gives you a little bit more control so you ensure your spectator doesn’t pick your upside down card.
 Ask your spectator to memorize the card and show it to the rest of audience.


As soon as your spectator takes a card, you want to re-stack the deck.
While your audience is distracted by the card, flip your deck over so the bottom is now the top.
During this moment, discretely flip your deck. To help you do this unseen, you can lower the deck a bit. Also, cover the front of it with one hand while you turn it over so your audience doesn’t see what you’re doing.
 Your deck will now be upside but look normal to your audience.


Be careful to keep the deck stacked here so that your audience doesn’t notice that your deck is flipped.
 Explain that you are tapping the deck to trigger its magical properties. This will help with the illusion as you prepare to flip the deck. Then explain that you will cause the spectator’s card to magically flip over in the deck. Begin shaking the deck, and while you do, flip the deck back over.


This part can be a little tricky as your audience will be focused on the deck. The purpose of shaking the deck as you explain what you are doing is to distract your audience while you quickly flip the deck back over.
All of the cards will now be facing the right way except for the bottom card, and the spectator’s.
 Be careful not to show your audience the bottom card.


Remove your spectator’s card from the deck and ask the audience to inspect it. You can even have your spectator hold it. While this is happening, if you want, quickly flip the bottom card back over.

