 It will make your title search much quicker and more accurate if you can start with some information about the prior owners and their purchase of the property, or if you know about any other liens that may be on the property. Any of this information can often be used to narrow your search and make your results more accurate.You may be able to find out much this information from the lender or realtor advertising the sale., Until recently, a title search meant going to the registry of deeds in your county and spending hours of time reviewing dusty old record books. Many county records offices or registries are now computerized and offer online searches. Check your county online, or call them to find out what they offer., Whether you are searching online or manually through record books, your objective is the same. You want to use the county records database to find the deed that shows when the current owners purchased the property. What you find should match the name and address of the information that you already know about the owners. If it doesn’t, then you either missed something, or there may be a problem with the title.
 When you find the prior deed, it should contain a reference to the deed before. Go look that up, and make sure that the information matches accurately, both in ownership and the description of the property. You will need to keep doing this back in time for several purchases at least.


If this sounds tedious, it is. But it is very important if you want to make sure that you are buying the clear title to the house. This is why most people realize that paying a couple hundred dollars for a professional title search is a good idea.
 Don’t just stop at the first mortgage. If the prior homeowner got into financial trouble, there may be more liens on the property than just the first mortgage loan. There could be a second mortgage, a repair lien, workman’s liens, etc. Keep checking the records until you are satisfied that you have found everything on record.A "lien" is the general term for a debt you owe someone that uses your home as collateral. If you don't pay on time, someone with a lien may have the legal right to foreclose on the home. Here are examples of some common types of liens:

A mortgage lien means that if you don't pay the bank each month, they can foreclose on the house
A tax lien means that if you fail to pay taxes, the IRS could force a sale of the house
A workman's lien means that if you have someone do substantial repairs on your house, the workman could get a lien to force payment



, If the property is violating any city or county codes, you purchase these when you buy the house. These violations should come up during the title check, but you should also check with the city code enforcement department. The good news is that you may be able to negotiate these fines down and give you time to make any repairs to correct the issues.

If the house is in bad shape, it is possible the city is fining the property for being in disrepair and affecting the desirability of the neighborhood.
 Get used to writing down the “book and page” numbers. These refer to the original source of the document that you are looking for. Any information you find may be useful to an attorney or title agent who winds up helping you.

