 It will be helpful if you have a support network where you currently live, in addition to friends and family prepared to receive you in the U.S. At the very least, you are required to have a sponsor in the U.S. as part of your immigration application. Your sponsor must fall into one of the following categories:a U.S. citizen, who is a relative of yours (must be a spouse, child, parent or sibling)
a U.S. lawful permanent resident (that is, a green card holder) who is a spouse or unmarried son or daughter
a prospective employer

, Immigration is an important legal process. It makes sense to get the best advice from someone who understands the procedures and requirements. If you can, get references for an attorney from a trusted friend or relative who has been through the process. If not, then just research attorneys online or in the phone book, but ask about the attorney’s experience, cost, and reachability. Make sure that the attorney is able to explain things to you in a way that you can understand.An experienced immigration attorney will be familiar with the paperwork and can save you hours of time trying to decide what papers to file next.
Your attorney can file a notice of appearance with the NVC, so that he or she will receive communications directly. Then the attorney can either move directly to the next step of the process, or explain the steps to you in terms that you can understand.
An experienced attorney will have practice in completing the paperwork. The attorney and office staff will be able to prepare the forms you need and can help you in preparing answers to the questions that are asked. He or she can help you avoid saying things that might cause alerts or hold up your paperwork.
An attorney can help you prepare for the interview process and help you know what kinds of questions to expect.
If there are any legal hold-ups along the way, an attorney will be able to represent you and appear in court or at any hearings on your behalf.
 The U.S. Department of State maintains a very useful website at travel.state.gov. From there, you can find online links to more information, and telephone contacts for help with the process.You also have several ways that you can contact the National Visa Center (NVC) for questions about your application:Use the Public Inquiry Form at https://secureforms.travel.state.gov/ask-nvc.php to submit questions by email.
Call (603)334-0700 to speak with a representative by telephone about immigrant visa inquiries, or (603) 334-0888 for non-immigrant visa inquiries.
You may send communications by mail to the National Visa Center, Attn: WC, 31 Rochester Avenue, Suite 200, Portsmouth, NH 03801-2915.

