 Understand that the other person could be going through a difficult time or having a bad day. You should also recognize that, much like this person, you have probably been rude to someone in the past. Acknowledging that the other person might be having a difficult time and that you could also do something similar, will help you be kind to them.For example, say you come into the office and notice that your co-worker seems a bit unnerved. You say to them “Hey, how’s it going?” To your surprise, your co-worker shoots back sarcastically “Just fabulous, can’t you tell?” While this is a little rude, it’s also clear that your co-worker is having a rough morning and could use a little empathy instead of a sarcastic comeback about how they missed a button on their shirt.
 Aside from confrontation often being unkind, it might also cause more problems for you and/or the other person. Before confronting someone for being rude, assess the risk of escalating the situation. You should also consider the relative position of yourself and that person. Is it a boss/employee relationship? Will one of you likely lose your job, or have another similar issue arise from the conflict? If so, the nicest thing you can do is overlook the rudeness.For example, if someone bumps into you on the street and says “Hey, watch it,” instead of saying “I’m sorry,” it is probably best to just keep going. Turning around to explain how the situation was actually their fault is likely to just escalate a situation that isn’t actually important at all.
 The most obvious way that you can be nice to a rude person is to forgive the rudeness. This goes further than just overlooking the rudeness. You have to commit to having no hard feelings toward the other person. This allows the person a clean slate next time you see them.If you go into your next interaction expecting rudeness or still bitter about the last time, you can set a negative tone for the whole interaction.
For example, if you move into a new house and get an unpleasant greeting from your neighbor on the first day, give them another chance. It might be that they were having a bad day, or that it takes them time to warm up to strangers. Either way, if you are rude back during the next encounter, things aren’t likely to get better.

