 Not all healthy ingredients are expensive. In fact, many healthy ingredients are cheap. Take each category of food you need to buy, and figure out options in each one.

For instance, in whole grains, you can try oatmeal, brown rice, bulgur, popcorn, and whole-wheat bread and pasta.
For vegetables, pick ones like cabbage, leafy greens (like mustard greens, kale, or even broccoli), squash, carrots, and celery.
In fruit, go for cheaper options, such as oranges, apples, and bananas.
In the dairy section, reach for milk and plain yogurt in large containers., Keep in mind that you probably need less protein than you think in your diet. Making your proteins last across several meals will help both your budget and your diet. For instance, if you make a chicken one night, use the leftovers the next night to make a chicken soup. The night after that, use some of the chicken in tacos.Adult women under 30 only need 5 1/2 ounce-equivalents each day, while women over 30 only need 5 ounce-equivalents. Adult men under 30 need 6 1/2, while if you're 30 to 50, you need 6 ounce-equivalents and 5 1/2 if you're over 50.
An "ounce-equivalent" is one ounce (28 grams) of meat (3 ounces of meat is about the size of a deck of cards)., While you don't need to completely cut animal protein out of your diet, opting for plant-based protein sometimes can help cut costs. Try focusing meals around these vegetarian options, such as having beans and rice one night instead of chili.Some vegetarian equivalents to an ounce of meat include an egg, 1/4 cup (60 milliliters) of beans, peas, or lentils, 1/2 an ounce (14 grams) of nuts or seeds, a tablespoon (15 milliliters) of peanut butter, or 2 tablespoons (30 milliliters) of hummus., While you need to compare prices on foods, you should also compare labels for items you're buying, particularly if you're buying prepacked food of any kind. For instance, if you must have a box of macaroni and cheese, it's best to pick the healthiest one you can find.Look for foods low in sugar and sodium. You should be eating about 2,300 milligrams (1 teaspoon) of salt per day. Also, check for lower trans and saturated fat. Even the healthier fats should only be 20 to 30 percent of what you eat.
Keep serving sizes to 400 calories or less. Also, check to see how many vitamins and minerals the food has.

