 The seated forward bend is a relatively simple stretch that provides whole-body relaxation. If your digestive troubles are related to stress or tension, this pose may help you debloat with yoga.Start from a seated position on the floor with your legs extended in front of you. You may want to place a blanket or towel under your hips to help keep you in alignment or to cushion your sitting bones.
On an exhale, raise your arms over your head and slowly hinge forward from your hips, keeping your back straight and flat. Lower yourself as far as you comfortably can to your legs. Ultimately, you may get to the point where you can recline fully with the top of your head resting against your legs and your forearms and palms against the floor.
Hold the fold for 5 to 10 deep breaths, then slowly raise your torso to a seated position on an inhale.;
, The cat-cow flow stretches and relaxes your spine as well as stretching out your torso. This relaxing exercise is done as a vinyasa flow, with a breath for each movement.Start this pose on all fours, with your knees directly below your hips and your ankles in line with your shoulders. Roll your shoulders back, allowing your shoulder blades to melt back alongside your spine.
As you inhale, arch your back, drawing your navel towards the floor and opening your chest. This is the "cow" position.
When you exhale, reverse the movement starting with your tail bone. Drop your tail bone towards the floor and your navel toward your spine, curving your back upward and lowering your head slightly. This is the "cat" position.
Repeat this flow for 10 to 15 breath cycles, feeling the stretch in your spine.
 Child's pose is the ultimate resting position in yoga, and will give you full body relaxation to calm your nervous system and help ease digestive troubles. You may want a block or pillow for your head.Start by sitting on your knees, legs wide apart and big toes touching. On an exhale, reach forward and fold over your thighs, resting your forehead on the floor and reaching out ahead of you. Keep your hips lowered against your heels.
If you're coming from all fours, slowly lower your hips back to your heels on an exhale, reaching forward with your hands as you lower.
Hold this position for at least five deep breaths. If it feels good, you can hold this gentle pose as long as you want.
If you have abdominal cramps, you can ease them by adding a twist to child's pose. Simply walk your hands to the left, hold for 10 to 15 breath cycles, then slowly move back to center and repeat on the other side., Downward facing dog engages your whole body to get your circulation flowing, while the inversion can help relax your nervous system and encourage improved digestion.If you're moving from child's pose, rise up to all fours with your legs about hip-width apart and your wrists in line with your shoulders. Your knees should be directly in line with your hips, so you make a tabletop shape.
Tuck your toes under your heels, and on an exhale lift your hips up to the ceiling. Straighten your legs as much as possible, pressing your heels towards the floor. Make sure your neck is not crunched. You can gaze through your legs or toward your navel.
Stay in downward facing dog for four or five breath cycles, thinking about lifting with each exhale and pressing down with every inhale.
 A standing forward bend helps further warm up your belly while relieving tension all the way down your spine. This also may help stimulate digestion and ease bloating.Start this position from a standing position, big toes together and heels slightly apart. You also can have your feet about hip-width apart if you find that is easier for you.
On an exhale, fold forward from your hips, engaging a core and maintaining a flat back as long as possible before you fold into yourself.
Ideally, you will end with your palms flat on the ground, fingertips in line with your toes. If you aren't that flexible yet, just fold as far as you comfortably can and rest your palms on a block, or on your shins or knees.
Hold this fold for 10 breath cycles, then on an inhale slowly rise and return to stand.
 Deep breathing has a relaxing effect on your whole body and also can help stimulate digestive processes to relieve cramps, gas, and bloating. It's most effective to take some time to get in touch with your breath both before and after you practice yoga.Come to a comfortable seated position with your back straight, heart over pelvis, shoulder blades melting down along your spine. Relax your face and neck and close your eyes or soften your gaze.
Begin by inhaling deeply through your nose, lifting your chest and expanding your belly to take in as much air as possible.
Pause after your inhale, then exhale slowly through your mouth, making a whispered "ha" sound in the back of your throat. With practice, you'll be able to make this relaxing sound while exhaling through your nose.
Try to clear your mind and focus on your breath. Let your awareness of the sounds around you slowly fade. Stay here for at least five minutes.

