 For children older than six, you can pick from a wide variety of musical instruments. Younger children, however, are limited in what kinds of instruments they can physically handle. If you are picking an instrument for a child younger than six, a violin or a piano makes the most sense. Young children can more easily handle such instruments.The piano can be a great choice for a young child because it provides foundational skills. A child can better understand music by playing the piano, as there is a visual representation of music that can help foster an understanding of musical theory.
Violins are good options as well, especially because they can be made in small sizes for very young children. A violin also helps a young child learn how to tune an instrument, which is important for developing musical skill.;
, Some children have body types that make them more prone to certain instruments. Keep body type in mind when selecting an instrument for your child.Height is a big factor when it comes to choosing instruments. A child that is of a smaller size will not take as well to a very large instrument, like a bassoon.
If you're choosing an instrument a child plays with their mouth, think about lip size. Smaller lips do better with instruments like the French horn or the trumpet, while a child with larger lips would struggle with these instruments.
Also, think about your child's fingers. Long and slender fingers will do better with a piano than short, stubby fingers.
 If your child has braces, or will get them soon, this can have a big impact on which instruments they can and cannot play.Braces will not inhibit your child's ability to play clarinets and saxophones that much. A flute will have an initial adjustment period for braces, but can be successfully played if your child has braces. Bassoons and oboes can also be played with braces.Braces are not as compatible with instruments like the trumpet, french horn, and baritone instruments like the tuba.
 A child should be practicing their instrument for 20 to 30 minutes a day in order to improve.Therefore, you need to pick an instrument your child is able to practice in your home or at school regularly.Large instruments, like a piano or drums, may not fit into your home if you don't have a lot of space. You should also keep in mind sound. If you live in a quiet neighborhood, people may complain about your child playing drums.
You do not have to rule out a large or noisy instrument simply because it does not fit into your home. See if your child's school has a place where your child can go and practice outside of the home, especially if your child has their heart set on a particular type of instrument.
 Some instruments work better if a child who is highly coordinated. Woodward and percussion instruments would work best with a well coordinated child. If your child is not as well coordinated, stay away from these instruments unless your child expresses a very strong interest in learning them. If a child truly wants to, say, play the drums, they may be able to develop the necessary coordination with time.