 Either approach is fine. Also, have a good sense of what looks good on you, so as to avoid fashion mistakes.


To keep up with the latest styles, read teen mags, like Teen Vogue, Tiger Beat, and Seventeen.
Browsing online "look books" is an awesome way of getting some much-needed inspiration if you're missing it.;
, Perhaps plaid, or a small burst of sequins. Something like a pair of capris and a loose sweater, with a tank top underneath. Simple and stylish.
 It's fine to be inspired by what the others are wearing, and even to find out where that boy or girl is purchasing their clothing from. The main thing is to be sure that what you're fancying on another person is going to look good on you too.


Don't be afraid to ask another boy or girl which stores they get their clothes from. It's a compliment. If they don't know, don't care or don't want to tell you, just say something like "No worries, I just wanted to compliment you on your good taste".
If you want to take part in hot trends at your school, that's cool. However, once again, if the clothing doesn't suit you, don't feel obliged to fit yourself to it.
 Don't go overboard trying to look like someone else. If you see something different that you truly like, then buy it. Don't waste your time getting clothing to please others. Part of fashion is about making yourself happy because you're worth it.
 You can go with friends if liked but don't take them along if you feel that all they do is distract you or try to convince you to get clothing different from that which you like. If they're good at giving honest advice though, they may be helpful.
 Find out what clothing is on display and considered currently trendy by browsing various different stores. Having an overview of what's in fashion can help you to get a better idea of what you like best. This means not buying the first things you see––the items will still be there when you go back after thinking about it.
 Nice, one-off pieces can be found for little money in such stores and these can really add to your look. Many such stores color code the clothing, making it easy for you to find pieces in your favorite colors. A touch of unique is good for your fashion style.
 For example: "I want to get a new skirt, two pairs of jeans, and a white lace sweater today". Having specific items in mind will help you to focus solely on what you really want to get, instead of getting distracted on things you don't need or already have in your closet.
 Choose colors that look good on you and that fit well. Remember that fashion is not worth discomfort, especially not at school.
 Also be aware of what the school permits by way of accessories.
 If you do, it'll suck when you see a cute bangle, or when you spot a sweet handbag, and can't afford it.
 For girls, accessorize with assorted bangles, necklaces and pendants, bright earrings, and casual but cute clothes but do not wear bangles on both arms, or rings on every finger. Don't wear every single piece of jewelry you own. For boys, hats, belts, arm bands, rings and earrings are cool accessories, as preferred.
 Wear things that reflect who you are, not the girl or boy in class that you think dresses fabulously. Do not try to be something you're not. Rock your personality with a style you're comfortable with. Just be yourself.
 For example, if you're a quiet, unassuming person, try a cute plaid skirt with a button-up. If you're a talkative type, try a colorful neon rainbow, or if you're a punk rocker, try some pink and black skirts and hoodies. Take one day of the week, and wear something nicer or something you didn't give justice before.

