 Purchasing hair growth tonics, pills, gels, topical creams, and rubs can be expensive and, often times, these products fail to produce the desired results. Because of this, it is important to try less expensive or less invasive products and styling tactics before deciding to purchase a hair growth product., It is important to keep in mind that someone out there is suffering or has suffered from the same pattern of thinning hair as you. Search the internet to find other men who suffer from the same problem, have tried to increase the volume of their hair with growth products, and solicit their opinions. Chances are someone out there is suffering from a lack of volume in the same ways you are and has had success with a particular brand or type of hair growth product.The two most popular hair growth products on the market contain minoxidil (found in products such as Rogaine) and finasteride (found in products like Propecia). Minoxidil is a topical treatment and finasteride comes in pill form. It is important to note that these products both have better success rates at stopping hair loss than they do with re-growing lost hair.Topical hair growth products that contain minoxidil can take up to four months to work. So stick with the routine and be patient when looking for results., Lack of volume is a common problem among men. Because of this, a wide variety of retailers, both online and offline, offer hair growth solutions. However, many of these retailers carry off-brand or “bargain” hair growth products that show little proven effectiveness in increasing the volume of your hair. Be sure you purchase your hair growth product from a reliable and trusted retailer to ensure your money is well spent.
 Hair growth products are often composed of various active ingredients, many of which can be harmful to one’s hair or overall health if not properly applied. Make sure you read all the instructions and warnings on a product’s packaging before use.


Some hair growth products have been linked to a diminished sex drive in men, so read the warning label carefully and be aware if you are experiencing any of the listed side effects.Some hair growth products, especially those using the active ingredient finasteride, have been proven dangerous to women who are nursing or pregnant. As this is the case, be sure to store the product responsibly and avoid leaving exposed or crushed pills out in the open., Following the directions on the product’s packaging, apply the hair growth product to the areas where you are experiencing a lack of volume. Application, in general, requires you to gently rub or massage the product into your scalp for 3 to 5 minutes, twice a day. However, this method changes from product to product. Also, it takes anywhere from 12 to 16 weeks to see the best results with these products, so do not expect an immediate impact.
 Often times, darkening the shade of one’s hair can increase the appearance of volume. If you feel this could be beneficial to you, identify reliable hair coloring products, select a shade that will blend nicely with your natural hair color, and apply as directed.Take care not select a color that is much darker than your natural hair color, as an unnatural or overly dark shade can make it obvious that you used a hair coloring product. Also, selecting a very dark shade of hair coloring can actually make your hair look less voluminous if it greatly contrasts with the color of your roots.