 Having depression can give you an overall sense of lethargy, which can make you want to nap throughout the day. However, you should avoid this behavior if at all possible. Sleeping randomly throughout the day can cause night time disruptions in your sleeping patterns, which can throw your entire sleep schedule off.


If you feel as if you have to nap, make sure it is a short nap of no more than an hour or so. This will help take the edge off of your tiredness but will be less likely to disrupt your nighttime sleep patterns.
Daytime napping may be the only kind of sleep you can get when you suffer from depression induced insomnia. If this is your situation, try to resist napping as much as possible. You will likely be really tired for a while, but eventually you should be able to readjust your sleep schedule to make the bulk of your sleep happen at night., Although it may seem tempting to use alcohol, which is a depressant, to help you sleep, it actually has the opposite effect on your sleep cycle. When you drink, especially larger amounts, you are more prone to multiple sleep disruptions during the night.If you do want to drink, try to cut yourself off a few hours before bedtime and stay within the recommended daily limit. The recommended daily limit is one serving for women and two servings for men. One serving is a 12 ounce beer, 5 fluid ounces of wine, or 1.5 fluid ounces of distilled liquor., Caffeine is a major stimulant that may cause you to lose sleep at night. If you are having trouble sleeping, try to stop drinking caffeinated beverages around 2pm. This will give the caffeine time to get out of your system before you try to sleep.Although there is no clear link to caffeine consumption and depression, caffeine has been shown to affect moods. This means you should try to cut the amount of caffeine you have daily to see if it helps improve your mood.
If you are used to a large amount of caffeine a day, do not cut it out too quickly. This can actually make your depression worse due to the caffeine withdrawals. Instead, try slowly decreasing your daily intake of caffeine until you are at a low level or have cut it out completely.Common sources of caffeine are some sodas, coffee, chocolate, and some teas.
 The light from electronics and the mental stimulation from them can disrupt your sleep cycle. The light decreases the production of melatonin in your body, which can make it harder for you to go to sleep.The mental stimulation that comes along with your electronics can also keep you too keyed up, especially if you use them right until bedtime.


Things accessible on your electronic devices, such as e-mail and social media, can contribute to your depressive state as well. It is best to avoid them for at least two hours before bed., Exercising 30 minutes a day can help promote sleep because it helps burn energy and tire you out. However, exercising too late in the day can actually cause you to sleep poorly because your body is still too wired from the physical activity.


Avoid working out past 7 pm at night. This allows adequate time for your body to come down from the stimulation of your exercise.