 Lumps or swelling in the mammary glands is a symptom of mammary tumors. They can be felt just under the skin in the mammary glands area. To check for them, just gently press along the area.You may feel a small, hard, or smooth lump under the skin that moves around when you press it. The other type may be irregular in shape and feel like it’s fixed in the skin so it doesn’t move.
 If your female dog has mammary gland tumors or mastitis, then the area around the mammary glands will be red or pink. The area may be swollen, and often, it is warm or hot when you touch it.Because of this, the dog may experience pain or discomfort when you touch the area.
 Another symptom of mammary gland tumors is tissue loss on the skin of the mammary glands. This generally occurs with swollen or reddened skin.With mastitis, puppies may scratch the mammary glands, leading to infection of the glands.
 Mastitis is an infection that can occur when a female dog is lactating. The nipples may be swollen and sore, which causes the dog to avoid nursing. This can lead to delayed development or poor nutrition for the puppies.The nipple gets infected during mastitis, so the redness, swelling, or pain may be more apparent in the nipple than surrounding glands.
 If the dog has mastitis, the nipples get infected, which affects the milk. The milk from the nipples may be a different consistency and thicker than normal milk. It may also be full of pus.In some cases, the milk is bloody or has a pink-tinge.
 If a dog has mastitis, then the dog may act normal and healthy. However, mastitis can cause the dog appear sick. She may have a fever, refuse to eat, or overall seem lethargic or listless.In some cases, the female dog may neglect the young due to feeling sick or the glands being too painful to touch.
 Mammary tumors can occur in a female dog over one year. However, it is not common until after age five. Certain breeds are more prone to mammary cancer than others. These include:Toy and miniature poodles
English springer spaniels
Cocker spaniels
German shepherds
Yorkshire terriers
Maltese
English setters

