 In MLA style, you would usually begin an online citation with the author's name. As Wikipedia articles do not have authors, you would simply skip to the article name. Put this in quotations and include a period inside the quotations. Using Jimmy Carter as an example again, you would start your article with "Jimmy Carter.", MLA style dictates you must include the larger source from which you found the article. If you pulled an article from the New York Times, you would write New York Times in italics after the article name. As you pulled your article from Wikipedia, you simply need to write Wikipedia. Follow with a period. Using our example, our citation would not read as follows:


"Jimmy Carter." Wikipedia.
 In MLA style, you're supposed to include the publisher. When working with online sources, this information is not always known. However, when working with Wikipedia, it's appropriate to write Wikipedia.org as the publisher. Follow with a period. Our example would now read:


"Jimmy Carter." Wikipedia. Wikipedia.org.
 You should usually include the date of an online publication. You may be able to figure out when a Wikipedia article was first published by clicking on the "History" tab on the top of the page. However, as Wikipedia articles update so frequently it can be hard to find the precise publication date. It may be best simply write "n.p." to indicate the publication date is unknown.Using our example, we would now have the following citation:


"Jimmy Carter." Wikipedia. Wikipedia.org. n.p.
 MLA style requires you to write the media format of a source you're using. This indicates if the source was in the form of a book, journal, web page, and so on. As you're using the Internet, you would write "Web." Follow this with a period.Our source would now read as follows:


"Jimmy Carter." Wikipedia. Wikipedia.org. n.p. Web.
 In MLA style, you would end citing a web source by listing the date you accessed the information. In MLA style, you write the date, then the month, then the year. You do not use commas. For example, if you accessed the article on February 2nd, 2016 you would write "2 February 2016."Our final citation would read like this:

"Jimmy Carter." Wikipedia. Wikipedia.org. n.p. Web. 2 February 2016.

