 Ice hockey is a competitive sport that involves a lot of time in your skates. Different positions will require different kinds of skates, so it important to know what style of play you will be engaging in.
 Purchase skates from a dedicated skating store so that you can get the advice and assistance of someone who knows about hockey skates. Do not purchase skates from a general department store; these skates will not provide enough ankle support and may make you more prone to injuries.
 There's more than one kind of hockey skate on the market, and they are truly distinct, so it's important to buy the correct kind.


Goalie skates have a lower boot with a wider blade for more stability and ankle and foot protection.
Other kinds of hockey skates also differ according to certain features, including blade radius. Your individual needs will depend on what position you play.
 Hockey skates start at about $50 and go up from there, depending on the quality of the materials used to make the skates. If you play competitively, you may want to invest in a more expensive pair of skates.
 Most hockey skates are a mixture of leather and synthetic materials to optimize durability, performance and comfort. Different synthetic materials such as Kevlar or graphite will determine the quality of the skate and the cost. Talk to your coach or another professional about the best material for your needs.


You want hockey skates with the highest durability, comfort, ankle support, stiffness, padding and workmanship in the most lightweight skate possible.
Many hockey skates offer gel inside that can warm up and mold to your feet, providing the best comfort and fit., On hockey skates the holder is the plastic piece between the boot and runner and the runner is the blade. Most beginning-level hockey skates will have a one-piece holder and runner.


It is better to choose a one-piece holder and runner for a beginner hockey player because they are cheaper. If the blade or holder happens to break at some point it usually costs around the same to replace the entire skate.
Competitive hockey players will want to choose the two-piece design because if the runner breaks it can be easily replaced. The runner and/or holder may break when a high-speed shot is taken directly at the runner/holder.
 Hockey blades have a concave, or hollowed out, shape and are measured based on the amount of blade that is in contact with the ice, called the blade radius. To measure radius place the two blades together, bottom-to-bottom, and measure the distance between the points where the blades touch.

Beginners will want a blade radius of around 5 inches (12.5 cm) to give stability while moving forward and backwards.
To improve cutting and turning, choose a blade radius of 3-4 inches (7.5-10 cm).
If you are a forward you will want a shorter blade radius to improve maneuverability.
Defensemen will want a longer blade for added stability.
Goalies will chose an even longer blade radius and have a less hollow grind to increase the contact with the ice., Choose hockey skate size differently from figure skates because they need to be tighter for more stability and less chafing. Try your hockey skates on with a thicker hockey sock, so that you know how they will fit when you are actually playing.

Different manufacturers make their hockey skates differently, so it is important to try on a range of brands.
Choose the correct width. Width is one of the most important factors in choosing the hockey skates that fit best. Most brands come in a range of widths including standard width (D or R), wide boots (E, EE or W), and sometimes even narrow width (C). If you have never had issues with sneaker sizes, then you will probably be fine with standard width skates.
 Hockey is a fast-paced game, and hockey players must feel like their skates are part of their feet. It is important to choose hockey skates that are comfortable and feel natural on your feet.

Understand that it may take some time to break your skates in. The first few times you wear a new pair of hockey skates, you might have some discomfort, or even develop a blister or two. If you've purchased good skates that fit correctly, however, this should be a temporary issue.

