 Some countries have varying conventions on where to write the address on an envelope. In Great Britain, the address is positioned in the bottom left corner on the front of the envelope. When positioning the first line, be sure to plan ahead so that you leave enough room for the next lines of text. You should also plan to leave a generous margin of about 1/2 an inch (1.3 cm) around the entire address., As you begin to write the address out on the envelope, be sure to left align all of the text in each line. Some countries prefer that the address is centered, both in placement on the envelope and the alignment of the text, but in Great Britain the correct format is for all of the address lines to be aligned against the left address margin., In order for the envelope to be processed properly, you want to make sure that the mail carrier can read the address clearly. If you are handwriting the address, use a pen or ink that is clear against the color of the envelope. Do not use pencil or anything that could be easily smudged or rubbed off during the journey. If you are printing an address label, be sure to use a font that is easy to read and a color that stands out against the label. For both handwritten and printed addresses, make to size the text so it can be ready easily, with a text size comparable to a font size of 10 - 15., Be sure to include their first name and surname, spelling each correctly. For close friends and family members it is a personal preference whether you include titles with the name; however, for any other recipient you should specify titles (e.g., Mr., Mrs., Ms., Miss, Dr., etc.). If you are sending the envelope to a person at a specific organization, you should include the name of the organization in a separate line underneath their name., If the place you are mailing the envelope to has an official building number or property name, like “Building J49” or “Victoria House,” include this underneath the recipient’s name and drop the property number and street name to the next line. If the property does not have a full name, simply include the property number and the name of the street, or “thoroughfare” as it’s called in Great Britain., There are three types of localities in Great Britain, and in order for mail to get sorted properly the post town has to be included. There are two other locality elements that you can include as well, but only the post town is required. Each element needs to be included on separate lines. Each locality should be written in normal letter case, except for the post town, which should be all uppercase letters. You do not need to include the county name. For example:Locality line 1 is the double dependent locality (i.e., the neighborhood or borough): Otterley
Locality line 2 is the dependent locality (i.e., the town or civil parish): Hedge End
Locality line 3 (or line 1 since it is the only one required) is the post town (i.e., the county town): OXFORD

, The postcode aids in the sorting and delivery of mail and is similar to zip code in the United States. Like the post town, the postcode should be written in all capital letters. You should also include two spaces between the two parts of the post code (e.g., BH1 1AA). Since you are sending the envelope from a Great Britain address to a recipient in Great Britain, you should not include a destination country. The postcode should be the final line in the address..


If you don't know the postcode, you can look it up on the Royal Mail website: http://www.royalmail.com/find-a-postcode


, A return address is an address that the post office uses to send the mail back to in case there is a reason the envelope could not be delivered. Even if you include all the elements of the address correctly, it is still a good idea to always include a return address when you mail something. In Great Britain, the return address is written on the back of the envelope (the side with the flap) in a center position with the text left aligned. You need to include all of the same elements as the front address, except the first line here should read “Return Address” with all the other lines coming after that., Postage is always required to send any envelope in the mail. The appropriate amount of postage depends on the size and weight of the envelope or parcel you are sending, with larger, heavier packages costing more money. The postage should always be included on the front of the envelope in the top right corner so that the mail carrier can read the address and confirm the shipping was paid for at the same time.


If you are not sure how much postage you need, you can look it up on the Royal Mail website: http://www.royalmail.com/personal/uk-delivery/stamps


