 If you're wearing a plain lace skirt you can add some pattern with your top. While you can wear a solid colored top, which may work in a formal setting, a patterned top can add some variation for a less forming setting.For example, try something like polka dots, stripes, or plaid.
Try to match the color when choosing a contrasting pattern. For example, a blue lace skirt can be paired with a white top with blue polkadots.;
, If you're going for a more preppy look, a lace skirt can be paired with a polo top. This can work for somewhat formal occasions. It can especially work well if you're wearing a lace skirt to work. Opt for a button-down polo.Remember to take color into consideration. You don't want to pair a pink lace skirt with a red top. Instead, opt for a white polo with pink stripes to pair with a pink skirt.
 A cardigan can create a low-key cute look with a lace skirt. You can wear a cardigan over a tank top or sleeveless top. This may work well for semi-formal occasions. A cardigan can also help if you're wearing a lace skirt in the cooler months.
 If you're looking for something more bohemian, go for a leather top. The contrasting structure will create an interesting dynamic with the lace skirt.If you want full leather, you can go for a full leather blouse or shirt. You can also add a touch of leather by wearing a light leather jacket over another top.
 If you love the look of lace, add a lace top to a lace skirt. This works best if you can find a similar pattern and color for a lace skirt. This can create an elegant, dress-like look that's appropriate for formal and informal occasions.If you remember where you originally bought your lace skirt, return to that location. They may sell complimentary tops.
 A blouse can pair well with a lace skirt, especially if you're going to a more formal event. Blouses tend to look more professional when tucked into a lace skirt. They also flatter your waistline this way. When wearing a blouse, especially a longer one, tuck it into your lace skirt.This works especially well on high-waisted skirts.
 If it's fall or winter, a sweater can look great with a lace top. An elegant sweater can be classy way to top off a nice lace skirt.Sweaters can be either formal or informal. A big, clunky sweater can be used when wearing a lace top for a more informal occasion. A long, form-fitted sweater can be used for a more formal one.
 Lace is already decorative on its own. Too many accessories may overwhelm the outfit. Stick to minimal accessories. Choose two to three accessories you really like when wearing lace.You should also choose less dressy accessories overall. For example, there is no need to pair a big, clunky necklace with a lace skirt. Instead, opt for a plain gold or silver chain.
 Some lace skirts are looser than others. They may look particularly loose if you wear them with a looser top. Adding a belt around your waist can help make your lace skirt look form-fitted.If you're wearing solid colors, a belt can add some variation in color and pattern. For example, opt for a checkered red belt with a solid red red lace skirt and top.
For very baggy shirts, a wide belt can be very slimming.
 Boots can be great with a lace skirt because they are so volatile. You can go for shorter, more formal boots for a dressy style. You can also wear long, knee-high boots for a more fun, loose style.You should also be aware of color with things like boots. Black boots, for example, may clash with a brown skirt.
 Oftentimes, a lace skirt can be part of a vintage ensemble. A few small bracelets can add to the vintage appeal. You can also use more trendy, clunky bracelets if you want a more modern style.Pick bracelets that math the colors of your outfit. For example, pair red bracelets with a red skirt.
 Lace skirts are often in dull colors, like whites and blacks. If your top is also a neutral color, hang a scarf around your neck to add some color. For example, add a bright red scarf if you're wearing a cream colored skirt and top., As skirts are more formal, you can wear slightly more formal shoes with them. Opt for flats that would be appropriate for work or a formal social event. You can match flats based on color. A red skirt, for example, could be worn with black flats with a red bow.
 This can make for a cute look, and add a splash of color. For example, a white lace skirt paired with a neutral top may look great with red tights. You can also benefit from wearing tights if it's colder out. Tights can help your legs stay warm when wearing a skirt during cooler months.
 If you're not wearing a lace skirt for a formal event, it's okay to go for a less formal top. For example, wear a tank top or a sleeveless blouse if you're just getting together with friends while wearing a lace top., If you're wearing a lace skirt to a formal event, make sure to pick something appropriate. Usually, a blazer or button-down shirt will work. You can wear a blazer over a nice blouse or undershirt. You can also choose a button-up shirt in a nice, neutral color.If you don't like blazers, a button-up can also work.
 In general, it's best to opt against very bright colors at work. If you're wearing lace to work, choose a lace skirt in a neutral color like cream, gray, or black. Pair it with a more neutral top.You should also minimize bright accessories. For example, use a brown belt at work instead of a bright red one.
 In general, a longer skirt is preferred for more formal events. When wearing a skirt to, say, work or school, try to get one that at least reaches your knees. If you're wearing a skirt for a less formal occasion, length does not need to be as big of a concern.

