 Plan to show up ten or twenty minutes early so that you can make sure you're in the right place, meet your trainer, and introduce yourself to your horse before you get on. Planning a time buffer will also help you avoid being late if you get lost on the way there.;
, Print out a map or directions to the barn where your lesson will take place. If it's a large barn or complex, ask ahead of time about where you should park and where you can find your instructor once you arrive. Confirm the address and directions with your instructor over phone or email before the day of your first lesson.
 This is the most important part of your riding outfit. Shorts will expose your bare legs to chafing, pinching, or scratching on the straps and buckles of the saddle, and dresses or skirts won't allow you adequate protection and freedom of movement. If you have jodhpurs or specialized riding pants, wear those. If you don't, there's no need to get them for your first lesson. Jeans or any other protective pants will do, as long as they're not so tight that you can't move your legs. Avoid play suits or jumpsuits.
 Since it's your first lesson, you'll want to present yourself well, so wear a clean and tasteful shirt rather than one covered with holes or stains. However, riding is a form of exercise and horses are inherently dirty, so don't wear your favorite shirt if you don't want to see it stained and dirty by the end of your lesson.
 Riding boots, either English or Western in style, are by far the best shoes to wear around horses. However, if you're not sure you're going to stick with riding, you may want to wait before making this purchase. Any close-toed shoes with a slight heel will work for your first lesson. If you don't have shoes with an appropriate heel, tennis shoes or hiking boots will suffice, and discuss getting better shoes with your instructor.
 A helmet is an absolutely crucial part of your riding costume; it will protect you in the case of a fall, and it could even save your life. Never ride without a helmet. If you have your own riding helmet, bring it to your lesson. If you don't have your own, don't worry; most barns have plenty of helmets to offer you for your first lessons. Confirm with your instructor before the lesson that they can provide a helmet, and arrive in time to find one that fits before getting on your horse.


Don't wear a helmet designed for a different activity, such as a bike helmet, as these protect different parts of your head and are optimized for different things. Wear a helmet designed for horseback riding, and choose one for your specific discipline - dressage, cross country, and polo all have different safety standards - if possible.
 You'll want your hair out of your face so that it doesn't get in the way. Tie it back in a low ponytail, or French braid it for a more secure, effective hairdo. This will keep it out of your face while still allowing your helmet to sit comfortably on your head. Cover your hair with a hairnet.
 Fitted gloves will protect your hands and fingers from chafing and blisters, and half chaps will keep your lower legs safe from getting caught in the stirrup leathers as you ride. However, these and similar riding accessories are not necessary, and as they can be quite expensive, it's usually a good idea to buy them only once you're sure you're going to continue riding.
 For your first lesson, your instructor will likely do this for you or be ready to walk you through the steps of brushing and tacking up your horse. Clarify this with your instructor before the day of your lesson so that you'll know exactly what you will be held responsible for. If you need to prepare your horse, curry comb and brush it, pick its hooves, and saddle and bridle it. Ask your instructor to check your work before you get on to make sure that everything is safe and comfortable for both you and your horse.

