 Keep in mind the age of the children when planning the time. You should also keep in mind the parents when planning the party, especially if the party is for very young children. Consider things like work for the parents and school for the children. Late morning or early afternoon on a Saturday could be a good time. If possible, ask the parents of the children you’re inviting what would be a good time for them.If the party is for very young children, consider common nap times.
Parties at night would probably not be the ideal time for children.
 A tea party for children is the most fun if a theme is involved. If the party is for mostly girls, you could choose a princess theme. An Alice in Wonderland theme is another cute and classic option. You could also choose a theme based on a country, which would be educational and fun. A British theme or Chinese are a couple of options. Research the decorations, costumes, food, and music based on the theme of your choosing.
 Send out invitations based on the theme. You can have invitations printed, or you can send them out via email. You should send the invitations out at least two weeks before the date of the party, though a month before is ideal. If you don’t want to send out custom-made invitations, you can simply email or call the parents of the children.You can find websites that have downloadable invitation templates. Some are free, but others cost money.
 Don’t worry about buying very costly supplies if you will be hosting a room full of children. Small, plastic tea cups and plates will work fine. Again, consider the theme when choosing the tea pot, cups, and plates. You can buy colored or design plates based on the theme. You will also need to buy plastic utensils, a tablecloth, serving trays, and napkins.You can buy tea sets made for children. Many of them, however, are expensive and easily breakable.
You can purchase supplies at party stores, like Party City. You can also purchase supplies online. Just make sure you purchase the items in enough time for them to be delivered by the date of the party.
 Children may not drink hot tea, so consider some other kid-friendly options. Sweet tea, apple juice, and other fruit juices are some alternative options. You can still serve the drinks in the tea pot, even if you aren’t serving hot tea.


Consider if parents will be staying when planning the food and tea. If some parents will be staying, buy hot tea, cold tea, and wine.
 Buy food the day before or a few days before the party, depending on the type of food you will be buying. Children may not eat the same things you would serve at an adult tea party, so choose some basic foods. For food, simple cheese, or turkey and cheese sandwiches, muffins, and assorted tea triangle sandwiches with simple ingredients work well. For dessert, sugar cookies, brownies, cupcakes, and fresh fruits with sugar lightly sprinkled on top are some options you can serve.If possible, ask the parents about potential allergies when planning the menu.
 Decorate the room based on theme. Put a tablecloth on the table. Set up the table with small favors, like small toys that the children can bring home. Put out balloons and hang up streamers. Make the room as colorful and cute as possible.For an Alice in Wonderland theme, you could set out the book and place figurines from the story out on the table.
For a Chinese theme, put out chopsticks for the food and hang up Chinese lanterns.
 You can ask the children to come in costume, or you can have some costumes set out for the children to dress up in at the party. Even if you do ask the children to come in costume, it is considerate to set out a few costumes for children that may have not gotten the memo. Make sure the parents are aware of the theme if you are asking them to bring their children in costume.
 You can choose to have everything set up before the party begins, or serve it after the children arrive. It is good to at least have some food set out on the table when the guests begin to arrive so that they can snack or drink while waiting for others to show up. Begin setting out the food and preparing the drinks about ten minutes before the children are set to arrive.Make sure to have plenty of napkins available in case of spillage.

