 You can purchase a replacement belt from your local auto parts store. Make sure to provide them with the exact year, make and model of the vehicle as well as engine size so you receive the correct replacement belt.It is recommended that you use an EPDM style belt to replace your old one.
Compare your new belt to the old one to ensure the new belt is the proper length and width.
 If your vehicle came equipped with an auto tensioner pulley, it can usually be loosened by inserting the end of a ½ inch drive ratchet into the hole at the center of the pulley. In some vehicles, it may be a bolt head you will need to locate the proper size wrench to turn. Twist the pulley clockwise to bend the tensioner arm down and remove the tension from the belt.If the belt tension is held in place using the alternator bracket, loosen the bolts that pass through the eyelets on the bracket to relieve the belt tension.
 Make note of how the belt is run through the engine. If it is strictly for use on the fan, it will have very few twists and turns, but if it is a more modern serpentine belt design, it may need to pass through and around a number of pulleys. Your vehicle’s service or owner’s manuals should provide a diagram on how the belt is to be run, but you still may want to get a good look at it before removing it.If you do not have a diagram of how the belt should be run, take a picture of the old belt with your phone before removing it.
 Run the new belt through the pulleys in the same way the previous one was. Be sure the belt fits onto each pulley evenly and in a completely straight line to avoid damaging the belt and making lots of noise.Refer to the owner’s or service manual for your specific vehicle to be sure you’ve run the fan or serpentine belt correctly.
Running the belt at an angle will result in loud squealing. Be sure it is mounted flat and evenly.
 With the new belt in place, relieve the tension you have applied to the auto tensioner to secure it. In vehicles equipped with a bracket to apply tension, insert a pry bar between the bracket and the block and pry it away from the engine. Tighten the eyelet bolts with tension applied.Visually inspect the new belt to ensure it is straight.
Start the vehicle to check for squealing.

