 You can do this by using keywords and Google operators. For example, if you need to find a forum in a 'dating niche', then search in Google as 'Dating inurl:forum'. What will happen is; this query will search for dating related sites that has 'forum' in the URL and it will take you directly to the forum page of the particular URL you select from the Google.;
, Note that you may also find other sites in between that would point you to other real forum meetings. Skip it.
 Hence, browse throughout the site. Some of the places where you can find it is 1. Inside the main forum threads as sticky posts, you'll 1st PM that you will get from Forum Admins, at the bottom of the footer, etc.,

, It will be usually at top right or at below the header or somewhere else. Remember, forums have been one of the top backlink building source for SEO masters and Forum boards intentionally keeps the 'Register' button at different places to avoid spam registrations.
 You'll get the mail to the mail address that you have entered while registration. Please remember that at times, the mail will be delayed due to some scenarios like server congestion, manual verification, etc.,

, Even after verifying the mail, you may be put on waiting queue till Admin manually changes your membership status to 'live'. It may take from 5 minutes to indefinite time depending on the admin's availability.
 You know what? Almost all the Forum boards share the same IP Banned list, that is, if your ip address has been banned on one forum board, you'll be automatically banned on other forum boards too. Hence, read the rules well before making your first post.
 After reading the rules, you'll know when and how to make your first post. To control the spamming activity, forum boards has the toughest rules on the internet and even it has two type of moderation- auto moderation and human moderation. Hence, start posting carefully only after analysing all the rules related to the forum, related to the link, related to the thread category you are selecting to post, etc.,

, There are two type of links in forums; i.e., Signature links and Post links. When you enter your links in the Signature field which you'll usually see in the 'user control panel' menu at the top, it is called as signature links. When you post links manually within the posts you write in threads, these are called as 'Post links'. Both has advantages and disadvantages. Signature links is constant and so will be same in all the posts it appear and your job is easier to post links. But you may never be able to be found in a forum board if you have an access to signatures. Hence, first check 'user cpanel' and find the 'signature' tab. If you don't find it, search threads using the search bar available on forum board with the keyword 'signature'. Now read all the postings to know where and how to use signature if it's available. Also understand that some signatures allow either html tags or bb codes or nothing. These vary at every forum boards mostly. The other link type is the post links- any link that you add within a post is post link. Most of the forum has formatting options and so you can select the keyword you want to post link on and select the 'URL' option at top and enter the url you want to link to, you can also have a naked urls within the post, but these are all again depends on the forum sites you are posting at.

