 Foreclosure listings can be found in a variety of different places. Start by looking in the back of your local newspaper for foreclosure auctions. You can then visit the auctioneer's website for more information. Alternately, some real estate websites like Zillow.com and RealtyTrac.com will allow you to easily filter a real estate search for foreclosed properties.


You can also contact a real estate agent who specializes in foreclosures.;
, Bank will sometimes have foreclosed properties that they own listed on their websites. To find them, search online for the name of the bank and "REO," which stands for real estate owned. You can then browse the properties that they own., Foreclosures can all seem like great deals, but that doesn't mean that they all are. Many times, foreclosures in poor locations will decrease even further in value after you buy them. Check for poor locations by assessing similar homes nearby and the area itself. If many nearby homes are also in foreclosure, this likely means that the property is not a good buy. Similarly, if the property is not near any amenities or in a good school district, you might want to stay away. Look for properties that are in good condition and located in better neighborhoods., In many cases, it's easier to purchase foreclosures in cash. Sellers are more motivated to sell to a cash buyer and it can make the closing process move along much faster.However, many buyers of foreclosed homes do so with a mortgage. Mortgages can be obtained for foreclosed homes the same way you get them for regular home purchases.


Be sure to add in the costs of repairs, renovations, and closing costs when determining how much to set aside or borrow., Look at recent sales in neighborhood for comparable homes. Calculate range of average square foot price received and multiply by target home square price. For example, a price $150 to $185 per square foot for home with 1500 square feet would be a range of $225,000 to $277,500. The median sales price would be $251,250.
 Estimate costs may include repairs, sales commission, closing costs, and interest. Additional repair costs run 10 to 20 percent of the purchase price. Expect a 6 percent Sales commission and 2 to 5 percent for closing costs. For example, a purchaser of foreclosed home purchased for $150,000 would likely have between 18 and 31 percent of the sales price in costs, or $27,000 to $46,500. This is also the sum a buyer will usually pay out of pocket.


If you see obvious flaws from a distance, such as poor landscaping, a damaged driveway, and/or a roof in need of repair, then you can expect that more repair will be required in areas that you can't see. Add these costs to your estimate.
Estimate the cost of repairing specific damage and add the additional costs to the 10 to 20 percent cushion you previously established. For example, if roof repairs will cost $5,000, then add $5,000 to your earlier estimate.
 You can use either a set dollar figure or a percentage. To calculate a percentage, multiply your average cost. by your desired percentage return. A targeted pre-tax profit estimate of 30 percent on your average out-of-pocket costs ($36,750) would be $11,025.
 Add the estimated costs to the targeted profit to calculate a range from $38,025 to $57,525.
 Subtract your expected costs and targeted profit from the probable average sales price. For example, if the probable sales price will be $251,250 and the range of costs is $38,025 to $57,525, your initial offer should be between $193,725 and $213,225.
 The homeowner may have months after the Notice Of Default (NOD)or Lis Pendens (LIS)is issued to pay back their default or sell the home in a short sale. The trustee or attorney will be able to tell you if the property is still facing foreclosure. There’s no use wasting time trying to make an offer on a home that is no longer available.


The name of the attorney and contact information should be on the NOD or LIS., If the homeowner has not already listed the home as a short sale, you may want to send a postcard expressing your interest in the property. Remember to be sensitive to the homeowner’s situation; try to avoid mentioning foreclosure in the postcard. You may also want to hire a real estate agent if you’d prefer to contact the owner more directly.


A short sale is when the homeowner sells the property for less than the amount that's owed on the mortgage.However, the sale must be approved by the bank that holds the note and that process can take months.
A good example of a non-hostile postcard that gets the point across is something like this: "I'm interested in buying your property. I'd love to have a closer look at it and make you a competitive offer. Feel free to reach out to me at your convenience. (XXX) XXX-XXXX."
If the homeowner allows you on the property, you can get a better idea of the repairs needed. That will also give you an idea of what you should offer for the house.
 If the homeowner is interested in selling the home to you as a short sale, it’s time to negotiate payment. Make an offer at the low end of your range with a closing contingency of onsite inspection.


Be sure to obtain a title search and hire a contractor and/or appraiser to look over the home if you can
There have likely been some difficulties and hardships that led to the homeowner defaulting on the loan. The homeowner may be more receptive if you can let him or her continue living in the home as a renter for the first couple of months after the sale. You can also offer to pay housing costs for the first couple of months after the owner finds a new home
Remember, you don't want to seem desperate when you're negotiating with anyone about anything. Otherwise, the other party will sense weakness on your part and use it as leverage. Stay cool and seem disinterested. Talk about your offer in such a way that you come across as someone who's volunteering to help the homeowner. If negotiating is difficult, hire a third-party (an attorney or real estate agent) to negotiate for you.
Be prepared to make a good faith deposit with an escrow agent to confirm serious nature of the offer. If possible, make delivery of deposit to homeowner contingent upon closing. You want to be sure that the house is taken off the market until you either purchase or it go.
 You may want to attend some foreclosure auctions as a spectator to get an idea of what they can be like. Be sure to especially take note of similar foreclosures and what people are bidding for them. This can help you form an idea of how much you should offer.You can go online to search for foreclosures that will be on the auction block., The homeowner may have up to five business days before the foreclosure sale to pay off the default. Foreclosure auctions can also be postponed or terminated in short notice. You’ll need to speak to the attorney or trustee to find out if the listing is still current. Ask as much as you can about the property during this time.


Ask about the extent of maintenance needed on the property.
Ask how long it's been vacated. Properties that have been unoccupied for a while might require more maintenance.
If the property has been on the market for a while, ask why there doesn't seem to be any demand for it.
 Ideally you’ll want to run a title search to find any liens or debts on the property and hire professionals to give you their estimate. However, because foreclosure auctions can be very fast-paced, you may not have time to do all of that before the sale. Find out as much as you can about the property and keep it in mind when making your bid.
 It’s easy to get caught up in fast-paced auctions and make bids for more than you want on home foreclosures. Use your comparative figures from similar foreclosure properties, other foreclosure auctions, and repair and debt estimates. If someone outbids your maximum offer, don’t bid higher in frustration. You’ll learn the hard way that it’s not worth it.
 A real-estate owned (REO) or bank-owned property is real estate that's owned by the bank that held the mortgage.If you don’t have access to the REO listing, you can find out the name and address of the bank in ownership of the property through the local property assessor. You may have to make a direct request to a bank to be able to see its REO listings.


For example, Wells Fargo lets you search for REO properties that are owned by the company., While this is not absolutely necessary, banks and lenders are less willing to cooperate with inexperienced buyers. Even if this is not the first time you’ve purchased a foreclosed home, having a real estate agent represent you can increase your chances.
 As with the pre-foreclosure and public auction stages in the foreclosure process, you’ll want to know the title condition and have the property professionally appraised. You’ll want to take the cost of any repairs into consideration when making your offer and subtract them from the total., The difference is the homeowner isn’t involved. It’s easy to think that getting a good deal is impossible without a stressed and desperate homeowner hoping to be cut a break.
 Banks aren't going to be interested in traditional incentives like lower closing costs and quick closings. You're going to be negotiating almost exclusively on price when you're buying REO properties.
 Your offer might not be accepted at first. However, banks will often voluntarily lower the price over time as the property remains unsold. Keep in touch with your contact at the bank and be sure to check in every month about the status of the property. You might be able to buy it a few months down the road for the price you want.
 You're not the only one looking for REO properties. Other bidders will likely be looking at that same piece of real estate. So, your bid should be low, but competitive. Otherwise, you'll get passed up for somebody who offered more money.

