 If you can't stand the idea of cutting up a comic book, consider using comic-printed scrapbook paper or comic-themed wrapping paper.
 The best heels to use for this project are ones that are made out of fabric or suede becuase the Mod Podge will stick to them better. If your heels are made out of patent leather, or a similar shiny material, light buff them with fine-grit sand paper or an emery board instead; this will give the Mod Podge something to stick to.If there are any embellishments on your shoes, be sure to cut them off; you can always glue them back on later.
 Go through your book, and look for various characters, scenes, sound effects, and speech bubbles that you want to put on your shoes.


Many comic book shoes also have "statement" images. These are images that are a little larger than the rest, and are meant to stand out.
 You can cut them down further into various shapes as well, such as squares, rectangles, and triangles. Make sure that you have some small and large shapes. This will make fitting them into the contours of your shoes a lot easier and reduce wrinkles. Make sure that the pieces you cut are no bigger than 1 inch (2.54 centimeters).If you are cutting out statement images, make sure that you follow their outlines. For example, if you want to cut out an image of Wonder Woman's head, make sure that you follow the outline of her hair, face, and neck. A craft blade or tiny pair of scissors would be best for this.Consider separating your shapes into groups based on size or color. This will make it easier to find the pieces you need for your design.
 Only put down enough glue to apply 2 to 3 comic book scraps. Depending on the material you are working with, the may dry within minutes. Working in small patches at a time will prevent the glue from drying out too quickly.


You can use any type of decoupage glue you want, but make sure that it is waterproof.
 This will make the paper extra-damp and pliable. It will be easier to smooth the paper over the curves of your shoe., Make sure that you are placing your comic book scrap glue-side-down. You can also smooth it out with your fingers first before adding the glue on top. This will smooth down any wrinkles and loose edges.
 Use larger pieces of paper on the flat areas, and smaller pieces on the curved areas. When you get to the top edge, fold the paper over to the inside of the shoe. If the paper won't stay down, secure it with metal clips.


You do not need to cover the entire shoe. For example, you can leave the heels and soles bare for a different look.
If you are adding any "statement" images, don't glue them down yet; you'll be adding those at the very one, after everything has dried.
 Take a close look at your shoe. If there are any imperfections, peel the paper off, and apply a new scrap. At this point, you can also run a craft blade along the seam where the shoe meets the sole, and peeling away any excess paper.


If there is any glue left on the sole, use a damp towel to wipe it away.
 Use the same technique as before: brush some decoupage glue onto your shoe and onto the back of the image, place the image on your shoe, and smooth it down with more glue. Once you have all of your statement images applies, give them a final coating of glue, making sure to go well past the edges to seal them. , Let each coat of glue dry before you add the next one.You can use any type of finish you want: matte, satin, or glossy. Whichever finish you choose, make sure that it is waterproof.


You can also use an acrylic sealer instead, as long as it is waterproof.
 If you cut off any embellishments earlier that you want to keep, glue them back onto your shoes using hot glue or an industrial-strength glue.

