 White athletic shoes (otherwise referred to as tennis shoes or sneakers) are stereotypically American. Any shoes that don't look like they were meant for exercise will suffice. If you do wear socks, make sure they're dark or match the color of your pants. Flip-flops are also very noticeable as American attire, unless you're in a country like Brazil where Havaianas reign, or Australia or New Zealand where the Brazilian flip-flops are also ubiquitous. In most countries, open-toed sandals (Chacos, Tevas and Keens) are borderline at best, and may be totally unacceptable. Shoes are always the safest bet in urban areas. However, these are quite acceptable for hiking and active outdoor pursuits, just as they are here. Also, Crocs, the popular foam clogs, may be ubiquitous in the US, but in most of the world are regarded as ridiculous in the extreme and are worn mostly by gardeners and the very young, if at all. Sneakers like K-Swiss, Vans or Adidas in a dark color with no or very subtle logos are much less conspicuous and are a good compromise if you are planning to do a lot of walking.;
, In particular, avoid clothing with the city's name, the country or state's flag, or similar printing.
 Sometimes not wearing something could signal that you are a tourist. For example, in some countries, hats or scarves are worn by the majority, or most people wear neck scarves during the winter. Also, head scarves or coverings are required in some religious establishments. It would be wise to research this in advance and be prepared to take something with you if you plan to visit religious places. Wearing a headscarf incorrectly will signal that you are a tourist, and local people may be offended and feel that you are appropriating their customs. If you do not normally wear a headscarf, it may be better to only wear one when it is required.
 In fact, don't wear any slogans (like "Virginia is for lovers") as that will tie you to a specific place. Notoriously American brands are becoming more popular outside of the US due to globalization. However, it's still a good idea to stick to non-slogan clothing.
 Casual dress is not as common outside the USA. You will fit in better in most places if you wear long pants or skirts and buttoned shirts or blouses rather than sneakers, sweatshirts, t-shirts, jeans, or shorts -- especially athletic shorts. Blue jeans are not acceptable in all situations. Instead, pack versatile "casual Friday" business attire. Shorts are best avoided by all adults, especially women, except for hiking and similar activities. In many countries, adults wearing shorts are seen as silly, uncouth, half-naked, or worse. Use your eyes to adapt yourself to the finer points of personal appearance and grooming. Look around and see whether people tuck their shirts in or leave them hanging out. Sometimes this differs for men and women in the same country. In hot weather where you're tempted to wear shorts, consider a lightweight long sleeve shirt and linen pants instead. They may be more appropriate and will help limit sun exposure.
 Shorts and a t-shirt in cool climates (or wintertime) are a clear sign that you are not in touch with the local weather. Many Americans also tend to wear technical outdoor gear, such as down jackets and ski jackets, as casual winter outerwear. This is not common in most countries, even very cold ones. More formal coats of wool, fur, or leather are de rigueur. If you have one or are willing to buy one, bring it.
 What colors do the locals wear? Mostly black and other neutral shades, like in London, or bright, bold colors like in the Caribbean? Wear colors that you see the locals wearing. Folks in Paris, London, and other European capitals tend to wear lots of black, and as a tourist, you tend to blend in if you’re wearing it, too. Your hot pink sweater vest or bright blue collared shirt might be fashionable in Minneapolis, but it won't fly in Budapest. In tropical climes, keep in mind that local modes of dress may still be less casual than you expect - so a t-shirt and loud board shorts may still look silly. Check travel forums and photos online to get a feel for what the locals wear. In SE Asia any shirt with a collar is preferable to a T shirt.
 Baseball caps and fanny packs scream "American!" Besides,"fanny" means something entirely different in some places, not to mention how unsafe these packs are. It's best to not carry bags of any kind, with your personal effects concealed about your person in pockets and on lanyards. A purse or tote bag, bought locally, may also work. If you are worried about getting sun in your eyes then wear sunglasses instead of a baseball cap.
 In some countries like Brazil, avoid wearing shorts with black socks - most people wear white socks and clothes that go with them. And most important, they don't pull the socks up to their knees like football players. In many countries, socks are never worn with shorts at all. If you plan to walk a lot where it's warm (like Spain) and want to wear shorts and socks, choose short socks that aren't visible above the tops of your shoes.
 While they may dry quickly and offer appealing functionality, avoid these unless you're trekking, rafting, or otherwise truly out in the wilderness. If you're simply sightseeing in a developed area with plenty of residents, it's almost guaranteed that the residents will find you comical at best and be offended at worst. Nothing will set you apart faster. Thankfully, it is possible to obtain clothing that offers the technical advantages of quick-dry nylon in styles that are unobtrusive.
 In many countries it is common for men to wear Speedos on the beach or at the pool. In some European countries, like France, men are even required by law to wear a Speedo in public pools. Wearing a swim short is forbidden. Also, wearing a swimming cap is required for both men and women in some countries.

