 Most of the time, you'll get the best possible exchange rate when you use your credit or debit card, either to make purchases or to withdraw cash from an ATM. By doing so, you get the same exchange rates that the banks offer to each other, with no middleman adding extra fees for the exchange. Some banks and credit card companies, however, will charge you a fee of as much as 3 percent on foreign transactions, so you need to do some research before you leave home. Call your bank and ask them what they charge. If they charge a fee, call around and ask other banks what they're charging. You may be able to find a better deal, but you'll need to plan well ahead.;
, Before you set off for your trip, find out what the current exchange rate is. You can easily find this in many newspapers or online. Knowing the exchange rate is your most powerful defense against getting a bad deal, so find it out before you go, and periodically check on it while you're traveling. When you are abroad, don't just trust the signs at street kiosks. Verify the exchange rate online if at all possible.
 As mentioned, you're likely to get the best rate this way. Use your card for purchases as much as possible to avoid ATM fees. When you do use an ATM, be sure to check how much it will charge you--some foreign ATMs charge $5 or more. If the fee is more than a couple dollars, try to find another ATM.
 You don't want to carry a ton of cash with you (see step 5), but you also should try to have enough cash so that you don't get stuck having to make a currency exchange at high rates. You're more likely to get a good rate in large cities than in small towns--in some countries, you won't even be able to exchange money outside the city.
 This will help you to minimize the risk of robbery or pickpockets and avoid getting stuck with excess cash when you leave.
 They are convenient, and sometimes (especially in an emergency after banking hours) indispensable, but they frequently charge very high prices in return for the convenience. If you need to get cash, and you can't find an ATM, your best bet is to go to a large bank, post office or American Express office.
 While you won't be able to negotiate the rate at a bank, if you do get stuck changing money at a small vendor you may be able to haggle to get a better rate. It's critical to know the exchange rate before you do this, and sometimes it won't work, but it's worth a try, especially if there are many vendors in a small area.
 It's especially important to shop around if you're using the exchange kiosks, but the rate you get can vary even from bank to bank. Try at least two or three different places before you settle on one.
 Sometimes the low rate posted will be the "sell" rate--you'll be charged the "buy" rate--or will only be applicable on very large or very small transactions. There may also be flat fees added to each transaction or extra commissions based on the amount of the exchange. You've got to watch out for these tricks and find out in advance the net amount you will receive from an exchange.

