 Clip in one foot at a time by tilting your toes forward on top of the pedal and pushing your foot downward into the middle of the pedal. You should hear an audible click as the shoe clips into the pedal. To unclip, turn your ankle away from the bike.In regular athletic shoes, rest the ball of your foot right on the middle of the pedal. While your toes should be in the pedal’s cage or strap, don’t push your foot forward all the way in.
 The most helpful lesson to learn about cycling is that the upstroke provides most of the power you put into the pedals. To state this otherwise, pulling the pedals upwards will make it even easier to speed up and maintain higher speeds. This is why cycling shoes clip in, and pedals have straps or cages.Keep your feet flat throughout your strokes. If anything, try to keep your toes slightly above your heels. Avoid pointing your toes downward while pedaling.
 You’re going to hear a lot about RPMs. This acronym stands for revolutions per minute. This essentially measures the equivalent of your speed, or “cadence.” The bike’s resistance setting, usually controlled by a knob, will adjust how hard you have to work the pedals to increase your RPM.The class instructor will likely direct you on when and how much to adjust your bike’s resistance. Try to stay as close as possible to what the instructor recommends. Don’t hesitate to turn your resistance down if you can’t keep up though.
When the instructor directs the class to add resistance, do so, even if you only add a bit. Adding resistance periodically actually helps prevent injury. The quality of your strokes, and your workout in general, will improve once you settle into a steady pedaling rhythm. Pedaling against resistance helps!

, Don’t just try to crank the pedals as hard and as fast as you can. You want to work your way into a smooth, steady cadence while periodically increasing resistance. Even if you’re pedaling slowly, if you’re pushing against a good amount of resistance, you’re generating plenty of power – and likely working hard to do so. Essentially, increase resistance instead of RPMs.Think about going as fast as you can on a bike outside. It requires a lot of force to get a bike going quickly and keeping it moving at a high speed. As a point of reference, you are unlikely to go above 100 RPM for a sustained amount of time outdoors, because the resistance you feel when going full speed makes it hard to maintain RPM.
Don’t ever allow your RPM to go above 120. At this point, the pedals are likely carrying your feet, and you don’t have control of the bike.
Shoot for 60 to 80 RPM during a “climb” (when resistance is high to mimic a hill climb on an outdoor bike), and 90 to 110 RPM otherwise.
 You may be directed to stand, or simply want to stand periodically to vary the muscles you’re using. When you do stand on your pedals, don’t lean forward. Keep the nose of your saddle near the back of your inner thighs, keeping your back straight and your chest open.Focus on stability over speed. If you’re bouncing up and down, you’re losing power and risking injury. Hold your body steady, pushing down and pulling up with equal force.
 You’ll likely be surprised by how much water you’ll drink during a cycling class. Come prepared with at least one full water bottle, but two is better. As a rule of thumb, bring an ounce of water for each minute of your class. After a 40 minute class, finish what’s left of the 40 ounces you brought with you.