 Tube amps are much more expensive than their solid-state counterparts, and therefore you may need to scale back your power requirement or increase your budget. A small 15-watt combo tube amp will easily sell for five times more than a comparable transistor design. To maintain a flexible budget, look for an amp with the least amount of power necessary for your application.
 The kind of tube amp you should purchase will depend on your use.

For a home practice amp, a small combo amp (one in which the loudspeaker, preamp, power amp, and controls are all housed in the same enclosure) is ideal. An amp with a single 10" or 12" (25 or 30 cm) speaker with wattage between 15 and 30 is a good choice.



 


For recording, a combo amp is also ideal, but you may need an amp with more power. Many professional recording artists record using a "2x12" amp - an amp with 2 12-inch (30 cm) speakers.






For live performance, separate speaker cabinets and heads will be ideal for achieving high volume able to fill a large venue. These setups are too large and loud for home use, unless you have a detached garage or isolated sound room.
 While demoing an amp is the only way to get a sure feel for its sound, browsing online has many advantages. It lets you read user reviews for particular amps, and it allows you to read about the amp's features and construction - things that may not be readily apparent when inspecting the amp in person.
 Actually playing through an amplifier is the best way to determine if it is right for you. Make sure to demo several different amps to establish a standard of comparison. If possible, demo the amps using your own guitar.
 Most amplifiers are built from plywood, and the thickness of the wood will play a role in determining the amp's sound and durability. Look for an amp made from at least 1/2 inch (12 mm) thick plywood, and stay away from any amps made from a lighter engineered wood, such as particle board.
 If the above steps aren't enough to help you make your decision, consider the brand name of your amp. Some manufacturers with reputations for building quality tube guitar amps are Vox, Fender, and Marshall.

