 Once you have purchased a piece of vintage jewelry, especially if it is made with real gold, silver, and/or gemstones, you will want to care for and properly look after the item. Some vintage jewelry will get scratched and break if you wear it carelessly. For example, you should avoid wearing vintage pieces while gardening, cleaning, and exercising. Cleaning uses harsh chemicals that could damage the jewelry, and the vigorous nature of exercise may result in breaking the jewelry.Only wear vintage pieces when you are not performing any strenuous tasks or working with dirt and chemicals.
 You should also store your vintage pieces in a safe, dry, cool, and soft environment. A fabric lined jewelry box will help to prevent the piece from getting scratched. You can also use added protection by placing the jewelry in a soft pouch before putting it into your jewelry box. If you have an extremely valuable piece (either in terms of cost or sentimental value), you may want to keep it in a locked safe for additional protection from theft.While traveling with vintage jewelry, wrap it separately so that it does not rub up against other items. Also, keep it in your carry on so that you do not lose any valuable items.
 Do not use modern jewelry cleaners on vintage items. They can be too powerful leading to corrosion that may actually damage the piece. Instead, stick to polishing with a gentle cloth. You can also research online how to clean specific materials such as gold and silver.If you are unsure of how to remove tarnish from your jewelry, ask a local jeweler for cleaning advice and suggestions.
 Another way to care for valuable vintage jewelry is to have them looked over by a jeweler once every 6 months or so. The jeweler will examine the piece and can spot any potential issues before they occur. For example, if your ring has a gem that it starting to come loose, the jeweler may be able to catch this in advance before you actually losing the vintage gem. This type of preventative care is recommended.If you do lose a gemstone, make sure that you replace it with another stone from the same era. This will help to maintain the value of your vintage jewelry.

