 Before starting, make sure all of the lights and heating components are turned off, and that the machine is completely unplugged. Allow the kettle to cool for at least an hour before beginning cleaning.All popcorn and kernels should be removed from the kettle before beginning the cleaning process.
The kettle should be cool to the touch. Hover your hand near the kettle without making contact with the metal. If you can feel heat radiating off the kettle, it is too warm to start cleaning.
 Unplug the kettle and remove it from the larger unit so that it can be easily wiped down. Use a damp sponge or towel to wipe down the kettle on the inside and the outside.Do not submerge the kettle, as this could cause damage.
Once the kettle has been wiped down, reinstall it back in the machine.
 Once a week to once a month depending upon use, boil out the kettle using a specially-formulated kettle cleaner, available from most kitchen supply stores. Mix the cleaner concentrate with the necessary amount of water as specified by the packaging, and bring it to a boil in the plugged-in kettle.Once the cleaning solution is at a boil, unplug the whole unit and allow the solution to sit for the amount of time specified on the packaging of the cleaning solution concentrate.
 Drain the liquid out of the kettle over the sink. Once the kettle has been drained, rinse it out fully using a wet cloth or sponge. It may take several passes with the sponge to fully rinse the kettle.


Once the kettle has been rinsed, place it back in the unit.
 Look for a food-safe, non-ammonia based cleaner to wipe down the glass and the interior metallic surfaces. Use a towel to wipe away the cleaner, and allow the surface to fully dry before turning the machine back on.Read the instructions on the cleaner carefully before use. It should be safe for both metal and glass surfaces. The label should also tell you whether you need to rinse the surface with water after use.
Food-safe cleaners are typically available from kitchen supplies retailers, as well as online.
 Wipe down the outer surfaces with a damp towel. If there are spots such as fingerprints or oil slicks, use a food-safe glass cleaner to remove the marks and debris.Exterior metal surfaces can generally be cleaned with warm water and typically don’t require a specialized cleaner. Dish soap and warm water can help remove any spots on metallic surfaces.

