 Metal bowls can produce sound frequencies which may disrupt the rats.Use ceramic bowls instead. Ceramic bowls are also heavier, and therefore harder for the rats to tip over when feeding. Finally, choose a small bowl; the larger the bowl, the less cage space the rat has., Maintaining a healthy but diverse diet will keep rats curious about and interested in their food.


Hard-boiled eggs or food encased in a cardboard wrapper that needs to be opened somehow will stimulate rats and provide them with a learning opportunity.
 When they have a small quantity, though, they will learn whether or not they should leave it next time they encounter it.


If you have several pet rats, make sure that when introducing a new food, you give all of them a taste. If only one rat gets a treat and the others don’t, they will smell the new food on the lucky rat later and become aggressive., Always make sure food and water are available to all rats. This requires providing enough food for each rat as well as ensuring water bottles are within reach of the baby rats, who are more vulnerable than adults to hunger and dehydration.


Rats can be aggressive. If you have several rats to a cage, be sure to provide a sufficient amount of food for each. Alpha rats (the leaders of the pack) or aggressive rats may hoard food for themselves. Always provide at least two food and water sources when housing multiple rats together.
Rats should eat between 10% and 20% of their body weight each day., Whether it’s handling food, consuming cecal pellets, or digging for food, rats should be given space to follow their biological instincts.


Rats eat their own feces – called caecal pellets – in order to gain important nutritional content. Preventing or disrupting this behavior could result in nutritional deficiencies in your pet rat.Let your rats handle small nuts and seeds. Do not feed them these foods frequently, however, because they are high in fat.
Rats like to forage and search for food. If you place a small snack in a sealed cardboard tube or in an unusual place, rats will seek it out.

