 Besides being rich in protein and vitamin D (both are key to strong hair), salmon contains omega-3 fatty acids, which are essential for healthy hair. About 3% of the hair shaft is made up of omega-3 fatty acids, which are also found in cell membranes in the skin of the scalp, and in the natural oils that keep the scalp and hair hydrated.If salmon doesn't thrill you, you can also get essential fatty acids from fish like herring, sardines, trout, and mackerel, as well as avocado and pumpkin seeds.
 Walnuts are the only type of nut that have a significant amount of omega-3 fatty acids. They're also rich in biotin and vitamin E, which helps protect cells from DNA damage. Walnuts also have copper, a mineral that helps keep your natural hair color rich and lustrous.Try using walnut oil in your salad dressing or stir-fry instead of canola or safflower oil.
 Oysters are rich in zinc, a lack of which can lead to hair loss (even eyelashes), as well as a dry, flaky scalp. Just three ounces of oysters contain almost five times your daily zinc requirement. They also boast a high level of protein.Zinc can also be found in nuts, beef, eggs and fortified cereals and whole grain breads.
 Sweet potatoes are a great source of the antioxidant beta carotene, which your body turns into vitamin A. Vitamin A helps produce and protect the oils that nourish the scalp. A lack of vitamin A can lead to a dry, itchy scalp and problems with dandruff.Carrots, cantaloupe, mangoes, pumpkin, and apricots are all good sources of beta carotene.
 A great source of protein, eggs are loaded with four key minerals: zinc, selenium, sulfur, and iron. Iron is especially important, because it helps cells carry oxygen to the hair follicles, and too little iron can lead to anemia, which is a major cause of hair loss, particularly in women.You can also boost your iron stores by eating animal products, including chicken, fish, pork, and beef.
 Spinach is a super-food containing iron, beta carotene, folate, and vitamin C which combine to help keep hair follicles healthy and scalp oils circulating.If you're not a spinach fan, try eating similarly nutrient-rich dark, leafy vegetables such as broccoli, kale, and Swiss chard.
 Tiny but mighty, these legumes are teeming with protein, iron, zinc, and biotin, making them a great staple for vegetarians, vegans, and meat eaters alike., Greek yogurt is high in hair-friendly protein, vitamin B5 (pantothenic acid -- an ingredient you'll often see on hair care product labels), and vitamin D, which emerging research links with hair follicle health.Other similarly beneficial dairy products include cottage cheese, low-fat cheese, and skim milk.
 Blueberries are a super fruit with numerous health benefits, but it's their high vitamin C content which really helps keep hair in top shape. Vitamin C is critical for boosting circulation to the scalp, supporting the tiny blood vessels that feed the hair follicles. Too little vitamin C in your diet can lead to hair breakage., Nothing beats poultry for providing protein, along with hair-healthy zinc, iron, and B vitamins to keep strands strong and plentiful. Because hair is nearly all protein, foods rich in protein are literally the building blocks for great hair.Lean cuts of beef are another good source of protein.
 Although maintaining a healthy diet is an excellent way to get the vitamins necessary for healthy hair, taking a vitamin supplement can make it easier to ensure that you are getting all of your daily requirements. The top 5 vitamin supplements you should take for healthy hair are biotin, vitamin A, vitamin E, vitamin B5 and Inositol.Remember to check with your health care professional before adding any supplements to your diet.

