 Look through teen fashion magazines to get an idea of what teenagers are wearing these days. Avoid wearing t-shirts, shorts, and running shoes everywhere and start developing your own style. Tone down the bright colours in your wardrobe and avoid wearing things with logos, cartoon characters, or brand names on them. Try layering clothes for a more mature look.;
, Again, try to focus on mature makeup that teenagers and adults wear. Remember that you don't need to wear a lot of makeup, you just need to wear makeup that makes you look mature. Some good basics are dark mascara and a nice lipstick. Avoid childish makeup in bright colours, and refrain from eyeshadow or lip gloss with a lot of glitter and sparkles in it - it makes you look younger, as these are the kind of things that kids are drawn to. However, a lip gloss with a bit of shimmer and shine is okay, just avoid chunks of glitter.
 Knee-length boots elongate your legs. Try kitten heels; they're a mature balance between flats and high heels. Converse, Vans, and ballet flats are cute too, even if they don't make you look taller. Remember to express yourself and wear things that make you feel confident.
 Go to a hair stylist and ask them to cut your hair to make you look older. Side bangs will usually make you look older, and sometimes some subtle highlights or lowlights will do the trick as well. Look up simple hairstyles that you can use to make yourself look more mature. Avoid wearing childish hair accessories like bows and sparkly, bright hair clips. Use bobby pins or hair clips that match your hair colour for a more mature look.
 Buy some thin, pretty necklaces with silver, gold, or platinum charms on them. They don't have to be really expensive, as long as they look sophisticated. Wear a classy charm bracelet, like a Pandora bracelet. Keep it cute, yet mature. Again, look at teen magazines or some celebrities for inspiration.
 Shower every day. If you're starting to get hairier, consider shaving your legs, underarms, and trimming your bikini line. Also, ask your parents if you're allowed to get your eyebrows waxed, threaded, or plucked. Brush your teeth three times a day and use mouthwash. Cleanse, tone, and moisturize your face every morning and evening. Do anything you feel necessary to keep yourself clean and well-groomed.
 If your parents allow you to, go to a reputable piercer and get your ears pierced. There's nothing to make you look more like a teen than tiny diamond-drop earrings or large silver hoops. Remember to avoid childish plastic jewelry, and instead to opt for silver or gold-coloured jewelry with some crystals on them.
 Be confident, walk straight, and don't be afraid to defend yourself. Just be comfortable in your own skin. Don't forget to smile; let others around you know that this is you and you like it, whether they do or not.

