 No matter what your age is compared to hers, most girls don’t respond well to being asked out by someone they don’t know. Allowing her the chance to even know you exist will make asking her out much easier.


It’s as simple as walking up and saying hello. Most girls respond well to confidence.Although it’s completely natural to be nervous, try your best to be calm and confident. After all, you’re just saying hi.
If you have a mutual friend, ask that person to introduce you. This may lessen that awkward factor.;
, Hopefully, you are planning on asking this girl out because there’s something you like about her. Use this as a conversation topic. For example, talk about your mutual friend, the football game, or how you enjoyed watching her play soccer.


"I saw you at the football game on Saturday. Did you see that cat run across the field in the middle of the play?"
"Have you seen that new movie yet? I hear it's supposed to be hilarious." If she hasn't seen it, this would be a great opportunity to suggest you see it together.
"I saw a picture of you from homecoming on Facebook. Did you really get a limo?"
"Sara told me that you are in drama club. I was thinking about joining too. Do you like the advisor?"

, This may be difficult if your circle of friends doesn’t intersect with hers, which is likely if she is much older than you. Becoming friends with someone is an easy first step in getting to know someone and letting them get to know you.


Ask her to go to a group movie date or other group event. For example, "A bunch of us are going out to the lake on Saturday. You should join us if you're not busy."
Ask her if she’s planning on being at the football game. If so, casually mention that you’ll see her there.
 This is a simple way to get to know someone better, while giving you the time and space to respond. This is especially helpful if you get nervous easily and aren’t quite sure what to say. This is also a great opportunity to gauge her interest.


If her responses are short or if she only responds after you've sent her several messages, she may not be that interested. If she gives you full responses and furthers the conversation, this is a good sign.
For example, if you ask her what she thought about the new Superman movie, and she replies with something short and nondescript, like "good" or "I liked it," she may not be that interested. If however, she replies more in depth or asks your thoughts, she may be more interested in chatting with you.
 This may seem like a no-brainer, but ensuring she's actually available will save you from having to endure the embarrassing mistake of asking out a girl who's taken.


Ask around, but be causal about it. You don't want to spread the word that you're trying to figure out if she's dating anyone.
Check Facebook. It may be harder to determine if she's single if she's dating someone who's not in your school, but social media is a good place to start.
 After all, you’re asking out an older girl. No matter their age, girls are usually attracted to confident guys. Although awkwardness can be endearing sometimes, it might come off as immaturity when asking out an older girl.


Stand up tall.
Walk with purpose.
Don’t stare at the floor. Make eye contact with her.
Use this guide to help you appear more confident. , This may be difficult to do at school, as girls tend to hang out in groups. If she is with a group of her friends, she may feel pressure to say no to your date because she’s afraid of what her friends will think. Being able to text her may be helpful in this case.
 Girls are more apt to go on a date with you if you actually suggest an activity rather than just asking if they will go out with you. Asking a girl to “go out with you” sounds more like you’re proposing to be boyfriend/girlfriend. She may not be ready for this before going on a couple dates with you.


Suggest a fun activity for you to do together. This could be going to a movie, dinner, ice skating, concert, or athletic match together.
Know her interests. Suggesting an activity that you know she enjoys will make it more likely that she’ll want to go on that date with you. For example, if you ask her to go to a country concert with you, but she hates country music, she may say no for that reason and not because she doesn’t like you.
 Typically, girls mature faster than guys, which puts younger guys at a disadvantage in dating older girls.This can potentially result in an even greater difference in maturity levels. Be aware of any differences in maturity and act accordingly.


Try to emulate her behavior in situations that you are unfamiliar with. For example, when hanging out with her older friends, don't try to be the center of attention. Sit back and observe how her older group of friends interacts before jumping in.
Try not to draw too much attention to your age difference. She may have a later curfew than you or none at all, while you are still expected to be home early. Simply make plans for earlier in the evening rather than having to cut activities short because you have to be home early.
 Trying to act like someone you're not will only work for so long and she will eventually see through it. She may love the fact that you're younger and possibly have dated fewer people than she has.


Dating an older girl may mean dating someone with more experience than you. Don't feel pressured to do anything you aren't ready for. Be honest with her and communicate that you want to take things slow. If she really cares about you, she will understand.
 Just because a girl says no to a date with you doesn’t mean that she doesn’t want to be your friend. Maybe she just hasn’t realized that she likes you yet. Give her time to get to know you better if she says she just wants to be friends and maybe she will change her mind later. In the meantime, don’t continue to pressure her to date you as it may drive her further away.

