 Study how the character talks, acts, and moves. Note how he/she behaves towards other characters. Some people act differently towards different people.
 Keep in mind that the print version of the character can be different from the film version. This may include how the character looks and acts. The character's backstory may also change.


Some people find it easier to remember a character's quotes if they are written, rather than spoken.
 Some characters also appear in video games. These games can tell you more about the character. Some games even expand the character's backstory. Keep in mind, that not every character will appear in a video game—and if they do, it may not always be a large part.


Make sure that you play licensed gamed and not fan-created games. Fan-created games do not always portray the characters accurately. Instead, they often cater towards certain parts of the fandom.
 The backstory can explain why a character acts the way he/she does. For example, Severus Snape from Harry Potter, is often mean, especially to Harry Potter. His backstory, however, reveals that he was bullied by Harry's father.


The backstory can also give you ideas for interacting with other cosplayers.
 You will also want to note his/her facial expressions. These tiny details can help bring your cosplay to life and make it more believable.


Note speech patterns. Does the character have a casual way or talking, or a more old-fashioned, archaic way? For example, Thor from the "Avengers" often uses old, archaic terms such as "thou."
Note repeated words or phrases. For example, Reno from "Final Fantasy VII" often ends his sentences with "yo."
Note the way a character talks. Does your character talk fast in a pitchy voice? Or does he have a slower, halting way of talking? Severus Snape is known for having very long... pauses... when he speaks.
 Study the way the character walks and stands. This can help make your cosplay more believable. After all, a Gaston (from "Beauty and the Beast") who slouches all the time will not be very convincing. Gaston would stand tall and proud!


Is the character known for reacting a specific way to certain words and phrases? For example, Edward Elric from "Fullmetal Alchemist" gets very, very upset whenever someone implies that he is short.
Does the character have a specific walk? Captain Jack Sparrow from "Pirates of the Caribbean" has a very distinctive, swaying walk, often accompanied by a confused look and expressive hand gestures.
 Sometimes, it is easier to get into character when you have a friend (or another friendly cosplayer) to play along with you. Keep in mind, however, that not every cosplayer will want to play along. If they don't react to you, move on. Do not force them to play along with you, or they may report you to con-ops for harassment.


Envy from "Fullmetal Alchemist" would never skip a chance to call Edward Elric "short." If you are cosplaying Envy and you spot and Edward, try yelling out: "Hey, Fullmetal Shrimp!" and watch the hilarity ensue.
The Marauders from Harry Potter were known for tormenting Severus Snape. If you are cosplaying a young James or Sirius, and you come across a young Severus Snape, try calling him Snivellous—but don't be alarmed if he responds with a hex!
Kagome from "Inuyasha" disciplines the dog demon by yelling "SIT," which forces him to sit down. If you see an Inuyasha misbehaving or being rude, be sure to discipline him by saying: "Inyuasha! Sit!"

