 Ruminating over bitter and negative thoughts is a trademark of depression. This means you get stuck thinking the same negative thoughts over and over again. Making changes to stop these negative ruminations can take time, but persisting in this matter can make a major difference.Write down all the bad automatic thoughts you have.It may seem like you don’t have that many negative thoughts, so keeping a list of them all can give you a good reality check. Seeing the amount as well as the content of these thoughts can help you to identify unproductive thought patterns that contribute to depression.
Next, create a positive or more logical thought for each negative thought you wrote down. This might look like: "Instead of, 'I'm ugly,' I will think, 'I am unique and beautiful just as I am. I don't need to conform to any societal standard of beauty.'"
Turn around negative or irrational thinking. Every time you have a negative thought, make the conscious decision to stop it. For every negative thought you have, replace it with a positive, more realistic one.Although this may seem silly or strange at first, it can make a serious difference in your mood and functioning over time. For example, if you have a thought such as, "I know this is going to turn out badly," think of alternative ways of thinking about the situation such as, "This might not end up so bad. It could have a good outcome."

, Even if you don't believe it right away, positive self-talk helps reduce depression and increase a sense of well-being.Make a list of your ten favorite physical features and your ten favorite features of your personality. For instance, you really like the color of your eyes and you like that you're a compassionate person. Post this somewhere you can see it on a daily basis, and repeat items off it to yourself when necessary.
When you find that you’re bringing yourself down, consciously compliment yourself on something. You can look at your list to remind yourself of some of your best qualities.
Accept compliments from others as true. Instead of questioning their motives, simply agree that they are true and take them as such. This may help to build your self-esteem back up and make it easier for you and others both to give you more compliments.
 The negative thoughts and feelings that come with depression can make it difficult to take risks or push yourself. Try to remind yourself that these negative views are a result of the depression and don't accurately reflect the whole of your capabilities. Take small steps toward accomplishing your goals and they can seem much more achievable.Break down larger tasks or goals into smaller ones, and allow yourself to do what you can when you can.Remember that your recovery won't be immediate. It will take time to start feeling better, but it is achievable. Think about feeling just a little better today, and how you can make that happen, instead of focusing on the larger task of feeling completely back to normal in several months.Be realistic and avoid perfectionism. If you want to exercise everyday for thirty minutes, but miss a few or don’t go for quite that long, that's okay. You can continue working on your goal the next day.
 Cynical thinking can sometimes be the result of a filter on your thoughts. This filter will block out good experiences, only allowing you to see the bad. For example, the date you went on last night might only be remembered for an awkward comment you made rather than the rest of the great conversation and kiss at the end. Take the good with the bad, rather than one or the other.


Be specific instead of overgeneralizing based on a single negative experience. If you struggle with one thing, you are likely to filter out all the times you succeeded. Remember that a single experience is not the be-all-end-all for your thoughts and behaviors.
If you happen to experience a single event that does have more bad than good, keep in mind that that was just a single event in a chain of events, many of which have been better than they were worse.