 This doesn't have to be detailed or long, it's just a useful prompt for knowing what you are going to film. For example, what sort of story is teddy going to play out and what scene are you hoping to present? Some thoughts on what you could try include:


Teddy shows viewers its sleeping and living area.
Teddy shows viewers how it gets dressed every day.
Teddy shows viewers around your room.
Teddy meets other stuffed toys in the room.
Teddy does some teddy bear DIY tutorials, such as how to mend a tear in a bear, how to make a dress for a bear or how to wash a teddy bear.;
, You will need a copy in front of you when filming, so that you can follow it with ease. Include directions for where teddy should stand or move to, whether teddy is to hold or touch anything and any other movements you want teddy to make. If other animals are included, also provide directions on where they are to be placed and what you want them to be doing during the movie.


Will you narrate the movie or will teddy do all the talking? If teddy is going to talk, what sort of a voice does teddy have? Practice teddy's voice before filming, until you're happy with it.
If other animals are included, do they speak as well? You'll need to practice their voices too, or have friends do these.
 You'll need this to splice the different shots together in a neat sequence. Otherwise, you'll be forced to film the whole episode from start to end, trying not to make any mistakes, which is hard to do. Editing opens up lots of opportunities for making a good movie without errors and with added effects.


You can use free or paid video editing programs. Talk to your parents, siblings or friends about this if you're unsure what to do.
 Where will you film? If it's your room, tidy everything up so that viewers don't see piles of clothes or toys all over it. If you need to make props, do this well ahead of filming as you can't just magic these up from nowhere once you begin to make the movie. If you are filming for public distribution, ensure that no personal information is filmed, such as passwords, addresses or identifying items like school clothing logos, etc.


Props might include a bed, dresser, toys, books, clothing, food, etc.
 What will the bear wear in the video? Choose the clothes, keeping in mind what will look good on camera. Avoid patterns that might strobe or be unkind on the eye and be sure to keep a color theme in mind, so that it has a distinct flavor of its own when viewers watch the videos.


Don't forget shoes and accessories such as hats, bows and gloves.
 Follow your script and directions written in that. Film each scene accordingly. As you film, aim to move teddy around in ways that don't reveal your hands or make teddy look jerky. It is probably useful to have a helper by this stage, as filming and moving the bear at the same time is very hard to do.


Decide whether to film silently and dub the voice in or whether to add the voice as you film.
Take it easy. There is no need to rush filming. If you need to take several takes, do so.
 Using appropriate software, edit the scenes to create a smooth and seamless movie that makes sense and contains all the voice and sounds you wish it to have. You may need help from an experienced person at this stage, until you get the hang of it yourself.
 You could upload it to a video site if you want it to be public, or to your blog or website. Get your parent's permission first. Or, simply keep the movies to share with family and friends.
 The more movies you make, the better you'll become at making them.

