 Unlike the major scales, which follow a pattern of whole and half steps, a chromatic scale is played by starting on one note, playing every single note in between in chronological order, hitting the same note on another octave, and then doing the same thing in reverse until you reach the original note. In case that doesn't make sense, take a look at this picture of a written chromatic scale, starting on C:;
, Enharmonics are notes that sound the same, but are written differently. If you're familiar with the layout of a piano keyboard, you should have an idea of how this works. A sharp raises a note one half-step. A flat lowers it one half-step. The white keys on a piano are the natural notes, and the black ones are flats and sharps. The black key between the D and E is the Eb/D# key, as it's one half-step below the E, and one half-step above the D. Hence, enharmonics. Many notes have two names, and when reading music to play a chromatic scale, you will likely encounter this.
 On most instruments, a low D and a high D are fingered the same way, with an octave key on the back to change octaves. However, because of the clarinet's design, the key on the back of the clarinet is called the register key, and pressing it bring the note up a twelfth, not an octave (eighth). Because of this, most fingerings on the clarinet have two names. For instance, the thumb hole and the first three tone holes covered produces a C, and when the register key is added, the note becomes a high G. Especially if you switched from a saxophone or other instrument with an octave key, this will be important to know.
 To play a smooth, clean chromatic scale, you'll need to have your reed and your hands warmed up and ready to play.
 Remember that whatever note you choose, you'll need to be able to hit the one at least an octave above it. A good note to try would be low G (the one below the staff), especially if you're a relatively new beginner. Usually, when a chromatic scale is requested as part of an audition, it's supposed to start on low G or the E below that. Keep in mind that you may see these notes referred to as Concert F and Concert D, respectively.
 If you started on low G (concert F), you'll play low G, low G#, A, Bb, B, and so on, until you reach the next G up (in this case, the G on the second line of the staff from the bottom), and then you'll start on your way back down to low G -- G, F#, F, E, Eb, and so on. Practice this in whole notes, half notes, quarter notes, etc., and see how quickly you can play it cleanly. You should be able to hear each note clearly defined, even if you're playing in sixteenth notes.
 If you've been playing for a year or two, the second octave shouldn't be a problem at all. If you start on low G, you'll just keep going until you reach the second G above that, which would be the G on top of the staff, and then go back to your starting note. The third octave will take more time to master, but if you make a habit of practicing and really work on your altissimo notes, you'll be able to play that in time, as well.

