 You may think waiting until your child is old enough to enjoy nature is best, yet get them comfortable being outside and in nature from a young age. Allow a baby to crawl around in the grass, get them walking on trails once they’re comfortably able to walk, and expose them to nature and the outdoors as much as possible throughout their development. Make time in nature a normal part of life and not only for special occasions or certain activities.Some parents carry their children in a hiking backpack to allow their babies to tag along on hikes before they can walk.;
, Allow them to experience nature and the outdoors on their own terms. Give them time in nature away from playgrounds for them to approach it how they like. Let them explore their surroundings on their own terms and use their imaginations on how to interact with it. With their imagination, they might turn overgrown weeds into a jungle, rocks into lava, or a log into a balance beam.Experiencing nature on their own terms and in their own way can help kids appreciate nature in a way that’s meaningful to them.
 Nature provides lots of opportunities to use the senses. Have kids smell the flowers, taste local berries, listen to the birds sing, touch different textures of leaves and bark, and see beautiful sights around them. Get kids involved with nature by letting them explore on a multi-sensory level.Best of all, nature “equipment” is free. Get kids to climb on boulders, balance on logs, splash in lakes, and explore streams.Give children opportunities to use their senses and encourage them to use as many as they can!

, In the USA, the National Parks have a Junior Rangers program which inspires children to explore, learn, and protect the outdoors. Kids can become Junior Rangers by participating in activities and taking an oath to protect and share the parks with others. While this program is largely through the national parks, national monuments also participate in kid-friendly programs that are largely available throughout the USA.Visit national parks and lands near you or plan a vacation to visit national sites.
 Put a towel down or hang a swing in your backyard for your kids to enjoy activities outside. They can bring a book outside to read, play board games on the grass, have a picnic, bring their figurines to play under a tree, or paint. Bring your own activities outside as well and lead by example.Have your kids do their homework outside or do crafts outside.
 If you have space, plant a few plants and vegetables for your children to tend to and watch grow. Children will be excited about the growth of their plants and learn when plants are ready to be eaten. Children can learn to associate their garden with growth and food and make connections about plants and food.Choose some plants, flowers, and herbs and have your children plant them with you.
Some plants grow easily such as baby tomatoes and pea plants.
 Encourage children to look at clouds and learn about them. Talk about the different things you see in clouds and what they might be. At night, encourage children to look at the stars. Identify constellations and watch meteor showers, eclipses, and other events. Enjoy sunsets and sunrises and remind children that nature exists above them, too.Have contests for who can find the moon or identify what phase it is in.
 Children are naturally curious, so direct their curiosity to explore rivers, ponds, hikes, leaves, logs, and blooming flowers. Plant some flowers and speculate as to what color they might come up. Watch a bird fly and discuss where it might be going. Get them curious to their surroundings and what’s happening to the birds, plants, trees, and other animals.No matter what your children’s ages, they can experience the magic of frogs croaking or crickets chirping.
 If the weather in uncooperative yet you still want to engage with nature, grab some books and read with your kids. There are plenty of books about nature, plants, and animals. Read informative books about your local geographical area or read fiction books about children who enjoy the outdoors. Even if nature is not easily accessible, you can still inspire your child and help them learn about nature.For older kids, read “The Jungle Book” or “The Island of the Blue Dolphins.” To younger children, read “Little Cloud,”“The Giving Tree,” and “The Curious Garden.”
Keep field guides and outdoor adventure books in your home to inspire trips to national parks and other special places.
 Nature doesn’t have to exist only outside. Have your children pick up acorns, leaves, shells, and other items to decorate the home. Kids will enjoy collecting the items and putting them on display. Adding to the collection can become a family activity.For example, each child can choose one leaf to dry and press each autumn. Then, frame the leaves and put them in their bedrooms.
 Kids don’t realize how trees help with the air or how we rely on rain to water the plants so they have food to eat. Talk about how nature is necessary for everyone to survive, whether it be creating the conditions for plants to grow so people can eat or for creating materials to wear as clothes. Even though most food is bought at a grocery store, explain to your kids where their fruits and vegetables come from and how nature plays a part in growing them.Telling children how nature is a part of their everyday lives can help them realize how important is it to protect nature and appreciate it.
 Make as many positive associations with being outside in nature as possible. If a kid has a meltdown on a hike, have things available for their recovery so that they can turn it around and keep going. Control your own frustrations and help them cope with their ordeals.Bring along their favorite snack to eat or a comforting teddy bear if they start to feel tired or cranky. Take lots of breaks and make the breaks enjoyable by playing a game or taking silly photos.
 Kids get tired, exhausted, hungry, and thirsty a lot quicker than adults. If you’re planning an all-day outing at the park, a hike, or a camping trip, come prepared. Take some baby steps in preparing them for a trip by starting with one night of camping before going on a weekend camping trip. If kids start to whine or get cranky, pull out their snacks or take a break.For example, hiking a steep climb may be too much for a child who hasn’t done much hiking, and may affect their opinion of spending time in nature. Take steps slowly so your child grows to love the outdoors, not resent them.
 Choose an activity that’s easy to accomplish yet still feels special. For example, take a family walk outside on each full moon. Being out after dark can be exciting for kids and something to look forward to doing together. You can read a bedtime story outside, collect one stone or shell from each trip to the beach, or press a leaf each time you go on a hike.Have something easy to look forward to, such as having activities on the full moon or the first day of the month.

