 Any kind of physical exercise whether it is running, dancing or yoga helps to build body confidence.


Choose an activity that you enjoy. Kickball, walking, karate, swimming and dancing, for instance, all are activities that can help you begin to associate having fun with moving your body.
Physical activity sculpts and molds the body. Whichever activity you choose serves of dual purpose of body sculpting and enjoyment.
Exercise or physical activity slowly helps you feel more confident about your body, which is helpful when you’re nude. The point is not to lose weight but to gain confidence through movement of the body. Stay hydrated if you want to do a regular or an extreme workout. If you're not hydrated, you'll be tired the rest of the day and also be out of breath as well for the people that have asthma.
 Get a massage or facial. The act of pampering yourself pays homage to your body. It helps you appreciate your body and love it, which makes it easier to incorporate several of the previous steps such as moving the body and eating healthily.


Pampering yourself could be as simple as taking a long bath instead of a shower. Add some sea salt or flower petals to the water.
Grooming activities such as shaving, combing the hair, and rubbing lotion on the body all are elements of pampering and self-appreciation. These tasks build an appreciation for the body that are independent from material adornments such as clothes, shoes and jewelry.
 If you’re comfortable being naked at home, then it’s much easier to be naked around others and have fun doing it. Getting comfortable with your own nudity at home is essential to being comfortable nude out in the world.


Stand in front of the mirror naked -- not to criticize -- but to appreciate. This also lets you get comfortable seeing yourself naked. If you’re uncomfortable looking at yourself naked, then you will be uncomfortable when others are looking at you naked.
Do an activity around the house naked. Water the plants. Dance. Read a book. Style your hair shirtless. It doesn’t matter what the activity is as long you get comfortable doing it naked.
If you are not comfortable going fully naked just yet, wear lingerie and build up. Lots of different types are available, so your bound to find one that will make you feel confident and sexy.Begin to incorporate nudity into other daily activities even if you’re out of the house. For instance, try not wearing underwear, or go braless.
 Daily tasks such as making phone calls naked won’t seem so weird after a while. Plus, you’ll get a thrill out of your little secret.
 Food and nudity don’t usually go together, but now you can combine the two. Be careful about cooking naked though. Wear an apron to protect yourself.
 Choose your favorite chair or your favorite spot on the sofa. Take your clothes off. Turn on the television if it’s not already on and have a seat... naked.
 Close the blinds or curtains as to make sure you are not visible from outside. Most jurisdictions have laws for indecent exposure crimes.
 If you usually, sleep with your clothes on, try something new. Take them off. It might feel weird at first, but stick with it. Soon you might like the lack of separation between your skin and the sheets.

