 Granite comes in a nearly endless variety of styles, patterns and colors.;
, Compare and contrast the samples against the size and color of the room.
 Before finalizing your selection, perform a few simple tests to ensure the granite is of good quality.


Test the granite for porosity by letting several drops of water sit on it for 15 minutes. Wipe the water away with a clean paper towel. If there is any residue left behind, the granite is highly porous and may not be a good choice based on its water absorption level.
Test for the granite for acidity resistance by leaving a lemon wedge on its side on the sample overnight. After removing the lemon wedge, if you see that the natural sheen of the granite has been diminished or if patches appear, then this granite style will not wear well for long-term use.
, Check each referral with the Better Business Bureau and consult your area Department of Consumer Protection to ensure the fabricators are reputable.
 The fabricator will come to your home, take measurements and discuss options with you.


Select which edge will work best for you. There are several aesthetically pleasing edges available on the granite. The fabricator can review the edges they can provide.
Discuss whether you will purchase an under mount, top mount, or seamed-in sink, as well as the faucet type you will purchase. All of these elements will factor into the cost of fabricating the granite.
 Seaming is where two pieces of granite are glued together. Verify that the fabricator attempts to match the pieces together so they appear as one piece.
 Many fabricators will offer a lifetime warranty on workmanship.
 You will also be able to assess quantities and varieties available.
 Base the decision on price, quality of product, quality of work, and referrals. Finalize your fabricator choice.
 Granite slabs vary in color, veining, and pattern, so arrange a meeting at the granite yard to choose the exact piece you want. This will help avoid problems during the installation process.
 Place any required deposits and finalize your purchase.

