 Be prepared to relinquish the perks of dejection...(the comfort of your own self-pity and the sympathy of Mom or others). You are laying down your victim mentality so forget, what if ______ had not been done to you, or if _________ hadn’t happened to you. Be ready to exchange the negatives for a new and better mindset; a realization and appreciation of all that is good in your life! You can now become responsive to opportunities (or problems) in a new and powerful way, motivating yourself, for you have chosen joy rather than depression! Shadows will fall behind you as you release the old, bleak pay off, along with the dejected feelings! So now, lay it all down... your grief, your sadness, your hopelessness; surrender it forever and let it go and walk away.;
, The beauty, the joy, and the heart full of praise that God has given to you. How to take possession? Psalm 100:4 “Enter into His gates with thanksgiving, and into His courts with praise: be thankful unto Him, and bless His name.” Use this verse to begin the process of accepting and owning these prizes!

, Acknowledge Him: His existence, His authority over all things, including yourself, and accept His involvement in your life. In that personal acknowledgment and surrender of your life, He will immediately respond to you. Thank Him, for He has accepted all that you put onto the table; your hurts, your regrets, the problems that overwhelm you... He has taken it all from you and will remove it far from you! Now you are free and relieved and empty of all the old garbage! You have entered into His gates into a safe and happy place , where God rules in steadfast love for you and changes not. Trust Him for He is able and willing to affect the outcome of your life and circumstances. What a relief! As you enter into His gates in this way, your load is lightened when you realize it is not all upon your shoulders… that truly, God is sharing the load and His will can control your outlook and purposes.)


Come with thanksgiving. Depression may have stolen from you the realization of much that is good in your life. You must deliberately direct your mind to go and retrieve these things. There really is much good in your life, you know, and, looking for things to thank Him for highlights the happy and the positive things that you have going for you! Your spirits lift and you soon find a real sense of thankfulness for we know that He is good and the giver of every good thing! Just get a pen and notebook and begin an open ended list of good things and reprogram your life to accept and admire many good things you could be thankful for. You will be amazed at what you find! It might be as simple as how good the cold milk tastes when you drink it with warm fruit cobbler. Or, appreciate a very sweet or zany memory of your mother or dad playing with you when you were little, looking forward to see loved ones soon. It might be that you get a check every month to help meet your needs. You are manually retraining your mind, taking it from the well worn grooves it continually runs along to access channels of worry, regret, fears... You are reprogramming it to search for good things in your life; positive things that will make life livable and worth the effort! Be strong to purposely keep populating your list. You are alive and actually there are many things to be thankful for! As you reflect upon the things on your list it opens your eyes to the good things in your life, and you can see them again!







, As you see indisputable proof of His goodness and blessing upon your life, you will begin to be truly thankful… for the air conditioning, for the neighbor who smiles at you, that your shoulder doesn’t hurt like it used to! Suddenly, your gratitude turns to praise to God for He is good! He didn’t have to be so good to you and everyone. He did it because He is good and worthy of praise.
 You are daily wearing your garment of praise now! The blanket of heaviness is laid aside! As you realize His goodness in giving you all the good things, thanksgiving and hope turns into praise! And it is impossible to be depressed and praise God at the same time! Isn’t it funny and unexpected? But when you enter a gate you can enjoy being inside! “Enter into His gates with thanksgiving, and into His courts with praise: be thankful unto Him, and bless His name.”

, Show friendliness, fellowship, and share God's love -- as your love is a direct way for God to show love to others. Smile when sharing some good thoughts, doing good as best you can., Maybe it is only a smile or thought that you can give. Give some. Then you own load will seem lighter, shadows will be brighter, sunrise will be breaking into the light of day. How? by helping others to enjoy the good in life, by your active concern for the feelings and needs of others.