 Newspapers, magazines, and books are all available on current affairs, general knowledge, and education. Reading allows you to enter a fantasy world and escape prison life.A knowledgeable brain will help you deal with difficult circumstance while in prison.
Once you gain freedom, you will be able to put some of that knowledge to use.
 Most prisons offer GED classes or community college classes for prisoners to gain an education. There is plenty of time to go to class and study, so you might as well get an education.An education will better prepare you for the outside world.
As with any employer, they will want to some engagement with learning, so earning a degree or certificate while in prison gives you the evidence you need to get a job in the free world.
 Prison is certainly not the ideal place for anybody and having to spend any part of your life there is depressing. Moreover, most prisons are overcrowded, full of boredom and disappointment, and sexual predators providing an environment conducive to depression. In prison, you may or may not have access to a doctor, counselor, and drugs.If you do not have access to mental health care, try to find another prisoner willing to listen. Odds are there are many other prisoners like you suffering from a depressed mind.
Try to focus on stressing your body through exercise rather than on your mind. Exercise releases hormones that help fight stress and depression.
Stay away from drugs and alcohol since they will only make depression worse.
Concentrate on eating more fruits and vegetables while limiting caffeine and sugar.
Make a few acquaintances so that you do not spend too much time alone. Maybe your prison mates will be able to give you positive encouragement and lift your spirits.
 Going to prison will make the best of us angry. Anger is common in prison because there always seems to be more frustration than solutions. Thus, when the anger becomes too much and you explode, that is when major problems occur.Be careful not to assume. Making assumptions in prison can be a dangerous road to go down. Never try to be a mind reader. Instead, make sure you know the reason why somebody bumped into you or passed you in line. A mistake could be fatal.
Do not impose your own rules on other inmates without their knowledge. This is usually manifests itself in statements that start like this: “He should have…”
Many prisoners claim personal rights that must be respected by others. If you violate their imaginary rights, then you must be prepared to defend yourself.
The more you “overgeneralize” something the angrier you will become. For example, if you catch yourself constantly complaining that you are “always” singled out or “never” taken seriously, you will likely become angrier.
Try not to think about everything as either black or white. In prison, you will survive longer if you understand that there are shades of grey. Not all people are only good or bad.

