 During periods of stress, you may experience increased heart rate, sweating, tension of muscles, and often shallow breathing. Deep breathing can help to decrease those negative symptoms of stress by helping to regulate your nervous system.Start by placing one hand on your cheek and one hand on your stomach.
Take a deep breath in through your nose, counting to 7 as you breathe in.
Then, exhale through your mouth, counting to 7, while tightening your stomach muscles to exhale all of the air.
Repeat the process 5 times with an average of one breath per 10 seconds.
 Negative thoughts can make social anxiety worse, so it is important to stop yourself when you have a negative thought. The next time you have a negative thought, don’t just let it go by. Take a moment to analyze the thought and try to see what its flaws are.For example, a negative thought might be, “I am going to make a fool of myself in front of everyone when I give this presentation.” If you find yourself thinking something like this, ask yourself, “Do I know that I will make a fool of myself?” and “If I mess up, does that mean that people will think I’m dumb?”Your answers to these questions should be “No” and “No” because you cannot know what people will think or do. The more likely outcome is that you will do a good job and no one will think you are dumb., Taking good care of yourself can help you to deal with your social anxiety.Eating well, getting enough sleep, and exercising regularly can help you feel better mentally and physically.Make sure that you are eating well, sleeping enough, and getting regular exercise to feel your best.


Eat a balanced diet that include plenty of fresh fruits and vegetables, whole grains, and lean protein.
Get between 7-9 hours of sleep per night.
Exercise for 30 minutes three times a week.
Limit caffeine and alcohol intake.
 Working through severe anxiety on your own can be hard. If you or a loved one has SAD, consider getting help from a licensed mental health professional. A mental health professional can help you to identify the root of your social anxiety an work through these issues.You might also consider attending a behavioral therapy group for people with social anxiety. These groups can help you to build your confidence and learn cognitive- behavioral techniques that can improve your ability to handle difficult situations., Medication alone cannot cure social anxiety, but it can be useful in some situations. Some medications may be more effective than others for your situation, so it is important to talk to your doctor about your symptoms and options.Common medications for SAD include: Benzodiazepines such as Xanax; Beta Blockers such as Inderal or tenormin; Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors (MAOIS) such as Nardia; Selective Serotonin Reuptake Inhibitors (SSRI’s) such as Prozac, Luvox, Zoloft, Paxil, Lexapro; Serotonin-Norepinephrine Reuptake Inhibitors (SNRIS) such as Effexor, Effexor XR, and Cymbalta.