 Lyra is clever and canny. Learn as many things as you can and answer every question thrown at you. Don't think that Lyra is loud-mouthed, she is quite quiet but is a little louder around adults. Be cheeky, lie about things that you have done. Try to make people laugh, smile as much as possible but glare at people who are boring/annoying/insulting you. Be rebellious and do the opposite of what others ask of you. Don't follow orders that you don't see sense in.;
, She can read the alethiometer, so study symbols from the book and from other sources (of course, if you learn them off by heart then even better!). Remember that the alethiometer has a millions- or in fact infinitive- meaning. If you know all of them then perhaps consider getting a real alethiometer. Lyra lived at Jordan College for a very long time and was taught many things, while with Mrs Coulter so know a lot on subjects like science (particularly atoms and electrons), Greek mythology, history, and mathematics. Lyra knows how to sew, so practice sewing, embroidery, or knitting. Try reading books on a lot of facts (useless and can be used facts).
 Obviously it would be silly to run around in long brown dresses, aprons and furs. Instead, ask yourself what you think Lyra would wear. She's a tomboy, so comfortable clothing and not too decorative clothing is a good idea. Come up with new ideas and play around with styles until you find something you like. (In fact don't wear any makeup, unless you need to.) It is against Lyra's world for girls to wear trousers so try wearing skirts, dresses even better. If you hate dresses and skirts do not be afraid to wear what you think Lyra would wear if she was in this world.
 Lyra does experiment with makeup whilst living with Mrs. Coulter, but she wouldn't have time for it on an everyday basis, especially when rescuing Roger from Bolvangar! Keep your look natural. Wear brown eyeliner instead of black, apply blusher, blend light brown and lilac eyeshadow on your eyelid, and use a small amount of light pink or clear gloss. Use a foundation with moisturizer or sunscreen.
 It's best if your hair is naturally wavy or curly, but if it's not, curl it with an iron if you really want to. In the books, Lyra's hair is blonde, but in the movies, it's a brownish-reddish color. Of course it isn't really what you look like, it is more how you act that makes you like Lyra. But practice looking innocent and slightly rude and rebellious.
 Pantalaimon is Lyra's daemon, who takes the form of an ermine most often. However, you must be very careful about doing this. Don't buy a real pet and carry it around with you! Instead, either find a small stuffed animal you really like or make an imaginary daemon, and name it something exotic. The latter might be the best to opt for, as this type of daemon will seem much more real than a simple stuffed toy, and you can decide what animal it is! Remember the forms that Pantalaimon is, which are mainly: ermine, wildcat, moth, forms of birds, even a dragon and a lion!

, How she acts to what other people say, watch the film or read the books and write down things you could say in real life to similar situations.

