 Appliances, tiles and other large items often cost over $100 to deliver. Compare prices, including shipping, or rent a truck for an hour.;
, Include direct competitors like Home Depot, Ace, Lowe’s, Harbor Freight Tools, Sears and even Amazon. Bring the printout of the price into your favorite store and ask for a price match. Home Depot and Lowe’s say they offer a price match guarantee.
 You can get a 10 percent off coupon when you move, so ask friends who move to save you their coupon if they aren’t going to use it., Home improvement stores don’t issue coupons as readily as other stores, but you may find one a rare coupon if you hit the site at the right time.
 If the item you are trying to buy looks like it’s been returned or damaged, you can usually ask a manager and get it for 10 to 50 percent less., In fact, make a list and buy your supplies all at once to get 5 percent cash back from Lowe’s. Home Depot’s card lets you pay back without interest for a few months to one year.
 Make your online purchases at home improvement stores through their linked website and earn a percentage rebate. Large purchases could earn you 5 to 20 percent in your eBates account.
 Cardpool, Raise, Gift Card Granny and Gift Card Rescue are websites that offer a five to eight percent discount on gift cards to home improvement stores. If you shop regularly at these stores, it can add up to approximately the same as a 5 percent off your total purchase., Look through the Sunday newspaper at your local coffee shop or get a coupon saver’s subscription to the local paper. Then, shop smart by purchasing goods when they are highly discounted.


Remember that some discounted items are only while supplies last. Go to the store at the beginning of the sale.
 These cooperatives provide low-cost rentals or free check out to people who pay $25 to $100 for a yearly subscription. You can save money on tools that you won’t use often, like tree pruning saws, apple cider presses, string trimmers and more.


To find out if there’s a tool library in your town, go to Wikipedia and type in “List of tool-lending libraries.” They will give you a list by country and state.
 Each year, your local hardware, home improvement, cabinet and furniture stores replace their floor models. They usually sell those models for a small percentage of what they are charging for new projects.
 Carpet, tile or brick remnants are those that were left over after someone else’s large job. Make sure to measure your square footage needs before you buy., Most tools stand up to a lot of wear and tear, and an older, sturdier tool might serve you better than a new model. Search the classified ads for garage sales that feature tools., For example, a pressure washer, heat gun or carpet cleaner can be rented for as little as $25 for a few hours, and the maintenance will be performed by the rental shop.
 These are colors that were improperly mixed or that the customer didn’t like. Furniture painting and one-room paint jobs can often be done with paint that has been reduced to as little as $5 per gallon., Search the Internet for these special events, where building supplies are sold at a fraction of the price. Items may be scratched, dented or just the result of a shipping mistake.
 They may have programs that require free practice projects. You may be able to have something done for free or a very low fee, such as tree pruning, plumbing or inspection.
 Busy times tend to be the summer or between September and Christmas. Schedule a January to March job if the weather allows., Large, well-known contractors often use quality sub-contractors at lower rates. Try someone new or younger who is eager to earn business with a lower price.
 They may charge a small delivery fee but make up for it in discounted prices. In some places, they may even waive the delivery fee.

