 Discount services like Groupon and Living Social can be a great resource for dating on a budget. You can get cheaper tickets, two for one deals, discounted gift cards, and other budget-savers via these sites.


Talk to your date ahead of time about what activities you two are interested in enjoying. The discounts are only good if you actually use the tickets.
When using discount sites, think about related expenses. For example, if you want to buy cheap amusement park tickets, remember that you will also need to eat and drink inside the park. Check to make sure that you can bring items in, or plan for that added expense.
 Some restaurants and bars sponsor dance nights, where patrons can pay a small cover to participate in a short dance class followed by open dancing. They often focus on a particular style, such as salsa, swing, or line dancing. These events can be a romantic date that doesn’t cost much as long as you don’t give in to the urge to buy drinks. You may also find dance events sponsored by local churches or civic organizations., Visit the teams’ websites to look for discount days or undesirable seats that come at a lower cost. You can still enjoy a day at the game in the cheap seats.


Some fields allow people to filter down to unsold seats, so check to see if yours does.
If there is a minor league team, high school team, or even a peewee championship for a sport you both enjoy, consider going out to those games.
 Some theaters show older films that are no longer in major theaters. These can be old films or relatively recent films that are already out on DVD. If you are lucky enough to live in an area with such a theater, then take advantage of the discounted tickets. You can enjoy the theater experience with a movie rental price.
 You may be able to find special deals or coupons online, in flyers, in the local paper, or in your local phonebook. Places that offer bowling, mini golf, arcades, or pizza often offer special rates or two-for-one deals on certain nights, depending on how busy they are. You may be able to enjoy your favorite activities for a much lower price if you know when to go or have the right coupon.

