 If shrugging off your immature reputation doesn’t do the trick, it is time to identify specific aspects of your character that others view as immature so that you can address them and change your reputation. In other words, note what you want to change, then change it.


Take note of how you think, feel, and act, relative to others your age and slightly older than you. Do you find yourself to be much more dependent on others than people your age? That may be a sign that you have identified an area of your life that is contributing to your immature reputation. You could work to improve this by becoming more self-sufficient; take a task you used to get help with and try doing it on your own!Do not take discrepancies between your behaviors and those of your peers at face value. All people have different life experiences, cultural backgrounds, and circumstances that may account for their behavior differences relative to their peers.
For example, due to an increased emphasis on interdependence, it is more common for children from parents of East Asian descent to live with their parents until older ages relative to Caucasian children.If you did not consider idiosyncratic information about yourself, such as your cultural background, you may unwittingly view your behavior as immature, when in fact it more reflects a cultural difference.
 Acting selflessly is a sign of maturity. Offer to do more chores around the house or to help out a friend in need. Being considerate of others means that you are not just thinking about yourself., You can respect your parents by being open and honest with them, and carefully listening to what they tell you to do. One sign of maturity is respecting and caring for one’s family., Remind yourself to mentally pause in communicating with others and ask, "how might she feel about what I am about to say?"Remember to keep in mind how you would feel if you were being treated exactly how you are treating someone else.
At the same time, recognize that not everyone feels the same way about everything. Keep in mind relevant information you know about the person you are interacting with. For example, if you know that someone is self-conscious and does not like to be playfully teased, save your joking around for someone else who may appreciate it more.
 Being comfortable in your own skin can matter more for your perceived maturity level, and hence your reputation, than the specific behaviors you engage in.If you feel that you are overly self-conscious, try asking yourself how often you actually spend time thinking about others in a negative way. Chances are it is not that often, and chances are, too, that other people are not spending much time thinking negatively about you, either.
 There are many social norms and following them is a sign of maturity because it says that you understand the social dynamic and you are willing to play by the rules.For example, if someone helps you out, be appreciative and help them back. If you are not able to help them right away, be sure to write a note for yourself so you do not forget to help them when you are able to.
Do not intentionally burp or pass gas or do other things with your body that is against most groups' social norms.
Be sure to use good table manners. Be sure to offer your gratitude to whomever prepared the meal. Offer to wash the dishes as a way of letting them know that you appreciate their hard work. If it is a more formal setting, be sure to unfold your napkin and place it on your lap under your table. Do not speak with your mouth open.
 Do not blurt out the first thing that comes to mind. Craft your words carefully and be careful not to sound too emotional.For example, if you don’t want to do a chore, instead of saying “No! I don’t want to do that!” you might say “Would it be alright if I first finished what I’m doing before I take care of that? It should be within the hour.”

, A lack of emotional control, or showing the wrong degree intensity of emotion based on the context, is another sign of immaturity.To calm your emotions, try re-appraising the situation by posing questions: What is the worst that can really happen from this? Did she really mean to say that or was she maybe being careless, or has she had a long day and should I cut her some slack? Have I ever done that to someone else and should I be more forgiving as a result?

, If you are seen as immature in one domain that you do not want to or feel you are unable to change, become more mature in other ways.


For example, if you really struggle with taking others' perspectives during conversation and do not feel you can address this to improve your reputation, overcompensate by doing more chores around the house, or by becoming even more financially stable or independent, or by fostering your emotional maturity.

