 Take the time to play with your kitten every day, multiple times a day if possible. Schedule some play time a couple of hours before you plan to go to bed and use that play time to tire, or tucker out your kitten.If you finish playing with your kitten and find that she’s still in the mood to play, direct her attention to a toy instead. Allow her to continue to prepare for sleep herself with a toy. Some toys to consider are: furry mice, cat balls with or without bells, feathers hanging on a string from a door knob, etc.
Using a toy that is attached to a string at the end of a pole (like a fishing rod) is a great way to get your kitten to have a really active play session without requiring you to run around as well. You can stay in one place and use the pole to make your kitten run and jump all around you. Your hands are safe from harm too!;
, Near the end of play time with your kitten, use slower and gentler movements to encourage your kitten to slow down. Don’t suddenly stop playing with your kitten in the middle of a really active play session.Stopping suddenly when your kitten is still really playful isn’t going to stop her from playing, it may cause your kitten to start chasing after you, or attacking you, because you’re still moving around.
If you’re playing with a specific toy during the play session, allow your kitten to catch that toy at the end of play time.
 Play time with your kitten should be considered a special time of the day. Select certain toys that you only want to use during play time. When it’s not play time, put those special toys away. After a few play periods your kitten will learn which toys are specifically for play time, and when she sees them being taken out, she’ll get excited!Your kitten should always have some toys available to her to play with at all times of the day. However, you might want to hide toys that make a lot of noise (e.g. those made with hard plastic, or those that have bells or sounds) before you go to bed at night.
 A cat’s natural behaviour is to eat, then clean herself, then go to sleep. You’ve already tired your kitten out with play time, so feed her right afterwards. Your kitten will likely complete her natural cycle by going to clean herself up and then having a nap., Instead of leaving food out for your kitten all the time, have your kitten work for her food. There are many commercial products you can buy specifically for hiding food. Your kitten then has to work to find and remove the food from the toy in order to eat it.You can also make food puzzles for your kitten with cardboard boxes or other items. Look for specific ideas on the internet.
Making your kitten work to get to her food will also help to tire her out. This is especially helpful at the end of the day when you’re near bedtime.
 If your kitten is really hyper, or playfully attacking you, and you need to encourage her to stop, consider making a sudden noise that will startle your kitten. The purpose of the noise isn’t to scare your kitten, but rather to make her pause long enough to reassess the situation., If your kitten starts to play too rough, either during play time or on her own, stop giving your kitten attention. Do not encourage the behaviour by continuing to give your kitten attention. Instead, by ignoring your kitten, you’re sending a signal that this behaviour is inappropriate and you will not pay attention to such behaviour., The best playmate for a kitten is another kitten. Kittens adopted together, especially if they’re from the same litter, can grow up to have a close relationship with each other. As kittens they’ll play with each other and tire each other out. They’ll also teach each other when certain behaviours are inappropriate.