 It's important to have clear and direct communication before your mother-in-law arrives. Make sure he or she knows about your concerns and is prepared to help you out. Have a clear plan of responsibilities while your mother-in-law is visiting.


Share with your spouse any concerns you have about your mother-in-law’s upcoming visit. He or she should know how you feel.
Let them help you out while your mother-in-law is in town. Your spouse should be able to help around the house and to run interference with his or her mother. Entertaining them and making them feel comfortable should not be your job exclusively.
Make a plan with your spouse about how to deal with your mother-in-law when she is in town. He or she should know what they are expected to do while their mother is in town.
 Keep your relationship a priority even when your mother-in-law is in town. Your relationship is the most important one in the household. Don’t let the visitation of his or her parent disrupt that.Honor and respect your spouse. Never choose sides, but make sure that you are putting your spouse first. Don’t get distracted from your spouse by visits from your mother-in-law.
Maintain a strong bond with your spouse during your mother-in-law’s visit. This demonstrates that you have a strong marriage to your mother-in-law.
Rely on each other during difficult times. Family visits can be stressful. Help one another out during these visits. Don’t let them become sources of fights, but instead sources of togetherness.
 Your mother-in-law may overstep her bounds. Let her know (or have your spouse let her know) where she belongs and where she does not.Talk to your mother-in-law if she oversteps boundaries. She may not know or may be doing it unwittingly. It's important to let her know when it happens, so she's aware.
Be clear and direct when talking to your mother-in-law. Don't try to soften the blow if there are boundary issues.
If there are boundary problems, be polite and respectful. Make sure you are not attacking her about something she may be unaware of doing.
Your spouse may be the better person to talk to his or her mother about boundary issues. This may be a better idea than you talking to her, especially if your relationship with your mother-in-law is contentious.
Telling her things like, "In our household, this is how we do things" or "We think this is important in our house" will let her know that you have your own priorities that may be different from hers.
 When your mother-in-law visits, it can disrupt your normal family routine and dynamics. Be consistent with your regular schedule. Don’t fall into old patterns because your mother-in-law is around.Make decisions as you normally would. Your mother-in-law is a guest. This means she should be paid attention to, but should not dictate what happens. Remember that she is leaving at some point, so don’t change your life to meet her needs.
Work together as a team. Don’t let your mother-in-law get in the middle of your day-to-day life.
Be aware that your spouse may revert to his or her childhood role. He or she may act more like a child now that his or her mother is around. Try either putting up with it for the visit or talk to them if they are acting strangely.

