 Neither of you are perfect. Unmet expectations tend to frustrate everyone. If your expectations are truly too high or unrealistic, then you need to set standards that are obtainable. For example, it is unfair to expect lavish possessions and have the love of your life home for every meal. If you want more together time, then be prepared to have that desire fulfilled at some expense.


Remember that no relationship is perfect. If you expect to get along with your husband and be happy 100% of the time, it won't work out for you.
Have realistic financial expectations, too. Maybe you and your husband aren't as far along financially as you hoped you'd be five or ten years down the line -- that's perfectly normal. Work on appreciating what you do have instead of expecting more.
 Accept him as he is and let him know that you would never want him to change in any way for you. He has so much to offer you if only you give him the space to be himself. He is a growing individual, just like you are. Love him for who he is, and he'll love you unconditionally in return.


Accept that you and your husband are not the same person. He won't always see the world the same way that you do, and that's a good thing. Being with someone who isn't exactly like you will make your relationship richer.
There's a difference between asking your husband to clean up more around the house and making him become a hiking fanatic when he hates the outdoors. You can ask him to improve in different areas, but you can't force him to like all of the same things you do.
 You will experience crises together, from the loss of a job to the death of a parent. You may suffer financial hardship, or you may find yourselves unexpectedly wealthy and unsure of what to do. Your marriage can survive the changes if you're willing to keep communicating and being flexible. Here are some things to keep in mind as you learn to accept change:


Remember that whatever changes happen, you and your husband are dealing with them as a team, not as people on the opposite side of a battle. Dealing with the changes together makes them much more manageable.
Roll with the changes in your love life. Though you and your husband may still be passionately in love, don't get disappointed if he doesn't want to make love every night or to kiss you twenty times a day like he did when you were newlyweds. You can still keep your love strong without wanting it to be exactly the same as it was when you first got married.
Roll with the changes with your bodies. Though you may work hard to stay fit and eat healthy, you have to accept that your 50-year-old selves probably aren't as svelte as your 25-year-old selves, and that's okay.
 You and your husband's relationship will undoubtedly change and evolve once you bring kids into the equation. This doesn't mean it'll change for the worse, but it will mean that you will be spending a lot of your free time focusing on your kids instead of each other. Accept that this will change your relationship and work to make it thrive in new ways.


To help this transition, work together to spend time with the kids, when you can, instead of isolating yourselves by taking turns.
Find new fun activities that the whole family can do together to help you and your husband stay strong as you raise your kids.
Strengthen your relationship by acting as a united front with your husband. You should agree on how to raise and discipline your kids so that you don't get into "good cop" and "bad cop" mode and position yourselves against each other when it's time to control your children.
 If you want to be accepting as a wife, then you have to be able to accept your husband's mistakes and to sincerely respect his apologies for doing something wrong (as long as it doesn't compromise you in a big way). If you hold a grudge too long, you won't be able to appreciate the good things about your husband, so it's best to accept his apologies, talk about how he won't upset you again in this way, and move forward instead of harboring resentment about the past.


Accept your own mistakes, too. Don't be so focused on being the perfect wife that you can't admit when you're wrong.
Admitting when you're wrong will help both of you grow as a couple.

