 Before you decide to become an organ donor, it is important that you recognize how your donation might help its recipients. If you register to become a donor, you give consent for the following organs and tissues to be transplanted into medical patients in need:Heart
Lungs
Liver
Pancreas
Kidney
Small bowel
Eyes
Bones
Skin grafts
Heart valves;
, Some people worry that signing up to be an organ donor means that they are less likely to receive life-saving treatments in the event of an accident. However, organ donors in California must be declared brain-dead by two separate doctors, neither of whom is involved in the organ donation process.There is no danger to you if you decide to become a donor.


Brain death means that the brain is totally and irreversibly nonfunctional, even if your body and other organs might be kept viable for a short period of time.Organ donation can only occur when a patient is brain-dead but whose other organs are still viable, often with the help of mechanical means such as a ventilator.Tissue donation can occur after brain-death or after full-body death.
 Anyone 13 years old and older can register to become an organ donor. However, the guardians of potential donors under the age of 18 have the final say in whether or not organs are donated. If becoming a donor is important to you, communicate this to your family so that they will be on board with your decision.If you have registered as an organ donor and you are an adult, you have given consent for organ donation. If you have not registered as an organ donor, your family might be able to provide consent to donate your organs, which is another good reason to speak with them about your wishes.Even if your family's consent is not required, your family will be notified and supported throughout the donation process., Open-casket funerals are still possible with organ donation, if that is your or your family's wish. Your body will be treated respectfully according to your directives and the directives of your family. Organ donation also does not delay funerals.While the costs of organ donations will be covered by the organ procurement organization (or OPO), the funeral costs will still be the responsibility of your family.