 If your computer freezes again after a forced shut down, restart it and press ⇧ Shift as soon as you hear the start-up sound. Release the key when you see the Apple logo. Your computer will start in Safe Mode and attempt to repair issues with your disk.Many applications will not work in Safe Mode. Use it for the next couple steps, then restart to return your computer to normal.
 Safe Mode prevents programs from opening automatically on startup. To prevent a program opening after a normal startup, follow these steps:


Open System Preferences in the Applications folder.
Select Users & Groups.
Select your user account in the left pane.
Click the Login Items tab.
Select the program causing the issue.
Click the - button below the list of programs.
Alternatively, uninstall the program by dragging it to the trash.
 10.11 El Capitan added automatic permission repair. If you are using 10.10 Yosemite or earlier, this will fix some slowdown issues:


Open Applications → Utilities → Disk Utility.
Select your hard drive (usually called "Macintosh HD").
Click First Aid.
Click Repair Disk Permissions. This may take a while to complete, and your computer may be slow until it finishes.
 If your computer still has issues that don't seem tied to a specific program, follow these steps to repair your disk:Restart your computer and hold down ⌘ Command + R as it starts up.
Select Disk Utilities on the startup screen.
Select your startup disk and click Repair Disk.
Wait for this to complete (it may take a while), then restart your computer.
If you are using OS X.6 Snow Leopard or earlier, you'll need to boot your computer from the OS X install disk in order to repair the disk.
 The SMC, or System Management Controller, handles many of the physical components on your Mac. An issue with the SMC can prevent your power button from working properly, or cause general slowdowns. If none of the steps above solved your problem, reset the SMC:Laptop with non-removable battery:
Shut down your computer and plug it into a power source.
Using the left side of the built-in keyboard, hold down ⇧ Shift + Control + option.
Press the power button, release all keys, then press the power button again.

Laptop with removable battery:
Shut down your computer.
Unplug the power adapter and remove the battery.
Hold down the power button for five seconds.
Insert the battery and plug in your computer to a power source. Press the power button.

Desktop:
Shut down the Mac and unplug the power cord.
Wait fifteen seconds, then plug it back in.
Wait five seconds, then press the power button.

