


Find out where the plane flew from. Is here anybody you know living, working, or traveling there?
Were you expecting this person to be catching a flight for any reason from this place at this time?
Try phoning or emailing the person in question if you have a real reason to be concerned. Reaching them will settle your concerns.
If you don't reach the person, scan the news for more information. Be aware that some airports are extremely busy and that there are many flights leaving around the same time as the crashed flight.;
,, Expect them to be very busy and for the lines to be engaged. Be patient and keep trying.


Search online for airport contact details.
Search online for the local (relevant) police or rescue authorities. You might need to use news stories to reach a decision as to which country's authorities are dealing with the plane crash if it happens over sea - consider trying the departure country, the destination country, and any nearby countries closest to the crash location (if known).
 The news stories will change frequently and there may be a lot of mistaken reporting, so hold onto your hopes, as there may be survivors yet.
Find people to support you immediately. Making decisions from afar under unknown and very upsetting circumstances cannot be done alone.
Stay in touch with emergency officials. Give them your details, your relationship status to any persons on board, and how you can be contacted at any time.



If you need to get on a plane to be there, you might suffer additional anxiety. You might wish to see your doctor for medication to help you through this.
Consider asking someone you trust and can rely upon to accompany you, or to go in your stead if you don't feel that you can go.
Consider not going but relying on the authorities to do all that needs to be done.
If you have children impacted by this news, keep them informed as you have the facts and try to avoid scaring them unnecessarily. If you cannot cope, consider asking a friend or relative to look after the children for a time.
 Don't give into the advice of other people if it feels wrong for you. If you are in the awful position of receiving the worst news that a loved one or friend has died, the way in which you respond and grieve are entirely personal and down to who you are and your relationship with this person.


You may need to be treated for shock. This is another very important reason why you must not be left alone.

