 In order to create, edit and delete ads, you must create a user account. Visit the OLX website by searching online for "OLX (your country)," like "OLX Switzerland" or "OLX Romania." The exact web address varies based on the country selected (for example, OLX India is olx.in, OLX Philippines is OLX.ph, and so on).On the top right hand side of the page, find the blue “My Account” button and click on it. You will be taken to a log in page. Here you have two options. You can create an account by logging in with Facebook, or you can create a username and password.


To log in with Facebook, click on the Facebook button. You need to have or create a Facebook account for this to work.
To create a username and password, click on the “Register” hyperlink under the Login button. Enter your username. Then create a password and enter it twice.
A confirmation email will be sent to the email address you provided. When you receive the email, click on the confirm link to begin using OLX.;
, If you don’t want to use a computer, you can use the OLX app for your smartphone. It is available for iOS and Android. Once you have downloaded and installed the app, you can use all of OLX’s features.Manage your ads in the My OLX section.
Share your ad on social media.
Use your GPS to pinpoint other offers in your geographical location and set a distance radius when looking for products.
Create a favorites list of items listed on the site.
Connect with buyers via a “tap-and-call” feature or via text.
 Either option allows you to adequately describe and promote the item you want to sell. It’s really just a matter of personal preference. If you are comfortable with opening up your laptop, getting on the internet and uploading content to the website, then the OLX website might work for you. But if you want the convenience of being able to take pictures and create an ad all with one device, then you might find the app easier to use.
 On the homepage, click on the orange "Submit a Free Ad" button. You will be taken to the ad creation page. Here is where you enter all of the details of your ad. Follow the prompts to enter all of the relevant information.


You will be prompted to create a title, write a description, upload pictures, quote a price and enter your location and contact information.
 Make the title appealing. Think of descriptive keywords related to your item that people would use to look for that item. Include the item’s brand name or designer if applicable. Include the size, color, and condition of the item in the title. State specifically what the item is in the title.Suppose you are selling a beaded bracelet. Think of all of the terms buyers might use to search for this bracelet. For example, they may be looking for a new or antique bracelet, a certain color, or a specific metal finish. Add all of that information in your title. Make your title read something like this: “New Handmade Beaded Bracelet Silver Pink Pearls.” This way, your listing will come up whenever a buyer enters any combination of those terms in a search.
Avoid using acronyms or all caps in your title.
 Categories include mobile devices, computers, cars, furniture, pets, books and fashion, among others. Many buyers search by category. So it is important to choose the category that best fits your item.


If you’re not sure what category to choose, try searching for similar items and seeing what category other sellers have used.
 Make your description as informative as possible. List the most important information first, such as the size, shape and color and the item’s condition. Add information about what’s included with the item and the kind of packaging. Never say something that isn’t true. Also, keep the tone positive and avoid negative comments. Try to think of any questions to buyer might have and answer them in the description.Using the example of the bracelet, you could write the following description: “This bracelet was handmade in a smoke free, pet free studio. It features round, pink and white pearls, connected by sterling silver links. The lobster clasp allows for adjusting the bracelet to fit on any size wrist. The length is 6 inches.”

, Set a fair price for the item. The price should reflect the item’s condition. Prices that are too high will drive away potential buyers. Conversely, prices that are too low make buyers question the quality of the item. If you are not sure how to price your item, look for similar listings of items in comparable condition. See what those sellers are charging for their items.


Note that the price must be set in the currency of the country where the ad is placed.
 You can add up to eight photos of your item. If you are using the website, upload photos from your computer. If you are using the app, select the photos from your smartphone that you want to include with the ad. Add enough pictures so that potential buyers can get a good look at the item. Take pictures from several different angles. If possible use, outdoor lighting. If you can’t use outdoor lighting, be sure to use enough indoor lighting to adequately show the item.


Ads with more pictures get more responses from potential buyers.
 Submit your name. Then, enter a phone number you want buyers to use to contact you. Also, enter the city where you are located. This way buyers know where they have to go to find the item.


For safety purposes, don’t include your home address anywhere in the listing.
 Choose the city that is closest to your location. Since transactions happen in person, buyers need to know where you are located. Some buyers who don’t live nearby may ask you to ship from your location. You will have to decide for yourself whether or not you want to do that. You may wish to change the selling price to include shipping.


Make safety a priority when choosing where to meet. Make sure to meet in a public, well-lit area near security cameras, if possible. A good example of such a place is a police parking lot.
 You can change any information in your listing at any time. Choose from three methods for editing your ad. The method you choose depends on whether or not you have an account with OLX.Go to the page where your ad is. Click on the “Edit” link and you will be taken to a form where you can edit your ad.
If you have an account, log in to your account. Go to the “Ads” tab and find “Active Ads.” Choose the ad you want to edit and click on “Edit.” You will be taken to a form where you can make changes.
If you don’t have an OLX account, go to the “Manage Your Ad” email that was sent to you when you created your ad. In the body of that email, you will find the “Edit” link. Click on the link and you will be taken to the editing form.
 For a fee, you can create a promoted ad. This means that your ad will become a featured ad on the website. Featured ads get more traffic. Therefore, the item may sell more quickly.The ad gets featured in the category you selected when you created the ad.
The fees vary depending on the category you select.
Pay for promoting your ad via credit card or ACH electronic transfer from your checking account.
 Create an ad using the entry form on the website or the mobile app. Select a payment option (either credit card or ACH transaction). You will be taken to the payment page where you pay with an online transaction. Once OLX receives the payment, you will receive an email confirming that your ad has been promoted., If an item you previously listed is not getting enough attention, you can choose to promote it. Log in to your account. Find the ad you want to promote. Click on the “Promote” button. Select an available payment option to make your payment. Pay by credit card or ACH transfer via an online transaction. You will receive an email stating that the OLX team is promoting your ad., You may want to delete your ad if you decide against selling the item. You can choose from two methods to do so. Again, the method you choose depends on whether or not you have an OLX account.If you have an account, log in to the site and go to the “Ads” tab. Go to “Active Ads.” Select the ads you want to delete. Click on the “Remove” link under the title of the ad.
If you don’t have an account, go to the “Manage Your Ad” email that was sent to you when you created the ad. Click on the “Deactivate” link in the email.
 Buyers who are interested in purchasing your item can send you a message or call you via links in the ad. You can choose the way you want buyers to contact you when you create your ad. Many sellers provide a phone number. Others prefer to receive secure messages. It depends on your personal preference.
 Once you have connected with a buyer, make arrangements to meet in person. Choose a public place. This protects your safety because other people will be close by. Also, do not meet at your home address. It may not be safe for strangers to know where you live., If the buyer is satisfied with the condition of the item, you can accept payment. Since you are meeting in person, it is up to you what payment methods you can choose to accept. Many sellers feel most comfortable with cash-only transactions. OLX does not mediate the sale in any way. Also, buyers cannot submit payments for items through OLX.