 Do not use a baby crib that has slats spaced more than 2-3/8 inches (6 cm) apart. Otherwise, the crawling baby might get stuck between them and be strangled. Before placing your crawling baby in the crib, remove its bib. The cords might get caught on something and strangle your crawling baby. Finally, don’t hang diaper bags or purses on cribs, as the cords used to hang such objects might be used by the crawling baby to strangle itself.Don’t place pillows or duvets in your crawling baby’s crib. They might suffocate on them.
Make sure the crib isn't close to hanging cords from window blinds or curtains.
 Do not store jars of coins or stacks of buttons on or near the ground where your crawling baby might get into them. Your baby might get into these small objects and put them in their mouth. This could cause your baby to choke.Instead, place these small objects in sealed containers at an elevation where they are inaccessible to your baby. For example, you might place them in a locked cabinet or a cabinet that is several meters from the ground.
Other objects you should prevent your crawling baby from playing with include sewing needles, broken glass, nuts and bolts, pins and tacks, batteries, and small toy parts. Avoid toys that have thin or spindly bits on them that could break off and pose a choking hazard for your crawling baby.
 If you have plastic bags in your home, do not leave them lying about or give them to your baby to play with. If your crawling baby places these bags over their head, they might suffocate. Instead, place plastic bags in a locked cupboard that only you can access, or in an elevated cabinet that your baby cannot access., But tying the dummy to your crawling baby’s clothing or around their neck could lead to strangulation. For instance, if your crawling baby’s dummy gets caught on a piece of furniture while they are crawling about, they might end up getting strangled, which could produce brain damage or death.A dummy is sometimes also referred to as a pacifier, nuk, or binky.
 If you have low-hanging curtain or blind cords, tie the ends up with a twist tie at an elevation where the crawling baby cannot reach them. For instance, if your crawling baby can reach one meter above, the ends of your curtain or blind cords should be at least two meters above. This will prevent your crawling baby from getting strangled.Remember to place cribs and baby beds away from curtain and blind cords, too.If possible, replace your corded blinds with cordless ones.
 Never dress your crawling baby in anything that has a drawstring or forms a loop. For instance, necklaces, headbands, and the like should be off-limits when dressing your crawling baby. This will prevent your crawling baby from getting the looped or stringy wearable caught on something and being strangled.