 If you're experiencing frequent vomiting and diarrhea, your body will quickly lose fluids which will result in dehydration. Drink as much liquid as you can to replace lost fluids. If you find it difficult to drink a lot, take several small sips frequently.If you cannot keep down liquids because you are too nauseous, contact a doctor immediately. You may need to be taken to the hospital for intravenous fluid provision.
Try drinking water, decaffeinated tea, or juice. Sipping broth or soup is also a good way to get nutrition and fluids.;
, These are powders that you mix into water and drink. They help to replace minerals and nutrients that your body is losing through vomiting and diarrhea. You can usually buy them from pharmacies.


To make your own rehydration fluid, mix 1/2 teaspoon salt, 1/2 teaspoon baking soda, and 4 tablespoons of sugar into 4 1/4 cups (or 1 litre) of water. Stir until the ingredients are dissolved before drinking., Once you're feeling a bit hungry and nausea has subsided, start nibbling BRAT foods: bananas, rice, applesauce, and toast.. These foods can calm your stomach and shouldn't trigger nausea or vomiting.


Saltines, mashed potatoes, and soft cooked vegetables are also gentle on an upset stomach.Remember, don't force yourself to eat or rush into eating too much.
 As your body fights against the food poisoning, your digestive system will experience a temporary state of lactose intolerance. Because of this, any dairy products that you consume--e.g., butter, milk, cheese, yogurt, etc.--will result in further complications. Avoid consuming dairy until you are sure that your body has returned to normal., Chances are these won't sound appealing if you already have food poisoning, but take care to avoid spicy or fatty foods which can be difficult for you to digest.You should also cut out high-fiber foods that can also be tough on your stomach. High-fiber foods include: citrus, legumes, whole grains, nuts, and produce with the peel., Caffeine and alcohol will both alter your body chemistry in ways that may make you more uncomfortable. They're also diuretics, which means that they will cause you to urinate more often. Frequent urination leads to dehydration, which can cause serious problems when combined with frequent vomiting and diarrhea.

