 This is a two-fold action: what you're looking to change and what you're looking to become. You can't have one without the other. This is a huge endeavor to accomplish; you'll need to know the battle you're picking before you begin.


How will your projected new character contribute towards your development as a person? Many people will at this stage come to the conclusion that a personality change is not needed, but rather one small habit that has a negative effect on your interactions with others. Would just a tweak do the trick?
If there is someone you wish you were more like, distinguish what is it you want to emulate. Don't just look at a person and say "Yes, I want to be like that." Find out exactly what it is that you admire -- is it how they handle situations? Their manner of speaking? How they walk or, move? More importantly, how does this contribute to their well being?;
, Part of the reason Alcoholics Anonymous is said to be successful is because you take something you wouldn't usually talk about, and you put it out in the open. Having someone else hold you accountable provides you with an extrinsic motivation you wouldn't otherwise have.


Talk to a friend about what you're looking to accomplish. If they're a trusted confidante, they'll be able to prod you in the right direction (either by telling you that you're being ridiculous or by keeping you on track). The extra brain power and set of eyes a little bit farther away from the painting, if you will, can help you see how you should behave and what impression you're giving off.
 This can be absolutely anything. Anything. It could be as small as moving marbles from one pocket to the other or as large as a vacation. Whatever it is, make it worth it to you.


And set up checkpoints while you're at it. If you walk up to that beautiful girl or handsome guy and get one word out, fantastic. That's something. If, the next week you walk up to her and get out a whole anecdote, great! Have rewards for everything; it's all a challenge.

