 Oftentimes, to deflect nosy questions our default is to lie or skew information to try and reduce the listening party's interest. For example, you and your significant other decide to "take a break" or "open things up" and you don't want to explain this relationship gray area to your folks, so you simply say the two of you broke up to deflect incessant questions. Lying like this is not a good strategy. It's better to be honest while omitting any information you're not comfortable sharing.


Once you lie, you create a situation where you have to keep track of false information. It's usually not sustainable longterm, as we forget the details of fabricated stories. If you get caught in a lie, this will only fuel your parents nosy nature as they now think you're hiding something.If your parents question you about a subject you'd rather not talk about, be honest without giving out any information you're not comfortable sharing. This way, your parents will feel you're keeping them informed on your life and you'll get the benefit of privacy. In the hypothetical scenario involving your significant other, for example, you could say something like, "Yes, we're still seeing each other but things are simmering down a bit."

, A great way to subtly avoid your parents nosiness is to deflect the questions. This can effectively communicate you're uncomfortable without openly stating as much, which can cause undue confrontation in certain situations.


Try to change the subject. Gloss over an unwanted question by giving a non-committal answer and bring up another subject quickly. Many nosy people are nosy because they have no filters themselves, and will gladly share information about their own lives with ease. If this is the case with your folks, they will likely be glad to take the opportunity to discuss their own lives.Use humor to deflate the situation. If your parents are asking you for information you're not comfortable giving out, some light humor can distract them from their line of interrogation. If they ask, for example, "How much are you making at that new job?" try something like, "Half of what I'm worth."At social gatherings, like events surrounding the holidays, use excuses to get away from unwanted nosiness. Excuse yourself to use the restroom, get more food, or grab another drink., The word "because" is powerful in that it often serves as a deflection in and of itself. Social experiments have shown when someone uses "because" in a sentence, listeners are less likely to pry even when what follows because is vague.


In one study, a young woman at a crowded public library asked people ahead of her in line if she could cut in front of them. While 60% of participants let her cut with no explanation, 90% let her go when she said "Could I cut ahead in line because..." and then followed with an explanation. This percentage remained the same whether the circumstances were specific ("Because I have class in 10 minutes and I need to copy some flyers for my presentation") or vague ("Because I need to make copies.").Use "because" when talking to your parents. If you don't want to offer excess information, a simple "because" followed by a vague declaration may actually deter them from pressing for information. For example, "I'm going out tonight because I'm hanging out with a friend" or "I quit my job because I was unhappy there."

, Some people are simply nosy. If this is the case for your parents accepting that fact is important. It might not lead to less prying on their end, but if you accept the situation for what it is without expecting things to change you will at least feel less stress.


What exactly make their questions nosy? Ask yourself this and try to empathize with your parents. Do you live far away? Do they not know the people in your life well, such as co-workers, significant others, and friends? If so, their nosiness might be rooted in an insecurity over losing touch with you as you grow. Try to be understanding of their situation. This will make you more empathetic of their needs and wants and, therefore, less irritated by their questions.
How much do your parents share with you? Nosy people, as stated, are often more open about their own lives and don't understand why certain questions cause discomfort. If your parents are chronic over-sharers, they might not see their questions as nosy at all.