 If you do not download a movie or show and instead stream it off a website, you are not legally responsible for the movie. However, putting up video for other people to stream is illegal if you do not own the copyright. It is also illegal to stream video for a public performance or to download any part of the video.If you do not own the rights to something you are always, in some small way, legally at risk when streaming.
 There are plenty of other, smaller competitor sites that stream videos for your enjoyment. Nearly all of them are free. A Google search should reveal a few quickly.


Commonly used sites include Project Free TV, Megashare, Putlocker, Sockshare, Dailymotion, and WatchCartoonOnline.
A good template to find videos is: "(movie or show) full (put either *movie* or *episode* here) free." For example, "Game of Thrones full episodes free."
More specific queries will get more specific responses, such as Game of Thrones full episode 3, season 2, free."

, These sites are funded with dubious advertisements and potential viruses. Usually, good common sense is enough to avoid issues, and when in doubt you should not click on a sketchy link. You can safely navigate to your video as long as you know what to avoid:


Download links
Advertisements
Claims to "speed up your computer," or update your browser.
"Personalized" chat rooms, text bubbles, or conversations.Claims that you have a virus, need to clean up something, or need "Administrative Privileges.", Most streaming sites don't actually host the videos you want to watch. They are more like filing cabinets, holding links to every movie and episode they have access too. Once you click on a link from you internet search you'll go to a page with series of links, often with names like VidShare, PutLocker, MooShare, etc. These links have the actual videos in them, and are usually ranked by usability.


There is often a "score" next to each video, telling you how good the quality is.
Never click on a "download" link, or click links outside of this list, as they are usually spam.
 The title of the episode or movie is usually colored and bolded. This is your link. Click here to be taken to a new page with a rectangular video player in the middle.


If you are not taken to a video screen, exit out of the page and try another link.
 There may be a lot of other buttons an the site, but these are for ads. You can exit out of them by clicking on the small "X" in the upper right corner of the ad, but most of them disappear once your click the play button. This is usually in the bottom left corner of the video player.
 There are many foreign streaming video sites that exist in a legal gray area thanks to lax or out-of-date copyright protection laws in countries such as China and Russia. Though a dubious choice at best, these sites sometimes feature streaming media (especially major movies) that can't be found for free anywhere else.


Exercise caution when dealing with foreign sites. Malware and spyware are common. Never download anything from these sites, and be sure that your antivirus program is up to date.
Expect extraordinarily slow load times. Unlike YouTube and other popular Western sites, most of these sites use outdated hardware that causes their videos to load slowly even on fast computers.
 If you are having a ton of trouble finding a working link on your search engine, click to "Read the DMCA complaint." It's a compiled list of links that search engines aren't allowed to display on a search page. The links do still work, however, and if you copy and paste them into the search bar they will go to the correct page.

