 In order to keep a successful blog operating you have to have a certain passion for writing and editing. If you're not in this because you love to write and love to read what others have written, then blogging may not be your strength. If, on the other hand, you do love writing and reading the ideas and notions of others, blogging will work well for you.;
, Let your own random scribbling give you the inspiration to be able to stand out. Read anything and everything to get motivated to write and share. Observe objects and subjects from different angles of thought––positive, negative, a mixture of both. What about the topic is interesting? Is it motivating for you as a blogger? Will it motivate a reader? Try to creatively associate the subject matter to your real life in order to find a push to type it out into a fascinating blog piece.


Don’t forget to keep the objective of your blog foremost while writing.
 This understanding is a prerequisite quality that all bloggers need to inculcate. Answering the big WHAT in your head will give you a better understanding of what you can write for the blog.
 Think what the readers are looking for in a blog and what you should do in order to give them what they want.
 This is positive and surprisingly, asking WHY is quite successful in clearing messed up thinking. If you are conscious about finding a reason behind everything, your thought fluidity is broken and the brain starts to reason in a more informed manner.
 Express the thought after you have clearly analyzed the subject. If the reason is logical, then there it is! You get the purpose of your blog.
 After you answer the why question, another one will take you to a better height. When you ask yourself HOW, a slew of probabilities will flash into your mind. HOW gives the answers to what your actions would be while writing the blog. Questions include:



How to go about with the topic

How you and the prospects can benefit; and

How to research, etc.


These are just a few of the many queries that you might face. Answer them meticulously and you can execute the blog better.
 Deep down in your gut, you may be feeling anxiety welling up but this next question is surely going to give you some relief. Answering WHERE can snatch away the anxiety of choosing a platform to blog on. You no longer have to worry about generating popularity for the topic because a number of free online blogging profiles can be used. Make a careful choice of the platform by doing a little research beforehand. However, don't forget that the success and online visibility mostly depends on the blog's great content and the links provided in the post.
 If you are an aspiring blogger, then you have to have the love for writing. Maintain a journal and practice writing at any time during the day. Whatever ideas come out may be brain candies but they'll disappear soon enough unless you remember to pen them down. You never know which weird idea helps you create a logical blog. So keep that notebook going at all times!

, Get your aims clear and sorted. Plan what you need to do for achieving your purpose. List down every step you need to take for creating the best blog and chew over the steps before you actually create the final post.
 Say a big thank you to the wide array of different informative online blogs and articles; you will find they each can help you in paving your way. Relentless reading of different online blogs is a great means for opening up your mind to many different ideas. In doing this, you will gain a greater insight into what others are doing and what readers truly like the most.
 The age old adage that “practice makes a person perfect” makes more sense when you actually start practicing your hobby. Look at things with a creative perspective and form an idea that motivates you to write. While reading a blog, shift perspectives between that of a blogger and a reader so that you get clarity as to how you can write a similar topic in a better way.
 Without doubts, a topic is never clear. Write down each and every question that strikes your mind and find out the ways in which these questions can be answered. After you clear your doubts, you can frame creative ideas and use them to create an attractive blog post.
 By associating an event, object or knowledge to real life experiences, ideas will keep flowing. Look for inspiration in these associations for creating a successful blog post. In short, visualize and feel the topic with all of your five senses.
 There are no limits to thoughts or creativity. By consciously following these steps, you can experience this world in an all new way which will be reflected in your blogs. Plan the process properly and the rest will follow. Good luck!