 If this is your first time applying extensions, it’s a good idea to have a friend nearby to help you out. The application process requires that you juggle several different tools and, when it comes to actually gluing the extensions on, you need to be completely still. Your eye also needs to be completely shut when you glue it on, and all of this is difficult to do with just two hands.


The application process will go much faster and more smoothly with an assistant.
It will also be a lot safer for you. There is a higher risk of getting adhesive in your eye and other mishaps when you’re working alone.
 For the adhesive to stick properly, your natural lashes must be clean and free of makeup residue. They also need to be completely dry. Start by applying makeup remover to a cotton pad and gently swiping it across both eyes. Remove every trace of makeup around the eye area. Rinse the area with lukewarm water.









Allow your eyelashes to dry before you begin applying the extensions.
Comb your upper lashes with an eyelash brush to smooth and separate them. This brush, which looks like a mascara wand, should come with your extension kit.
 Your extension kit should include some sort of gel pad or tape to help pat down the bottom lashes. This will protect your skin from the adhesive. The adhesive pad also makes it easier to see and work on the individual lashes. When your eyelid is closed, the upper lashes will be against the white color, emphasizing the areas where you’re working.
 Since you’re starting at the outermost corner of your eye, your longest extensions will be used first. Squeeze a dime-sized amount of lash adhesive onto a smooth surface that’s easily accessible for you. Then use the tweezers to grab your first cluster and carefully dip the knotted end in the adhesive.









You only need a tiny amount of glue. If you use too much, the end result will look messy., Slowly drop the synthetic lash onto your natural lash, as close to the base of your eyelashes as possible. The glue should only touch your lash, not your skin. Once the extension is dropped onto your natural lash, you will have about 60 seconds to situate it before the glue sets.









After you do one eye, do the same for the other. You will work back and forth to ensure both eyes look even.
The glue can cause eyelid irritation if it touches your skin. Make sure the glue touches your natural lashes only.
 For the most natural look, the longest extensions will go on the outer edges. Continue until you’ve applied three to four of the longest extensions to the outer third of both eyes. Make sure the extensions aren’t too close together, since you will be filling in between them with shorter pieces.









Use the tweezers to adjust each extension as needed within the first 60 seconds of dropping it.
 Work from the outside corners inward, just as you did before. Be sure to do one eye, then the other. Work back and forth so both eyes look even.









As you work, use the tweezers to periodically push the applied extensions down onto your natural lashes. This will help you keep everything in place.
Take your time. Extension application is not a quick process.
 Use the medium length extensions and place three to four of them on your lashes. Continue to work from the outside in. Cover the middle third of your eyelid on both sides.
 The short ones can be a little harder to work with, so just go in as far as you can. Then use the shortest extensions to fill in any empty spaces you see in the middle sections of both eyes.
 Do not apply any mascara or eye makeup for several hours after application. If possible, try not to touch the extensions at all. Give freshly applied extensions at least 12 to 24 hours before getting them wet. The life of your extensions will vary based on the type and how well they were applied, but they should last anywhere from two to eight weeks.Professionally applied extensions should last through one growth cycle. This varies from person to person, but it’s usually about six to eight weeks.

