 While plants do provide some benefits like removing nitrates from the water, they are mostly decorative. With artificial plants, you will not have to worry about your turtle eating them or the plant dying.
 The substrate is the sand, gravel, or soil that covers the bottom of the tank. It is not necessary, and indeed will make cleaning the tank much harder. A simple painted bottom will do. However, if you are going to add rooted plants or want a more natural look, consider these substrates:Fine sand – Use fine grained sand, like that for children’s sand boxes. It is great for softshell turtles that like to dig in it. However, many turtle owners find it hard to clean.
Aquarium gravel – A poor plant substrate, its use is mostly ornamental. Be sure to use gravel that is large enough that your turtle can’t eat it.
Fluorite – A porous clay gravel, fluorite is the best choice if you are going to add rooted plants to your tank. It will make the water muddy when you first add it. Several days of filtering should clear the water.
 Plants are not necessary, but some feel that a more natural environment makes for less stress on your baby turtle. Also, aquatic plants will help keep your tank clean by consuming pollutants and competing for the carbon dioxide that algae needs to grow. Just make sure you pick the right plants to match your turtle species:Anacharis – Grows well in low light and inhibits algae growth. Good for mud/musk turtles. Plant-eating aquatic turtles like sliders, cooters, and painted turtles will destroy it.
Java Fern – A hardy, low-light plant with tough leaves that turtles usually will not eat.
Java Moss – A hardy, low-light moss that turtles usually don’t eat.
Hornwort – A fine-leafed branching plant that grows in floating mats. It tolerates low light and grows quickly enough to survive alongside sliders, cooters, and painted turtles, though they will eat some of it.
Red Ludwigia – A tough plant that turtles don’t eat, though they may uproot it from the substrate where it is planted. Requires additional light (2 watts/gallon). Good for small turtles like mud, musk, and painted.
Anubias species – They are tough, low-light plants that turtles will not eat.
Cryptocoryne species – These plants are low light tolerant and hardy, but must be planted in substrate and do not respond well to uprooting. They work best with smaller turtles in large enclosures.
Aponogeton ulvaceus – This plant tolerates low life, is durable, and will not be eaten by turtles. It can grow in plain gravel substrate.
 Plants need nutrients, light, and (usually) a place to put down roots. To give your plants the best chance to thrive:If you use plants that need a substrate, try one of the clay gravels like laterite or fluorite. They provide plant nutrition with less mess.
Add light or choose low-light plants. Most plants need 2-3 watts per gallon of water in the tank, while most aquarium lights provide on 1 watt. You can add more artificial light, but don’t put your turtle tank in a window, as this will overheat the tank and promote algae growth.
If your plants do poorly, consider adding an aquatic plant fertilizer, which you can purchase at your pet store.

