 Getting the carbs and protein your body needs sets you up to build muscle, but in order to put those building blocks to work you have to train. There are generally two kinds of exercise: aerobic exercise like running and swimming, which gets your heart rate up, and anaerobic exercise like weight lifting – the second is what builds muscle.Aim for 3 weekly sessions of weight training; there’s no need to hit the gym every day.Start slowly so you don’t strain your muscles.


Talk to your doctor before starting a new workout regimen, especially if you have any medical issues or are over 40 years old.
Consider hiring a personal trainer to help you stay safe and motivated!If you go at it alone, always be safe with workout equipment. Know how they work before you use them, don’t use them under the influence of drugs or alcohol, and only use as much weight as is safe for you.
When pushing your limits of weight-lifting, always have a spotter.
 Aerobic exercise like running, biking, and swimming is great for losing weight and burning calories, which is not your goal. You don’t have to completely avoid cardio exercise, but keep it to a minimum. If you do go for a run, for instance, use a website or app to estimate how many calories you burned and try to make up for it.
 Take 5-10 minutes to do a short aerobic warm-up, like fast walking or a mild jog. Warm muscles are less likely to get injured than cold muscles.This small amount of aerobic work won’t burn enough calories to be a problem. At the very least, start your anaerobic workouts with light weights to warm your muscles.
 Aim for 45-60 minute workouts, and try to target all your muscle groups. Do sets of exercises with the heaviest weight you can use safely. Try to increase your weights weekly, if you can. Focus on exercises like these, against resistance (have a professional show you proper form to avoid injury):Military press
Squats
Deadlifts
Bench press

Barbell rows (while bent over)
Pull-ups
Chin Ups
Dips
Calf raises

, Ideally, try to rest for less than a minute in between your reps (a rep, if you’re just starting out, means doing one exercise one time, like one pull-up; a set is, for instance, 10 reps). Do 6-12 reps per set of each exercise.For instance, do a set of 12 reps of squats with 45 pounds of weight, wait a minute, then do a set of 10 reps with 50 pounds, wait a minute, then do 8 reps with 55 pounds, etc. Remember not to overdo it – aim to have your last set of reps use your maximum amount of safe weights.
 Don’t work out every day – your muscles need rest to heal and build. The healing is actually what causes muscle growth.Working out 3 days a week with days off in between is the right amount to increase muscle mass. More isn’t always better – take your rest days!

