 Enlisted soldiers’ uniforms include the Army Combat Uniform (ACU), which is typically made of camouflaged print fabric, and the “Green” uniform, which is made of a heavy fabric coat and trousers or skirt. Insignia will be displayed on various places depending on the type of uniform:


Look on the cap of an ACU. Enlisted soldiers display their rank insignia in the center of their caps.A rank insignia patch will be sewn on the chest area of an ACU.
The “Green” uniforms of enlisted soldiers have a rank insignia patch on the upper sleeves.Enlisted soldiers do not display their rank insignia on their berets. Instead, the insignia of their unit will show on the front of the beret.;
, Privates at the E-2 rank display a single yellow chevron. Soldiers at the Private First Class rank (PFC, E-3) wear a symbol of a chevron closed by a rounded bar at the bottom, enclosing a green field.
 Corporals (CPL), however, have insignia made of two chevrons.
 Paying close attention to their insignia will help you to distinguish them.


A Sergeant’s (SGT, E-5) insignia is very similar to a corporal's, but shows three chevrons instead of two.
A Staff Sergeant’s (SSG, E-6) insignia shows three chevrons closed by a rounded bar at the bottom, enclosing a green field.
The insignia of a Sergeant First Class (SFC, E-7) is like a Staff Sergeant’s, but with two rounded bars at the bottom.
A Master Sergeant’s (MSG, E-8) insignia is like a Sergeant First Class', but with three rounded bars at the bottom.
A First Sergeant’s (1-SG, E-8) is like a Master Sergeant’s, with the addition of a small yellow diamond in the middle.
A Sergeant Major (SGM, E-9) is like a First Sergeant’s, with a star in the middle instead of a diamond.
A Command Sergeant Major (CSM, E-9) is like a First Sergeant’s, but two sheaves of wheat surrounding a star in the center instead of a diamond.
The Sergeant Major of the Army’s (E-9) insignia is like a First Sergeant’s, but with a golden eagle and two stars in the middle instead of a diamond.

