 If you have less than two hours left over, leaving the airport may not be a good idea, particularly on weekdays when rush-hour traffic can be very heavy. Rush hour in the area of the airport is from 7AM to 9AM (westbound traffic) and from 4PM to 7PM (eastbound traffic). Traffic is generally light on weekends. If you have a short layover and would like to see more of San Juan, talk to the airline you will be flying and ask if you can change your departure date. There are many inexpensive and charming hotels in the areaand you will not regret having the opportunity to see more of this city and its 500+ years of colorful history.;
, All cellular phones that work in the United States (and most of the foreign ones that have roaming service) will also work in Puerto Rico.
 Do bring your camera and a large bottle of water.
, This very nice plaza is located in front of San Juan's City Hall and is within walking distance of shopping areas as well as the imposing Spanish colonial El Morro Castle. This amazing 15th century military structure guards the entrance to San Juan Bay, and is in and of itself a half-day experience.
 One of the best places to walk is the "Paseo de la Princesa" (pronounced pah-SEH-oh de lah prin-SEH-sa). Literally translated, it is the "princess' walkway" but actually refers to the building where the Tourism Department is currently housed. The structure used to be a very nasty jail called "La Princesa" that dated from Spanish colonial times. It was not until the 1970s that a federal judge issued an order to close it.
 It is located about ten minutes from the airport and parallel to the north of airport's runway number eight.
 The same area in Isla Verde also boasts many types of cuisine, from affordable fast food to world-class fare.
 If you would like to visit a museum with local art, there are many in the San Juan metropolitan area as well as in Old San Juan., Tell the taxicab to take you to Plaza Las Américas (pronounced PLA-sah las a-ME-ri-cas), the largest and most up-scale shopping mall on the island. It takes approximately 20 minutes or so to get there if traffic is light – during the rush hour periods it can take up to an hour to get to the mall! The main entrance to the mall is where you will find the taxicab line to get back to the airport.

