;
,, Are you members of a school organization or club, take or enjoy certain classes or topics?


Be honest, don't just balk at a something that interests you simply because your friends may not approve or share it with you.
If you like a certain subject, hobby, special interest or creative outlet that is atypical of your social circle, embrace it. It makes you unique, even if it isn't shared by your friends.
You may find that you dread a certain class and they do too. Talk about it.
 You'll be shocked how many other interest you share.
,,


They may feel more comfortable alone with you or without their friends around passing judgment. That's fine. It gives you more one on one time to communicate and get to know each other.
Once you start gaining respect for each other you'll both care less about negative remarks and be more concerned with defending and protecting your new friendship.



You may not know each others music very well at the start, but take the time to learn it.
Realize that clothing and style may not show much about others' personalities.
Take the plunge. They may really enjoy knocking ideas and theories around.
 Don't look down on anyone because they are different.
 Put your attention getting personality on the back burner and focus energy on respecting the cultivation of your friendship.
 Why are you hanging out with them?" Be up front, tell them the person is actually interesting and fun to talk to and hang out with.


If they keep giving you a hard time you should remind them you can keep any friends you'd like and don't need approval.
Chances are they will respect you for being up front and not give you a hard time once you confirm that you're friends.
Never deny being someone's friend to save face with your social circle. Not only is it mean, but it's of very poor character.
 Don't force the issue. Even if you don't become great friends now, being cordial and respectful acquaintances is fine.
 Chances are you won't travel in the same social circle even though you become friends.



This happens in friendships. Don't get offended. Just be cool and try to keep the communications open.
Accept when a real friendship may not develop. You may just not be cut out for it with that person. Hopefully, you've met some of their friends and the lines of friendship are open elsewhere.



Just because you're from one group doesn't mean you can't date someone from another group. There are many who find the differences and a genuine friendship based on deeper connections more rewarding and successful than dating someone within their immediate circle of friends.
Don't assume they won't like you. Assume they will.

