 Android or IOS user? Not a problem. You can get the installer on Google Play if you are an android user or have it on Apple Store.


If you are an Xbox 360 enthusiast, you can buy Fruit Ninja Kinect from the Xbox marketplace for just $9.99. Unlike the version for android phones and tablets or apple’s iPod, iPhone or iTouch, this one utilizes its Kinect peripheral by using the player’s hands and arms to slice the fruits that are being thrown in the air.
A Facebook version Fruit Ninja Frenzy was also released. It functions the same way as how you play it using a tab or a smart phone but this time slicing fruits using the mouse. This version introduces currency in the form of juice and starfruit.
Another version of Fruit Ninja is the Fruit Ninja: Puss N’ Boots. This has identical gameplay as the original only it has the Puss N’ Boots theme.;
, Once the app is installed, it’s time to unleash the ninja in you. This isn’t just about swiping your fingers from left to right or waving your arms up in the air, it requires accuracy, speed and right timing. There are combo hits that can add up points as you continue.


Try not to miss a fruit! Three fruits missed, the game ends. It is crucial to slice all the fruits to proceed to the next level.
 Bombs are occasionally thrown out of the screen, once sliced and mistaken to be a fruit the game ends.


Use your ears! Listening carefully is one of your weapons. Sound is an ally. Once the hissing noise is heard, it means there is a bomb coming.
In the arcade mode, slicing a bomb is not a big deal. It will not end your game. Just avoid it as much as you can because doing so will give you additional ten point bonus at the end of the game if all bombs were avoided.
 Aside from the usual hack and slash mode, there are different types of modes that you can also choose from in Fruit Ninja.


We have what we call Zen mode in which players are allowed to achieve high scored without bombs appearing on the screen but it is time pressured. Players are given a minute and thirty seconds to slice as many fruit as they can.
In Arcade mode, players are given sixty seconds to achieve a high score. Bananas which are equivalent to different unique bonuses are added up to this mode such as doubling the points that the player already scored for a limited time, increasing the amount of fruit thrown on the screen and slowing the phase of the fruit being thrown on the screen.
In Classic mode, pomegranates are occasionally thrown on the screen which allows the player to slice it up multiple times to earn extra points.
There are other modes available in Fruit Ninja that are dependent on the game version they are in such as Multiplayer mode.
 Fruit Ninja is a great game for children and adults. It has low learning curve and one of those games that you can truly say you enjoy while you’re actually doing challenging tasks. Once you master the game, you can now unlock some extra blades and background wallpapers.


Unlockable items  usually become available after completing certain achievements. They may also differ between versions.

