 As America eased into post-war prosperity after 1945, fashions became more elaborate and indulgent again. Here are a few examples of this trend.

Imitate the "New Look". Christian Dior's "New Look" silhouette, introduced in 1947, was a direct response to the wartime austerity look. It featured a tailored, pleated jacket with a nipped waist and a peplum (a small skirt emphasizing a narrow waist and wide hips) that flared out into a mid-calf length, full skirt made up of several folds. Instead of the leggy wartime look, the New Look emphasized the bust and hips in an hourglass figure. The outfit was usually completed with a hat, jewelry, gloves and a handbag or pocketbook, and it came in a variety of colors.






Wear cocktail attire. Cocktail attire, billed as more elegant than daywear but a step down from formal wear, became popular in the late 1940s for informal or early dinners. For women, this meant wearing dresses in sumptuous fabrics with a mid-calf or knee-length hem and including elements such as a low-cut bodice, a short bolero jacket, or a frothy skirt enhanced with tulle or chiffon. Additionally, high heels became higher and wedges were less popular.






Chose a period-appropriate suit. Menswear again became generously fitted after the war, featuring wide-leg trousers, shoulder pads and double-breasted jackets. Broad lapels and bold, coordinated accessories were promoted by Esquire magazine as the "Bold Look." Colors remained elegant and muted, with charcoal gray being popular.
 After the war and with the advent of fuller skirts, structural undergarments were necessary once more. Garters were used to hold up stockings, girdles helped achieve the popular "nipped waist" look, and petticoats were sometimes necessary to fill out skirts. Women were reluctant to give up the pants and shorts they'd enjoyed during the war, and retained them in slimmer, more feminine cuts. Sporty sweaters and jackets were fashionable for men.
 In response to the longer locks of the war, women again cut their hair shorter and kept it curled, or added bangs. Men wore hair with a "wet" look, achieved with pomade or cream, and combed back from the forehead or up into a pompadour.
 Postwar makeup remained similar to wartime makeup, with the exception of a less-bold lip. Liner and color followed a natural lip line, instead of the wartime "Cupid's bow" look. Instead, bright nail colors became popular.
 Eyeglasses became more “cat's eye” shaped for the ladies.
 As middle-class Americans began to enjoy more leisure time, sportswear became a popular element of US fashion.
 The boys were back home and they came with souvenirs. This led to a popularity in island themed fashions and home décor. Hawaiian themed parties were popular by the movie stars during the war and now the rest of the nation was catching up. Tropical prints were all the rage. Hawaiian shirts were the backyard BBQ favorite of the fellas.

