 Your loved one will need to undergo and continue treatment in order to live a better life. You should encourage him to continue treatment. This means you should encourage him to go to therapy, take mediation, and take part in any lifestyle changes suggested by his doctor.


Your loved one may not want to continue treatment, especially after being released from an inpatient facility; however, this can lead your loved one to relapse or get worse, which is the opposite of what you want.Don’t argue or get angry with your loved one about it. Instead, tell him that you care and only want to help and make sure he is safe and cared for.;
, Having schizophrenia is not easy for your loved one. A chronic mental illness can drag her down and make her feel depressed or worthless. If you see this happening, tell your loved one you love her and that you are there if she needs you. Even if your loved one is in the middle of a delusion, keep showing her compassion and understanding.


This may be hard, especially if you feel mistreated; however, don’t take your frustrations out on your loved one. You should be loving and understanding of her situation instead of making it worse.Make sure you help your loved one feel safe and comfortable with you. Always listen and really hear what your loved one is saying so she feels heard and understood. This will make your loved one more likely to turn to you when she is not feeling 100% and needs help., When your loved one has schizophrenia, you should still include him family activities when you can. You just have to be more careful about the atmosphere and activities. The level of interaction that your loved one can handle will depend on the specific case of schizophrenia, but ask your loved one when you invite him if he is comfortable doing it.


There may be social situations where your loved one does not feel comfortable, so don't be offended if he says no.
Your loved one will have a unique set of schizophrenia triggers.Make sure you know these before you invite your loved one to spend time with you. This way, you can avoid doing things that will set off a delusion or psychotic break.
 A loved one with schizophrenia will experience strange and elaborate delusions, and this may occur when you are with your loved one. If your loved one approaches you with a particular bizarre thought or delusions, respectfully let her know you see things differently. Do not get angry or annoyed about it, but acknowledge that you understand that the situation is real to your loved one and that she sees things differently.



Do not challenge your loved one’s delusion directly. This will anger your loved one and make her distrust you.
Instead, let your loved one know you understand what she is saying to be real for her and then move on to a topic that you can agree on., When you are around your loved one that has schizophrenia, try to put as little stress as possible on him. Stress and anxiety can make his schizophrenia worse. This means you need to help keep your loved one relaxed and calm as much as possible. Practice relaxation techniques with your loved one, such as yoga, deep breathing exercises, or meditation.


You can also encourage your loved one’s favorite activities, such as reading, listening to music, or any other activity that helps reduce stress.
This has the added bonus of keeping you less stressed, which will help both you and your loved one at the same time., When you are spending time with your loved one, you may feel the urge to do everything for her. This is not beneficial for you or your loved one. Despite having schizophrenia, your loved one can still do most things for herself. Encourage your loved one to do as much as possible on her own when you are together.


You want your loved one to feel as independent as possible while still working within the confines of her schizophrenia.
This will also take some pressure off you because you won’t have to watch everything your loved one does when you are together., If your loved one is getting back on his feet after being diagnosed with schizophrenia or after a psychotic episode, you need to help him set realistic goals. Help your loved one figure out what is feasible to do in the current situation and encourage him to do it. This will help reduce any undue stress on your loved one and help him get his life back as much as possible.


Don’t let your loved one set goals that are not attainable. The added stress or disappointment may make your loved one feel worse or relapse.