 The number of photos you have is likely to decide the size of your project. Ask your colleagues to donate photos of the person to the project.


Scan old photographs into the computer. Print new copies of your digital version so that you don't ruin the originals. Return the old photographs to friends or family members.;
, For a large scrapbook, choose a 12 by 12 inch scrapbook binder. However, you can choose a much smaller format.
 You can either type up these quotes or use the signed notes as a heartfelt memento.
 Place them in piles according to a theme, event or chronological period of the person's life.
 Each page or group of pages will need a title to place the reader in the correct setting or time. Writing titles is a big part of artful scrapbooking.


Some sample retirement scrapbooking titles include: "The Golden Years," "Over the Hill," "The Age of Innocence" or "Aged to Perfection."

, Scrapbooking can be an intensive project, especially if you want to fill many pages in a 12 by 12 inch binder. Invite others to glue and arrange pages, while sharing the cost.
 Scrapbooking stores, craft stores and online craft stores all carry themed paper that you can use to illustrate your theme. For example, if the retiree likes wine, you can buy a wine themed paper to use behind your photographs.
 Use acid free glue for all photographs and paper. This will help the project to last longer. Allow the pages to dry after you glue paper, mat, photos, titles and other elements to the page.


Avoid using large amounts of glue, because it can wrinkle your pages. Some people prefer quick drying spray glues to avoid wrinkles.
 Use a calligraphy pen to get a permanent and bold letter quality. You can also buy letter stickers, if you prefer a "printed' look.


Practice writing your titles on scrap paper before you write them directly onto your scrapbook pages. You can try a number of different styles before settling on the 1 you like. You may choose to keep this lettering style for a more uniform project.
 Decorate the outside of the binder with a title and a picture of the retiree.

