 The individuals behind phishing attacks, also known as "phishers," may redirect you to malicious websites that are designed to resemble Facebook pages and applications.


Look at the web address in the address bar of your Internet browser to determine if you are on Facebook's domain. All legitimate Facebook web pages reside on the domain of "Facebook.com.";
, Sometimes the Facebook profiles of your friends can be hacked into, or your friends can be sharing links with other users that are unknowingly malicious.


Type the names of suspicious websites into your search engine to determine their legitimacy. Sometimes you can find feedback about a particular website or find that the legitimate website is being spoofed by the phisher.
Place your cursor directly over a link being shared on Facebook. In most cases, a floating window will appear that displays the true web address for that particular link.
 This can protect you from phishing attacks on Facebook and other websites you frequent in the event a phisher learns of your Facebook email address and password.
 Some Internet browsers will prevent you from accessing malicious websites, or warn you if malicious content has been detected on a particular website. Examples of browsers with this feature are Firefox 3.0.10 and Internet Explorer 8.
 The Facebook Security Page will alert you of breaking news and updates about phishing attacks on Facebook through your News Feed.


Visit the "Facebook Blog" website provided to you in the Sources section of this article, then click on the link that reads "Facebook Security Page."
Click on the "Like" button to become a fan of Facebook Security and to begin receiving updates on phishing attacks to your News Feed.
 Since most malicious content is viral, sharing information about phishing attacks can protect your own Facebook account in addition to your friends' accounts.


Publish status updates that provide information to your friends about Facebook phishing attacks, or post messages about the attacks to your friends' Facebook Walls.

