 Since you are going to be touching your face, you want to make sure your hands are clean to prevent rubbing dirt and oil on your nose. Clean your hands with soap and water, then dry before handling your jewelry., This is the most common type of nose piercing, just a hoop that runs through your nose. There are a couple types of rings, each of which is designed to come out a bit differently.Seamless rings. These rings should have a break in the material. To take it out, bend the ring slightly so the break comes apart, then slide out of your piercing.
Segment rings are designed with a separate piece that comes out of the ring. Pull it out in order to remove the ring from your nose, then snap it back in place to close the ring.
Because of their size, nose rings can be tricky to pull apart in order to insert or remove. Some companies make opening and closing pliers, special tools to grip the ring, which you might find helpful for seamless rings.
 These are common types of jewelry consist of a straight post holding a bead or jewel that is visible. The other end is usually another bead that helps prevent it from falling out. To remove, grab both ends and pull apart.Nose bones are similar types of jewelry, but much more difficult to get out. To change the jewelry, you will effectively need to rip it out of your nose.
 This type of jewelry started in India, and has become more popular in the Western world. It consists of a short post that has a hook or “L-bar” at the other end to hold it in place. Just like a stud or pin, to remove you grab both ends and pull.Some types may require you to twist slightly to help the pieces come apart, but that should be fairly easy to get the hang of., If you are having trouble getting your fingers on the jewelry, or have certain types of piercings that you can’t remove, go back to your piercer to have them take it out. This is not something you should do often, but if something is stuck, or you are having a problem with your jewelry, the piercer should check it out.When you first get your nose pierced, it can be a good idea to talk about removal with your piercer. Talk about the proper way to remove your jewelry, and others things you should know about jewelry care.
 If you removed your jewelry in order to swap in another piece, it is important that you make that change quickly. Have the next piece ready to go so you can make the switch. Everyone’s body heals differently, but you can’t be sure how long it will take for the hole to close up. Even piercings that have been there for years can shrink or close within minutes, making reinsertion difficult, if not impossible., If you have decided that you want to get rid of the jewelry you are wearing then you need to take it out. Nose rings and other nasal jewelry are designed to be removed easily, so once you know that you don't want it, just remove it.


One key exception to this is if the area around your piercing has become infected. If this is the case, do not touch the jewelry. Instead, go to a doctor so they can treat the infection. Many infections can be treated without removing the jewelry, so make sure you tell your doctor that you want it take out.If your jewelry has become embedded, it may require surgical removal. Talk to your doctor about getting it removed as soon as you can, as you don’t want jewelry embedded into your skin like that., If you have removed your nose ring for good, you want to make sure the hole shrinks without infection or other trouble. Once you have removed the jewelry, make sure you continue to clean the wound area twice a day using warm water or a saline solution. In most cases, the piercing hole will heal on its own, shrinking down so that all is left is a barely noticeable dimple.If your piercing has become stretched, it is less likely to heal back to its original shape., If you change your mind, and decide to get your nose pierced again, make sure the hole heals completely before getting it pierced again. If the area doesn’t heal, you can create scar tissue from the additional trauma to your nose., Twice a day, you should clean the pierced area using sterile cotton swabs dipped in warm water or a saline solution. Dabbing the pierced area should be enough, but be sure to remove any crusty formations on the jewelry. When you are finished, pat the area dry with a paper towel, clean tissue, or dry cotton ball. Be careful not to use towels, as they can snag.To make your own saline solution, rather than buying it, dissolve 1/4 teaspoon of non-iodized sea salt in one cup of lukewarm water.
Remember to use different cotton balls or swabs when cleaning the parts of your jewelry inside and outside of your nose.Avoid using strong substances such as tea tree oil, alcohol, betadine, hydrogen peroxide, and methylated spirits. These can lead to scars and lumps on your nose, and will probably create a burning sensation and other irritation., Sometimes you may want to clean just the jewelry, especially if it is getting a little dull. Once you remove it, use a soft brush with warm water and a little antibacterial soap.In general, avoid using cleaning products and chlorine. They can damage many of the materials used in jewelry.
Talk to your piercer about what your jewelry is made of, and good cleaning products for different materials.
 You don’t want your nose jewelry to sit out the open when you aren’t wearing it. It is small, and easy to lose if you aren’t careful. A small soft pouch for your different pieces should be enough to keep it secure and in an easy-to-find place., One good way to keep your nose piercing healthy is to live a clean life. In particular, keep an eye on things that are near your face. Washing towels and bedding at least once a week, especially pillowcases and washcloths. Clean glasses and sunglasses as well.To help with the healing process, and keep yourself healthy overall, remember to eat a good diet and get plenty of sleep. Aside from making you feel more awake and energetic, this will also help your nose heal the area around your piercing. In addition, avoid things that put additional pressure on your body, like drugs, alcohol, nicotine, and stress.
 If you need to remove your jewelry for something like surgery, sports, or your job, talk to your piercer about temporary, non-metallic alternatives. That way, you’ll be able to keep something in the hole while not getting in the way of whatever else you need to do.Just remember not to take anything out until you talk to your piercer. Your hole may close up before either of you has a chance to do anything.

