 The first thing to do when attempting to combat excessive sweating is to switch to an antiperspirant with a stronger formula. While prescriptions are required for the strongest of these, there are several clinical strength formulas available over-the-counter from brands like Dove and Secret.


Be aware of the difference between antiperspirants and deodorants. Antiperspirants will actually clog the sweat glands and prevent excess moisture, while deodorants simply mask odors. Therefore, if you are suffering from excess sweating, it's important that you use an antiperspirant (although antiperspirant-deodorants are also available).
Prescription-strength antiperspirants typically contain 10 to 15 percent of an active ingredient called aluminum chloride hexahydrate. This ingredient is highly effective at reducing perspiration but can sometimes cause skin irritation, so you may need to shop around to find a formula that works for you.
Some people are also opposed to wearing antiperspirants due to the alleged links between the aluminum-based compounds found in antiperspirants and diseases such as cancer and Alzheimer's. However, multiple clinical studies have found no evidence to support this link.;
, This may come as a surprise, but doctors recommend applying your antiperspirant at nighttime, just before bed. The reason for this is that it takes approximately six to eight hours for the antiperspirant to enter the sweat ducts and adequately clog the pores.


Your body also tends to stay cooler and more calm while you're sleeping, which reduces sweating and prevents the antiperspirant from being washed away before it has time to sink in (which is what happens when you only apply antiperspirant in the morning).However, it is a good idea to apply the antiperspirant a second time, after your morning shower, for optimum results.
Remember that antiperspirants aren't reserved for use on the armpits, they can be used almost anywhere you find yourself sweating - like the palms, feet and back. Just avoid using them on the face, as stronger formulas have a tendency to cause irritation, especially on sensitive skin.
 Wearing the right clothing can make a huge difference when it comes to keeping sweating under control. Firstly, wearing breathable clothing can prevent you from sweating excessively in the first place and secondly, making clever clothing choices can help to mask sweat stains and stop you from feeling self-conscious.


Wear lightweight fabrics. Lightweight, breathable fabrics - such as cotton - will allow your skin to breathe and prevent your body from overheating.
Choose dark colors and patterns. Wearing dark colors and patterned clothes can help to make sweat stains less obvious or even unnoticeable, giving you greater peace of mind as you go about your day.
Wear breathable shoes. If you suffer from sweaty feet, it's a good idea to invest in high-quality, breathable shoes which prevent your feet from over-heating. You can also place moisture-wicking insoles inside shoes, for added sweat-reducing benefits.






Layer up. Layering your clothing, no matter what the season, can help with the appearance of sweat, as the bottom layers can soak up any excess moisture before it gets a chance to soak through the outer layers. Men can wear undershirts, while women can opt for a camisole.






Consider using dress shields. If it's too warm for extra layers, you can also consider using dress-shields. These are small adhesive patches which you can stick to the inside of your clothing to soak up an excess moisture. They are available at most pharmacies., Keeping a spare (non-creasing) shirt or blouse in your bag at all times is a good idea if you suffer from excessive sweating. Just knowing that you always have a fresh change of clothes readily available can decrease your anxiety levels and make you feel more secure.


It has been proven that worrying about your sweating can actually cause you to sweat more, so knowing that you have a safety net (in the form of a change of clothes) to fall back on can actually prevent you from sweating so much in the first place.
Carry a handkerchief. Another sneaky back-up is to carry a handkerchief in your pocket at all times. That way, if you're confronted with the necessity of shaking hands with somebody, you can quickly and inconspicuously dry your palms first.
 Spicy foods such as hot peppers or Indian curries can increase the amount of sweat you produce, so avoid eating anything spicy - at least during lunch on workdays or on a date.


Also avoid eating foods such as garlic and onions, as the strong odors associated with these foods can come out through your sweat.Overall, eating clean foods such as whole grains, fruit and veg is a good idea. Although, they won't stop you from sweating, they can improve the odor of the sweat.
 If you suffer from nighttime sweating, there are several things you can do to keep yourself cool in bed.


Make sure you are using breathable, lightweight bed linen no matter what time of year it is. Also make sure to choose sheets in an absorbent material such as cotton - silk or flannel sheets are not ideal.
Opt for a lightweight duvet or comforter. You can always layer more blankets on if necessary, but if you're sleeping under a heavy down duvet - even in summer - its no wonder you suffer from nighttime sweats., Feeling stressed, nervous or anxious is a major sweat trigger for some people, so it makes sense that by controlling your stress levels, you can control your sweating.


When you're stressed or nervous, these feelings stimulate neurotransmitters in the brain which send signals to your body to start sweating, leaving you feeling hot and bothered.






To cut down on stress, try to avoid biting off more than you can chew at work. If you find yourself sweating due to nerves before a presentation or meeting your boss, focus on relaxation techniques such as deep breathing and meditation.In the long term, things like frequent exercise and making time for family and friends will help you to reduce stress. Find other stress reducing ideas here.
 If you find that your scalp gets sweaty at the slightest physical activity, consider spritzing your hair with some dry shampoo every morning. Most dry shampoos have a powdery finish which soaks up additional moisture from the hair and scalp.


Keep a travel-size bottle of dry shampoo in your purse or in a desk drawer at work - then you can have a quick spritz in the bathroom whenever you want to freshen up.
Scented dry shampoos also smell great - helping to mask any sweaty odors. However, if you're looking for a more D.I.Y. option, baby powder or baking soda will also do the trick.
 Things like smoking, drinking alcohol and excessive caffeine consumption can all lead to increased sweating, so it's a good idea to cut back on these things where possible.


Being overweight also leads to increased sweating, so if you could stand to lose a few pounds, that's a good place to start.
See articles on quit smoking, quit drinking alcohol, quit caffeine and lose weight for help.

