 Abandonware simply refers to software that's no longer supported or that has unenforced copyright protection, often because the original developer is no longer in business or was sold. You'll see several sites listed that allow you to download old games.


By checking the page description (or "snippet") under each search result, you should be able to determine which sites offer free downloads. Several of the results will mention the availability of game downloads.
It's not a bad idea to also perform a search like "best sites for abandonware" to help make an informed decision. You'll find some sites and forums that recommend specific abandonware sites and/or assess the safety of their downloads.;
, Depending on the sites, games may be organized differently. But you should be able to browse through categories or search for a specific game if you already have one in mind.
 What shows up next will depend on the site you're using. You're generally likely to find some information about the game and potentially other user reviews. Sometimes the download button can be difficult to locate amid the clutter, but you should be able to find it amid the clutter.
 Some sites will also give you the option to skip downloading and simply play the game in your browser. Downloading the game, however, will allow you to play it when you're offline. Beware of ads. Some advertisements are designed to look like download buttons. The design of the button will likely look different from the site, and there should be a button on the ad that allows you to close it.


There may be different versions of the game available for download, but you should be able to play either one.
 You should be able to find it in your Downloads folder. Games often come zipped, so you may have to unzip them manually if your system doesn't do so automatically. Programs like WinRAR may be helpful for this.


You may have to adjust your system's preferences to allow installation of applications from unidentified developers.
You should also review this article's warning section to better understand the legality associated with abandonware and

