 If you have jaundice, you may notice yellow discoloration of the white part of your eyes and throughout your skin. The yellowness may begin on your face, then gradually move to the other parts of the body.Bring your mirror into a well-lit room with plenty of natural light. Always use natural lighting when possible, as light bulbs and shades may tint the lighting.
Gently apply pressure to your forehead or nose. Notice the color of your skin while releasing the pressure. If there is a tinge of yellowness to your skin as the pressure is released, you may have jaundice.
To test your baby’s skin for jaundice, press gently on baby’s forehead or nose for a second, then release. Healthy skin will momentarily look lighter before returning to normal, whereas jaundiced skin will appear slightly yellowed.You can also look inside your baby’s mouth at his gums, on the soles of his feet, and on the palms of his hands to check for jaundice.A baby’s jaundice progresses down the body from head to toe.If you have darker skin or if you are uncertain if you are seeing a yellowish tinge, look at the whites of your eyes. If they have a yellowish tint, you may have jaundice.;
, Jaundice may cause your skin to become very itchy because of the increased level of toxins accumulating in your blood vessels during the break down of bile, to which bilirubin binds in the liver.Itchiness may be related to underlying bile duct obstruction or cirrhosis of the liver.The bile ducts carry bile away from the liver to the gallbladder and may get blocked by gallstones.Cirrhosis of the liver is a condition in which the liver is damaged to the point that normal healthy liver tissue is replaced with non-functioning scar tissue and is caused by hepatitis, alcoholism, and other liver disorders., Called spider angiomas, your skin may develop these small markings because the underlying process causing the jaundice is likely also causing increased blood flowing through your blood vessels. This makes the blood vessels very noticeable under your skin.Spider angiomas are not a direct result of the jaundice itself but often occur simultaneously.
These spider vessels blanch when you press on them and most frequently occur on the upper body including the trunk, arms, hands, neck, and face., Small, reddish and purple spots may appear on your skin, indicating that you might be bleeding under the skin. This occurs because because of liver damage causing problems with blood clotting, as your liver normally makes substances that helps your blood clot. There is also increased efficiency in the breakdown of red blood cells and blood formation in the body that can cause you to bleed more easily., If you have jaundice, you may notice that you have a tendency to bruise more easily than normal. You may also find that if you get a cut, the blood takes a longer time to clot.This symptom is also related to a damaged liver not being able to make the substances that help with blood clotting.

