 Attach the yarn to your hook using a slipknot, then work a foundation of 10 standard chain stitches.


You can change this number of chains according to your needs. This example uses 10 chain stitches, but you should alter this number based on your pattern's instructions or on the desired length of your work.
To make a slip knot:

Create a loop, passing the tail end of the yarn beneath the attached side.
Push the attached side of the yarn up through the bottom of the loop, creating a second loop in the process. Tighten the first loop around it.
Insert your crochet hook into the second loop. Pull on the tail end of the yarn to tighten the second loop onto the hook and complete the knot.


To make a standard chain stitch:

Yarn over the tip of the hook once.
Pull this yarn-over through the loop already on your hook. This completes one chain stitch.

;
, Yarn over the hook once, then pull a loop back through to the front of your piece.You can either work your stitches into the back loops of your foundation chain or into both the front and back loops. No matter which method you use, however, you should continue to use the same method throughout the entire work.
At the end of this step, you should have two loops on your hook.
Note that you are beginning your first forward pass. You are also creating a preparation row for the rest of your work.
 Follow the same technique to pull up a loop through each chain. Continue until you reach the end of your foundation chain.


For each chain, insert the hook into the chain, yarn over the tip, and draw the loop back through to the front of the stitch.
By the end of this process, you should have as many loops on your hook as you had stitches in your foundation chain. For this example, you will have 10 loops.
This completes your first forward pass.
 Yarn over the tip of the hook, then pull this yarn over through one loop on your hook.


You should still have the same number of loops on your hook as before. For this example, you will have 10 loops.
This is the first stitch in your return pass. The rest are similar, but not quite like it.
 Yarn over the tip of the hook again. This time, pull the yarn-over through two loops on your hook.


After this step, you will have one less loop on your hook. For this example, you should have nine loops.
 Repeat the previous step until you reach the start of your work and only have on loop left on your hook.


For each stitch, you should yarn over the hook and pull the yarn-over through two loops previously on the hook.
At the end of each stitch, you will be left with one less loop on your hook. For instance, eight loops after the next stitch, seven after the stitch that follows, six loops for the stitch after that, and so on.
Do not pull through the last loop on your hook.
This step completes your first reverse pass. It also completes your preparation row.
 To start another row of Tunisian crochet using the simple stitch, you will need to work another forward pass in the same basic manner as the first.


For this forward pass, insert the hook from right to left into the second vertical bar from the hook. Do not insert the hook into the vertical bar directly below it; you must use the second vertical bar.
Yarn over the tip of the hook and pull it back through to the front of the vertical bar. You should have two loops on your hook.
Insert the hook into the next vertical bar, yarn over, and pull it through, giving you three loops on your hook.
Repeat along the entire row, until you have reached the last vertical bar. Do not work a stitch into the last vertical bar yet.
 Locate the horizontal bar directly right of the last vertical bar. Insert the hook under this horizontal bar, as well as the last vertical bar. Yarn over and pull a loop back through these two stitches to complete your forward pass.


Note that this step is only optional. If desired, you can simply draw a loop up from beneath the vertical bar only and exclude the horizontal bar. Using both adds stability to your work, however.
At the end of this step, you should have 10 loops on your hook, or however many loops as you had in your foundation chain.
 Complete another return pass row in the same way as the first.


Yarn over the tip of the hook. Pull this yarn-over through one loop previously on your hook.
Yarn over the hook again, but this time, pull it through two loops on your hook. This should decrease the number of loops on your hook by one. Repeat this step across the rest of the row until there is only one loop left on your hook.
 Alternate back and forth between forward pass and reverse pass rows, ending at the conclusion of a reverse pass row, until you reach the end of your simple stitch section or the end of your overall work.


You can create an entire work using nothing but the Tunisian simple stitch. You could also combine the simple stitch with other techniques, though, like the Tunisian double crochet.
If you wish to end with only the Tunisian simple stitch, skip down to the section on "Finishing the Work."

, The Tunisian double crochet starts after you have completed a preparation row using the Tunisian simple stitch.


You can also work the Tunisian double crochet into larger piece of Tunisian simple stitches. The preparation row is a minimum start, but not a maximum start.
Make sure that you have completed a reverse pass before you start the Tunisian double crochet. There should only be one loop on your hook when you start.
 Work two standard chain stitches from the loop on your hook.


These chain stitches will help accommodate the eventual height of your Tunisian double crochet row.
 Yarn over the hook once, then insert it into the second vertical bar. Yarn over again, then draw this yarn-over back through to the front of your work, creating a loop. Yarn over once more, then draw your last yarn-over through two loops on your hook.Note that the first vertical bar should be skipped over, as done with the simple stitch.
Leave the final loop of the stitch on your hook. There should already be one loop on your hook from before that, however, giving you a total of two loops on the hook at the end of this first double crochet.
The difference between the Tunisian simple stitch and the Tunisian double crochet lies entirely in this forward pass part of the process.
 Repeat the previous step, working into each vertical stitch of the previous until you reach the end of that previous row.


For each stitch, yarn over the hook once, insert it into the next vertical bar, and yarn over again. Draw the yarn-over back through to the front, yarn over again, and draw this last yarn-over through two loops on your hook.
For the last vertical bar, insert the hook into the horizontal stitch lying to the right of the vertical bar as well as the vertical bar itself. When pulling a loop back through to the front of the work, make sure that you pull it through both bars again. This adds stability to the edge of the work.
When you reach the end of your forward pass row, you should have 10 loops on your hook, or the number of stitches you started with in your foundation chain.
 Yarn over the tip of the hook and draw that yarn-over through one loop previously on your hook.


Note that the reverse pass for the Tunisian double crochet is the exact same as the reverse pass for the Tunisian simple stitch.
 Yarn over the hook, then draw that yarn over through two loops on the hook.


You should be left with one less loop on your hook at the end of this step.
Repeat this step until only one loop remains on the hook.
 Alternate back and forth between the forward pass and reverse pass until you reach the end of your Tunisian double crochet section or the end of your work as a whole.


Always end with the conclusion of a reverse pass.
Skip down to the section on "Finishing the Work" if you are ready to tie off the work at the completion of this step.
 Work through a return row, using either the Tunisian simple stitch or Tunisian double crochet. Wait until only two loops remain on your hook., Attach the new color to the tip of your hook, then draw this new color through both loops already on your hook.


To attach the new yarn, tie it to the tip of your crochet hook with a standard slipknot.
When you finish this step, you should have one loop of your new color on your hook and none of the old color on your hook.
 Work your next forward row of Tunisian simple stitches or Tunisian double crochet as you usually would, using the new yarn color instead of the old.


Continue along with forward and reverse passes as usual until you have all you need for this color yarn. You can then change colors again, using the same technique, or finish off your work.
 Insert the yarn into the second vertical bar from the hook. Yarn over the hook, then pull the yarn-over through both loops on your hook.


You can finish your work when you reach the end of a reverse row and only have one loop left on your hook.
You should only be left with one loop on your hook at the end of this step.
 Continue slip stitching into each stitch along the top edge of your work until you reach the end of your row.


For each stitch, insert the hook into the next vertical bar, yarn over, and pull the yarn-over through both loops on your hook.
 Cut the yarn, leaving at least a 2 inch (5 cm) tail. Pull this tail through the last loop on your hook to fasten off the work.


For added security, weave the excess tail into the back of the work, hiding it from sight.
This should complete your Tunisian crochet project.

