 The "escort" is a boy whose job is to escort the birthday girl—the festejada—throughout her night. Ask a friend, or someone that you fancy – whichever makes you feel most comfortable.
 The Court of Honor traditionally comprises 15 couples, including the birthday girl and her escort. The Court is made up of the birthday girl's closest friends, her brothers, sisters, and cousins – the important people in her life with whom she wants to share the spotlight. These friends will pair off into couples for several choreographed dances throughout the Quinceañera, as well as a surprise dance. The Quinceañera's Court of Honor can be comprised of all girls (called Dama), all boys (called Chambelán, Escorte, or Galán) or a combination of both.


If you plan on having the couples, you will need to ensure that everyone’s parents approve. Make sure that the members of the Court are not busy that weekend; make sure that they will be able to attend most of the dance rehearsals.
Make it clear that the couples will be paying for the cost of their own dress/suit, shoes, jewelry, etc. However, it is customary to give every individual person who makes up the couples a small present to thank them for helping you in your Quinceañera.
 The birthday girl should feel at ease with the proceedings. If you are uncomfortable with arranging couples and choreographing dances, you absolutely do not need to do it. Perhaps you want a smaller, more intimate party; perhaps you just want to choose another theme, like a pool party, a bowling party, or a beach party. Try to balance tradition with what you actually want., It is traditional for the 15 couples to rehearse two or three dances. Start practicing at least two months before the Quinceañera. Consider hiring someone from a local dance studio to help you learn the routine for the first four to six weeks. After that, you and the other fourteen couples will be practicing the dances on your own.There is also traditionally a father and daughter dance. If a father is not present, consider sharing this dance with your godfather, grandfather, uncle, older brother – whoever is the most important male authority figure in your life. Feel free to skip this dance if it doesn't make sense for your situation.
Practice the dance in heels, if you will be wearing heels at the Quinceañera. Dancing in heels is very different than dancing in regular shoes.
 The Quinceanera traditionally wears a ballgown. The couples of the Court dress in tuxedos and gowns. If the ceremony has religious overtones, the birthday girl often wears or receives a few of the following accessories for her ceremony: a tiara, a cross or medal, a bible and rosary, and a scepter.Different cultures have different traditions – for instance, in Puerto Rico, the birthday girl wears a white dress, similar to a wedding dress.Depending on where you live, you may need to buy the dress for the birthday girl as early as six months in advance; it may take a while to make all of the necessary adjustments.


Take down everyone’s measurements, heights, sizes and shoe sizes – this way, you can rent or buy all of the outfits together to ensure that they match.
 If you want pictures of the event, it may be worth your money to splurge on professional photos. This party may be a day that you remember for years to come, so consider whether you want more professional photos than a smartphone camera can take.

