 Although the majority of drivers speak English, keeping a few Cantonese phrases handy is a good idea if you are met by a driver who doesn't. If traveling by train is more your speed, you can take the MTR train from the airport.;
, This card will get you around the city on the train. Every transportation facility (city buses, mini buses, ferries and even 7 Elevens) can use the money that you deposit in this card to make purchases. The card can be reloaded with money.


First time the card will cost you $100HKD, $50HKD as a deposit towards the card and $50HKD will be credited to the card. Note: Taxis don't take Octopus cards, only cash, but however some taxis are now accepting Octopus Cards as payment methods.
 During summer time, Hong Kong can get extremely hot, with over 95% humidity. Always wear thin light color clothes.
 A water bottle is a must, as you'll be walking and traveling a lot in the hot weather and will need to restore some of the minerals you've lost. It's very important to stay hydrated.
, The umbrella isn't just for the rain, the sun can really dehydrate you!

, You'll always find yourself either walking up or down to a shop.
 Shop around for domestically produced products that you'll find on Nathan Road. They're cheap and quite decent in quality.
 Hong Kong is comprised of different islands like Lamma Island and many other small and very interesting islands. Make sure you visit them, they all have something unique.
 Macau is another island, which is approximately 90 kilometers (56 mi) away from Hong Kong. You'll need to get there by taking the ferry (Turbo Jet). You can take it from Central and the ride is approx 55mins.
 Macau is known for gambling, but has some very interesting historical places and can give you a reminiscence of how the Portuguese colonies were in China. Tip: Save your money from gambling and spend it on some spectacular Portuguese food.
 Lamma Island offers a scenic getaway from the city, and is known for its clean air and few cars.
 Even after the balance is zero, you still have 50 Hong Kong dollars to use from the initial deposit. You can buy snacks for your return trip with it from the grocery store.

