 If you want your toddler to eat more nutritious foods, the first thing you need to do is lead by example. If you're not eating well, your toddler may not either.You may be surprised how much your toddler is learning from you. But at this age, they're mimicking their parents behaviors a lot.
Toddlers are watching what you eat, how you eat and how you're talking about different foods.
Talk positively about healthy foods and let them see you having healthy and nutritious foods at meals and snacks.
 One great way to get your child interested in healthier foods is by letting them help choose their foods. Consider bringing your child along to the grocery store with you. Let them get involved in picking some of the foods they will eat.Talk about healthy foods and finding foods to have as snacks. Stroll through the produce section and ask what they would like to have as a snack.
For example, as you're passing by the fruit, mention how much your toddler loves fruit and how it'd be a great snack. Then ask them to pick something out to eat that week or day.
Also, try to stay out of "trouble aisles." If your child loves chips or cookies, stay away from the aisles that have them. If they're not looking at it or see it, they may not ask for it.
 In addition to letting your toddler participate in the shopping, let them get involved in some food preparation.


Studies have shown that if you allow your kids to get involved in the cooking or preparation of meals or snacks, they're more likely to eat them.When it's time for a snack or your toddler mentions they're hungry, ask them if they'd like to help you make their snack.
Make sure to choose tasks that are toddler-friendly. They can stir, roll out or help measure different foods.
 With all things, it pays to be patient with your toddler. They may not like a certain food initially or be reluctant to try it. But be patient and take your time as they grow and expand their palates.

Studies have shown that it can take a toddler 15 – 30 tries of a food item before they begin to learn to like it.This is especially true with some vegetables and whole grains that have a slightly bitter or unique flavor or texture.
They key to getting your child to eat healthy snacks, is to keep presenting healthy foods over and over again. In time, they will become used to and accustomed to these foods.

