 Especially in a professional environment, it’s important to follow a blow to your ego by immediately focusing on the future. Your superiors are not thinking retrospectively, and you shouldn’t be either.Focus on whatever needs to happen in your career to get things back on track or make the next step towards achieving your professional goals.
While the specifics will vary, the important thing is to focus on preparing to move forward with a project or career instead of feeling ashamed or bitter.
 So you got fired? Your co-worker got that promotion you were hoping for? A professional setback can hit your ego hard, in part because it may affect your day-to-day life considerably, or you may constantly be reminded of something that's bothering you. That said, your job isn’t your entire life, and nor should it be.Interpret a job loss, for instance, as an unfortunate circumstance instead of a personal inadequacy. Even if losing your job was you own fault, it’s up to you to address whatever led to the loss and get to work finding a new job.
 If one of your colleagues got the contract you were hoping to get, for instance, do your best not to hold it against them. Depending on the context, it may be entirely fair to feel salty for a while - but this should not inform how you interact with others in a professional environment.Make a point of congratulating those around you for their success, even if it sometimes comes at your expense.
Keep in mind that treating others with respect at all times reflects positively on your character, and that your colleagues will notice and admire friendly behavior.
 Following an embarrassing professional failure, you may find yourself questioning your abilities to achieve the goals you’re working towards. Whenever you start to feel this way, immediately correct your thinking by reminding yourself that a setback and a bruised ego aren’t enough to knock you off your long-term plan.Stated otherwise, don’t let a temporary blow to your ego change your view of your own potential.
Even if you have to make some short term adjustments, keep in mind that many successful people dealt with serious setbacks before “making it.”
A case in point: Michael Jordan was once cut from a basketball team. Imagine if he hadn’t ever laced them up again because his ego took a blow?

