 Talk to like-minded individuals about staging a protest at an embassy or government building to increase awareness of the human rights violation.


You can use a public demonstration to increase public awareness of the issue and build support to stop the human rights violation. If you have enough people joining you, it also sends a message that you have a lot of support to stop the violations.Reach out to other groups who conduct public demonstrations on a regular basis and decide who will be in charge of which aspects of the protest.
Once you've identified the location where you plan to stage your protest, find out what permits you will need to get, how long those permits will be effective, and what those permits will permit you to do. You have the right to protest in the United States, but governments do have the ability to restrict the time, place, and manner of your protests. For example, you may be able to protest outside the office building of a company you believe is violating the human rights of its overseas workers, but you may not be permitted to blast loud music or using bullhorns or megaphones while people in the offices are trying to work., Seek attention from news networks and newspapers to help inform the public about the human rights violation.


If you are in another country when you witness a human rights violation, keep in mind that your telephone or email communications may be monitored. If you do talk to a journalist, be careful not to reveal names or contact information of any local sources over these channels. You don't want to get your witnesses in trouble.You also could consider writing a letter to the editor to major or high profile newspapers or news magazines. Include information on how readers can help join the fight to stop the human rights violations you describe. If your letter is published, you can help raise awareness about the issue among the general public., Creating viral videos or status updates on social media networks can create a groundswell of support to stop the human rights violations.


Although there has been much criticism of so-called "Hashtag Activism," social media campaigns can raise awareness for your issue in a way that forces mass media and the government to sit up and take notice.
Especially if you are someone with few connections and little power to stop human rights violations on your own, starting a social media campaign can be a relatively simple and inexpensive way to get government or international officials to take action to stop the abuses you've observed., If there is already a human rights organization working on stopping the violation, consider volunteering your time to assist its efforts.


For example, Amnesty International has resources online that will allow you to sign petitions, participate in online activism, or volunteer to learn skills and work to protect human rights around the world.