


Note: these instructions are the same for the Google Inbox website.;
, All of the labels you've created in Gmail will be listed in the menu. Scroll to the bottom.
 This will start the label creation process.
 Tap "Save".
 This will let you create rules to automatically add messages to the label.
 You can add messages to the label based on a variety of different searches. Tap the "From" drop-down menu to choose the search type, and tap "And..." to add more rules.


From - Add emails received from a specific name or email address.
To - Add emails sent to a specific name or email address.
Subject - Add emails with matching subjects. A list of matching emails will be displayed below.
Includes - Add emails that have the matching keyword.
Excludes - Add emails that don't have the matching keyword.
, By default, any messages that get added to the label will be sent to Google Inbox as they arrive, bundled under the label name. If you don't want the messages to appear in a bundle, tap the "Bundle messages in the inbox" slider so that it reads "OFF".


If you turn bundling off, the messages will appear in your Google Inbox unbundled.
If you don't want the messages to appear in your inbox at all, check the "Skip the inbox" box that appears when bundling is switched off.
 if you have bundling for the label turned on, you can change the time that the bundle appears in your Inbox. This can be very useful for emails that you don't need to act quickly on.


Tap "Show bundle".
Select the time you want the bundle to be shown in the Inbox. You will be able to review all of the new messages that have been added to the label when the bundle appears in your Inbox.



You can move multiple messages at once by pressing and holding on a message in your inbox. Tap additional messages to select them.
 It looks like three vertical dots.


Make sure to tap the Menu button at the top of the screen, not at the top of the message.
 You can also create a new label from the bottom of this menu.


Your labels are organized by Bundled and Unbundled.
