 Get out and have a bit of fun learning about your partner’s background. Go on a trip to each home country. Try out one another’s cultural foods. Go to celebrations or holidays.This means that you will need to be open to trying new things and meeting new people. It can be uncomfortable at times, but it is often worth the extra effort., Like any couple, talk about your day-to-day routine. Go over what you eat and when. Talk about how you like to shop for clothing and where you go. Once you get to know your partner better, discuss how you feel home tasks and chores should be divided. In an established relationship, it is a good idea to go over one another’s ideas regarding money management as well., Different cultures can express love, and discuss it, in varying ways. Open up a conversation with your partner about what you expect in a loving relationship and how you’d like romance to be expressed. If you are at the start of your relationship, you can discuss all of these things in the abstract, to make it less awkward.For example, you might say, “In my culture we do not hug our loved ones chest to chest in public. We save that gesture for private.”
You can also talk about how exactly to say, “I love you.”, Go over each other’s upbringing and the role that religion played in each of your early lives, if it did at all. Talk about how you view different religions. Outline how you’d like to proceed religiously in the future, if that is a factor for you. Be aware that religious differences don’t have to be a deal breaker, if you keep communicating.For example, if you go to church every Sunday morning and plan to do so into the foreseeable future, then you may want to let your partner know of your plans. You may need to come up with a compromise.
 Sit and map out each other’s dreams and aspirations. Talk about how you both feel about marriage and if you want children. If you would like to have children in the future, how would you raise them? This can also give you an idea regarding the other person’s romantic pacing, which will help you to determine if your personal goals align.For example, if your partner would like to move back to their home country sooner rather than later, then you may be faced with the possibility of relocating.
 You are bound to find areas in which you have vastly different opinions. Instead of viewing these as deal breakers, look at some of these moments as learning opportunities. You now have the chance to get an inside view of a culture from someone you trust. You and your partner can also use your differences to become a stronger team unit., It is easy to focus solely on the obvious differences between you and your partner. Push back against these distancing feelings by sitting down and making list of all of the things that you both share. Spend some time on this project and include cultural commonalities, but also any shared personality traits as well.


For example, if you both have the same sense of humor, then that is a very good sign in a relationship.
 If you choose to have children, you’ll want to discuss how you plan to mix both heritages together in order to benefit them. Would you like them to attend religious events for both cultures? Do you plan to send them to a school with a particular cultural bent? To start with, teaching your children both languages is usually a good idea.Also, be aware that the plans you make for your children will likely not work out exactly as intended. That is okay as long as you and your partner have the same parenting goals in mind.

