 It feels colder if you don't cover your head because the head and facial area is more sensitive to temperature changes than the rest of the body.The first thing you should do is find a snug, thick hat.;
, Thick earmuffs aren't a good idea, not only because they make it especially difficult to listen, but also because they attract the attention of curious and hungry goats and horses. Wear a headband under your hat or, better yet, buy a choker or neck warmer that wraps around your neck and can be lifted to cover your ears as well. This is much better than a scarf, the longer parts of which can get caught on fences or in farm machinery.
 Big, bulky ski gloves might keep your hands warm, but if you end up taking them off every 15 minutes so that you can open or close gates, or hook a lead on a halter, or cut string, then the gloves are practically useless. Instead, get gloves made of something like neoprene, which is what slick scuba diving suits are made of. Even if they aren't as warm, if you can keep them on continuously, you're much better off. If your hands do get cold, the best way to warm them is to rotate your arms one at a time as fast and hard as you can. You will immediately feel the blood warming your fingers.


If you can find the little packets of disposable hand warmers often sold in dollar stores, stock up on them.Add these to your coat pockets each time you go out and use these when your hands need warming up quickly. Just be sure to replace them after each use, as they only last for the time that they're activated.
 Silk underpants and undershirts make an excellent base layer. Wear long underwear. After you put those on, throw on a t-shirt and jeans, then a sweatshirt, then your coat. Alternatively, invest in coveralls. Farmers and many others who work outside always have coveralls.


Fine merino wool thermals are another good buy. The technology for using wool in underwear has improved massively in recent years, so they're not itchy unless you're hyper-sensitive.
 They might be expensive, but they'll be comfortable and warm. Consider getting rubber boots that will keep your feet dry, as opposed to boots with laces (bits of snow get lodged in the laces and melt into the boot, even if the company claims it's waterproof). Likewise, they'll be much easier to clean – you just rinse them off at the end of the day and leave the mud at work. Finally, wearing boots that reach up to your knees will add another layer of warmth to your legs. An added bonus is that many farm boots have steel toes which will protect your feet in case something falls on them.
 Cold drafts are thieves of body heat and soon leave you feeling very uncomfortable. When you go to lift something, and you expose even a tiny bit of your mid-section to the elements, you're just asking for chills. So, tuck your shirt into your pants, your pants into your boots, and your sleeves into your gloves.
 The first fifteen minutes will kill, but once you're up and about, you'll start generating body heat as long as you stay active. Avoid the temptation to stand around; jog in place if you have to. Also, stay outside. Believe it or not, the shock of repeatedly moving from a warm, heated indoor environment to the cold outdoors is worse than if you just stay outside. That's not to say that you shouldn't come inside for lunch, or bathroom breaks; but don't think that stepping inside for just 10 minutes will actually help things.
 They absorb the sun's heat much better (and they won't stain as easily).
 When cold air travels into your body through your nostrils, your body warms it up before it reaches your lungs. But when you breathe through your mouth, it's like sticking an icicle in your chest.
 Your body burns a lot of calories trying to stay warm (in addition to supporting your physical activity). Eat warm, healthy meals and drink warm beverages.
