 The high traffic areas of your home with travertine floors, such as a doorway or a hallway, are more susceptible to damage. In order to keep your floors pristine, it is necessary to provide additional protection to high traffic areas. Protect these areas from abrasive dirt and damaging grime with seasonal doormats, sleek runners, and timeless area rugs., Travertine floors are easily damaged and must be cleaned with care. To maintain a well-kept floor, vacuum, dust, and sweep your travertine regularly.


Never drag an upright or full sized canister vacuum across your floor to suck up debris. Instead, suck up abrasive debris that might scrape your floors, such as dirt and gravel, with a handheld vacuum.
Remove dirt and debris from your floors with a dry dust mop.
 When washing your floors, only use a soapless, neutral PH 7 mild abrasive cleaner and water. Always follow the product’s instructions. Use broad sweeping motions that overlap to clean your floor. Dry and polish with a clean microfiber cloth.


To deep clean your floors, you may use an automatic scrubber with disk brush attachment., As a porous stone, travertine stains easily. After identifying what caused the stain, use specific products to remove the blemish.


Oil-based stains darken the stone and must be removed with chemicals. Blot the stain with a clean cloth to remove any excess residue. To remove the stain, use a soft liquid household cleaner, such as ammonia, acetone, or detergent. Apply the product to the stone on a damp cloth. Place the cloth over the stain to draw out the oil-based product.Organic stains, such as those caused by coffee, juice, urine, and food, turn the travertine pink or brown. Remove these stains with a mixture of 12% hydrogen peroxide—food grade hydrogen peroxide—and a few drops of ammonia.Apply the product to the stone on a damp cloth. Place the cloth over the stain to draw out the organic stain.The method for removing ink stains varies based on the color of the stone. If the stain is on a light colored stone, use bleach or hydrogen peroxide; if the stain is on a dark colored stone, it is best to use acetone or lacquer thinner. Apply the product to the stone on a damp cloth. Place the cloth over the stain to draw out the ink stain.To remove water stains, buff the blemish with #0000 steel wool.Before you can remove etch marks, you must thoroughly remove the acid that caused them. Once the acid is removed, wet the surface and use a buffing pad to apply marble polishing powder. Buff and polish until the marks are gone., Clean travertine installed outdoors at least once per year. Rinse the stone with water to remove excess dirt and debris. To clean travertine that is not regularly maintained, use a pressurized water hose to remove caked on dirt.