 When bed rest gets too much for you, remind yourself that carrying and growing a child inside yourself is a huge task. You are doing something very important and impressive. Reminding yourself of how much you are doing, even when on bed rest, can help you find strength during tough times.Remind yourself that you will only be on bed rest for a short amount of time. After you give birth, you will be back to your normal self.
 Being on bed rest can cause a lot of mental stress. You may feel like you are weak or that something will be wrong with your baby. This is not true, so you should work on distracting yourself from these thoughts.Try engaging in an activity, like knitting something for your baby or other children or working on a scrapbook. You may consider shopping online for your baby.
Call someone and talk to them if you are having anxiety about your situation. You can talk through your anxiety or you can talk about other things to help you forget about your anxiety.
 Bed rest can be a really stressful time for you. You should engage in relaxation techniques to help calm your mind and body. This may include deep breathing exercises, meditate, or even prayer or spiritual reflection.Block out part of your day to remain undisturbed so you can relax.
You may want to listen to soothing music to help relax you. Try a guided meditation to follow if you are unsure how to meditate on your own.
 Bed rest may result in a lot of negative feelings and emotions. You may feel guilty because you think the bed rest is your fault, or feel inadequate that you didn’t do enough to protect your baby. You may feel different or weaker than other pregnant women. If you suffer from these emotions, you may consider getting therapy or counseling to help you deal with them.


You can ask your doctor to help you find a therapist or mental health professional who will visit you in your home to help you with any psychological distress.
Consider calling a helpline or therapist who is available by phone. Some therapists may also be available via online chats or video chat.
Depression and anxiety may arise due to bed rest and isolation. Therapy or counseling may be able to help you manage any mood disorders that arise.
You may go through all the stages of grief, such as going through phases of anger, denial, and bargaining.

