 After a while, seeing the same old sights and same old faces can start to drag you down. Sometimes, we need a little bit more stimulation, and making a move, long or short, can fit the bill. Psychologist Susan Clayton says that where you live, and how you define your home, is part of your self-definition.Meaning that, if you're tired of where you are, you're tired of how you're living.


It can be financially difficult or impractical to uproot yourself and move to a different state, or a different country, but you an try making a jump to a new neighborhood, to get a different angle on your city. Switch roommates.
Alternatively, try doing a thorough re-arrangement or cleaning job in your house as it is. If it looks new, it'll feel new.;
, Learning to unpack the psychological burden you carry throughout the day is absolutely essential to living a happy, healthy existence. It's important to take frequent breaks throughout the day, whether you're doing physical work or mental work, to give yourself the change to come back to that work with fresh eyes. Breaks help you stay on task and maintain schedules.


Try taking a break every 50-90 minutes to stay on schedule, for about 10-20 minutes. Studies show that this length of break is the most effective at keeping you on task, more so than trying to work through without taking any breaks at all., Getting exercise has mood-enhancing and anxiety-preventing qualities, and recent studies reveal that people who exercise more are more readily equipped to deal with the stresses and anxieties of everyday life.It's also a great way to hit the reset after a particularly stressful day or week. Sweat it out instead of stressing over it.
 Making subtle or significant changes in your appearance can have a big effect on the way you perceive yourself and the way you carry yourself, and the way you're perceived by others, especially in the workplace.Dress the way you want to be perceived by others.


While it's easy to suggest that dressing up more will give you a more trustworthy and reliable affectit's just as important to look how you want to be perceived, to get a fresh outlook on your life.
Maybe you don't want to look reliable. Get a tattoo, or hook yourself up with a raggedy leather jacket to surprise your friends. Start fresh by embracing the look you admire.
 These days, much of the way we think about other people and ourselves has to do with our presence online. Hitting reset on your social networking accounts might require deleting or suspending them temporarily, to give yourself a break, and recalibrate your online presence.


Delete everything you don't want online and change your passwords. Make everything slightly different, so it'll feel new if and when you decide to restart.
Start things up again when you're ready, using a new user name, or a slightly different one, to pick new friends. Start a new e-mail address to start a new account, if necessary.
Stay off, if you find yourself able to cope without checking your Facebook feed all the time.
 Don't neglect the psychological benefit of a good night of sleep on your ability to recalibrate and get a fresh start on things. Sleep deprivation affects your cognitive function significantly, which can have adverse affects on your mood, your ability to perform simple tasks effectively, and your overall physical health and well-being.If you want to feel better about each new day, make sure you get enough rest between those days.
 Want to disappear completely? If you're really desperate for a reset, more significant life changes may be in order. Check out the following wikiHows to learn how to switch things around in drastic ways:


Change your name
Change your identity
Disappear completely
Start a new life

, In a famous study performed on Californians and Nebraskans, both groups concluded that Californians must have a higher happiness index, because the weather was better. The catch was, both groups recorded identical happiness scores.The grass may always seem greener, but we tend to overemphasize the effect of superficial things like weather and geography on our happiness. The biggest thing to change if you want a fresh start is yourself.

