 Before you even begin to build your deck you need to establish some guidelines. First and foremost is deciding what kind of deck you want to build. Then go into the crafting menu on the deck building screen and look at each class and the cards possible to unlock and build your deck with.;
, Each hero comes with an unlockable basic deck. When you play different heroes in practice mode you will unlock the core cards associated with that hero. By doing quests and playing in other modes of the game, you can expand your card library for any given hero. Having more cards at your disposal means that you will be able to build stronger and more effective decks., Now that you have a good idea of what cards are available and unlocked, you can see what possible strategies you can use more effectively. For instance you might have wanted to build a high damage deck but have unlocked cards that will create an amazing healer deck. Don’t be afraid to switch up your strategy for building an effective deck.
 You have a good idea of what you want to accomplish. Now it is time to choose a hero. In the deck building screen after you click the New Deck button on the right hand side, a screen will pop up with all the heroes. Click the hero of your choice. This will begin the deck building process., Look at the cards you have available to you with your chosen hero and select cards that complement your strategy. You will want to choose most of your cards from this section. Remember that you can choose more than one of a type of card.
 Once you have chosen all your core cards, look over the neutral cards and fill out your deck with complementary cards. It is easy to overlook cards because this is usually the largest list of cards in your collection. Read each carefully and choose cards that work well with your strategy and the cards you chose from the core class cards.
 You will want to test out your deck against the various other classes in the game before taking on player opponents. This will give you a good idea of how it will fair against the basic strategies of each class. This is important because you will learn the strengths and weaknesses of the deck while also earning experience for your chosen hero.
 After you have spent some time playing in Practice mode, take your deck and put it to the test against players. A suggestion is to play in normal matches and if you do well, then try it in the ranked matches.
 Now that you have a good indication of exactly how well the deck does against players as well as the various other classes, go into the deck creation screen and fine tune it. Examine any new cards you may have gotten during testing and try out new combinations. Repeat the process until you feel comfortable that your deck can handle anything an opponent has to throw at it.

