 Find out how many wedding planners/consultants are in your area and what services do they offer. Make sure that they offer complimentary (free of charge) consultation.


After finding out which services wedding consultant/planner offers, it will be easier for you to decide on what aspects of planning your wedding you need help with...example - do you need help with just the "Day-of" Coordination or you need help with entire planning process.
A wedding planner will help you with the following: Budget creation & tracking, venue(s) selection, vendor selection, contract negotiation & management, catering menu selection & food tasting, cake design & tasting, floral design selection, design & mailing of “save the date” cards & invitations, guest list, seating arrangements assistance & RSVP management, place cards, menu & wedding program design and creation, etiquette advise, hotel coordination (reserve the block of rooms for out-of-town guests), transportation management for the wedding party & out of town guests, and concierge services are just some of the services wedding planner should be offering in their packages.;
, The big question for all brides is "Can I afford the services of a wedding planner/consultant?" The answer is yes! It is so much cheaper than you think and much less of a headache.
 Call up to five wedding planners to determine their services and packages. Some wedding planners are hesitant to give prices over the phone and will want to give you a presentation of their services.
 Make a list of questions for your interviews.
 Go to her office or pick a place that is relatively quiet and comfortable for both of you.


Do not bring children to your consultation. This is distracting to both the consultant and to you. You cannot concentrate on the interview if you are continuously interrupted by your child, who rightly wants your attention. It isn't fair to them and it's not fair to the wedding planner. Bring your fiancé and other relatives who will be paying for your wedding (parents, immediate relatives).
, Ask any questions that are still plaguing you via email or telephone.
 To do this, extend a courtesy call to her to let her know when you can come in and sign the contract.
 Let the other candidates know via email or phone call, but also try to provide them with feedback as to why their services weren't chosen. We are all trying to upgrade our services and by letting us know why we weren't chosen helps us to improve.
 Be prepared to enjoy your wedding planning experience.

