 If your parents decide to use diapers to manage an older child's bed-wetting and they occasionally use a babysitter the child might feel anxious about this. You're older, so the babysitter should never find out. However if the child is older, there is no reason for them to worry about this because older children can handle diapering themselves.;
,


If the parents use pin-on cloth diapers covered with plastic pants for their bed-wetting child they can make sure the diapers and plastic pants are laundered beforehand. That way the babysitter won't see the plastic pants hanging on the clothesline which could embarrass the child. Also the babysitter won't have to bring the diapers and plastic pants to the child before they go to bed. There may be situations when the diapers are in the process of being laundered-for instance the diapers might not be finished drying or the plastic pants may still be drying on the clothesline.
In a situation such as that the babysitter might have to take the diapers and plastic pants to the child when they're finished drying.
If the parents feel that the babysitter would be able to deal with this in a mature manner, then the parents can let them know that the child has to wear diapers and plastic pants to bed and ask them if they would mind bringing these items to him or her before going to bed. Or the parents can let the child get the diapers when they're dry if the child feels uncomfortable about the babysitter getting involved in this. This is just one scenario that the parents might have to contend with.
 That being said the parents should take steps to assure that the child is able to maintain discretion in this matter should that be necessary.
 Many parents hire au pairs to watch their kids and they should be experienced in this manner. The parents could talk to the agency about this beforehand and let them know that they have a child or children that wet the bed and that the nanny will be responsible for taking care of cloth diapers and plastic pants (if the parents decide to have the bed-wetter wear cloth diapers). It may not be necessary to go into this much detail with the agency; you'll have to play it by ear.

