 It's hard to enjoy reading a book when your mind is busy with other thoughts and worries. Before you begin reading, take a minute to clear your mind.


Sit in a comfortable position for about a minute. Try to clear your mind of troublesome thoughts. Take a few deep breaths and, if necessary, close your eyes.It may help to imagine a relaxing scenario. Picture yourself on a beach with friends, for example.
Time yourself. Give yourself 60 seconds to zone out before you begin reading.;
, If you frequently read when you're distracted, this can prevent you from enjoying the book. Your mind will be focused on your cellphone or computer. You may get irritated that your reading is taking your attention away from these things. Before reading, turn off your phone and computer. Go to a quiet place in your home, like your bedroom, and simply spend some time alone with your book., Part of the reason many people dislike reading books for school is the pressure to read by a deadline. While deadlines are unavoidable in school, there are ways to work around them. Instead of plowing through 50 pages in the course of 3 hours, read in short intervals. Take breaks in between.


You'll have to do some planning to make this work. If you put off required reading until the last minute, this might be tricky. Be aware of deadlines ahead of time by reviewing the syllabus. Then, see how much you need to read each day to make the deadline.
Read in 50 minute intervals. Take 10 minute breaks in between. Do not try to read for more than a couple of hours each day. This could lead to boredom or frustration with the text.You may enjoy the book if you're able to engage with it in a less stressful manner. You may pay more attention to the plot of a book as well as its characters if you read in short intervals. This can help you develop an interest in the text, allowing you to read it without boredom.
 If reading feels like a burden or an obligation, it will be less enjoyable. Instead of setting aside time to read each day, try to read during dull moments. If you're already bored, a book will seem like a welcome break from the monotony.


Keep your book with you when you go out. If you're waiting for a bus or waiting for a friend to show up at a coffee shop, start reading. Short 10 or 15 intervals of reading are less tedious and you'll be grateful the book's distracting you from simply waiting.You'll also find yourself getting through books quicker. While you'll only be reading in small chunks, it will add up. You'll find yourself reaching reading deadlines quicker. This will make reading feel less stressful, allowing you to enjoy the process., An e-reader may help you feel less bored by a book. It's easier to transport, allowing you to read on the go, and many younger people prefer reading from a screen. If your teacher allows e-readers, ask your parents if they'd consider getting you one for Christmas or your birthday. Explain that you feel it may help you enjoy reading more.Check your school's library to see if you can borrow digital books. This may make your e-reader more useful, as you'll be able to obtain reading for school for free on your e-reader.

