 Depending on your needs, a bowl might best be done on a pottery wheel, but a decorative clay piece is probably done best by hand. You can even make a clay sculpture as long as it is mostly hollow on the inside and you create a vent hole for air to go during firing.
 "Pottery" is a very vague term -- there are dozens of different ways you can go about making a creation. To achieve each product, different elements of the art must be considered. Visit a gallery which sells pottery and ask how it was done. You can also visit art supply stores and discuss the best materials to use for the results you want, cost, firing, glazes, or a beginner's class. See what resources are out there to help you pick what your end product will be.


Start thinking. If you want to stick to small objects, beads, soap dishes and other slab methods are best. A decorative box might be tricky because you have to know when the clay is dry enough to stand up to make the box. You must use slip, a 50% mix of water and clay, that you use like glue. The edges of the clay need to be scored or roughed up with a stick before you apply the slip and then sealed together with your fingers. Animals can be fun to make, but the legs often cause difficulty. Think of animals that can sit. The sky is the limit with vases, plates, pots, dinnerware, and wall decorations.
 Once you know what you are going to make, you'll be able to choose your material. Air dry doesn't even have to be fired. But it's a bit expensive, so you might want to stick to smaller creations. Fimo clay is baked in a regular oven and already comes in various colors which can be blended together. Otherwise, there's low-fire or high-fire clays, and they warrant different results.


Low-fire clays are great for bright colors and detailed decoration. But they're not super good in water, so if you do go for low-fire clay, get a glaze that you know will seal 'er up.
High-fire clays aren't so great with bright colors, but they're sturdy, waterproof, and can be texturized easily. Glazes may move when fired, so detailed images could get blurred., You have a few options to choose from:


Potter's wheel: Best for bowls or plates, vases or anything you need to be symmetrical and round, It takes a lot of practice to get really skillful at this. It also requires a kiln and knowledge of firing and glazes. It's good for large and small objects, but again it is tough to rework if mistakes happen initially.
Pinching by hand: Best for small objects. The method is fairly straightforward: Start off with a small amount of clay that you can work with in your palms. Mold it with pressure from your thumb and index finger and keep turning it in your other palm if you want it round, and keep the "walls" even. Use a damp sponge to smooth the surface.
Coiling: Best for hollow or non symmetrical objects. You can create an interesting texture or pattern by or coiling layers together. Instead of one block of clay, you simply pile or coils into a shape. They adhere together with slip and create one mass.
Slab making: Best for flat sided objects. You put the sides of the clay onto a form. Use a plastic bag so it won't stick or use a light coating of cooking oil. As it dries remove it from the original form, it will shrink and possible crack if left draped over a bowl but it will maintain its shape.
 This is up to you and your skill level. If you have a wheel, great. If you don't, there are ways around that. If you're brand new to pottery, seek out a professional or watch a few videos online; it's an art that requires skill, most definitely.


Some clays aren't able to be molded, shaped back into a ball, and molded again. So when you make your choices, be careful -- your clay may not be too keen on giving you a second chance.

