 The best way to relate to someone who’s been experiencing poor physical health is to show you care by spending quality time with her. Distract her and make her feel supported rather than isolated by her illness. Try to:Make regular contact in-person and in other ways, such as writing to her or calling her. Don’t avoid her out of awkwardness or discomfort.
Do something fun with her while you’re there, such as watching a favorite movie, going for a walk, or reading to her.
Make her laugh. Don’t be gloomy every time you go visit.
Talk about shared, fun memories or experiences you had together.
 Don’t try to make assumptions or read the other person’s mind about what he needs. Check in on him to better understand how he is feeling.


Ask about his feelings in the face of any diagnosis, whether terminal or not.You might ask, "Are you scared?" or "Are you feeling worried about what's going to happen next?"
Ask about any experiences or sensations of discomfort.You might ask, "Are you comfortable? Can I get you another pillow?"
Ask what he needs from you. For example, he may need help with paperwork, finances, cooking, or errands.If the other person has been diagnosed with a terminal illness, you might ask what his preferences are about end-of-life care.Inquire about treatment he is considering and how treatment is going.
 You might not know exactly what to say to someone who is sick or dying, but that’s okay. Try to just be accepting of how she is feeling. Be willing to listen to tough or uncomfortable emotions, such as fear or anger.Let your friend be negative if she needs to be. Don’t force her to be positive or look on the bright side.Don’t try to fix the problem or offer medical advice.Avoid making vague statements like saying, “You’re so strong.” While this may be encouraging for some people, others may feel exhausted or invalidated., Don’t be afraid to provide physical comfort to someone. Your reaction may be to avoid touching someone who is sick or dying, but touch can be very comforting to someone, especially if he is no longer able to talk. You can: Hug him.
Hold his hand.
Give him a back rub.
Wet his lips with a sponge.
Stroke his hair.

