 This doesn't mean you should agree with any strange idea your dream man may have, but it does mean you should have a positive attitude and be interested in what he has to say.


If he asks if you've been to a certain restaurant, don't cut off the conversation by saying no; instead say that you've heard great things about it and ask questions about his experience. It's likely this is his way of asking you for a date!
If he's teasing you, play along. Enjoy his playful personality. If you say "no" to any slightly offbeat idea he may have, you will look prudish, and not like someone he wants to hang out with.
Don't be overly disagreeable right away--even if you disagree. If you find out that your favorite sports teams are arch rivals, or that you fall on opposite sides of the political spectrum, don't start a fight about it. Being playful about your differences is one thing, but getting on a soap box about your views will make you look stubborn and selfish.
 Men love women who have a great sense of humor and who are confident enough to show it off.


Though this may not be the time for knock-knock jokes, don't be afraid to throw in a joke or two if the occasion is appropriate.
Show that you can laugh at yourself. No man wants a woman who takes herself too seriously--showing that you can laugh at your own foibles will show not only that you have confidence, but that you're aware of your flaws. Men don't want a girl who is "too perfect" and this will make them feel more secure about themselves.
 Don't be afraid to show off your brains for fear of intimidating a man. If he's the right guy, he'll be attracted by how smart you are, and will want to spend more time picking your brain.


Show him your knowledge of current events, historical figures, or even your witty analysis of pop culture. If you know what you're talking about, he'll be pleased to hear you pontificate about any subject.
There's a difference between sounding smart and showing off. Avoid bragging about where you went to college, what you got on the SATs ten years ago, or any other information that may make it sound like you're floating your own boat.
 There are plenty of confident, funny, and smart women out there, but there is only one you. Don't be afraid to put yourself out there to show what makes you who you are.


If it's appropriate, tell him a funny or interesting story from your past that will give him a sense of what kind of person you are and what kind of experiences have shaped your life.
Don't be afraid to share your interests. If you're teaching yourself French or are learning to ride the unicycle, tell him about it. He'll be impressed that you're marching to the beat of your own drum and will be impressed by your zest for new things.
Share something about your friends or family. While you want to avoid telling him that you can't wait to introduce him to Mom and Dad after you've just exchanged names, you can say a few things about who your family and friends are to show who has influenced you to be your best possible self.
 Part of attracting a man is keeping him interested. If the flame of love is glowing, you should add logs to the hearth!


Though you can still play coy, make sure to exchange information before you leave if the attraction is mutual. You should avoid coming on too strong, but express an interest that will make the man see that you want to spend more time with him. You'd be surprised by how shy many men are, and how happy they are when women step up and take the initiative.
 Unfortunately, certain men may not be attracted to you no matter how hard you try. But don't sweat it--there are plenty of men out there, and you've made yourself a better person already by following these tips! If the man you're seeking doesn't recognize your new confidence, looks, or conversational skills, then someone else will come along who will never want to leave your side.


Though you may try to attract a man with all your might, his heart may be taken. Even if he's not in a serious relationship, he may have had a recent heartbreak or could be pining for someone else, and there's nothing you can do to change that.
If you're rejected, play it off. There's no need for waterworks or angry text messaging if your crush doesn't reciprocate your feelings. Hang tough and the right guy will come along!

