 Read the whole script at least once. Read the prologue, epilogue, the stage directions, and your lines as well as the other characters’ lines. As you read the script for the second and third time, highlight your lines and any important information given about your character.Highlight information about your character’s age, where they live, their name and upbringing, likes and dislikes, friends, family, favorite foods and places, as well as their political and religious viewpoints.
You may be able to find this information through your character’s and other characters’ lines, as well as context clues.;
, Contextualize your character by researching or imagining the time period your character is living in. Identify or imagine the culture and politics of the time period, as well as the politics of the city, town, or village they reside in. Additionally, think about how the gender, age, race or ethnicity, and class position of your character affects their relationship with the time period.For example, if your character is a female teacher in the early 1900s in New York City, it may be helpful to think about the gender politics of the time period and how this affects your character’s morals, aspirations, and convictions.
If you are playing a character in the future, it would be helpful to read or watch futuristic books and movies. This way you can get a general idea about how a society's culture and politics can evolve, and the effects it can have on a character's morals and aspirations.
 Playing emotions can come off as insincere and superficial. Therefore, instead of thinking about how the character feels, think about the character’s objectives or motivations. By thinking about the character’s objectives or motivations, you can create the desired and appropriate emotions.For example, instead of playing how disappointed your character is, think about why your character is disappointed. Your character may have just lost a very important competition that would have enabled them to fund their college tuition.
 If you are playing a grandmother, for example, do not automatically act enfeebled or out of the loop, or talk with a quivering voice. Instead, use the character’s backstory to develop the character. Think about how and why your character may have certain traits and not others., Memorizing your lines can only get you so far. You will need to rehearse your lines out loud to yourself multiple times in order to fully develop your character. Once you have rehearsed with yourself, rehearse in front of different audiences as well.Reading your lines out loud will also help you develop your character’s pitch and tone of voice, as well as their dialect.
Ask your audience for feedback, for example, “Is my accent too strong or not strong enough?” and “Does the tone of my voice fit the mood of the scene, or does it fit my character’s demeanor?”

