 How are you going to make your parents proud if you don't put in 100% effort? Try your hardest at anything and everything - sports, schoolwork, jobs, projects...show them that you're not slacking off. Have an enthusiastic attitude towards everything - it'll get you a lot further than you may think.;
, For example, say you want to cut your hair and dye it red while they want you to just trim it. You don't have to do exactly what they say, but at least try to take their ideas into account. You could keep your hair the same length, or trim it a little more than they would like. Apply this attitude for everything. Don't let them take over you, but make sure you at least 'show' them that you are considering their suggestions.
 Your parents probably won't be too proud of you if you're locked up in jail for several different crimes. In contrast, they may be upset or angry with you. You don't have to turn into a total goody two shoes, but make sure you know the limits and don't push them. Keep within the rules - whether at school, work, or the law. Before you do something, always think whether it's the right thing or not, and if your parents would be proud of you.
 You may stick to the rules, try your best, and take their ideas into account, but after all that you still may be an unpleasant, selfish person. That won't make your folks proud now, will it? So try to be a good person at heart. Be as generous, nice, and thoughtful as you can. You don't have to be anywhere near becoming a pushover or a goody two shoes, no, to be a merely good person at heart will suffice.
 Don't be so immature that your parents constantly have to keep an eye on you. It's great to have fun, but know when to stop and be responsible. It ties in with doing the right thing - again, always stay within the boundaries. Be trustworthy and reliable. If you're going to baby-sit, baby-sit. If you're going to do your homework, do your homework. If you're going to wash the car, wash the car. You can always party, but make sure you know when you've stepped well over the line!

