 If you're currently going through a divorce, you have the option to make your name change part of the proceedings. You or your ex-spouse can change your name back to what it was or choose a completely new name as part of your divorce., You'll need to file a name change petition (form CN-1) with the Probate Court in the county you live in. Be sure to check your specific county for name change fees, since they vary. Note that you can fill out the form online, print it out, and file it with the court. If you pick up the form from the office, you'll be charged an additional fee. If you print it out at home, the court has strict rules about the quality of the printed forms. Be sure to check the technical printer requirements. Fill out the form and attach a certified copy of your birth certificate and divorce decree. Include the following information on the petition:Your current full legal name
Your date of birth
Your address and telephone number
Why you'd like to change your name
The new name you want
Your attorney's name and address, if using legal services

, From there you can pick up and fill out the Official Form SS-5. You'll need to show your divorce decree, which includes your old and new names.If it's been more than 2 years since your divorce, you may need to give other documents proving your old name.Once you've shown documentation of your new legal name, fill out an application for a new Social Security card.


There's no fee to apply for a new card and you should get it in the mail within 10 business days., You must change your name in person at a BMV office within 30 of changing your name. After paying the $5 fee, you'll need to show a document that proves your name change, like your divorce decree or court order., After you change your federal and state issued IDs, you need to change your name on your other important accounts and documents. Don't forget to change your name at businesses you frequently work with, including any medical/dental files, or post office boxes. Examples of accounts you'll need to update include:


Bank accounts
Credit cards
Leases, mortgages, or loans
Car titles
Passport
Voter registration
Utility services

