 Over-the-counter medications are effective at lowering a fever and providing relief for headaches, sore throat, and joint pain. Children and teenagers should never be given medications containing aspirin because it may cause Reye’s syndrome.Acetaminophen (Tylenol) or ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin IB) are safe alternatives to aspirin. Consult your child’s doctor to make sure the medication will be appropriate for him.
If you are unsure how to treat your child, contact your doctor. Always read and follow the manufacturer’s instructions. Do not give children more than the recommended dosages. Many over-the-counter medications should not be given to young children.
Over-the-counter medications may interact with other medications, including prescription drugs, herbal remedies, and supplements.
 Cough syrups may suppress coughing but they don’t actually kill the infection. Because coughing removes foreign material from the lungs, suppressing the coughing can slow the healing process. The advantage is that suppressing the coughing may help your child sleep at night. If your child can’t sleep because of coughing, ask the doctor for advice.Cough syrups should not be given to children younger than four. For older children, following the manufacturer’s dosing instructions.
Be aware that some cough syrups have the same active ingredients as some other over-the-counter medications. Check the ingredients on the packaging to make sure you don’t give your child more than one medication with the same active ingredients. This can lead to an accidental overdose.
 If your child has the flu caused by the influenza virus, antiviral medications may be recommended in certain situations, such as children with asthma or other medical problems, and children under age two. Antiviral medications may reduce the severity and duration of symptoms, and also reduce the chance your child will pass the flu to others.


Influenza antiviral medications are most effective if they are started within two days after your child becomes sick. Treatment usually lasts for five days.Antivirals are only available through prescription and may come in liquid, pill, or inhaler form.Your doctor may prescribe Oseltamivir (Tamiflu®) or Zanamivir (Relenza®, Diskhaler®)., You can use a dropper to gently squeeze a few drops into each nostril. The salt will help thin out the mucus and make breathing easier. If the only ingredients are salt and water, then it is safe for children. Check the ingredients on the packaging to make sure there are no preservatives added.Some preservatives, such as benzalkonium chloride may damage the nasal tissues.
You can also make your own nasal spray by adding salt to water that has been boiled, then cooled to a warm temperature.
Do not give nasal decongestant sprays or drops to children. They can cause inflammation in the nasal tissues and aggravate your child’s symptoms.
 Your child should be seen by a doctor if she has:A fever for over 24 hours and is younger than two
A fever for over three days and is over two
A fever of 100°F (37.8°C) or higher and is three months old or younger.
A fever of 104°F (40°C)
Periods of crying for a long time. This is particularly important for children who are too young to tell you what hurts.
Problems breathing
A cough that doesn’t go away after one week or is very frequent or getting worse
Dehydration
Vomiting more than one or two times
A stiff neck
Abdominal pain
Severe headaches
Earaches
Extreme sleepiness

