 Visit a park, take a stroll around the block, or go to a doggy park to let your dog interact with other pups. Dogs love going for walks, and it's great exercise for owner and pup. Make sure you obey leash laws. Even if your dog is well trained, other dogs may not be, so maintaining control of your pet is important.


Always clean up waste after your dog when you go for walks.
Bring water to keep your dog hydrated, especially on hot days.
Take plenty of breaks so you don’t overtire your dog or push it too far.;
, Many dogs like water, and going for a swim can be a really fun way to pass the time, especially if you live in a warm climate. Check at your local lake or ocean to see if they allow dogs. You may even be able to do fun water sports like kayaking and surfing with your pup in some locations.


Always make sure your dog can swim by starting it in shallow water and letting it submerge gradually.
Don't take your dog swimming if it has been sick recently as this can lead to relapsed illness., Many dogs enjoy hunting, and this can be a fun way to keep your pup busy. Start by letting your dog see or smell the treat or toy. Get your dog excited by saying, “Do you want a treat?” Sound happy and excited to energize the pup. Then, leave the dog inside or have a friend distract it while you hide the toy or treat. Then, let your dog look for it.


You may need to train your dog to fetch their favorite toy by name. Say something like, “Get the ball,” each time you throw or hide their favorite ball. That way, when you take the dog outside to find the hidden object, you can use this command to get started.
Hide toys or treats in obvious spots at first. Then, place them in increasingly difficult locations as your pup gets better at finding them.
Don't hide the treat underground, this could promote digging holes in your garden., Dogs enjoy running and jumping, so by playing chase, you give your dog something to run from and remain a part of their play. If your dog ever looks or behaves fearfully or aggressively, stop chasing it immediately. Most dogs will love playing chase, but make sure to let your dog rest., This is especially fun if you have another person spending time with you and your pup. Use your dog’s favorite ball or Frisbee and throw it over, around, and under your dog. This helps your dog improve agility and reflexes, and can be lots of fun that doesn’t tire your pup out too quickly since it will only be moving a short distance between you and your helper., For dogs with lots of energy, this can be a great way to let your pup wear itself out, while you get some much needed rest. Stand or sit in one location and throw a ball, Frisbee, or other toy for your pup. Have your dog bring it back to you and throw again. Many dogs would do this all day, but make sure to give your dog plenty of breaks, even if it doesn’t seem to want them.