 The most commonly used diagnostic criteria for PCOS are the “Rotterdam criteria.” A diagnosis of PCOS may be made when two of the following criteria are present:Androgen excess. Androgens are hormones produced by both men and women. However, they are present at higher levels in males.Androgen excess in females can cause symptoms such as:hirsutism (abnormal or excessive hair growth)
acne
androgenic alopecia (male-pattern baldness or hair thinning/loss)weight gain, especially localized around the abdominal areaOvulatory dysfunction. The most common sign of ovulatory dysfunction is irregular menstrual cycles.Frequent bleeding (more often than every 21 days) may be a sign of ovulatory dysfunction.
Infrequent bleeding (less often than every 35 days) may also be a sign of ovulatory dysfunction.



Polycystic ovaries. The ovaries must be examined by ultrasound. Your doctor will check your ovaries for:

Bilateral enlargement (>10 cc)
Quantity and size of follicles (generally 12 or more, measuring 2-9 mm)
Multiple follicles of similar size
Peripheral location of follicles, which can give a string of pearl appearance

;
, There is no one single test that can confirm a diagnosis of PCOS. Your doctor will need to perform several examinations and tests. Your primary care physician or your gynecologist can usually do basic examinations and tests. He or she may also refer you to a specialist for further testing.If you have PCOS and are having difficulty conceiving and wish to conceive, you may be referred to see a reproductive endocrinologist. These doctors specialize in treating PCOS with the goal of increasing fertility.
If you have PCOS but do not want to conceive or are not having difficulty conceiving, you may be referred to see a medical endocrinologist.
 Because PCOS can cause so many symptoms, it is important to tell your physician about all the symptoms you are experiencing. Even if you do not think the symptoms are related, give your doctor a full account of any symptoms you have.Make sure you also give your doctor a full medical history. Make sure you note if any family members or relatives have a history of diabetes, insulin resistance, or symptoms of androgen excess., Your doctor will perform several examinations and tests to help determine whether you have PCOS. You can expect the following procedures to be done, either by your general physician or gynecologist, or by an endocrinologist.Medical history. Your doctor will ask about your menstruation, weight, and other symptoms. S/he will probably also ask whether you have relatives who have been diagnosed with diabetes, insulin resistance, or PCOS.
Physical exam. You will probably have your blood pressure, BMI, and hair growth examined. Other symptoms of PCOS, such as acne and thinning hair, can also be checked during this exam.
Pelvic exam. Your doctor may want to check for swelling or growths. Usually, these exams are manual (the doctor uses his or her hands to examine the pelvic area) and by ultrasound.Blood tests. Usually, your doctor will check the levels of androgens and glucose (sugar) in your blood. S/he may also ask to collect urine for analysis.
 Once you have been given a diagnosis of PCOS, there are several questions you may want to ask your doctor.Consider asking the following questions:


What medications are available that may improve my symptoms?
Are there medications or treatments that can improve my ability to conceive?
What do I need to do to manage this condition with my other medical conditions?
What side effects can I expect from my treatment?
What long-term health implications are likely due to PCOS?

