 The most effective way to overcome trust issues is to communicate. Most often, mistrust develops because one partner seems like a mystery to the other. When you and your partner are open and honest with one another, the fears and anxieties are alleviated and trust can be restored.


Have the courage to say what you mean. If a situation with your partner makes you uncomfortable, use your voice. You might say, “It makes me worried that this guy is texting you so late at night.” An innocent situation can get blown out of proportion in your mind simply because you don’t speak up.
Offer feedback. Another aspect of communication is reflecting on your progress. Let your partner know how you think things are going to reinforce good habits. For example, you might say, “I really appreciate how you called to let me know you would be out late. It really gave me a peace of mind.”, Just as you want to be able to trust your partner, they also need to be able to live fully without unreasonable constraints on their behavior. Boundary-setting allows both you and your partner to express your wants, needs, and limitations for the relationship. A healthy relationship also requires that these limitations be acknowledged and respected by both partners.For instance, you might express a need to be monogamous with your partner and share what that means. You might say, “Cheating is becoming emotionally attached to another, having physical intimacy (i.e. touching, kissing, or having sex), or feeling the need to hide a relationship from me.”
On the other hand, your partner might express the boundary of being able to have multiple social media profiles with the allowance that you are granted access to them if you desire.
 A critical inner voice can do just as much damage as lies and deceit. If you are trying to fix your trust issues, you will need to identify and reframe negative thoughts that contribute to your insecurities.Reality testing is a great way to challenge these thought patterns. Consider, for example, that your partner gets a phone call and steps out of the room to take it. You think, “He needs to take the phone call in private. It must be another girl. I knew he was cheating on me.” This can quickly lead down a catastrophic path.
Instead, use reality testing to see what evidence there is that your partner is cheating. Have you seen other clues? Is this a constant behavior? Think about other reasons your partner may need to leave the room. Is he hard of hearing? Has he been waiting on an important call from work? Is the background noisy in the environment? Try to fully examine all aspects of a situation to look at it realistically rather than jumping to a negative conclusion.
 You may not want to hear it, but falling in love and staying in love involves some degree of risk. And, risk is largely associated with emotional vulnerability. While you don’t want to think of your relationship as a dice-roll, you should consider that a small measure of faith—in your partner and your bond—is necessary for the relationship to last.


You won’t be able to spend every minute of every day with your partner. You won’t be able to track every phone call or text message. Nor should you want to. You will feel the greatest security and satisfaction in your relationship from the belief that time apart from each other adds value to the relationship rather than subtracting from it.