 Your glass tile will come with instructions from the manufacturer and there may be specific installation guidelines. Read and follow the directions provided. The thickness of your glass tile may require a particular cutting tool, for instance, or the manufacturer may recommend a particular technique. Some manufacturers won’t provide a warranty for the materials you purchased unless you follow their specific guidelines for installation.If you don’t feel comfortable with the installation after reading the instructions, consider contacting the manufacturer directly for more information.
You may want to consider using a qualified contractor, carpenter or professional installer for this job.;
, The number of tiles you buy depends on the size of the space and the size of the tiles you choose. Glass tiles are frequently used as backsplash in kitchens, as well as in bathrooms. However, glass tile is very versatile and can be used in many other ways. Measure the space carefully beforehand and purchase the tiles accordingly.


You can purchase glass tiles at most home improvement stores.
Try to buy about 5% more tile than you need for the job to account for any errors that occur during installation.
 The manufacturer’s instructions will elaborate on what you should expect from the materials. Depending on the type of tile, some variations in shape, color, shade and tone may be normal and should be expected. Confirm that the purchased materials meet your expectations before you begin the installation process.Check for any defective or broken glass, as well.
 Small slivers of glass will be discharged as you make cuts, creating a potential safety hazard. Be very careful. It’s imperative that you wear some kind of eye protection or safety goggles when cutting glass tile. It’s also recommended that you wear heavy cloth or leather gloves to protect your hands from flying glass shards.


Gloves will also protect your hands from the extremely sharp edges of freshly cut glass tile., Nippers, also known as “tile nibblers,” are essential for cutting small format tiles. Nippers look a lot like regular pliers, except they have extremely sharp tips. The most effective nippers for cutting glass tiles have tiny carbide wheels attached to the ends. These wheels make it possible for you to apply the necessary force required to make a cut without damaging the glass.


You can also use nippers to perform other detail work like trimming flares, cutting around pipes and breaking off pieces of scored tile.An example of small format tiles are 4mm mosaic tiles.
 Scoring means to minutely cut the glass to encourage a clean break. Most scoring tools feature a carbide or diamond cutting wheel to scratch the glass.


The scoring tool itself does not cut the glass into pieces. It creates a break line, and then the cutter applies pressure by hand to snap the tile along the line.
 To make a successful cut, measurements and cut lines must be very accurate. Use the straight edge to mark an accurate cut line with a non-permanent marker. Marking a cut line will also help you make one continuous, straight cut with the scoring tool, which is ideal.The score needs to run from one side of the tile to the other, so make sure your cut lines are drawn all the way to the edges of the tile., After you mark your cut line, use the scoring tool to scratch that line into the surface of the glass. Place the straight edge next to the line and score along it to ensure accuracy. Tilt the scoring tool at an angle and press down firmly – this will “score” the tile. Be sure to press down hard enough to scratch a visible line into the glass. Avoid pushing down too hard, however, because this can damage the glass.If you hear a gritty sound as you score, that means you are pushing too hard. The right amount of pressure will result in a smooth, tearing sound.
These scored lines are sometimes called break lines.
 Place your thumbs close to the score, one on each side of the line. Put pressure along the line by pressing down with your thumbs. Make sure you press down with equal force on both sides of the score. Then use a quick, snapping motion with your wrists. The tile will snap apart crisply along the scored line. Pull the tile apart after it snaps.You may need to use an additional tool to break the tile. Place a piece of wire or some other thin object directly beneath the score line, making sure the score line is facing up. Apply pressure to both sides of the line to snap the tile.
 It’s very hard to score larger tiles deep enough to snap them cleanly. A wet saw is the best choice. If you don’t own one, most home improvement stores will rent them out. Wet saws usually come equipped with standard (ceramic tile) blades. Do not use these blades to cut glass tile because it will damage the glass.


Switch that blade out with a glass compatible diamond-encrusted blade, which the home improvement store will carry., The water used in a wet saw helps to cool and lubricate the diamond blade as you make your cuts. Without the water, the glass will eventually heat up and explode. Adequate water flow in the saw’s reservoir tray is imperative to prevent this. Make sure you fill the tray up completely with water before you start using the wet saw.
 Cutting the tile face down will help to prevent chipping. Take your measurements and then draw the cut line onto the tile with a non-permanent marker. Place a piece of electrical tape, masking tape or duct tape along the line, which will prevent the glass from chipping at the edges.Line the saw up with the cut line.
 Turn the saw on and guide the diamond blade across the glass tile. Cut along the line slowly. Take your time making the cut and don’t push the blade into the glass. To get a clean cut, push the glass tile against the saw’s blade lightly and steadily.