 Planning ahead for a time in your day when your body can catch up on zzz’s will help your body prepare for sleep when it comes. Additionally, just knowing a nap is coming is enough to lower your blood pressure. If possible, plan to have a nap every day. Having a regularly scheduled nap will help your body adjust to the routine and make it easier to fall asleep.
If you have trouble working in a nap, consider short amounts of free time like breaks between classes, your lunch hour, or even a five or ten minute break from work. People take breaks to smoke, so why shouldn't you take a break to nap?;
, If you were entirely free to plan your day and had no commitments, what time would you naturally get up and go to sleep? Sticking as close as you can to your body’s natural rhythm will help you feel like you get the most out of your sleep.Most people experience a “dip” in their level of alertness around mid-afternoon, and that is typically the best time for a nap.Typically, a good rule of thumb is to time your nap about 6-8 hours after you wake up., The length of your nap depends on how long you have to sleep, and how alert you want to be after you wake up.Taking a short nap can be energizing, but a long nap may cause you to fall into a deep sleep that's hard to wake from.


Naps of 20-30 minutes can help to improve mood, alertness and performance, without the grogginess that results from longer sleep. When your nap is under 45 minutes, you spend most of the time in Stage 2 sleep, which can increase concentration and alertness, sharpen motor skills, and elevate your mood while minimizing "sleep inertia" (the feeling of grogginess and disorientation after waking). If you sleep 45 minutes or more, your body will slip into a deep, slow-wave sleep. When you wake from this sleep, you may experience sleep inertia (the feeling of grogginess and disorientation after waking), though it will help if you’re feeling behind on sleep (though not as much as sleeping 90 minutes or more).A full sleep cycle takes at least 90 minutes. Napping for 90 minutes or longer will reduce sleep inertia, because you will wake from REM sleep., Don’t waste a lot of time trying to get to sleep; find a place where you can lie down and stay comfortable. Lying down is best; it can actually take 50 percent longer for you to fall asleep while sitting upright.If you're at home, the obvious place to nap is your bed. At work or school, see if you can use an unoccupied room with a couch. Sneaking away to your car is also an option.
Plan to use the same spot every day. You'll start thinking of it as your napping spot, making it easier to fall asleep quickly.
 A light covering can help you fall asleep. If it's hot outside, a sheet provides comfort without the weight of a blanket. No matter the weather, don’t use a heavy blanket for napping; excess warmth can make you oversleep., Don't let a full bladder wake you up while you are sleeping; use the bathroom before you lie down. Make this part of your daily napping routine. While you're in the bathroom, you might want to wash your face and make other preparations to make your body more comfortable, just as you might before going to bed at night.


Consider brushing your teeth if you're napping after lunch.
You may want to change your clothes, too. If you're not at home, remove your shoes at the very least.
 If you are worried you might be disturbed, lock the door. You can put a sign outside the door letting others know when you will be available. Once the door is locked, you'll be able to rest more easily, since you won't be anticipating someone walking in.
 Take a break from answering calls. You will still be able to use the alarm function on the phone even if it is silenced or on vibrate. It's important to silence your phone, even if you aren't expecting a call, so you can forget about the possibility that it might ring.
 Keeping light and noise to a minimum will help you get to sleep and stay asleep.If you don't have blinds or curtains on the window, put a sheet over it so you can block out the light. If you are unable to control your environment, use a sleep mask or noise-canceling earbuds to reduce noise and light.
 Our thoughts and worries always seem to get louder when we lie down to fall asleep. Try different exercises to quiet your mind. Making a habit of doing these exercises will help lull you to sleep more quickly. .


Use a mantra, a short repeated phrase, to center your mind.
Visualize a relaxing place like a beach or a forest to help clear your thoughts.Count sheep.
 Breathe slowly and deeply to help your body relax. If you feel like you’re holding tension in your body, concentrate on tightening, then relaxing your muscle groups one at a time. Doing some light stretches before lying down for a nap can also be helpful.