 The best way to reset your room is with a clean room. Sweep or vacuum the floors of your bedroom. Remove furniture to clean the entire floor. Wipe off all surfaces with disinfecting wipes. Spend time dusting the walls and corners of your room. Sweep or vacuum your closet.


If you swept your floors, take an extra moment to mop the room. Give the floor about twenty minutes to dry.
Use cleaner and scrub the baseboard around your room.
Change your bedding sheets and wash your old sheets.
 It is healthy to rearrange your bedroom furniture every now and again. Your bedroom becomes a new space that feels comforting and fresh. The first step is to find a new place for your bed. Consider your space and find a new place to put your bed. Then arrange the rest of your room around your bed.Try positioning your bed out of a corner and centered along a wall.
As you rearrange your furniture, wipe off and clean areas of the furniture that were inaccessible before.
 Many clutter problems stem from not having enough space in a closet. If you only have a single bar and a shelf in your closet, consider giving it a makeover. Remove the single bar and invest in newer closet systems that can be found at furniture and home appliance stores.You can alternatively split your closet into two sections: one side is a double bar hanger system and the other side is a series of shelves.
This new type of system will remove more items from the floor and allow you to keep a more organized system in place.
 You can utilize your drawer space more by investing or creating dividers for your drawers. With drawer dividers you can keep several items that are vaguely related together in an organized way.For your everyday drawer, you can do the following:


Keep your reading glasses in an individual section.
Use one section for your cell phone.
Keep your keys and wallet in a compartment.
Have your loose hygiene products in a section.
Place your book and notebook in another section.
 Paperwork is an easy to overlook obstacle that can clutter a space. Set up an area of your room, or outside of your room that will be the sole place for paperwork. Everyone has different needs and different amounts of belongings.Some will benefit from investing in a filing cabinet to keep all their filing needs in order.
Others can get by with a binder or a series of folders in a drawer.
Pick a system and enact that system as soon as you set it up. The best way to start using a new system is by implementing that system immediately.
 Shelves are an easy way to keep clutter off your floors. You can keep miscellaneous items or a collection of items together in an organized fashion with shelves. Go to a hardware store to purchase shelving holders and mount them onto your bedroom walls.


Place the shelves high off the ground to avoid knocking into them.
 There are furniture options that can also act as a storage unit. These can be particularly helpful if you have a limited closet space and need to fit linens and guest supplies through a season.You can find items like an upholstered storage bin from furniture stores.


There are other types of furniture that double as a storage space like a bed frame with drawers under the bed.
You can replace your desk with several drawers for storing miscellaneous belongings.
If you don’t have a dresser, consider getting one. You can even get a small dresser and store it in your closet.

