 Before you put your pipes together, first make sure that the pipes give you the notes you want. You should have a diatonic scale by using the measurements provided, but you should still check it to make sure it sounds right. If you want your pan pipes set in a specific key, for instance the key of G, use a piano or music tuner to find the lengths that you want.For example, if you want your pan pipes in the key of G, play a G on a piano, tuner or other instrument.
Cover the bottom hole of the pipe with you thumb so it’s completely covered. Then place your bottom lip on the rim of the pipe, purse your lips and blow across the pipe.
If the note does not match the G, cut off a tiny bit of pipe and try again.
Keep doing this until you match the G. Then do the same on another pipe to make an A, etc. until you have all your desired notes.
 You can add more pipes if you want, or take off some pipes. There aren’t a set number of pipes used in pan pipes. Many pan pipes have either 5 or 8 pipes, but the number of pipes in your instrument is completely up to you. Romanian pan pipes even have twenty pipes!

, When you are ready to attach the pipes together, lay them out longest to shortest. Make sure that all the plugged ends of the pipes are all on the same side. Line the pipes up so that the top ends of the pipes are all in line with each other, and the plugged ends are staggered in a diagonal., You need to attach the pipes to each other so they can stay together as a unit.For straw pan pipes, simply wrap tape around all of the pipes several times. To keep the pipes straight, place a chopstick or popsicle stick across the middle of the pipes, and super glue it down.For PVC or bamboo pipes, you will need to use a stronger material to reinforce the pipes. Use duct tape and a lightweight wooden rod to reinforce the pipes. You can also use twine for a more attractive finished product. Criss-cross the twine across each pipe and the piece of wood to bind the wooden rod to the pipes.Super glue around the reinforcements for extra support.
 If your pan pipes are made of straw, you do not have to sand them. However, PVC pipe and bamboo can be jagged when cut. If you notice that the top ends of the pan pipes are sharp, use sandpaper to smooth them out. The last thing you want is to get splinters when you’re playing your new instrument!If you are making bamboo pipes, also sand the bottom of each pipe where you made the cut at the node.

