 Since you're cutting your hair at home, take extra time to examine it in the mirror and decide where you want the layers to be. If you want, take a picture of your face, print it out, and mark out where the layers should go. Some people like long, natural-looking layers, while others choose bolder looks with sharper distinctions between the different hair lengths. Take the following factors into consideration:


Your hair texture. Layering tends to add body to hair, especially when some of the layers are short in length. If your hair is already full-bodied or curly, you may want to go for longer layers that don't differ much to frame your face.
Your face shape. Think about what layer length is right for the shape of your face. Longer layers look gorgeous with round or square faces, while shorter layers accent faces that are oval or heart-shaped.
Your style preferences. If you're trying to emulate the look of a certain celebrity or popular hairstyle, figure out how to make it work with your hair. Decide where the layers should fall, how your hair will be parted, and how you'll style it in the end.;
, The most important tool required to make sure your hair turns out looking great - and not like your little sister cut it in your sleep - is a sharp, professional-grade pair of barber scissors, also called shears. Using craft scissors or kitchen scissors will leave you feeling unhappy with the final result. Pick up a pair of good scissors from a beauty store or drugstore.
 Work in a well-lit place with access to a sink and a mirror - probably the bathroom. Have a towel ready to drape over your shoulders, a set of hair clips for holding back sections of your hair, your scissors, and a comb at your disposal. A second mirror you can use to check out the back of your hair is also necessary. You may also need a spray bottle filled with water to keep your hair damp, depending on how fast it dries.
 When you're ready to get started, wash your hair and comb out the tangles with a wide-toothed comb. Towel it dry so that it's damp, but not dripping. You’ll achieve the best results by starting with clean hair.