 You can use a small comb or a special spoolie brush to comb out your eyebrows. Brush them upwards towards your forehead and slightly outwards in the direction the hair is going.








The point of this exercise is it make sure all the hairs are aligned for trimming and waxing.
If you don't know what a spoolie brush is, ask at your local drugstore. It's just a small brush like you see in mascara, except you can buy it by itself.
 You'll need a small pair of scissors for this process. As you brush your eyebrow hairs upwards, look to see if any of them are longer then the lines you've made. Trim off the tops of any hairs that are too long, using your comb or brush to guide you.








If your eyebrow hair is exceptionally long, such as it's hanging over the edges of the spoolie brush, you can trim hairs down. Make sure you're not trimming too short, though, if you want to wax. Your hairs need to be a little longer to be pulled up by the wax, with about 3 weeks of growth.
Wipe off any hairs you trim., Before waxing, you want to avoid certain products, as it can increase the sensitivity of your skin. If you use them, waxing could hurt more. You want to skip any exfoliating or astringent product or anything with retinol in it., If you want, you can wax along the lines you've created. To wax, all you need are small wax strips designed for eyebrows. These strips only need the warmth from your hands. They do not need to be heated otherwise.








To begin, pull out a wax strip and cut it to size. Many times, you can cut strips in half, lengthwise. Only use a long enough strip to do half of your eyebrow at once.
Use your fingers to warm up the strip by rubbing it.
Take the paper backing off, and put the strip along the shape you've made on your eyebrow. Use your fingers to make sure the strip is applied securely.
Once it's on, rip it off in one swift motion to remove hairs.
 Another option for shaping your brows is to pluck them. You'll also need to pluck after waxing to catch any stray hairs. Either way, you need to find the hairs outside the line and use tweezers to pluck them out.








Look for the direction the hair is growing, and pluck in the same direction.
Make it easier to pluck by doing it after applying warm water to your face with a washcloth or after you shower.
The best way to pluck is to get as near to the skin as you can because it's easier to grab a hair from the base. You don't want to pinch the skin, though.
 When waxing or plucking, it helps to move back and forth between your eyebrows. Doing so helps you keep them even, as you are able to shape them as you go.








In addition, you might overpluck if you stay on one eyebrow. Moving back and forth can help you see the thickness.
 Some people like to pluck every day, but that can mean you end up with eyebrows that are too thin. You need to let some hairs grow in before you can see whether you need to pluck them or not.If you pluck too often, you'll find you've plucked out hairs that you need to fill in your eyebrow line. You may not want bushy eyebrows, but you don't want nonexistent ones, either.

