 Black would work if you're not going anywhere, just sneaking around in your backyard. But if you're going places where you are going to be around people, then wear dark blue, green or brown. Wear tight clothing, because loose clothing might get caught on bushes.;
, But if you need to sneak out to go to a party or something, here's what you do. You set everything all up in your head (if it's on paper your parents might find it). Pick a time, a way you are going to do it, and a way back in. If you are in a one story house, us your window or go through your garage side door. When opening the door, lift it up so there is not as much pressure on the hinges, and turn the knob slowly., Do not use main roads, for there are cars, and you will not know which are cops and which aren't. Walk slowly and surely, placing your heel down at the beginning of each step. Stick to the shadows, because you will be harder to see in your dark clothing.
 Be silent and move slowly. If by chance someone looks out, you should be invisible to the eye if you're moving slowly. If someone starts shouting at you, do not panic. Just breath normally, and turn and get the hell outta there. If they try to chase you down, just relax. if you put enough distance between you and them, you can easily hide in a shadow and let them run past.
 Do not do this to someone you do not know, because they might call the cops. Keep going on these co-op missions until you are used to the night and the idea of sneaking around. Then, when you are ready, go solo and enjoy the night (It is still very fun to have a friend with you, preferably the one you went on co-op missions with).
 boosting each other up and have a code word for if you are apart and one of you get in trouble.
, The only thing that will keep most people from sneaking around, is the dark. Some people are afraid of the dark. But you have to think, the shadows and darkness is your friend. Without them, it is very hard to sneak around (need different tactics).
