 The water needs to be hot enough to dissolve the dye and set the color on your buttons. It should be about 140 degrees Fahrenheit.


If your hot tap water is too cool, stick the water in your bowls in the microwave for about 30 seconds.
 Add only one color in each bowl. If you’re using liquid dye, add one teaspoon per cup of water. If you’re using powdered dye, add two teaspoons.


To create darker hues, add more dye to your bath.
Dip a small piece of white fabric or a white paper towel into your dye bath to test the color. Add more dye if it is too light for your taste or more hot water if it becomes too dark.
Use your spoon to stir the dye. It should be completely dissolved in the water, and the color should be even.
 The buttons should be completely submerged and have room to move within the container. You don’t want the buttons to touch, as this can create uneven color.


Leave the buttons in the dye for two to five minutes. The longer you leave them, the darker the color will be.
Check for color by using a spoon to gently lift one of the buttons out of the water. If the button is not yet the color you’d like to achieve, you can place it back into the dye bath for additional time.
If desire a very light shade, check your buttons early, at exactly two minutes.
 If you desire a dark color, you need to make sure your water stays around 140 degrees Farenheit.


To do this, use ceramic, heat-safe bowls to dye your buttons or the top of a double-boiler pot.
Fill another pot with about a half inch of water, and place it on your stovetop. Heat the water on low heat.
Then, place your dye bath bowl or pot overtop of this water to create indirect heat. Keep the heat on during the dyeing process.You can check the temperature of your dye bath with a candy thermometer, if you have one.
 Once they reach your desired color, you want to remove the buttons from the dye bath and rinse them so that no residual color stains anything, and they stay the color you like.


First, rinse the buttons with cool water.
Then, gently wash them with soap and water, and place them on a paper towel to dry completely.
 As soon as you are finished dyeing your buttons, you want to wash your bowls and spoons thoroughly with soap and water. The longer they sit with dye in them, the harder it will be to get the dye off.


If you’re using disposable bowls, simply throw them away.

