 Feral cats are usually hungry, so putting out food can make even the wildest cats lower their defenses. Before you can trap the cat, you’ll need to get it used to coming to your trapping spot. Put out food in the same place and at the same time each day so that the cat visits regularly.If there are more than one cat, make sure that there is enough food so that they don’t fight.
You will also want to provide water so that the cat won’t be dehydrated.
 Place your trap in the feeding location. Start by placing the food outside of the trap and slowly move the food into the trap. Continue until the food is in the back of the cage with the cat willingly getting in to eat it. Give the cat a week or two of feedings to get used to the trap so that it won’t be afraid of it.Prop the door of the trap open so that the cat can move in and out freely.
One trap option is a trip-plate trap. In a trip-plate trap, the open door is triggered shut by a mechanism connected to the food plate. These traps eliminate the need for the trapper to have good timing because the trigger shuts the door.
Drop traps are commonly used to trap cats. These traditional traps include a box held up by a stick that the trapper will pull out from a distance. Drop traps are a good option if the cat has learned how to avoid triggering a trip-plate trap.
Stick to the same time and place schedule as before.
Watch the trap while it’s out to make sure that cats don’t get accidentally trapped or harmed., Once the cat is used to entering the trap to eat, set the trigger plate so that the door will shut once the cat is inside. , If you’re still having trouble catching the cat, you can wait a day or two between feedings so that the cat is more likely to be hungry. After the two day withdrawal period, place a trap with food inside in the normal feeding spot. Most cats will go into the trap to get the food.Continue to give the cat water while you’re withdrawing food so that the cat won’t dehydrate and will keep coming to the feeding spot.
If the cat still doesn’t go in the trap, try a more enticing entrée, such as real chicken or tuna fish.
You can also try disguising the trap in a bush.

