 If you are new to the scrapbooking business, you may want to become a direct sales consultant and eventually go into business for yourself. You can also build a business from organizing scrapbooking events, creating or making scrapbooking products, designing scrapbooking websites, etc.;
, If you have an artistic ability for making scrapbooks, for example, you may be able to earn lucrative profits by doing high-end work for others.
 Decide what kind of customers you want to target for your business. Factors to think about may include your customers' age range, income level, geographic region, whether they scrapbook themselves or want someone to do it for them, etc.
 Choose areas to market in that will be visible to your potential desired customers. If you want to market scrapbooks for children or families, consider posting marketing materials at local schools and libraries as an example. If you wish to reach a broader audience, consider using television, radio and/or Internet advertising.
 Not only can this be a way for people to find out about your business, it can also provide income if you allow people to order your product or contact you to do work for them through an online form or process.


Concentrate on your website's product offerings and design. Several online scrapbooking businesses exist, so you may need to set yourself apart from them with your website's design and inventory.
If you have a digital or online scrapbooking business, perform research to find and sell to a niche area in the market. By concentrating on a smaller segment of the market, you may have a better chance at making money from your business.
 By enrolling in an online advertising service, such as Google AdWords, you can make money if people click on your business' ads. Internet ads can also help promote your business and get you targeted customers by being shown to people who are searching for keywords and phrases related to your business.
 By doing a service well for someone and communicating with customers, it can increase your chances for repeat business. Over time, you may also get referred to new customers.

