 Inmates serving indeterminate life sentences (as opposed to fixed-length “determinate” sentences) are eligible for parole unless their sentences state that they are to serve life without parole. Parole is a supervised release subject to restrictions and conditions, similar to probation. If you are serving a life sentence, your sentence should specify when you become eligible for a parole hearing. For example, in California, you are eligible for a parole hearing one year before date upon which you can first potentially be paroled., Your behavior while in prison is an important factor that the parole board will consider.Exhibiting good behavior means staying out of trouble, avoiding fights, and obeying prison rules. In addition, you can look for opportunities to take on additional responsibility or self-improvement through work and education programs offered through the prison.
 In deciding whether to grant parole, parole boards consider factors in favor of and against granting parole. Positive factors include stable life outside of prison, showings of remorse, your motivation for committing the crime, your age, your stated plans for the future, and your behavior in prison. Negative factors include a prior criminal or juvenile record, any history of mental illness, the severity of the crime, and any misconduct in prison.As you prepare for your hearing, be prepared to discuss your feelings of remorse and your plans to find stable housing and work upon release. Give the names of friends and family members who support you, where you will live, where you want to work, and whether or not you will have a job offer open upon your release.
Although you cannot change the circumstances of the crime you committed, you can explain and reframe those circumstances for the parole board. For example, if you robbed someone to support your drug addiction, that addiction does not excuse or justify the crime. Still, you can ask the board to consider that you have kicked your habit, learned to appreciate how your addiction harmed you, your family, and others, and that you intend to stay clean and become financially independent.
 At the hearing, the parole board will ask questions and form opinions about whether or not you should be released from prison. Depending upon the laws of your state, you may or may not be entitled to have an attorney represent you.If you are permitted to have an attorney, you should strongly consider hiring one to help you prepare for the hearing and to assist you in answering the parole board’s questions.


The parole board will notify you of its decision at a later date, usually within a period of several months., If you are granted parole, there will be conditions that you must meet. Otherwise, your parole will be revoked and you will be returned to prison. Common restrictions for parolees include meeting regularly with a parole officer, obeying the laws, reporting your location, submitting to random searches with or without probable cause, and attending counseling or treatment programs.