 These are listed below in "Things You'll Need". Look for supplies in large box stores that stock craft items as well as craft shops and hobby stores.

Children working on this project will require the help and supervision of an adult, as sharp scissors and an oven will be used. The aid of an adult may be needed for certain steps which require attention to small details. The time it takes to complete this project will include three minutes for baking and between 15 and 30 minutes for fusing.;
, This is currently only available as a PDF file which you can find at http://www.2shared.com/document/T9COyD5v/bakugan_pendant_pattern2.html. The download link is near the bottom of the page (see image). Once you have the PDF file, print it out full-size on a regular piece of letter-size paper., First, tape the pattern down (printed side face-up) onto the surface of your workspace. Then, place a sheet of Shrinky Dinks plastic (frosted side up!) on top of the pattern, and tape it down at the edges as well. This will help to keep both pieces in place as you work., Notice that there are six different pendant patterns on the page, one for each attribute of Bakugan. You will only be tracing the outside line of this pattern for this step., Try to only fill in the space inside the lines; when the plastic is baked later, the painted areas will puff out slightly and fill out the design more. Allow the paint to dry before continuing on to the next step.

If the marker is new, or isn't painting well, you will need to prime it; shake the marker up and down for a couple of minutes (you should eventually hear the agitator sliding back and forth inside the marker), then press the marker tip down onto a scrap piece of thick paper or cardboard so that the tip retracts into the marker. Paint will start to flow into the spongy tip. It will easily make a mess, so be careful when doing this step!

, Allow this to dry before going on to the next step., This piece will remain blank, and will be used later on during fusing as the bottom piece which seals the design is inside the pendant. Simply tracing the outer edge of an adjacent pattern to get this piece saves you from having to move and re-tape the plastic.,, Remember to cut only along the pencil lines that mark the outer edges of these pieces., Make sure to remove all of the pencil marks; they will not be included in the final piece. Also be sure to keep the pieces clean from eraser filings resulting from erasing., Preheat the oven to 325ºF (163ºC) and allow it to warm up as you prepare the cookie sheet. Take the parchment paper and cut a piece that covers the cookie sheet. Then, take the pendant pieces and lay them frosted side up on the paper as shown in the picture. Once the oven has reached the desired temperature, go on to the next step., As they bake, they will shrink (they are Shrinky Dinks after all) as well as become nine times thicker.

It is important to watch them during this process as they run the danger of curling up and sticking to themselves, thus preventing them from flattening out properly. Grab a chair and sit where you can see the pieces as they draw up, and keep the pair of wooden skewers or chopsticks on hand to reach into the oven and pull the pieces apart if they start curling into themselves. (Children should have an adult do this.)
Once the 3 minutes have passed, take the cookie sheet out of the oven and lay it on a heat-safe surface (or potholders) and allow the pieces to cool. Then, turn the oven temperature up to 450ºF (230ºC) and allow it to heat up. While you're waiting, work on the next step.
 This tiny piece of wire will be fused inside the pendant and will be used to hang it from a necklace chain. See the photos at right for how to bend the wire and cut off the excess with the jewelry pliers (you will need to bend the wire a bit at the non-loop end so that it cannot be easily yanked out of the pendant after fusing). The wire must not be so long that it extends past the silver "finial" into the clear part of the pendant, but also not so short that you can't get a lot of bends into it., Get the Pyrex dish and begin layering the pieces inside it. The blank piece is laid frosted side down on the glass first; the eye loop is then laid at one end of the blank piece, then the painted piece is laid frosted side down with the top end on top of the eye loop. A flat toothpick is placed under the exposed part of the eye loop to keep it from touching the glass., During this time, the top piece will melt into the bottom piece, turning them into a single piece. The frosted surfaces will flatten, causing the pendant to turn clear.

Check the pendant after 15 minutes to see if the fusing has completed; it is likely that the silver-painted ends will still need a few more minutes to fuse. Once you are satisfied with the result, remove the dish from the oven and set it on a heat-safe surface. The dish must be cool to the touch before moving on to the next step!

, Grab the pendant near the middle with the thumb and index fingers of both hands, and gently wiggle it back and forth, gradually applying more pressure, until it comes loose from the dish. There may be some clear plastic left on the dish where the edges of the pendant touched the glass; this can be easily removed with a safety razor., Your pendant may end up with some sharp or jagged edges where it was touching the glass. Use the fine-grain sandpaper to dull these edges. Be careful not to scratch the smooth plastic on top of the pendant., Remember to open the ring by bending it sideways, instead of pulling it open., Simple enough. Afterwards, close the jump ring. Alternatively, you could close the jump ring first (bending it sideways until the ends meet), then undo the chain and slide it through the ring., Wear it to your next Bakugan tournament meet and impress your opponents.