 A tag cloud is a group of keywords that identifies the topics of your posts. This makes it easier for people to search and find your post on the internet. When you write a post, add tags to your post on the bottom of the "Add New Post" page.


The tag cloud associated with your blog is a list of words arranged in a square or "cloud" form. The largest words are the words used most frequently to find your post. You can get the tag cloud by going to the Appearance portion of your Dashboard, or by downloading the tag cloud plugin at WordPress.org.
Choose categories for your post, or add the "category cloud" widget. This is similar to adding tags. Attach categories to your posts, so people searching for their favorite blog categories (such as fitness, crafts, cooking, etc.) will find your posts more easily.;
, This means the links do not change when you update your blog. You can check by looking at the URLs of your posts. If your blog address is followed by the title, or "/%posttitle%/", then you are already using permalinks.
 Make sure your heading is not larger than an "h1" size. Place "h1", enclosed by the less than and greater than symbols (< >), at the front of your heading, and "/h1", enclosed by the less than and greater than symbols, at the end of the heading.


You can enlarge the size of your heading by replacing the "h1" with "h2" or "h3." Most SEO analysts recommend the smaller size (h1) for headings, because it helps you to be listed higher. Others suggest using "h3" to make the headline stand out on your blog, making it more attractive to readers. Some themes automatically set the size of your coding, so you may want to experiment with heading size.
 Google and other Internet search engines rank articles in accordance with the frequency of popular keywords at the beginning of headings and titles. Make titles short, keyword-friendly and memorable.
 Add the Twitter, Goodreads and RSS links widgets on WordPress.com or download plugins at WordPress.org. Post your new blog articles on these social media channels, to increase the number of links to your blog.


Research has found that the more links to your posts on other sites or blogs, the more likely your posts are to be listed at the top of search engines.
 You may need help from a web programmer to learn to use the plugin correctly. This SEO plugin automates ways that can help your page rank higher on search engines.
 Meta descriptions pop up under your site name on Search engines. Make sure every description is 1 to 3 sentences long, unique for each post and intriguing.


A meta description is an "elevator pitch" for each blog post. Tell your audience in a few short sentences why they should read your post above those of all others.
 Improve content to keep your blog active and give readers what they want. You can either improve a post by editing an old one, or add a new post that links back (or redirects) to an old post.
 Sites are judged by search engines by how current they are, which is why it is important to post consistently on your site. Consistent reader comments also keep the blog current.


Post links to the comments section of your blog on your social media accounts. This link will also help to keep your article active and listed at the top of search engines.
 The best use usage of the WordPress SEO is to turn new readers into subscribers. You will know your SEO is working when you get more subscribers. In your posts, don't be afraid to ask your readers to subscribe.
 Post comments on their blogs to encourage communication between blogs. Belonging to a community will increase referrals to your blog or posts, making your blog URL appear more often on the Internet.

