 Place their cages at opposite ends of the house and keep them entirely separate for the first few days. During this period, you should take measures to make sure your senior dog does not see the new dog. For example, you should not let them both out of the house at the same time and should keep them in different parts of the house., Place one of the new dog’s toys in the senior dog’s cage. Your senior dog will smell the scent of the new dog and gradually get used to it. At the same time, place one of your senior dog’s toys in your new dog’s cage. Your new dog will gradually get used to the idea of another dog in the house. Dogs get to know one another via scent, so this form of introduction avoids the possibility of posing or even fighting, which could happen if you make the introduction too early., Keeping the old dog in their cage, allow the new dog to explore and smell the rest of the house, except for the area where you have your old dog. This will allow the new dog to smell the old dog a bit more while becoming accustomed to the layout of your house. Then, switch roles. Lock the new dog up, and give your old dog time to explore and smell the scents left by the new dog.
 Your old dog may be sad that you have left a new dog into the house so you will want to comfort them. Make them feel they are safe and at home by cuddling up with them on the couch or playing a favorite game.Practice patience with your old dog. Your old dog may start walking slowly or taking more time with things, so you should just be patient with them.Spend quality time with your old dog. Your old dog may not like to exercise as much, but you should still find a way of giving them quality time. This is especially the case if you are introducing a new dog into the house., After allowing your senior dog to meet your new dog via smell, you can introduce them in a neutral territory that is away from the house and other dogs. You might take them to a sports field or other natural setting that neither dog identifies as their territory., Let your senior dog smell your new dog and vice versa. Give them some time to smell one another, greet, and even play. Hopefully, they will already be used to their respective scents and will be more amenable to friendship.If your senior dog is friendly with your new dog or vice versa, you should reward them with a clicker and then a dog treat.If they start baring teeth or showing other signs of aggression, you should pull them apart and get them doing something else. You can try introducing them again later or in a different environment., After the introduction, you can let your new dog see and interact with your senior dog in the house. However, you need to continue supervising their interactions and make sure they both get adequate alone time. You can use a clicker and associated positive rewards, such as attention or a treat, to reward good behavior between your new dog and your senior dog.

