 To determine how much fabric will need to be removed, you’ll need to take accurate measurements of your own figure. Keep in mind that it is easiest to make alterations using even numbers (2 inches difference means you can reduce 1 inch of fabric on each side, for example). Use a soft measuring tape and take and record the following measurements:


The center of your waist to the center of your crotch.
The center of your lower back (wear the waistband sits) to the center of your crotch.
The side seam from your waist to your ankle.
The inseam from the center of your crotch to the ankle.
The distance around your waist.
The distance around your hips.
 Lay a large piece of dressmakers paper out on a flat surface, and then place your pants on top of this. Smooth them out, and then use a pencil to outline them all the way around to form the pattern; if you’re not sure of your tracing skills, measure the pants and your outline to make sure they match up. Then, create your new pattern by overlaying your measurements onto this outline. Draw a new outline of the pants inside the old outline using your measurements. Cut out this pattern when completed.
 Place your pattern on top of the pants, and pin it in place. Use a piece of dressmakers chalk to trace the outline of the altered pattern onto the pants. If necessary, use your measuring tape to match your tracing to the measurements you took of your own body.
 Use a seam ripper to deconstruct the waist of the pants; cut out the waistband on the back of the pants above the bum. Then, cut out the necessary difference in the elastic waistband, and sew it back together. Take in the excess fabric that you’re left with by adding two darts in the center of each buttocks. Measure a ‘V’ shaped dart that goes down 2 inches (5.1 cm) from the waistband and is 1 inch (2.5 cm) wide at the widest point.


If you’re still left with lots of excess fabric, you can add matching darts to the front of the pants.
 Starting at the waist of the pants, you’ll sew downwards along the outside leg seam to make a smaller waist/thigh. The new seam you create won’t go all the way to the hem of the pant leg, but will rather taper into the current pant leg somewhere near the knee. Turn the pants inside out and use a straight stitch to sew from the waistband down to the outer leg seam. You can use an iron to press this seam flat when you’re finished, or you can cut out the excess fabric if you would like.
 If the crotch of your pants hangs too low or is too loose, you can fix it by sewing in a line parallel to the original crotch/inseam. Turn the pants inside out, and starting at the inner thigh sew deeper into the fabric parallel to the seam all the way around. Press the excess fabric to flatten it, or cut it out for a permanent alteration.
 With the aforementioned alterations made, try on your pants and see how they fit! Make note of any further changes/adjustments that need to be made, and fix these now. Otherwise, your pants should be successfully taken in a few sizes.

