 Most individual U.S. states regulate acupuncture licensing, but these states typically work with the National Certification Commission for Acupuncture and Oriental Medicine (NCCAOM) to determine eligibility for licensure.


NCCAOM is the only nationally recognized certification granted to acupuncturists, but having the certification does not necessarily mean someone is a licensed acupuncturist. Acupuncturists are usually required to pass NCCAOM exams to be licensed, but in addition to this exam, the specific state the acupuncturist will be practicing in might have additional licensure requirements.Currently, 43 U.S. states as well as the District of Columbia work with the NCCAOM to assess and regulate acupuncture licensure.California administers its own exam, the California Licensing Examination, to grant licensure to acupuncturists.;
, Licensed acupuncturists attend and graduate from nationally accredited colleges of acupuncture. This education is usually at a master’s level, takes 3 to 4 years to complete, and is supervised by experienced and qualified acupuncturists. acupuncturists:To become licensed, the National Certification Commission for Acupuncture and Oriental Medicine requires that applicants attend a program accredited by the Accreditation Commission for Acupuncture and Oriental Medicine (ACAOM). There are about 60 of these accredited programs in the U.S.To maintain their license, acupuncturists must also complete continuing education courses.
Even after completing coursework and graduating from a program, most states also require that applicants for licensure pass NCCAOM certification exams on topics such as acupuncture with point location, chinese herbology, and oriental medicine. State requirements vary as to which NCCAOM exams or how many different NCCAOM exams a person must pass before being granted licensure.
 In addition to taking courses at an accredited college of acupuncture, acupuncturists must complete extensive hands-on-training before they are granted licenses to practice.Licensed acupuncturists complete at least 1500 to 2000 hours of training as part of their educational program.
Before being granted licensure, acupuncturists are required to have seen and treated at least 250 actual patients.
 When trying to locate a licensed acupuncturist, you might encounter medical professionals who perform acupuncture or claim they are certified in acupuncture. This designation is often used by physicians, chiropractors, physical therapists, and dentists who employ acupuncture techniques in their fields, but this does not necessarily mean they have the level of training and experience as licensed acupuncturists.In comparison to licensed acupuncturists, individuals claiming they are certified in acupuncture usually complete 100 to 300 hours of training.
The certification is typically granted by a professional organization in the individual’s field such as the American Academy of Medical Acupuncture, the National Acupuncture Detoxification Association, or the International Veterinary Acupuncture Society.Certified acupuncturists are not required to pass NCCAOM exams.
Certified acupuncturists often do not have as much hands-on-experience with patients before being granted certification.
Certified acupuncturists are not required to complete continuing education courses.
 Regulations on acupuncture licensing vary among states. Before you start looking for a licensed acupuncturist, familiarize yourself with the specific requirements in your area.


The NCCAOM maintains a database of these requirements, which is available through their website.