 You'll want to start with a fresh canvas, so bring a gentle cleanser or cleansing wipes and moisturizer. Moisturize well up to and on the day of the wedding and everything will go on smoothly.


Use a moisturizer with SPF to avoid sunburn, especially if it's an outdoor wedding.;
, It minimizes pores, fills in fine lines and gives your makeup a smooth base to help it apply evenly. You may want eyelid primer, too, so your eye makeup stays put all day. Remember that a little goes a long way. , Even if you don't normally wear it, it will help you look picture-perfect as you pose for photos all day. Finding foundation can be a bit overwhelming. For a wedding, you'll want to look for full-coverage or all-day wear. Pay attention to skin type and undertones (warm, cool or neutral).Once you've narrowed it down, test several options on the inside of your arm or neck. The right shade should just about disappear., This sets foundation and keeps your face from getting shiny, but be wary of HD powder, which can reflect light and wash you out in photos.Apply it with a big, fluffy brush, focusing on your t-zone where oil tends to surface.
 Bronzer gives you a gentle sun-kissed glow and keeps you from looking washed out. Apply it over your cheeks, forehead and chin—where the sun naturally hits.. Blush helps contour and add a little pink to your cheeks; keep this higher on your cheekbones for a natural facelift.
 Brow pencils help define and tame unruly eyebrows and make your eyes stand out. Choose a shade that's only slightly darker than your natural brow color and apply, lightening and tapering toward your temple., Check with the bride and bridal party so you don't end up looking wildly different than everyone else. Eyeshadow and lipstick can really change your look, so be aware of what will go with your dress. If the bride lets you pick your own, consider neutral eye shadow, dark eyeliner and soft pink tones for your lips and cheeks., Use a tiny bit of primer to help it stay put. Apply lighter colors first and layer darker colors to highlight as needed, using a small brush or sponge applicator to blend.


If you're wearing a jewel tone, try a coordinating shadow color one shade lighter or darker than your dress.
If your dress is a warm color, you may want to stick with a black/gray eyeshadow.
If you're wearing black or grey, any color eyeshadow is fair game. , If you're new at eyeliner, try making small dots along the edge of your lid and then connecting them. Liquid is usually the easiest to apply smoothly, but if you're a beginner, a pencil can be easier to control—just make sure it's sharp., If you're fair-skinned or have light hair, consider brown-black instead of jet black. Apply carefully to avoid clumps and add a second or third layer as desired.Try hypoallergenic products if you wear contacts.
Use an eyelash curler before applying mascara to make your eyes look a little bigger.
False lashes can add volume if yours are are sparse, but make sure you practice applying them ahead of time to avoid last-minute problems. , Start with a thin layer of lip balm or liner to protect and fill in fine lines and apply layers of long-wear lipstick until it's just the right shade. Look for a shade that flatters your skin and works with your overall look. Long-wear lipstick is less likely to come off while eating, drinking or kissing.
 On the big day, you'll want a case or bag you can easily stash everything in. Make sure your brushes are clean and that you have cleanser or extra cleansing wipes if needed. Sandwich baggies are great for keeping brushes dry.
 Even if you're not normally a crier, weddings can bring a lot of emotions up, and it will also help if things are a bit warm. The last thing you want is raccoon eyes halfway through the ceremony!Setting spray is sort of like hairspray for your face, and will keep you looking flawless for hours.
Mattifying powder is also useful if you're prone to oily skin or getting shiny.
 A clutch or kit with your lipstick, blotting papers, tissues and a few other vital supplies in a small bag can save the day in case of snafu. Consider including a nail file, deodorant wipes, clear nail polish and a small sewing kit as well.