 If you feel overwhelmed by Les Mis or don’t enjoy reading, develop a plan to tackle the assignment. This can help you strategically get through the assignment.There are different ways to develop a plan for tackling your reading assignment. For example, if you have three weeks to read this 1500-page tome, you can divide it into a set of daily readings of 71.5 pages.
You could also allot each chapter of the book a specified amount of time. That can help you not get mired on one part of story.For example, you could aim to read one chapter a day, or multiple chapters if they are shorter.
Give yourself breaks to refresh your brain and recharge your batteries., It is never too early to start required reading. This can minimize your stress and help you retain information. It may also help you enjoy the book more.Read for 30-60 minutes a day to help you get through Les Mis in a more effective manner.
 Reading shorter and more manageable sections can help you successfully finish your required reading. This can ensure that you get through every section of the reading, even if it’s not enjoyable.Pace yourself by not exceeding the allotted time for each chapter. This can motivate you to get through the text., People who read a lot of texts, including academics, use techniques to quickly “gut”—or get the most important information—from reading assignments. Learning how to gut Les Mis may help you more effectively and enjoyably get through the book.The most important sections of any text are generally the introduction and the conclusion, or the first few and final chapters. Make sure to read these thoroughly and then skim through the remainder of the text for important details.
In many cases, just reading the first page of a novel can give you a general idea of a book’s subject.Skimming the book, which is the equivalent of reading about 450 words a minute, can help you get the important plot points of the book without focusing on language, character development or minor themes.You may also want to use a study aid that provides plot summaries to help you distinguish what you should read, skim, and simply skip.
You can get a grasp on the plot from a study aid and then skim for important literary devices such as dialogue or imagery.
 Keep notes on the book while you’re reading Les Mis. You may need to recall the information for a class or another juncture. By taking notes as you read, you can construct a built-in study aid.


Taking notes is a delicate balancing act between getting too little and too much information. Don’t write down everything you read, only the most relevant information or details.
Write your notes by hand. Studies have shown that people retain information more effectively writing notes instead of typing them in to a computer or recording them on a device.