 It is possible that a variety of horned beasts from the rhinoceros to the Oryx influenced the myth of the unicorn. One particular favourite is the narwhal, with its long tusk (males only).;
, Legends from medieval times are an especially good source for unicorn lore. Other legends include the natural historical accounts of the Ancient Greeks, Roman tales and Ancient Chinese tales (although the unicorn in Chinese legend is not the unicorn most people are familiar with). Much of the original tales influence our thinking on unicorns even to this day.
 Look online or in art books for the Hunt of the Unicorn tapestries (1495 - 1500). These depict unicorns from medieval times. Another excellent series of unicorns can be found in the Musée National du Moyen Âge in Paris, known as 'La dame et la licorne' (The Lady and the Unicorn). Each of these tapestries carry much symbolism, which you learn more about by researching. Other depictions of unicorns can be found in paintings, book artwork, filet crochet and lacework from the late nineteenth century and in modern cartoons and posters. Look up high on buildings in countries such as England, Wales and France and you will often find statues upon roofs or carvings on walls featuring the unicorn. Buckingham Palace in England is a good example.
 Today's unicorns are sleek, beautiful and more strongly horse-like in their presentation. They vary in colour - depicted in many differing colours and even a mixture of glistening golds, silvers and sometimes rainbows.

They are horse-like but have certain differences, including the horn. The legs are meant to resemble an antelope and in many depictions has the tail of a lion and the beard of a goat
The horn has magical properties - it is said to cure illnesses and neutralize poison - poisonous plants are meant to burst when brought near a horn. Modern interpretations have held that the horn can change colour with the mood of the unicorn
Unicorns were depicted as highly intelligent, possibly communicating by telepathy

, Note that some of this myth was tied up with the rabid requirement that women be chaste before marriage during the Middle Ages, a fact that influenced this myth to suggest that only the purest of maidens would have such success. Literature seems to have left female unicorns aside; it'd be nice to imagine this was in acceptance that female unicorns had better things to be getting on with but more likely because a chaste male human was not a requirement of the times
You should never lose faith in a unicorn or things will bode ill for you
Some depictions of the unicorn compared it with the purity of Christ
Unicorns barely touch the ground; some even say they merely skim it, so finding the trail of a unicorn is almost impossible
Removal of the entire horn kills a unicorn; however, a unicorn in a relationship of trust may choose to offer a portion of its horn to heal a sick individual
The blood of a unicorn is considered to be deadly, for the blood of an innocent and pure creature should never be caused to flow

, As with many mythical creatures, unicorns are graced with certain meanings. Common interpretations hold that these values are reflected by a unicorn:


Nobility
Loyalty
Quick to anger at disloyalty
Steadfastness
Purity
Selflessness

,