 Logan Airport is located in Boston and is an international airport receiving flights daily from all over the world. Several popular airlines fly to this airport, including United Airlines, Southwest Airlines, and US Airways.


Logan Airport receives flights directly from several US states, including Las Vegas, Los Angeles, Dallas, and New York.
Logan Airport receives international flights daily from several countries, including Europe, Asia, and Oceana.
Look online, at your airport, or with a travel agent to pick the best domestic or international flight bound for Logan airport.
Logan Airport has the FAA code BOS, so any airplane bound for BOS will get you there.;
, You will need to pack accordingly depending on the duration of your stay.


International and domestic airline flights have strict limits on number of bags, weight, and dimensions. Be sure to check these restrictions before packing.
 Ask a friend for a ride, take public transportation, or pay to park your car in the airport parking lot.


Bring two forms of identification, a passport if traveling internationally, and your flight itinerary to the airport.
Check in for your flight.
Board your flight bound for Logan Airport.
 Find information about Boston Train and Subway routes at the Massachusetts Bay Transportation Authority Website.Inbound is always toward downtown Boston, and outbound is away from it. In the subway system, inbound is toward four stations: Park Street, State, Downtown Crossing and Government Center.
 Transfer to the Blue Line to Airport Station.Then take the free Massport shuttle bus to all airport terminals.
 Transfer to the free Massport shuttle bus to all terminals.


Other options from the northeast include Bus Route Nos.448 and 449 from Marblehead or Bus Route No.459 from Salem, all of which serve Logan Airport Terminal C.
 Transfer to the Silver Line SL1, which serves all airport terminals.
 Transfer to the Orange Line.


Take the Orange Line one stop south to State Station. Transfer to the Blue Line to Airport Station.
Then take the free Massport shuttle bus to any terminal.
Other options from the northwest include taking the Commuter Rail to South Station and transferring to the Silver Line SL1, which serves all airport terminals.
 Transfer to the Blue Line to Airport Station.


Then take the free Massport shuttle bus to any terminal.
Other options from the south include taking the Commuter Rail, Red Line, or SL4 to South Station and transferring to the SL1, which serves all airport terminals.
 Transfer to the SL1, which serves all airport terminals.


Other options from the southeast include taking the MBTA Harbor Express ferries from the Quincy commuter boat terminal located at 703 Washington Street in Quincy or from Pemberton Point in Hull to Logan Airport. Then connect to the free Massport Route 66 Shuttle Bus for service to all airport terminals., This bus goes directly to the airport for about $7.You can access a Logan Express bus terminal in Braintree, Framingham, Woburn, and Peabody.
Each Logan Express bus terminal has a secure parking lot. , Before boarding, know your bus! The bus's route number and destination can be found on the sign above the windshield. At some stops, all buses on a route stop to pick up passengers, no matter which direction they're going.Take care to board the correct bus by checking the destination sign or asking the operator.
 Most local routes charge 90¢. Bus fare-boxes accept change, passes, and tokens. Avoid paying with dollar bills.


All buses are pay-as-you-board, except routes 71, 72, and 73 when heading outbound. Pay when leaving these routes.
If you need to transfer from one route to another, ask for a transfer while paying your face. This might give you another local route for free. Check city bus websites for route information and details.Exit to the rear of the bus.



Once you arrive at the dock, take the free Massport Route 66 Shuttle Bus, which services all airport terminals.
Commuter Boat service from Quincy operates 7-days-a-week.
Commuter Boat service from Hull operates weekdays only.
Overnight parking at Quincy is affordable and discounted weekly rates are also available. For more information about MBTA ferries to Logan Airport, please call the carrier at (617) 770-0040., Although taking a taxi will be more expensive, this is one of the best methods to use if you are unfamiliar with the area, in a rush, or nervous about getting lost. Taxi drivers will know how to get you to Logan Airport.When traveling within a 12-mile radius of download Boston, taxis charge a metered rate. Outside the 12-mile radius of downtown Boston, taxis charge a flat rate.
 Uber and Lyft are both alternatives to the traditional taxi and often offer ride share options and cheaper rates. You can schedule a ride with Uber or Lyft by downloading the respective app on your mobile device and linking a payment option., Boston Water Taxis operate on demand from 6:30am to 10pm Monday through Wednesday and 6:30am to 11pm Thursday through Saturday. Rates and details can be found at the Boston Water Taxi website.Boston Water Taxis and are covered and heated for comfort in winter months.
The Boston Water Taxi charges $12 for one stop, for one adult. Discounts apply for same-day services.
Multi-ride passes are available to purchase.
Hours may change by season.
Find a Boston Water Taxi at any designated stop (find a map of stops at the Boston Water Taxi official website) or call for one at 617-227-4320., Depending on your distance from the airport, the time of day, day of the week, and unpredictable factors like traffic accidents or roadwork, travel time can vary.


If you are traveling to Logan airport to catch a flight, remember to plan to arrive at the airport at least 2 hours early for domestic flights and 3 hours early for international flights.
 There are several routes you can take to get to Logan Airport.


From the west, take the I-90 East (Mass Pike) to the Ted Williams Tunnel and take the I-90 East Exit 26 to Logan.
From the north, take the I-93 South to Exit 24B to the Callahan Tunnel and Route 1A North to Logan. Or, take Route 1 South, exit at Route 60, and follow the signs to Logan Airport.
From the south, take the I-93 North to Exit 20 to I-90 East and the Ted Williams Tunnel, then take I-90 East Exit 26 to Logan.
 Be cautious of parking rules and prices when leaving your vehicle in an airport parking lot.Parking availability information is updated in real time on the Logan Airport official website. You can use this tool to check status on parking lots for long-term, short-term and economy parking.Short-term parking is suitable for 4 hours or less.
Parking rates vary by length of stay and lot. Current rates can be found at the Logan Airport website., If you are relatively close, you may be able to walk to Logan Airport. Walking is not recommended if you are bringing heavy luggage with you.
 Several designated bike paths can get you to Logan airport. It is not recommended that you ride your bike if bringing heavy luggage.


Consult Boston's Bike Maps online for the best route.Bike racks at Logan airport are available in Terminal A, Terminal E, Economy Parking Garage, Rental Car Center, Blue Line Airport Station, Bremen Street Park, and Greenway Connector.
 If you are short on cash or worried about getting to the airport by yourself, ask a friend or family member to give you a ride.


Logan Airport has designated pick-up or drop-off waiting lots. These lots are located about five minutes from the terminals and allow drivers to stay for up to 30 minutes.

