 One of the best ways to ignore somebody is to show them that you’re disinterested in communicating with them. If a girl is bully with you, don’t stoop to her level. Instead, try not to engage in distasteful conversation. Be as formal and polite as you can so that she’ll have no choice but to leave you alone.Say you run into the girl at school, and she starts yelling at you from across the hall. Don’t respond. Politely say “excuse me” and keep walking forward.
 Usually, bullies act the way they do out of low self-esteem. Oftentimes they are targeting you just because they need somebody to pick on, so it is important to avoid taking the bullying personally.To avoid taking the bullying personally, try considering the importance of the relationship. Is this someone you really care about, or someone who you just know? Does his or her opinion really matter? Will it affect how those who really care about you will treat you?
You can also try thinking about how this person treats other people and why. Is she mean to most people or does she pick on a select few people? Why do you think she does this? Is she insecure? Does she struggle at school? Is there something else that might be causing her to lash out?

, Laughing at mean comments will make you feel better about yourself, and will also confuse the girl so much that she might stop. Bullies are looking to provoke you, and if you respond with a positive attitude, they will likely stop feeling the need to pick on you., Bullies act out because they themselves feel hurt or misunderstood. Try to see the girl as a human being who is hurting, and who is dealing with her problems by trying to make you hurt, too. Don’t let her do this to you. Instead, feel empathy for the girl and don’t let her get to you., If ignoring her still doesn’t work, don't be afraid to stand up for yourself. Try not to yell or get too worked up. Say something simple and direct, like: "I don’t like the way you’re treating me. This needs to stop.”Saying something honest is always disarming. If you encounter the girl and she is being loud and mean, quietly say “I’m really bothered that you’re acting this way” instead of coming back with an equally offensive comment.

