 If you send cash, you’ll have to find a physical Western Union or Moneygram location. If you’re in a town of even modest size, this shouldn’t be a problem. There are literally thousands of locations for each across the US and in Mexico. However, Western Union’s fees are two dollars lower than Moneygram’s ($8.00 compared to $10.00)., You can send money using credit or debit cards through numerous services. Even many online money transfer companies have cash pickup locations in Mexico. Western Union, Moneygram, Ria, Remitly, and Sharemoney all have cash pickup locations in Mexico, so price is the deciding factor. Remitly, Ria, and Sharemoney all have fees of about $4.00 to send $1000 with a debit card. The fees to send the money with a credit card are substantially higher--$33.00 with Sharemoney and $35.00 with Ria. Remitly doesn’t take credit cards. Western Union and Moneygram, on the other hand charge a $15.00 fee for both credit and debit.
 Sending money via a bank withdrawal is always the cheapest way to send money—companies rarely charge more than $4.00, and most charge a little less.Take note, however: although bank to bank transfers are the cheapest way to transfer money, they also take longer than others.
 Some types of transfers will take longer than other types of transfers. Make sure the person you’re sending the money to doesn’t need it sooner than your chosen method of transfer will allow.All of the money transfer services offer quick transfers if your payment is made with a debit or credit card. If you use a bank account, the transfer will take between three and four business days.
 Choose a service based on the fees and its convenience and proximity to yourself and the recipient.


If you’re unfamiliar with the location where the money will be sent, make sure to ask the recipient if the surrounding area is safe. Just because it’s close by doesn’t mean it’s the best.
Moneygram, Western Union, and Ria all offer a home delivery service. Naturally, it takes longer to have the cash delivered than it does to pick up, but a credit, cash, or debit transfer will still usually arrive the same day., In order to complete the transaction, you’ll need to have the recipient’s first and last name as it appears on their driver’s license or ID, their email or telephone number, and their address. Be sure to take down the transaction number. You’ll need to give it to the recipient so they can complete the pickup.In order to pick the money up, the recipient must show their ID and know the transaction number for the transfer.
You will also be required to set up an account with the transfer company if you send money online. If you plan on sending money with your bank account, you will have to enter your account information and verify the account.

