 You'll need to have long hair. Your hair should come down to about the tip of your nose. You need to wash your hair with shampoo and conditioner. After that, on a cool setting, you need to dry your hair with a hair dryer and brush it with a round brush as you do that. After that's done, and your hair's still a tiny bit wet, use straighteners to straighten your hair. After this, apply product to your hair. Only use a little bit. After that, use industrial strength hairspray. You should use the hairspray upside down so it gets in your roots. Then, put everything in place and spray, then you're done with that.



Get the right jacket. You'll need a brown tweed blazer with two-button closure.It's a good idea to check thrift stores for a match.
Add the shirt. The shirt is an expensive one. You could try a regular slim fit dress shirt in either burgundy or cerulean depending on which bow tie you're planning to wear (in series 5, the shirt matched the bow tie and braces).
Use black slim fitting dress pants or black jeans.
Try to get matching x-back braces and a bow tie. These either come in burgundy or blue. In series 5, the bow tie was a pre tied variety.
Try your best to match the boots. The boots are All-saints layer boots. If you can find a cheaper alternative, go for it. Black Doc Martens work nicely - however, they look like they are beaten up and dirtied, so I'd recommend going for that look.
Get a brass wrist-watch, with the face on the inside of your wrist. It completes the series five costume.
 You'll need to start with his iconic brown tartan jacket, with elbow patches. Alternatively, you could get the green coat he wore in "Let's Kill Hitler", "The Girl Who Waited", "Closing Time", and "The Wedding of River Song". It works for those extra cold days.


The shirts are all in shades of sky blue with white buttons, or white, with a check pattern on the white shirts, and still all fit relatively tight and slim.
There are more bow ties, in either burgundy, blue with a horizontal bark pattern, or an Aztec key pattern bow tie. The bow ties are usually self-tie, so learn how to tie a bow tie. There are links to the series 6 bow ties in the tips section.
You can take liberties with the boots as long as they're black, however make sure they are clean. Not necessarily shiny, but the whole series 6 outfit was a lot more put together than the series 5 costume.
 In series 7, the Doctor's wardrobe changed dramatically as he abandoned his tweed, his braces, and his old TARDIS interior.


His new coat is a purple frock coat.
His waistcoat is usually either in light purple, black, or in tweed gray.
The boots. Smith's new boots are tan boots that come up to his ankles and lace up, and were light brown in colour.
He also wears what appears to be a fob watch (Ah! Remember "Human Nature" and "The Family of Blood" two-parter? Thank you David Tennant-era!)
If you want the costume from "The Snowmen" and "The Time of the Doctor," go with a long purple trench coat. They might be hard to find elsewhere, but if you search for actual replica costumes, you can get your hands on one!

, They have a lot of things you could use for the 11th Doctor, If you want, get some weird headwear. Go for a fez or a stetson (preferably a fez). Stetsons are cool.
 "Didn't anyone ever tell you? There's one thing you never put in a trap if you're smart. If you value your continued existence, if you have any plans about seeing tomorrow, there's one thing you never, ever put in a trap...Me." - Eleventh Doctor (The Time of Angels, 2010)

