 The most common delivery methods for aromatherapy are topical applications of solutions, such as compresses or massage oils, that include small amounts of essential oils. Mix a few drops of essential oil into a carrier liquid like water or mild cold-pressed oils, and apply it to your skin.The general guidelines for mixing topical solutions is that you should add 1-3 drops of essential oil for each teaspoon of your carrier liquid. Never exceed a 5% concentration of essential oils in your mix. Then, you can either rub your solution directly onto your skin or pour it over a clean towel to apply as a compress.
If you’re using an oil for your carrier liquid, it’s best to use ones that aren’t strongly scented, such as jojoba, grapeseed, or avocado oil.
If you’re using water, be sure to shake your solution before using it since oil and water do not stay mixed.
If you don’t want to mix your own, there are plenty of products that offer pre-made topical solutions, such as massage oils, lotions, and body sprays. Be sure that they have at least a 1% concentration of actual essential oil.
This delivery method allows you to inhale the essential oil’s perfume. It is also a useful treatment for acute skin conditions, like minor cuts and burns, since essential oils have antimicrobial properties.
Because essential oils can be hazardous to your health or easily cause skin irritations when they’re applied incorrectly or in too great of concentrations, there are some risks associated with topical application methods., Use a diffuser or steam bath to vaporize the oil so that you can breathe it in. These applications allow you to inhale essential oil vapors into your nostrils, which can directly stimulate the targeted neural receptors in your brain.Electronic diffusers offer a high-tech tool for the vapor method. Once you fill their reservoirs with essential oil, they will facilitate the timed release of its vapors for you to inhale. You can generally program their running time to last anywhere from 5-12 hours.For a shorter, DIY vapor delivery method, add 1-2 drops of essential oil to a steaming bowl of recently boiled water. Keep your eyes shut tight, and drape a towel over your head and the edges of a bowl to form a loose tent. Breathe in the steam as long as it lasts.Vapor methods are among the safest and most direct ways to deliver aromatherapy.
 This sticky patch comes with a pouch that is already filled with essential oils. Apply the sticky side to your skin according to the instructions on the package. This adhesive back-side will prevent the oil from leaking through while the opposite, porous side slowly releases essential oil vapors over the course of the day as they’re activated by your body heat.Since this method only exposes you to the vapor without letting the oil penetrate your skin, it’s considered among the safest and most effective delivery systems for aromatherapy.
Aromatherapy patches are available from a number of companies, such as Bioesse, Wyndmere Aromatherapy, and Natural Patches of Vermont. The kinds of oils available and duration of their release will vary by company, with the effects lasting anywhere from 6 to 24 hours.
 You can figure out which application works best for you by keeping notes that record the pros and cons of each. Try each method at least three times to be sure that your observations are consistent. Once you’ve tried each, use your log to determine which type of aromatherapy suits your needs the best.


When assessing the pros and cons of each delivery method, take both their practical logistics and therapeutic outcomes into consideration.
For instance, if you’re taking notes in your log about the inhalation patch, you might list “easy to use, long-lasting, non-messy, and very effective at reducing agitation” as the pros and “expensive, limited options, and not effective as a sleeping aid” as the cons.
When making your final decision, be sure to weigh the effectiveness, convenience, and cost of the various delivery methods. If you find two are similarly effective, go for the one that’s cheaper or more convenient.

