 You can buy them in well-stocked beauty shops and online. Some clothing stores may also sell them. They come in packages of 2 to 3 sheets, and look like the temporary tattoos you put on your skin.;
, Go through the sheets, and choose an image that appeals to you. Cut the image out with a pair of scissors. You can cut out more than one tattoo, but you will need to apply them one at a time.
 Make sure that you are only peeling the sheet off of the tattoo you just cut out. Leave the sheet over the rest of the tattoos. This will keep them clean, dust-free, and prevent them from sticking.
 The easiest way to do this would be to straighten your hair, but you can also add some loose curls or waves towards the bottom. Make sure that the area that you'll be putting the tattoo in is relatively straight, however. This will make it easier to apply the tattoo and help it look nicer in the end.
 If you plan on just tucking a strand of hair behind your ear, you can skip this step. If you plan on pulling your hair into an up-do, a ponytail, bun, braid, or anything else, you should do that now.Hair tattoos are stiff, sort of like stickers. If you try to style your hair after you apply the tattoo you risk ripping the tattoo and distorting the image.
 This will make your hair sticky and help the tattoo adhere better to your hair.
 Make sure that the image side is against your hair, and that the paper backing is facing out. Hold it firmly in place.
 Dampen a towel with water first, then squeeze the excess water out. Press the towel against the back of the tattoo. Hold the towel steady for 20 to 30 seconds. Be careful not to move it around too much.








If you don't have a damp towel, you can spritz the tattoo with water instead. Gently hold your fingers over the tattoo for 20 to 30 seconds.Do not drench the tattoo. You want it to be wet, but not soaking.
 Gently rub your finger over the backing a few times to make sure that the tattoo sticks.
 The paper backing should come away, and the tattoo should be stuck to your hair. The tattoo will be stiff, like a sticker. Do not pull it apart.
 This will help seal the tattoo in, and help it last longer.
 Your tattoo is now ready to go! If you kept your hair loose, you could tuck a strand of hair behind your ear, or clip it off to the side with a bobby pin.
 The tattoo should last several days. Over time, it may rip or crack, and spread apart. When you are tired of it, remove it in one of the following ways listed below.
 Start at the bottom of the tattoo and work your way to the top. Use short, quick, gentle strokes. As you comb, the tattoo will get stuck to the bristles.
 The tattoo will flake off or dissolve in the water.
 Since the tattoo is like a sticker, it is possible to peel it away. Loosen an edge near the top of the tattoo. Get a good grip on it, then gently peel it away, pulling it downward. If you have any residue, come it out with a fine-toothed comb.








