 Either gather pinecones from outside or buy a package from a craft store. Short, round pine cones work best for this wreath, but use what is available. You’ll need around 40-60 pinecones, depending on how tightly you bunch them on the hanger.

If you pick up pinecones from outdoors, it’s a good idea to bake them in the oven at 200℉ (93℃) for about 20 minutes. This kills bugs and crystallizes the pine tar, which reduces the mess of the wreath.
Break or cut stems from the bottom of the pinecones.;
, Buy a bag of pony beads that are commonly used for crafts. They can be multicolored, if you intend to spray paint the wreath, or plain white. Use a hot glue gun to attach one bead to the bottom of each pinecone.When you glue the beads, make sure to glue the side of the bead to pinecone so the hole can be strung onto the coat hanger.
 Grab a wire hanger from your closet, or find one at the thrift store. Bend the coat hanger so it forms a circle. You may need to use a pair of pliers to get the shape just right, but it doesn’t have to be a perfect circle.Be sure to untwist the top part, as well, so you can add the pinecones.
 One at a time, stick the end of the hanger through the beads. Bunch the pinecones close together so they form a tight circle and the hanger is not visible. Alternate pinecones toward the center of the hanger and towards the outside of the hanger.How many pinecones you have and the various sizes of them will determine how close they will fit together. Don’t be afraid to cram them a little bit so that the petals hook together.
Fitting the pinecones together so that they begin to look like a uniform wreath is a bit of an artform. Move them around as you go until the wreath looks the way you want it to.
 Once all of the pinecones have been strung onto the hanger, grab the pliers again. Use them to twist the ends of the hanger together as they were in the first place. Make sure the top still forms a hook so you can use it to hang the wreath.

If you don’t want to use the hook of the hanger to hang the wreath, use the pliers to bend it down so it is hidden behind the wreath. Then tie a ribbon or a piece of wire around the wreath to hang it.
 If you want to leave the pinecones with a natural look, you are all done with the wreath. If you want to spruce it up, spray the wreath with silver spray paint. Add holly, ribbons, or other embellishments to finish the wreath off any way you want.Take a red ribbon and spiral it around the entire wreath. Then tie another ribbon in a bow and glue it to the top part of the wreath.
Snip some small sprigs from the pine tree and glue them around the wreath. Add a few flowers like baby's breath or poinsettias.

