 If you just want to temporarily remove your perm, a flat iron is the best route. It will not permanently remove the perm, but will allow your hair to temporarily straighten.Make sure you select the right flat iron for your hair type.


If you have short, thick, or fine hair look for an iron with narrow plates. Ideally, the size of the plates in your flat iron should be between half an inch to one inch long.For longer hair, look for an iron with longer plates. Pick an iron with plates between one and a half to two inches wide.Regardless of your hair type, make sure that your flat iron isn't too heavy. If it weighs more than a couple pounds, you'll end up getting sore while using it.;
, Before you apply the flat iron to your hair, wash and condition your hair. Make sure you pick a shampoo and conditioner that will help with the flat-ironing process.


When it comes to flat-ironing your hair, be gentle. The heat is hard on your hair so baby it a little during the washing process. Choose a smoothing conditioner and a gentle shampoo.
Make sure both your shampoo and conditioner have moisturizing properties. Due to its heat, a flat iron can dry out hair.A heat protector, in addition to shampoo and conditioner, can also help. Add a hair care oil, which you can find at a local salon, to your hair after shampooing and conditioning. You don't need to add more than a drop. Make sure not to add the oil too close to your scalp as this can make your hair look greasy. Keep the oil 2.5 to 3 inches away from the scalp., Once you've washed and conditioned your hair, you need to let it dry. You can blow dry your hair or, if it's thin and tends to dry quickly, just let it air dry. Just make sure your hair is completely dry before using a flat iron. If your hair is still wet, the flat iron could cause your hair to boil which can result in hair damage., The heat setting you select on your flat iron is important. If it's too hot or too cold, it may be ineffective or even cause damage.


Not all flat irons allow you to adjust the heat. If your hair is undamaged and of average density, it should be safe for you to use a flat iron without adjustable heat. However, if you have special needs regarding your hair splurge on a more expensive flat iron where you can control the heat.If your hair is fine or damaged, keep the heat between 250 and 300 degrees Fahrenheit.If your hair is of medium thickness, set the heat between 300 and 350 degrees Fahrenheit.If you have thick hair, set the heat between 350 and 400 degrees Fahrenheit., Once the flat iron is warmed up, you can begin straightening your hair. This process can take some time, so be patient.


Section your hair before you begin straightening. Separate your hair into 2 to 4 sections, depending on thickness. Thicker hair will need more sections than thinner hair.
Start with the section near the nape of your neck. Start straightening about half an inch away from your roots. This will give your hair some volume after the process.Move through your hair with the flat iron one section at a time. Go slowly, keeping a steady pace. Ideally, you'll want the sections of hair to flatten out on the first try. Going over the same section more than once can dry out hair and lead to damage.Use tension when pulling the flattener across your hair. You do not want to cause yourself pain, but applying a bit of pressure can help get your hair smooth and flat on the first try.