 Whatever your talent is, pursue it. People who become "awesome" at what they do invest a lot of time into getting there. Who ever said that being awesome was easy?


Some theories say that it takes about 10,000 hours of practice before you can truly master something.Now, that's a lot of hours, and it's totally possible to have an awesome talent before even 1,000 hours of practice. But the people who really have amazing, awe-inspiring talent — Bill Gates, Mozart, Feliks Zemdegs — spent a lot of time preparing to be awesome.
While you're practicing your talent, find ways to motivate yourself. Break your goal down into small chunks. Reward yourself with free time, a snack, or that new video game after you've achieved what you wanted to achieve.;
, You could be the most amazing dancer or writer in the world, but you won't inspire awe in people if they never see your talent. Being awesome, by definition, means putting yourself out there, no matter how scary that is. However remember not to show off too much, like bragging for instance, for people might think you're being a show-off.


Start small. Once in a blue moon, people will start developing a talent and have instant success. For us mortals, it usually takes a while for that talent to develop. So start small. Work yourself up to greatness.
At the same time, think of the "biggest stage" your talent can be showcased in. Magicians want to pack auditoriums in Vegas. Singers want to have a #1 Billboard single. Soccer players want to win a World Cup. Don't be afraid to dream big when practicing your talent. That's part of what keeps you going.
 Whether it's from a coach, a parent, or a panel, getting advice on what you can do to get better at your talent is absolutely essential. A famous poet once said, "No man is an island." What John Donne meant by that is that you need to rely on other people to help you out. You can't do everything by yourself.


Always ask other experts in related fields how you can get better. Your desire to be awesome is directly related to your willingness to develop your talent into the best it can be. Ask other magicians for help; reach out to actors for techniques; attend basketball camps to develop your skills.
 A mentor is someone who is experienced in your field and willing to give you advice and help with the direction you want to take your talent. Having a mentor is huge for people who want to be awesome because of a talent; a mentor will help them process feedback, get new opportunities to show off talent, and network with other people who might continue to help them out.


Reach out to other people who might act as a mentor. You can say something as simple as "I was hoping I could get some advice from the world's best flutist about the flute solo in Tchaikovsky's Symphony No. 2. Any help would be greatly appreciated!"
Understand what other people get out of being a mentor. A mentor isn't a one-sided relationship, the master just showing the pupil how to get things done. The mentor gets value and happiness out of knowing that they helped you succeed, that they helped mold you into a more dedicated, awesome individual. That's huge!
Show your mentor respect. You might think that your mentor's advice is a little off the mark, but try it before you dismiss it. There's a reason s/he's an expert and you aren't. Respect them by taking their advice very seriously.
 It's a given that when developing a talent, you're going to fail every so often. If you didn't fail, you wouldn't be human. Many people give up when they fail. If you want to be awesome, what you'll have to do is get right back up, shake it off, and learn from your mistakes, not let them keep you down.


Get your ego out of the picture. Not only will this help you shake off your mistakes more easily, it will help you develop a more selfless, humble attitude. If you didn't already know it, most people think people who exhibit greatness but still manage to be humble are "especially awesome".

