 Sit down with your betrothed, and take a hard look at your finances. Look at your monthly expenses, the money you take in each month, and any extra you might have. You should also look at any areas you can cut costs in for a while, such as lowering your phone plan or eliminating your satellite TV service.Be honest with yourselves about how much you make and how much you can save. If you cannot have the wedding of your dreams with what you make, you can always opt for a long engagement.;
, Wedding costs vary considerably based on decorations, clothing, travel, food, and a myriad of other factors. Discuss what you want in your wedding--your must-haves and things you can let go of--and create a clear estimate of how much your dream wedding is going to cost.After you’ve created a dream wedding cost list, eliminate unnecessary expenses and create 1-3 more scenarios to keep your options open.
 After you’ve reviewed wedding costs, come to an agreement on how much the two of you are willing to spend. If one party wants to spend more than the other, begin whittling down (or lifting up) your respective ideal budgets and agree on a price or price range., Create a list detailing your wants and needs in order from “absolutely must have” to “I can live without it.” This will be absolutely necessary when you create your budget; if you are over your budget, you can begin to whittle away the “I can live without” items and hold onto your must-haves.This step can be tricky, as many couples have different priorities. Start with “must-haves” you both agree on, and move on to one-sided musts next.
 Once you’ve created your priorities, craft your budget, taking into account any savings or cost-cutting you’ve found. Once you reach the final number you are willing to spend, stick to that number--no exceptions. Your budget is there to keep your wedding a responsible celebration of your union. It is not worth going into debt over.Make sure you are realistic when running numbers. Hoping for $200 flower arrangements when you’ve only seen $500 arrangements will get you into trouble quickly.

