 A lot of people who want to be discovered as a singer really mean that they want to be discovered as a super star. But there's a difference, and a timeline, between the two. Think about this:


A professional singer is someone with substantial experience and usually musical education under her or his belt.
A professional singer is someone who sings and performs on a very regular basis, from 1 to 5 times a week and several hours per night. Her or his success can remain local or go global.
A super star might come out of a great singer, but that person didn't necessarily have to be a professional singer previously.
A super star usually achieves international and sometimes global success.;
, Much like any other career path, passion is key in paving your road to success. But if that passion is based solely on the desire for money and fame, your career (and happiness) might be short lived. Try to think about the following questions:


What do you get out of singing?
Where/what venues are your favorite performance sites?
In what particular field do you want to earn respect and appreciation?
Do you enjoy large or small audiences?
Is recognition of your talent more important to you than the actual performing?

, Maybe your parents want you to be the next Pavarotti and insanely wealthy. Always ask yourself if that is also what you truly want.
 As in most other professions, lots of practice is absolutely necessary. Not just for the quality of tone, but also for your own comfort level.


Make it a goal to practice at least a few times a week, and ideally everyday.
Hold yourself accountable by entering your planned practice times in a calendar or planner.
 Remember the saying, all good things come to those who wait? As in many other aspects of life, being patient can make a big difference in the final outcome. Don't rush things. And take time to refine your skills.
 Practice, practice, practice. And then practice some more. As previously mentioned, allot some time on a daily or weekly basis to polish your talent. Here are some suggestions on where you might want to practice:


Find a place where you can be alone and undisturbed for your entire practice.
Bathrooms, stairwells, and hallway can provide great acoustics.
Sing in your car on your way to work, shopping, or any destination.
If you need any instruments or tools to accompany your practice, make sure to leave them set up for the next time.
 Are you a morning person? Or do you prefer to work late into the night? Understanding your internal clock and lifestyle can make a big difference in how effective and satisfying your singing practice will be. Any time is a good time as long as it fits your lifestyle. Some things to consider might be:


Is your home very crowded/loud during the day?
Do you entertain guests at night on a regular basis?
Do you have commitments during certain hours that might derail your practice?
Try to practice for at least 15 to 60 minutes at a time.
 Research has shown that consistent and mindful awareness can help you reap benefits in many situations and for many objectives. Going to a guided mediation session can be very useful at first, especially if you have little to no experience with this practice.
 While some singers achieve great success without ever taking lessons, it certainly never hurts and can only improve your skills. Plus, you might meet important people in the industry.
 At an early stage, you can't afford to say no to any offer. Yes, even if it's singing a children's birthday party or at your school event. Remember, these are all great opportunities to practice your singing and to become very comfortable on stage.
 There are many appeals to not starting off solo, one of which is the camaraderie and networking opportunities you might get from joining forces with other like-minded musicians.
 You won't need to move right away, but you do eventually want to put yourself in the right field of vision. In other words, stay on top of where music is produced and where people tend to be discovered. This might also depend on your chosen music field. For example:


Nashville is the place to be if you're aiming to be in the country music industry.
Los Angeles or New York are general centers for music and entertainment.
 If you're like most teens today, you're probably very comfortable using social media to communicate with peers and friends. Take it to the next level by applying your tech know-how to promote yourself and your musicCreate a Business Facebook Page to keep people and potential fans posted on what you've been doing, and where you'll be performing next.
Ask people to 'like' you on your Facebook Page (yes, even if it's super uncomfortable for you).
Keep your Facebook Page up-to-date. This is very important, and something that a lot of people neglect.
Link your new Facebook Page to your Twitter account for additional exposure.
 Appropriate spaces might be bars, clubs, and/or restaurants, to only name a few. You could also post your fliers in coffee shops, and anywhere that will allow you to.
 You shouldn't have to wait until a record label signs you in order to get your music heard. At this stage, you need to find a music studio that will engineer your music with you. There are, most likely, many options out there. Focus on finding a studio with affordable rates. Keep some of the following things in mind:


Visit as many studios as you can.
Inquire about who exactly will be working with you on your recording.
Research the studio to get a feel of other artists' experiences.
Though the cost matters, it's crucial that the studio of your choice has the newest technology.
Check that their technology actually works.
Try singing in their recording booth to get a sense of the acoustics.
 Most studios record 2 hours a session, and they're usually not cheap, so make sure you know what piece(s) you want out first. Keep in mind that most labels only listen from 20 to 30 seconds of what you submit, so you need to record the absolutely best song(s) you have.
 Once you've gotten your music recorded, consider selling it on iTunes. It can be an excellent way to get your music out faster, and see how people like it. It's free to sign up, though additional terms of sale apply for any music you sell directly through it. Here are some pointers:


Have your Universal Product Code (UPC) and International Standard Recording Code (ISRC) at hand.
Have your tax I.D. ready. It's required for the verification process through iTunes.
 Even if you don't achieve the success you want after multiple attempts, keep trying. Remember, nothing worthwhile comes quickly or easily.

