 Eyelid glue (also known as “putti”) and eyelid tape are popular cosmetic items that help create a “second eyelid” for those who have mono-eyelids. Both the liquid adhesive and the tape are effective, though the tape may need modification to achieve a perfect fit.


Eyelid tape comes in a few varieties, including rolls and “pre-cut” shapes.;
, Give your eyelids a gentle washing prior to applying an adhesive. Too much oil or makeup will cause problems for the adhesive, resulting in your eyelids not adhering properly. If you wish to wear makeup, apply after putting on the adhesive., If using tape, cut a small thin strip that roughly matches the length of your eye. The tape should be completely obscured under the crease of your eye, so avoid cutting the tape too “wide.”









Cutting an appropriate size may take some trial and error. Pre-cut strips may also have to be modified to fit without being visible.
Not all eyes are the same! The shape of your eye, even if "almond," can vary drastically from another set of almond eyes. Review your eye carefully, and talk to a beautician if you need advice specific to your own eye shape., Find the crease of your eye and apply the adhesive along the crease. Look in the mirror if you aren’t quite sure where your to find your crease, or have a friend help while you apply the adhesive.








Both eyelid glue and tape can be removed with warm water, or a small amount of makeup remover.
Take care when removing the tape from your eyelids. Peel slowly to avoid stretching out your eyelids.
 Eyelid liquid glue comes with a small applicator. Once you have applied the glue, use the applicator to push a portion of the upper eyelid upward, so that the glue adheres to nearby skin, creating a fold. Note that both types of eyelid adhesives, particularly the liquid, may require physical adjustments to adhere in place.


Practice using the applicator to create an additional eyelid fold prior to applying the glue. This saves you the trouble of having to reapply the glue if you apply the adhesive incorrectly the first time., Make sure your eyelid folds are to your liking and have a strong enough bond to last throughout the day. It will take some practice to get the perfect look on both eyes. If you feel one type of adhesive does not work well, give the other a try and see if it works better.









Eyelid glue will last longer based on how much you layer on your eyelid. A thinner layer will dry quickly, but only last a few hours, whereas a thicker layer will last longer, though it will also feel more noticeable.
Eyelid tape holds stronger than glue, but can be felt much more easily in the eyelid, meaning it may be uncomfortable over longer periods of time.
Sweat and oil can cause the glue to lose its hold as the day wears on, so reapplication may be necessary (most notably in eyelid glue).

