 The more books that you can get on the list that you have some experience with, the better. This will help to cut down on the time you have to invest reading significantly.;
, critical theory, rhetorical theory, composition and pedagogy). Take some time at the beginning of the QE process to talk with your adviser about what he or she hopes you will get out of reading each section of the list. This might help give you some idea of how the questions will be organized on the exam itself.
 Although it is difficult to discern at the outset what you will learn as you read--this is part of the mystery (and value) of reading so many texts--there are certain key elements that comprise nearly every "scholarly" text: main argument, key questions, key examples, memorable passages, "the take away." Develop a template (a table) for reading the texts on your list, and use this template throughout the process.
 Instead of trying to read every day, plan ahead for days off. I recommend that you give yourself a one day break every week.
 It may be tempting to take a long weekend (or week for that matter), but getting back on track can be difficult. Breaks in moderation are healthy, but long breaks can be demoralizing. The more time you spend away from the texts, the harder it will be to get back. Instead, if you sense that you are slowing down, simply reduce the reading load for a couple of days. You will still feel accomplished--"yay, I managed to read something"--even if the pace is slowing down.
 The best way to do this is to begin to visualize the argument that you might make. Although it may be difficult to predict what question(s) you will be asked on the exam, drawing connections on paper will prepare you for the kind of outlining you should do at the beginning of the exam itself.
 in the specific sub-field that you are studying. One of the key strategies that you can use to prepare for this process is to begin organizing authors/texts in taxonomies: "these three authors talk about this issue, while these three authors present the issue this way."

