 Metal cutting bits are generally acceptable for metals, and will work for other materials such as wood and plastic, but ceramics, glass, and concrete require special bits to produce good results. Here are some bits to consider:


High speed steel bits are good for most non-abrasive materials that are hard enough for the bit to bite. This includes steel, aluminum, brass, and other common metals. They will also suffice for drilling wood, but are not as likely to give good results if splintering or splitting is a problem.
Spade bits are suitable for wood, and give a fast, accurate cut, but can also cause splintering if the drill is allowed to wobble, or if too much pressure is applied.
Titanium coated high speed bits are preferred for drilling hardened steel, stainless steel, and cast iron, as they can handle higher temperatures resulting from cutting these materials.
Forstner bits give excellent results when drilling wood.
Auger bits give fast results with some splintering when drilling wood.
Carbide/Tungsten Carbide bits will drill through concrete and other hard aggregate as well as most stone materials. These can be difficult to start accurately, and also may require a percussion type drill like a rotary hammer or hammer drill to operate efficiently.
Diamond embedded bits and hole saw type drill bits are suitable for hard ceramics and glass, but these material may shatter if good technique is not used.;
, Measuring the distance between holes for multiple holes, aligning the hole with other members, and other factors should be considered when marking the hole.
 This is especially valuable when drilling a curved piece of metal, such as through a round metal rod or a section of tubing. You can also use a punch to dimple wood, and even ceramic tile if you are careful.
 If you are successful in drilling the hole without the bit slipping, and are satisfied with the results, step up to larger bits until you have a sufficiently large hole for your purpose.
 This can be done by clamping a piece of material on the sides of the stock being drilled to keep the drill in place when operating it.
 Ideally, if you can get access to one, a drill press with a V block or vise makes drilling accurate holes much simpler.
