 Nothing does more for a space than filling the walls with artwork, prints, and posters. Choose a selection of artwork and prints in complementary colors and themes; think nature photography, paintings, concert posters, favorite quotes, etc. Head to a local thrift store or the clearance rack of a department store and pick up some picture frames that match the sizes of your artwork. Then, hang your prints all over your home. A bare wall is a boring wall, so try to have at least a few large pieces and a few small pieces of art displayed throughout your house.


Keep in mind that you can paint your picture frames to match your artwork or furniture.






You can purchase incredibly cheap prints of famous paintings online, making it easy to add lots of art to your home.
 To make your house truly idiosyncratic and appealing, add framed photos of your favorite memories, trips, people, and locations. You can print large photographs from different experiences throughout your life to hang as centerpieces on your walls, or you can print small versions to place in standing frames around your house. People will love seeing your home filled with your favorite pictures, and you’ll always have good things to be reminded of while you sit and relax.


You can find cheap picture frames for your photos at thrift stores, which can then be painted to match the interior of your house.
Try hanging your photographs with assorted artwork in your home in a gallery display. This will allow you to showcase lots of your favorite pieces at once, and add a more personal touch than just paintings might do.
 Floating shelves are small rows of shelves that are attached directly to your wall, allowing you to hang prints and photos around them. These are great for placing small decorative items and knickknacks on. Add glass bottles/vases of flowers, trinkets, things you’ve collected from your travels, and other pretty things to the shelves that match your interior decorating. These are also a great way to showcase art and photos without filling your walls with holes to hang them up.


Floating shelves are great for decorating a bathroom and allowing you to store towels and the like with a small amount of space.






Try using floating shelves in your kitchen to store cookbooks and pretty glassware/china.
 Generic light covers and shades may come with your home, but they typically lack interest and personality. Mix up your lighting by purchasing new, more decorative options. Look for items to work as your primary light source that match the general style of the room, but that aren’t too bold. Small interesting lamps can be interspersed throughout your home to add light and flare to your style. If you’re interested in DIY, you can purchase old lamps and shades from a thrift store and spray paint or cover them in fabric for a fresh new look.


If you’re using multiple lights in one room, try to vary the sizes, colors, and shapes of the lamps (unless they’re a matching set).You can never have too much light, so don’t be afraid of using several light fixtures in a single room or a small area.
 Curtains are one of the most underused style tools in decorating a home. With just a bit of carpentry work, you can install curtain rods and add lovely curtains that match your furniture perfectly. Look for curtains that have plenty of color or pattern to brighten up your room. If you’re working in a space you’d like to keep dark (like a bedroom), you can add room-darkening curtains or drapes in dark hues to block out light. If you’re trying to make a space look bigger, add light colored and textured curtains.
 The purpose of rugs is dual in nature: cover up unattractive or dirty flooring and add interest and pattern to your floor. Look for rugs to fill up the empty spaces in your home; these will make your house seem full of furniture even when it's a bit bare. Find rugs in colors and patterns that match your décor (or go with it; too much ‘matching’ might look boring). You can also arrange furniture on a rug. There are basically three ways you can arrange furniture on your rug.,