 Lie on your back face up, bend your knees, and put your feet flat on the floor so that you do not strain your lower back. Keep your nose perpendicular (pointing straight up) to the ceiling. Nod your head slowly forward without moving your neck. Envision that you are drawing a small arc with the tip of your nose. Keep the movement very slow.Slowly return your nose to its vertical position. Repeat 10 times. In a few days, increase your repetitions to 20 times. The next week, begin doing 2 to 3 sets of nose nods per day. Once you get used to the motion, you can do them standing up against a wall or standing up away from the wall.
 Sit up straight in a chair. Your neck should be long and your knees bent at a 90° angle with your feet on the floor. Squeeze your shoulder blades together, as though you are trying to get them to touch. Hold this for 3 seconds, like you’re trying to hold a tennis ball between your shoulder blades. Slowly release your hold back to a relaxed position.


Intentionally drop your shoulders if tension has caused them to creep closer to your ears. Let your arms hang to your sides.
Repeat this exercise 10 times, moving in a controlled manner. Increase to holding for 10 seconds and then to doing 2 to 3 sets per day as you get stronger.
Chest tightness and weak back muscles are very common in people who spend a lot of time at a desk or in front of a computer. It tends to cause your shoulder to slump forward. This exercise helps to undo that poor posture.
 Sit in a chair or stand up straight. Practice your chin retractions/nose nods a few times. Do a chin retraction, letting your nose sweep downward slightly. Once it is retracted, keep your chin at the same distance to your neck, but move the top of your head backward.


Stay there for a few seconds and move slowly, returning your head to an upright position. Then, move out of the chin retraction. Do this 10 times, working up to increased repetitions and sets.
During this exercise, remember that you are not trying to increase the arc of your neck. You are trying to pivot your head backward in a natural and correct manner. People who have had forward head posture for an extended period of time may find this very difficult to do in the beginning.

