 The probate process is a legal process where a person’s final debts are settled and legal title to property is formally passed from the deceased to his or her beneficiaries and heirs.


Some property will bypass probate regardless of what a will specifies. Some specific types of property that will bypass probate automatically includes life insurance payouts, retirement funds, savings bonds, and jointly titled property such as bank accounts and property.
 The probate process can be broken down to three basic steps. They are:


The collection, inventory, and appraisal of all assets that are subject to probate

Depending on the value of the estate, this could take months.
Additionally, appraising the decedent’s assets could be costly, depending on the nature of the assets. The probate court will require the valuation to be assigned by a professional appraiser.


The payment of all bills, taxes, estate expenses, and creditors from the assets of the decedent

Based on the decedent’s debts, creditors may sue the estate and deplete the assets that would otherwise be given to beneficiaries.


The transference and distribution of all property of the estate

If probate is avoided, this is the only step that takes place.
 Avoiding probate is not for everyone, especially if your estate will be left to many beneficiaries or if your estate is very high in value.One benefit of probate is that it is handled by the court system, so all decisions and distributions should be legal and fair. The court can also settle any disputes that arise during the probation of the will.Forgetting to provide for some of your property using means of avoiding probate can cause portions of your estate to go through probate while other parts do not; this can lead to confusions and complications., The main benefit of avoiding probate for many people is that other approaches may be faster or less costly than going through probateand they allow for the distribution of property to be private and not recorded on public record.This can be of particular benefit to families with strained relationships between spouses (or new spouses) and children or other blood relatives.