 If you're having a panic attack, the fears you have can overwhelm you. If you're thinking things like, "I'm going to throw up" or "I'm going to have a heart attack," these thoughts can really derail you. Instead of seeing these thoughts as rational, recognize them for what they are. Think of them as symptoms of a panic attack, and not a representation of actual reality.Take control of your thoughts as they come through. For example, you may think to yourself, "I am going to get sick. I'm am going to pass out. I am going to throw up." When these thoughts come, think to yourself, "I am having a panic attack. I am afraid of getting sick because of my panic attack."
By viewing negative thoughts as a symptom of a panic attack, you will be better equipped to reject them. You will not believe what you think, because you'll recognize the thoughts as one of many symptoms of a panic attack.;
, When your thoughts are spiraling out of control, seek means to remind yourself of the present moment. You do not want to get swept up in thoughts of sickness. Look for means to draw yourself back to the present.During a panic attack, you may feel like nothing is real. You may feel hazy or dreamlike.
Look for something tangible to reach towards. Run your fingers through your hair. Grab ahold of a physical object, like a purse or bag. Place your hands on the wall.
 When you begin to worry about becoming sick, actively challenge these thoughts. Do not let the fear of sickness take over. Stop and question the thoughts as they come.Write your thoughts down on a piece of paper. This can help you get your thoughts out of your mind to view them objectively. Write down anything you're afraid of regarding sickness. For example, "I think I'm going to have a heart attack. I think I'm going to throw up."
Then, read the list back to yourself. How rational are these thoughts? In all likelihood, panic-inducing thoughts are not based in reality. Seeing your fears written down on paper can help you recognize their irrational nature.
 Self-soothing techniques can really help derail a panic attack. When you find your thoughts spiraling out of control, stop and assess things rationally. Give yourself positive affirmations to stave off feelings of anxiety.Do not become self critical. Many people feel ashamed of panic attacks, and beat themselves up as a result. Try to avoid this tendency.
Instead, repeat positive things to yourself. For example, "You're having a panic attack, but you’re going to be okay. You're not really going to get sick. It's just a panic attack." Try to show yourself basic kindness when experiencing panic.
 Something cold pressed against your skin can steer your attention away from thoughts of sickness. If you have ice cubes nearby, hold one in your hand as long as you comfortably can. Transfer the ice cube to your other hand. Repeat as needed until you begin to calm down.If you don't have ice cubes, anything cold can help. Try running your hands under cool water or placing a cold beverage against your wrist.
 Slow, steady breaths can help ground you during a panic attack. They can also slow symptoms like rapid heartbeat, which you may mistake for signs of an illness. When your thoughts start to spiral regarding potential sickness, take a few deep breaths.Place one hand on your chest and the other on your abdomen. Breathe in a way that directs airflow into your abdomen. The hand on your abdomen should rise, while the hand on your chest stays relatively still.Hold the breath for a count of 7 and exhale for a count of 8. Then, repeat about 5 times until you begin to feel calm.
Try to breathe from your belly and gain control of your diaphragm. This will stimulate your parasympathetic nervous system and calm and relax your body.
 It's a good idea to do something to stimulate your mind if you can't stop thinking about sickness. Force your mind to focus on something else in order to alleviate symptoms of a panic attack.Do any activity you can. Go for a walk. Take a shower. Brush your teeth. Any small activity can help shift your thoughts elsewhere.
Exercise can help lift your mood. You can try going for a run or doing a few jumping jacks in your living room.
 Cognitive behavioral therapy (CBT) is one of the most effective forms of treatments for panic attacks and panic disorders. CBT focuses on shifting the way you think to make you approach irrational thoughts in a more effective manner.During CBT, therapists will encourage you to challenge the irrational thoughts you experience each day. A therapist may, for example, ask you to stop and think when you begin to feel the fear of sickness. He or she may want you to ask yourself something like, "What's the worst that can happen if I did throw up? How likely is it, really, that I'm going to throw up right now?"
You will begin to realize your thoughts are not rational during CBT. You will eventually begin to see your fears more realistically and be able to more effectively cope with irrational thoughts.
 Sometimes, medications can be used effectively to treat panic disorders. If you have recurring panic attacks due to the fear of sickness, ask your regular practitioner about medication. You can also ask your psychiatrist if you're currently seeing one.Antidepressants can be used to treat panic attacks, especially if the panic attacks are caused by an underlying mental health disorder typically treated with antidepressants. While they can be effective, they typically take a few weeks to take effect. If you're suffering from debilitating panic attacks now, you may need something that's faster acting.Benzodiazepines are a psychiatric drug that work very quickly to alleviate symptoms of anxiety. Typically, benzodiazepines work within a 30 minute period. While they can quickly relieve symptoms during a panic attack, they can be addictive. Be careful about taking benzodiazepines if you have a history of substance abuse.Short acting benzodiazepines like klonopin and lorazepam are more likely to be helpful, while less like to be addictive. Talk to your doctor about your concerns of panic and anxiety for help choosing a medication that will work best for you.
Discuss any new medications extensively with your doctor or psychiatrist. Different medications come with different risks and side effects, and what will work for you heavily depends on your personal medical history and current symptoms.
 Sometimes, simply knowing more about panic can help you cope. Understanding how and why a panic attack occurs can help you see where your thoughts are irrational. You can read up on panic attacks and panic disorders online or elsewhere.If you are diagnosed with a panic disorder, ask your psychiatrist or therapist to direct you to proper reading material. He or she may be able to provide pamphlets, show you websites, or recommend books on panic attacks and panic disorder.
You can also ask about support groups. You can find a support group in person, or online. A support group can help you learn coping mechanisms from others.
 Tobacco and caffeine all tend to make anxiety worse. Caffeinated beverages, coffee, and products containing tobacco should be avoided. You should also check any medications you're currently taking. Some medications contain stimulants. You can ask your doctor about switching medications or changing the dosage if you believe a medication is causing panic attacks., Yoga, meditation, and progressive muscle relaxation can keep you grounded in the present. This will teach you to avoid letting the fear of getting sick spiral out of control.You can look for affordable yoga and meditation classes in your area. If classes are out of your budget, try looking for guided routines online.
You can find guided progressive muscle relaxation techniques online. If you're seeing a therapist, he or she may be able to help you with progressive muscle relaxation.
 Sometimes, panic attacks are caused by an underlying medical issue. If you frequently fear sickness, your anxiety may be caused by something physical. See your regular doctor for a full exam and explain to him or her you are having panic attacks.Low blood sugar, hypothyroidism, and certain cardiac problems can trigger panic attacks. Your doctor can help determine which tests are needed based on your medical history and any symptoms you're experiencing.If you recently stopped taking any medication, medication withdrawal can cause panic attacks.
Medical conditions associated with the likelihood of panic attack include asthma, coronary artery disease, hypertension, ulcers, cystitis, and migraines.
 Panic disorder can be a cause of frequent panic attacks. If you're having panic attacks that are unrelated to physical symptoms, see if you have any symptoms of panic disorder. If you suspect you have panic disorder, see a psychiatrist for evaluation.If you have panic attacks on a regular basis, which are unrelated to any external situation, this is a sign of panic disorder.
You may also find yourself stressing out about experiencing a panic attack. It may get to the point that you're nervous about leaving your home.
You may notice your behavior changes. You may, for example, avoid areas where you previously experienced a panic attack.
 An acute fear of sickness could be related to a psychiatric disorder known as hypochondria. This is an anxiety disorder centered around a fear of illness and medical problems. Consider whether you may be suffering from hypochondria.You may obsess over having a serious disease. You may find yourself interpreting small physical changes as a serious illness.
You may frequently seek out medical testing. You may distrust a doctor's reassurance of your health, and find yourself going to the ER or a doctor's office frequently. Conversely, you may avoid medical care out of fear of being diagnosed with a serious ailment.
If you have hypochondria, you may search the internet to diagnose yourself and quickly become convinced you're seriously ill. You may also check your body a lot for any signs of illness or changes.
Talk to a psychiatrist if you think you may have hypochondria. A psychiatrist can diagnose you, offer you proper medication, and may refer you to a therapist.
Another important treatment for hypochondriasis is to develop a good physician-patient relationship and have regular doctor’s appointments and check-ups.
 Only a qualified doctor or psychiatrist can diagnosis you with panic disorder, hypochondria, or another mental health issue. You should make an appointment with a doctor or psychiatrist if you think you have hypochondria.If you have not already had a physical exam, an exam and some blood work may be necessary.
You may also talk out the symptoms you're experiencing. The doctor or therapist will ask you many questions to best determine your diagnosis.
You also may have to fill out a self-assessment questionnaire.

