 Three types of liquids are used for this diet: elemental, semi-elemental, and polymeric. Elemental diets contain just amino acids (the building blocks of protein), while polymeric contain whole protein strands. Semi-elemental are somewhere in the middle. That means that elemental diets are the easiest to digest, but they also taste the worst of the three.Ask your doctor which would be the best option for you.
 Once you've narrowed down what kind of liquid diet you need, your doctor can recommend an appropriate brand. You can find these drinks at most drug stores and big box stores, so they are readily available.Some elemental brands include Vivonex, Tolerex, and Alitraq.
Some semi-elemental brands include Peptamen or Peptamen Junior, Optimental, Subdue, Perative, and Vital HN.
A few polymeric brands are Promote, Probalance, Replete, Jevity, and Isocal., You can take these diets by mouth; however, they are not the most tasty drinks. Polymeric tends to taste somewhat better than elemental diets. Nonetheless, you may find the drink unpleasant.You can take the diet through other methods. For instance, you can take it through a tube in your nose at night, though some people find it uncomfortable.In some cases, this type of diet may be taken through a tube that goes directly to the intestine or stomach.You may also experience other problems with this diet, such as nausea or diarrhea. A few people report skin rashes while on this type of diet, but those generally clear up. Also, in patients with diabetes, the diet may contain too much sugar, and insulin may need to be adjusted., For this diet to work well, you must exclude all other foods and liquids, with the exception of water. You'll be getting your nutrition solely from the liquid to give your bowels a chance to heal from the inflammation.In some cases, your doctor may prescribe these liquids as a supplement to your normal diet. Either way, the key is to stay on the diet as prescribed by your doctor or nutritionist.
 Sometimes, you may not even be able to use your digestive system to absorb nutrients. In that case, you can take nutrients right into your bloodstream, using an IV catheter. The mixture is still made up of the same base components; it just goes into your blood rather than into your digestive system.This method allows your bowels to be rested completely.

