 If you have any connections to the person, solidify them ahead of time. Give them a call to say you’d be happy to donate some services if it is a charity event.;
, First-time networkers should start with a goal like meeting two new people or getting two business cards. Experienced extroverts may want to try to garner an invite to an exclusive society or community service organization.
 Keep your body language positive, including arms relaxed at your sides, legs planted at hip width apart, nodding and smiling. If you have weak posture, get in the habit of standing up straight.


Avoid crossing your arms and legs when you sit and stand. These are negative and defensive postures that might work against you.






Get used to eye contact. You should be able to look someone in the eyes as you meet them, but break eye contact before you start to stare.Don’t be afraid to talk with your hands. It’s better to gesticulate to make a point than to cross your arms or touch your neck and face. It shows confidence, just like eye contact and a wide stance., Bring them along so that you can easily trade contact information. Keep a pen on hand in case you want to write a personal message to a new acquaintance.
 If you are starting a new business, looking for investors or trying to gain support for a cause, you should have a 30-second persuasive speech ready. Practice incorporating it comfortably into everyday speech, so that it doesn’t sound rehearsed., Research how most people dress for the event and adopt a similar appearance. Looking professional and put-together will work in your favor when trying to start conversations.
 Stick it on the upper right hand side, below your shoulder. Right handed people will be drawn to look there when they shake your hand., They will be more open to striking up a conversation with a stranger. Keep in mind that it may be harder to leave a single person and a group when you want to create other connections, so make sure you don’t talk to one person the entire night.
 Three people usually have room for one more in their conversation. Choose groups of three that are standing in open formation, with room in between or near the perimeter; these groups are a better bet than people standing close and whispering., Placing yourself by a buffet or registration table will make you more likely to see people you know, introduce yourself to organizers and pick out people you’ve been wanting to meet.
 Show that you remember names and personal information by taking a leading role in a group conversation. You can become the glue that holds other people together.
 Your goal is to make new connections, so tell your friends ahead of time if you think they will be offended. Ask them to introduce you to people if they have good connections.
 Don’t try anything too complicated or humorous. The following are simple ways to start talking to people.


Compliment the person’s taste in drinks if it appears you are drinking the same thing.






Try commenting on the hors d’oeuvres, the weather or sports. These topics are seen as “ice-breakers” so the person will understand your intention.






Ask what company the person is associated with.






Ask for a person’s impression. Many people like to share opinions, so don’t be afraid to say “What do you think of the theme this year?”Avoid being negative. Don’t make the first thing you say to a person a negative comment. You are setting the tone for a negative interaction, rather than a positive one.
 Use a firm, three second shake while you maintain eye contact.
 Don’t dig too deep, but show an interest. Most people will eventually ask you how you are associated with the organizer or the event.


Avoid yes or no questions, especially at the beginning of a conversation. They give a person an excuse to say very little and excuse themselves.
 Spend the majority of the time listening, rather than talking about yourself. If you are patient, the people you talk to will hit on a topic of mutual interest that will strengthen a conversation.


Note these mutual interests so that you can remember them the next time you meet.
 You won’t click with everyone, so accept that some rejection will be part of a networking event. Move on quickly to a new group or person, rather than taking it personally.
 Volunteering your services to a community or charity goal can improve a relationship and the connection that you just made.
 Many people make the mistake of giving them to everyone. Make it a special connection while a person you want to be in touch with in the future.

