 During the election season, many nonprofit and political action groups endorse various political candidates. Connecting with those groups and supporting their activities can also support your candidate.If you are a member of a trade association or a union that has endorsed the candidates you support, you might want to find out how you can contribute or assist to their political action committee.
Nonprofit organizations also have political action committees to support candidates. Keep in mind that there are strict rules regarding the participation of charities and nonprofits in political activity, so these political efforts must be separate from the main organization.
Working with groups or organizations that advocate for the same policies or values as the political candidates you support also can help get your candidate elected by raising awareness for those issues.
 If the candidate you support is holding a rally or other event in your area, show your support by going to the event to listen to the candidate's speech and talk to others who also support that candidate.


If you check the website for the campaign itself or the candidate's political party, you typically can find an email mailing list to join. These lists will keep you up to date on any events in your area.
If you plan to go to an event, talk to friends or family members and try to get a group together to go with you. Attendance numbers at events do a lot to demonstrate a candidate's popular support.
Come armed with business cards – you can get some made cheaply online – so you can network with other event attendees and keep in contact with individuals who may be able to help you become more involved in the campaign.
If the event is a town-hall style event in which the candidate takes questions from those in attendance, find out what you need to do to get your questions answered.
 A lot of work goes into planning and operating a campaign event, and much of that work is done by volunteers. Check the event information to find out who you can contact and offer to help.


When you call the event's organizers, tell them you want to help clean up afterward. This is a thankless task that most people don't volunteer to do, so help is always needed.
You may end up getting to do other things as well, but if you're looking for a way to get your foot in the door, offer to do one of the most unappealing tasks possible.
If you have particular skills or experience that would assist the organizers at the event, mention them specifically.
 While a voter registration drive doesn't necessarily support a particular candidate directly, helping people to register and vote is an important way to make a political impact in your community.Check with your county clerk or local election commissioner to find out what the rules are for registering people to vote in your state.
You might also check for a registration drive in your area and volunteer to help. Voter registration drives frequently are organized by nonprofit organizations as well as schools and universities.
If you speak more than one language, your skills can be especially helpful in registering people to vote who speak little to no English. Typically voter registration forms are in English, and these voters may need assistance filling out their forms.

