 If you are thinking about homeschooling, ask yourself how your child learns best - most importantly, do they have difficulty learning in a traditional school environment? Homeschooling allows parents to customize lessons based on the learning style (or styles) that their child responds best to. Based on feedback from your child's teachers or your own observations, determine which of these three primary learning styles fits best:Auditory: learning through hearing
Visual: learning by visually organizing information
Kinesthetic: hands-on learning

, Take your child’s social habits into account before deciding on homeschooling. If they are highly social and feel the need to be around other children their age, homeschooling may not be the right option for them; if they shy away from social situations or experience bullying and teasing at school, homeschooling might be a positive change for them. Assess your child's social habits by asking them questions about their friends; if your child is currently in a traditional school, ask teachers for some insight into how they interact with other students.Note that homeschooled children can experience a level of socialization comparable to what they would have in a traditional school if the effort is made to focus on their social skills (e.g. enrollment in group sports, play dates).
 Questions are an important part of learning as they encourage critical thinking. For the most part it is your child's questions, and not thought-stopping answers, that promote learning. Be prepared to follow your child's unique train of thought and learning process by researching topics beforehand or by finding reliable, easily accessible online references to ensure that you're leading them in the right direction.Bookmark reliable websites to consult to answer your child's questions about particular subjects, or to guide their thought process along (e.g. bookmark the NASA website for answers to your child's questions about the solar system.)

, Before making any decisions with regard to homeschooling, it is important to speak with your child and understand their feelings about it. Let your child know what home education would entail, and what they might like and dislike about it; be sure to let them know that their feelings are very important. Forcing a child to be homeschooled against their wishes may result in poor learning performance, and cause a strain on your parent/child relationship.To get honest answers, be direct and ask your child questions like, "Instead of going to school during the week, would you like learning your lessons with me at home?"

