 Go northwest of Burthrope and kill Troll Brutes. Giving 40 exp per kill with very low lifepoints, this is the best option for just starting out, as racking up the kills will be easy, making these levels going by in no time.;
, Go into the Chaos tunnel via the entrance north of the Grand Exchange. Maneuver your way around the chaos tunnels until you get to a room with Dag'on Hai monks. Due to a flaw in programming, these have very low life points, but have very high exp drops. Careful though, there are aggressive zamroak warriors here that can level you very quickly

, Teleport to the Relleka lodestone and head northwest. Here there will be an area with lots of rock crabs. These don't have very many exciting drops, but they make for great exp rates per hour, along with being mostly AFK so you can relax while training your stats up.
 Go to the hellhounds in Taverly dungeon. having 60 dungeoneering is a plus here, as you can access a resource dungeon with 19 hellhounds spawns in it. If you have it unlocked, soul split will make food nearly optional. These are also very afk and give great exp even for higher levels.
 Kill Living Rock Creatures in the dwarven mine north of falador. Along with their noted ore drops, every now and then a living rock patriarch will spawn, giving you a guaranteed 120k worth of items every time you kill it. This is great exp and great money if you need it.
 If you have 85 Dungeoneering, kill frost dragons. These give 1 thousand exp per kill, along with their bones being worth well over 10k each. However, if you do not meet this level, kill daggonoths. These are located namely on Waterbirth Island near Relleka. The bones they drop can be buried for considerable EXP and their drops are not bad either.
 These give a ton of blue and crimson charms, lots of herbs, and damaged chitin. This combined with the great exp they give is a perfect training spot from these levels. They even sometimes drop sharks, letting you prolong your trips.
 Located in the Ancient Cavern near Barbarian Assault, these give upwards of 300k experience per hour, and have noted drops like water orbs. Bringing a bunyip here eliminates the need for food, as raw lobster drops are very common. These have been proven to be the fastest xp per hour at this level, so you'll be sticking to these for a while.

