 If you are solving a math problem, draw or cut lines in the shape to divide it into simpler shapes, such as rectangles and triangles. If you are measuring a room or other physical object, sketch a diagram of the area first, then do the same thing. Take measurements of each section and write them on the diagram. Follow the instructions below to find the area of each section, then add the results together.
 To find the area in square meters for rectangular sections, see the instructions for calculating an area in square meters.


If you are measuring in a different unit, look at the section on other units.
 A right triangle, which has a 90º angle just like the corners of a square, has an area easy to calculate. Measure the two sides next to that 90º corner (the length and width), multiply them together, then divide by two to get the answer in square meters.


This works because a right triangle is exactly the size of a rectangle cut in half. Basically, you found the area of a rectangle as usual, then divided by two to get the area of the triangle.
 Draw a line from any corner of a triangle to the opposite side, so that the line hits the opposite side at a 90º angle (picture the corner of a square).You've just divided the triangle into two pieces, each one a right triangle! See above for instructions on how to find the area of a right triangle; measure each of the two sub-triangles separately, and add them together.
 The area of a circle is πr2, where r is the radius, or distance from the center of the circle to the rim, or perimeter. Measure this distance, multiply it by itself, then multiply the result by π on a calculator. If you don't have a calculator with a π function, use 3.14 instead (or 3.1416 if high precision is required).


If you're not sure where the center is, have a friend hold a tape measure and walk around the edge of the circle. Hold the other end of the tape measure and adjust your position until the measurement stays the same while your friend walks around the entire edge.
More complicated curved boundaries require more advanced math to calculate. If you are measuring a room for practical purposes, it might be easier to estimate the area by pretending the curved surfaces are a series of straight lines.

