 The market for loans is very competitive these days, and after years of high unemployment, a borrower with a good credit history is a valuable asset. If your credit is good, your lender may find value in either lowering your interest rate, or extending your loan period in order to retain your business.You will likely need to provide your lender with proof of employment in order to assure them that you will be able to pay your loan.
You will also need to give the lender your credit score so that they can evaluate how well you have managed debt in the past.
 More and more people are moving away from the big banks, and finding a great deal of satisfaction in community banks and local credit unions. Talk to the loan officers there about the potential for refinancing your loans locally. They may be able to help you, or at the very least offer further guidance or a referral., If you are refinancing your loan in order to decrease the amount of interest you are paying then you should choose the option with the shortest term length. This will likely increase your monthly payments, but if you can afford to pay more it is an excellent idea to shorten the length of your loan so that you pay less interest.You can also pay off more than the monthly minimums as a way to speed up the repayment process.
 One thing to look for when comparing refinancing options between lenders is different types of borrower protection. For example, look for lenders that have deferment, forbearance, or flexible repayment options. Even if you don’t currently need those options, because you can easily make the monthly payments, they are always a good idea to have. You never know if you will encounter a financial pitfall at some point.Divorce, job loss, a mortgage, or additional children can all impact your ability to pay off your student loan.
 If you have multiple different loans try consolidating them. This makes it easier to pay off because all of your loans are combined into one monthly payment. Balance the difference in the costs between consolidating all loans together versus consolidating only the private loans and keeping federally-funded loans separate.Consolidating loans can also help to lower the payment and interest rates.
Keep in mind that when you consolidate your loans this will typically make the payment period longer, which will cost more money overall.
 When comparing offers of consolidation you should look for the lowest interest rate possible. You may also need to decide between a fixed or variable interest rate. This is typically left up to personal preference. A fixed rate will stay the same throughout the entire term and is usually higher and a variable interest rate will often start lower, but may raise throughout the term of the loan.