 Not following the directions is a good way to get yourself eliminated from consideration pretty quickly. Make sure to read over the application carefully before you start to fill it out. For example, a hard-copy application may ask you to use a pen with blue or black ink. Likewise, you may be asked to submit additional information online in a certain format.;
, Like other reality programs and game shows, Deal or No Deal is looking for genuine participants. Don't exaggerateyour accomplishments or fabricate a life history. Instead, focus on your real accomplishments and look at how you can present them in an engaging way.


Ask a good friend who knows you well to help you pull out awesome details from your life.
 As with failing to follow the directions, incomplete forms are another insta-kill for your chances at getting on the show. If you don't know how to answer a certain question, get help from a friend. Examples of strange questions you may have to answer include:


What is your weirdest quality?
Draw a picture of yourself.
 Get at least one headshot and a full body shot. If you take your own pictures, stand in front of a light or neutral background. This eliminates unnecessary distractions from the main focus of the picture: you.
 It may be months before you hear any news on your application. Deal of No Deal, like other shows, casts months in advance of its shooting schedule. You have no way of knowing where in the cycle the show is at the time of your application.
 Major televisions shows, such as Deal of No deal, hold auditions for hundreds of candidates at a time. It will be an all-day event, so prepare yourself accordingly. Make sure that you bring plenty of water and snacks with you. Also, you will probably have to wait outside for a while, so bring a jacket if the weather is cool or an umbrella to shield yourself from the sun if it is hot.
 Wear something flattering but not overly revealing. If you have a great figure, show it off in a form-fitting outfit. This goes for women and men, too. Don't wear anything with a logo on it, however, as the producers will have to blur it out.
 Deal or No Deal is interested in people with stories that people can relate to, and to people who are relatablein general. Talk about yourself, what you've done, your hopes, and your dreams. Speak about obstacles you've encountered and how you overcame them. Don't be afraid to tell the producers about your deepest, most secret fear. Don't just dryly present these as facts, show your personality. Don't be afraid to let your emotions show. Some extra tidbits to keep in mind are:


If you have a tragedy in your life, such as losing a family member or overcoming a serious illness, by all means, tell the story to the producers. They love these kinds of stories as they're great for narrative building.
Producers also appreciate quirkiness. If there is something about you that is just a little bit off, let it show. Uniqueness matters.
 Enthusiasm counts for shows like Deal of No Deal. While you're waiting, make sure that you keep your energy high. For example, do something that gets your heart pumping, such as jumping-jacks. You can also listen to your favorite dance tune while bopping your head, or better yet, dancing to it.

