 Updating your web browser may result in improved speed, security, compatibility with new technology, and general ease of use.If there is a new version available, the browser will update automatically when you quit Chrome. If you have a tendency to leave your browser open, you will have to check for updates manually.,


Windows users, click on the Chrome menu button (three vertical lines). It is located to the right of the search bar. Select "About Google Chrome" from the drop down menu. A new webpage will open and Google Chrome will automatically check for updates.
Mac users, select "Chrome" from the top menu bar. Click "About Google Chrome". A new webpage will open and Google Chrome will automatically check for updates.
Chrome's menu button changes color when a new update is available. Green indicates that an update has been available for two days. Yellow means that an update has been available for four days. Red means that an update has been available for seven days.
 You must quit Chrome to finish the process., Every time you visit a webpage, your browser stores data. Clearing this data on a regular basis can improve your browser’s speed.


Cache: When you visit a page, the cache stores the content and images locally. The next time you visit the page, the cache can quickly call up and load the content. As your cache fills up, however, it takes longer to find the content and images associated with a specific page.
History: Browsers keep a record of every site you visit. This feature allows you to use the back and forwards button. Clearing your search history erases this record.
Cookies: Cookies are files that store information about you, the user. This information may include user names, passwords, the contents of your shopping cart, your account information, and autofill entries. Clearing cookies will remove all of this saved data., This will launch a dialog box.
 Check the box next one or more of the following options:


“Browsing history”
“Cookies and other site and plugin data”
“Cached images and files”.,