 How you hold your stick (bachi) is very important: Your grip needs to be loose enough that the bachi can move, but firm enough that you don't drop it.;
, Pick them up again with your fingers together and your first finger and thumb forming a V. Grasp the bachi at about a quarter of the way up. Wrap your fingers around the bachi and push your first finger a little higher up the stick - this helps with your control. Always make sure the V is on top.


Some taiko players liken a bachi stroke motion to whipping a towel. When you whip a towel up and down properly, the end of the towel makes a nice '?' shape and comes down right over your shoulder. Your bachi should have a similar trajectory, looseness, and quickness when coming down to hit the drum.
It is important to relax your muscles and not "force" your hit. Try gripping your bachi tightly and air-drumming while tense--you will see it is very tiring! In order to play for a long time, you need to relax. Make sure your grip on your bachi is just tight enough that they will not fall out of your hand.
 Try a pillow, couch, actual drumhead, tire, trampoline top, or anything else that won't break when hit. You want a surface that is relatively tight, so that you can experience the bachi bouncing back after you hit. Hit any way you want, to make any sound you want. Pay attention to what you like, and what feels comfortable.


When you strike you should be able to hear the bachi hitting against your palm; don't make a fist.
You can hit many in succession or only a few. Practice loud and soft hits; big and small hits. Play around with it so that you have a better sense of what body motions translate into which sounds.
 If you do not have a taiko, you can use a PVC pipe, chair with an old tire on it, or any other surface that fits your height and size.
 Your knees should be bent to allow you to move about as you play. Keep your back straight and your shoulders relaxed and down: remember that they shouldn't rise when you strike.
 While you are holding your bachi, place the bachi tips onto the drum head as if you are ready to play. Your arms should follow a gentle curve with your bachi ending up resting above the centre of the drum. One analogy is holding a basket of rice. Finally, stand with a comfortable distance between you and the drum, not too much of a stretch and not too cramped. You should be just able to reach the middle.
 Your elbow should not go backwards and forwards at all, only up and down, with the circular movement coming only from your forearm.
As with many things, it's all in the wrist. Keep it loose as your bachi comes down, then tighten it quickly as you hit the drum. To use another analogy, it's like gently flicking paint off a paintbrush. Most of the energy used in striking the drum is in the form of lifting the bachi and the final flick at the end. Don't force the bachi down - let gravity do the work. You can then use the bounce off the drum to get the bachi back up for the next strike. By keeping this in mind, you use less energy and can drum for longer without getting too tired.
The final point to remember is don't leave the tip of your bachi on the drumskin after you hit. This deadens the sound, and then what's the point of playing great big drums?

,
These words are kuchi-showa, a phonetic system used to describe the sound made by the drum.San doko - This is the rhythm most commonly played on shime, a small drum used to count time. San is a crotchet beat, or quarter beat, and doko is two quavers, or eighth beats. In other words, there are two doko beats for one san beat. It is played as right right-left.Doko doko - Two quaver or eighth notes, played in progression.Don ko - A "swung" beat. The don is given heavier weighting than the ko. This is used for songs with a jazzier feel.
A good guide to understanding kuchi-showa is available here.

