 Total area includes pasture land or grazing area, fields for growing crops, corrals for holding cattle in the winter seasons, buildings including barns, sheds and housing, and areas for storing feed and manure. This can be the most important step when you calculate the cost of starting a dairy farm because of how it affects your other costs. Virtually all of your other costs from machinery and capital to feed and veterinary care will be based off of the number of animals that you can house on the property.


You will need to know your fixed, variable, operating, and depreciation costs. Fixed costs include rent; variable costs include fuel, feed, fertilizer, cattle prices for selling culls and bull calves, maintenance for machinery, etc.; operating costs include costs of feeding cows, milk production, veterinary bills, feed bills, etc.; depreciation costs include machinery, building, livestock, and equipment.;
, Many areas have local governmental guidelines that mandate the maximum number of hoofed animals that are allowed per acre of grazing land. Some countries like Canada also require a quota to be purchased before or during the start-up process.


The cost per head (or per animal) will vary slightly (usually less than 10 percent) depending on the "line" or family history of the animals that you are considering purchasing. You can get a baseline value of dairy cattle in your areas by visiting the local livestock auction.
Multiply the number of animals that you can house by the median sale price to arrive at the estimated cost of purchasing your dairy herd.

Feed is one cost to consider. The amount of feed each animal will require is dependent on the climate and whether you are feeding straight grain, sweet feed, or a combination of grain and grass or hay. Your local feed supplier will be able to help you prepare a diet specific to your region and give you an estimated monthly price per head.
, Remember to include milking machines, sterilizing machines and milk storage tanks as well as computers and other office equipment.


Veterinary care is another cost to consider. Most dairy farms utilize a combination of inoculations or vaccinations, hormone injections and supplements to maximize the milk production. You should also anticipate injuries and illness. Your local veterinarian will be able to supply you with the specific items required for your region and the cost per head of each item as well as a rough estimate of emergency care costs.
If you live in a country where injecting hormones into dairy cows to increase production is outlawed (such as in Canada and the United Kingdom), this is one less thing to consider as far as veterinary care is concerned.
 Include your mortgage, utility bills, payroll, farm vehicles, etc.
 You will need to buy a quota from the federal government if you are starting a dairy farm in Canada.
 You will need to cover your property (actual real estate), your animals, your equipment and your future profit or unexpected loss of income.

