 Don't wait until after your move to think about saving money. Start the process of saving well before you take ownership of your new home.

Get rid of junk beforehand. If you are using a moving company, they may charge based on cargo weight. Go around your house and get rid of unneeded items before you start packing. Hold a garage sale or donate items to charity (and earn a tax deduction).Find free boxes. When you order something over the internet, save the box instead of throwing it away. You can also go around to local businesses, especially liquor stores, groceries, and drugstores and ask for spare boxes.Try to move during the off-season. If you are hiring movers, try to schedule your move between September and May and on a weekday instead of weekend. Movers tend to charge less during these less busy times.Ask your employer about moving assistance. Some businesses offer their employees financial assistance when they move to a new city. Speak to your Human Resources office or your supervisor to learn if this is available., Take the opportunity of starting your new life in your new home to closely evaluate your spending habits and financial standing. Use a spreadsheet, program, or notebook to list your income and expenses, track what you spend your money on, and determine what is essential and not-so-essential.

Once you've identified your expenses, look for ways to severely trim or eliminate the non-essentials ($5 coffees, for instance) and reduce the amount you spend on essentials (by calling your phone provider and seeking a discount, for example).
 Re-train yourself to save more and spend less. Automatically deduct contributions to savings and retirement accounts from your paycheck, before you ever even see the money (just like the IRS does). Focus on paying down any credit card debts and paying on time all the time. Pay for everything with whole dollars and immediately save all your change to deposit in your savings account later., If you're willing to put in just a bit of effort, you can save a great deal of money on groceries and other household items. Use coupons, seek out sales, plan out your shopping lists and plan of attack in advance, and look for secondhand and/or "scratch and dent" options.

Remember: thriftiness never goes out of style.

