 Asking questions in class will make you seem engaged, and thus smart. However, your questions should be on topic, and not on something the teacher has already answered. This requires that you remain focused in class so that you do not ask repetitive or off-topic questions.Find a good balance between asking too many questions and asking too few questions. Asking only one question during class is on the skimpy side. However, asking eight to ten questions might be too much, especially if it is on one specific topic. A good healthy balance would be four to five questions on different, distinct topics.
Ask questions that will clarify your understanding of a topic. For example, a teacher might say, “When a liquid is heated to a certain point it will turn blue.” You can then ask, “Why would the liquid turn blue instead of yellow or orange?” You are clearly trying to increase your knowledge by asking these types of questions.;
, We all have the experience of having a view that is different from the view of another, say a classmate or a teacher. When you have a view that is contrary to the teacher’s or another student’s, bring this to the attention of the teacher or the student.Disagreeing and being critical is great for having meaningful discussions with your classmates and your teacher. In turn, this can help you appear more intelligent in class.


Bring up your point of view by saying, “Well, in my experience, I think sports is a fundamental part of American culture. Research shows that 1 in 3 Americans have participated in some kind of sport in their life.”

, You will not look smart if you blurt out answers or comments in class. Instead, take time to think about the question or the comment you will say or ask. Often times, this means being the last person to speak. However, taking the time to think about and refine your comment or question can make a significant difference in how you are perceived in class.


When an idea pops into your head, take a minute or two to ask yourself the question to see if you can answer it on your own. If you simply cannot come up with an explanation, then proceed to ask the question. For example, "What does social performance mean? I know what performing means for actors, but what does it mean for everyday people?"
You can also appear smart in class by summarizing the best points made by the class, and then by contributing your own comment or question., When speaking up in class, focus on what you know. It is tempting to make up for what you do not know by making bizarre arguments, or by relying on secondhand knowledge to answer a question. It is OK if you do not know all the answers. The best thing to do is to admit to yourself that you do not know everything. Base your questions and comments off of things you are absolutely sure of., When asking a question or commenting in class, you can appear intelligent by citing your sources. For example you can say, “I read an article in the Washington Post that says that eating sugary foods can reduce brain productivity,” or “A study conducted by a social scientist shows that asking questions during class can make your appear more intelligent.” Try to remember that random information seems suspicious and questionable.
 Try carrying around a copy of National Geographic or the Harvard Business Review, for example. Carrying around things people associate with intelligence sends the message that you regularly read “smart” material. More importantly, it sends the message that you have the ability to understand the material presented in these magazines or books.Of course, it is better if you actually read the material you carry around with you. By reading the material, you can avoid looking phony if someone asks you what the latest article in the magazine is and you cannot answer them.

