 Begin your persuasive conversation by having a friendly chat with the person you'd like to persuade. This can help to break the ice and create a casual atmosphere. People will be better persuaded when they are relaxed.


Try to know a little bit about their lives. Use this as a jumping off point. Can you ask about the daughter who was recently married, the new home, or the recent accomplishment?
Ask questions. If they say, "I've been thinking about taking a vacation," ask them where they'd like to go. Ask for more details about that place.
 One easy way to forge an emotional bond is to match the other person’s body language. Pay attention to what they do with their body and mirror those expressions. Mirroring body language is a non-verbal way to say, “We are like minded.”If they are smiling, you should smile.
If they are leaning in, you should lean in.
If they are taking up lots of space with their body, make your body bigger too.
 People enjoy talking more than they enjoy listening. By listening more than you speak, you can get your person to open up and feel at ease. The more they talk, the more they reveal crucial details about themselves--such as what is important to them or what they believe--that can aid in your persuasion.Avoid spinning the conversation back to yourself too quickly. If they are talking about a vacation, don't immediately jump in to describe the vacation you'd like to have.
Ask follow up questions, and listen intently to the responses.
Pay specific attention to any powerful adjectives they use. If they say something is “amazing” or “wonderful” this indicates something they have passion about., To avoid this feeling, mix fill-in-the-blank style queries with traditional questions.Instead of asking, “How would you feel about buying a new car?” try stating, “If you were to buy a new car, you would feel…”
Allow them to finish that sentence for you.
 Casually steer the conversation toward needs. Hopefully, by listening to them, you have already ascertained a little bit about what they like or what they care about. Use this "needs" portion of the conversation to determine how you can help them, so that they will help you.You may ask, for example, “What could make you day go smoother?”
Sharing a need of your own can prompt them to speak about their own needs. You could say, “I wish my investment partner would listen to my ideas,” in order to find out if there is some interpersonal lack in their life.

