 This will give you inspiration on the color scheme, layout, accessories, and design of your future room.;
, For example, do you like the color of Zoey's dorm? Chase's bed? Cut any pictures you find of the items you like on your list, or items that remind you of them.
 Can you keep the bed you have?) It is important to realize that the rooms on Zoey 101 are a set, so you many not be able to replicate the lighting and some of the accessories seen on the show. If you are in a dorm at a school, there may be certain limitations on what you can change.
 Strategically place each item so that it looks decorated yet clean.
 Make sure you have a realistic amount of money set for each new item you want to buy. Talk to your parents to come up with a plan.
 The furniture on Zoey 101 is modern, sleek, simple, and well suitable for teenagers. A good place to find items like this is large modular furniture and soft furnishings stores that don't charge a lot. All of the dorms have many pillows, duvets, pictures, and rugs throughout the room.
 Paint two-thirds of the wall lilac/lavender. If you can, paint the bottom of the wall a darker purple. Do that for all the other walls.


Or, choose a funky blue, pink, green or orange. The color has a great effect on the room, so choose one that you think suits you.
Do not use wallpaper or a pattern.
 Either get a double bed or a bunk bed and prop the chosen bed up against any wall you please. Avoid placing under a window. Choices could be:


A bunk bed with colourful duvets and a lot of cushions
A double bed with colourful duvets (orange) and fluffy, orange cushions.
 Choose such things as:


A small, green dresser
Orange, purple and blue furry beanbags
A furry stool
Pictures on the wall
Mini fridge
An orange netted washing basket
Fairy lights
A small 30 centimeter (11.8 in) orange bin
A glass desk with a computer on it and a chair.
A bedside table with a pink clock and a lamp on it
(Against window) A yellow and green two-person sofa with fluffy yellow cushion
A glass table next to it
A coffee table in-front of it
Another fluffy stool near its legs
Yellow and orange curtains in the windows
A slightly bigger dresser with TV on it and girly stuff, such as: flowers, body spray/perfume, ornaments, clock etc.
A small shelf on the dresser (black and pink).
 Overall, it should be a place that you find relaxing and interesting to you.

