 People use social media sites including Facebook, Tumbler, Instagram, blogs, and Snapchat as a way of communicating with others. You may even be saturated with pictures and comments of the person or group you want to avoid. Keeping yourself away from these sites can help you shut out any person you want.Block or hide the feeds of anyone you want to cut out. You can also delete or deactivate yourself to your accounts to keep yourself from checking them. These tactics not only send out the message that you don’t want contact, but can also help you gain valuable “me” time.
Handle questions about your decision politely. Say, “Honestly, I want a break to focus on myself,” or, “I blocked Frank because I find our relationship unproductive and negative. I need a break from him.”

, Email has made contacting people very easy and is often the preferred correspondence method in schools and workplaces. If there is someone you want to shut out, learn to manage emails in an effective and professional way.Channel emails to a special folder for the person or group’s emails. This will let you decide if and when you want to respond.
Respond to emails in a timely fashion if you can’t ignore them. Remember to keep it as brief and neutral as possible to signal the person you don’t want contact.
Block messages altogether if you can avoid the person and are sure you want to cut the individual off completely.
 The person or group you want to shut out may try calling you, leaving voice messages, or sending texts. You can choose to block the person’s phone number or simply ignore the messages. Not only does this keep you from having to deal with the person, but also sends a message that you don’t want contact.Check the caller ID before picking up any phone calls. You can easily avoid the person if you know the individual’s phone numbers.
Delete voice and text messages immediately. This can keep you from hearing the person’s voice and seeing the messages, both of which may cause you stress.

