 Open the hood of your car. If you can’t locate the filter, check the physical or online vehicle manual. Alternately, you can ask a mechanic the next time your vehicle is serviced. Open the canister (usually secured with wing nuts or clamps). Pull the filter out.The air filter’s housing should be on top of the engine, in a round or rectangular box.;
, Connect a hose attachment to your vacuum cleaner.Vacuum the filter for about a minute on each side. Look at the filter under a bright light, and vacuum any spots you may have missed.Vacuuming is faster and safer than washing the filter.
 Fill a bucket with a soap and water solution. Place the filter in the bucket and swirl it around. Take the filter back out and shake off excess liquid. Rinse the filter gently under running water. Put the filter on a towel and allow it to dry completely.Don’t put the filter back when it’s still wet! This can damage the vehicle’s engine.
Washing can get your filter cleaner than vacuuming alone, but is riskier and more time-consuming.
 Tap the filter to shake off dust and dirt. Apply a cleaning solution (specifically for oiled filters) liberally to the outside, then inside of the filter. Make sure the filter is completely saturated. Leave it in a sink or basin for ten minutes. Rinse it with cool water at a low pressure. Shake it off and allow the filter to completely dry.Don’t allow the cleanser to dry on the filter; let it sit only for ten minutes.
Rinse the filter by moving it up and down under the stream of water.
After the rinse, the filter should be dry in about fifteen minutes; but if it isn’t thoroughly dry, allow it to sit longer.
If you’re short on time, you can use a hair dryer or small fan on moderate heat to speed up the drying process, after the rinse stage only.
 Apply air filter oil evenly to the filter. Coat the filter thoroughly with a thin layer. Wipe off any excess oil from the cap and bottom lip of the filter. Allow the filter to sit for twenty minutes to absorb the oil., Vacuum dust and dirt from the filter housing, using a hose attachment.Alternately, you can use a soft cloth or paper towel. Just make sure the canister is completely dry and free of debris before replacing the filter.Moisture and debris can cause damage to the engine.
 Return the filter to its housing. Secure any locks or clamps that hold it in place. These will be the same ones you undid when you removed the filter.

