 eBay is the world's largest e-commerce platform. By spending just 2-3 minutes to create a trading account, you can easily open up your overseas direct sales channels. The trading account can be used on all eBay’s global trading platforms in over 38 countries.;
, When register your account, we recommend you to use the large international e-mail service providers, such as Gmail, Yahoo, Hotmail, etc. This will ensure you successfully receive eBay messages, while ensuring effective communication with overseas buyers.
 eBay is committed to building an honest , secure global trading platform , in order to ensure the security of transactions, when you register an account, you need to verify your true identity by credit card or bank debit card using the phone in conjunction way to complete authentication.


In addition, credit cards can also be used to pay eBay fees, debit cards are used for your future withdrawals, money turnover.
 To registered eBay account, you simply go to the eBay website, click “Free registration eBay" button on the site, fill in your registration information as required, and waited to be authenticated by eBay.


eBay recommends that you use a credit card for authentication, the authentication process will involve a $10 pre- authorized transactions from your bank to verify the reality and effectiveness of your card. You do not need to worry, the transaction will not really take money from your account but to verify the identity of the cardholder. If you have no credit cards, mobile phones can also be used to receive a verification code sending by eBay. Afterwards, go check your confirmation email to activate eBay account.
 You can go directly to the official website of PayPal, created the "Advanced” account. It can be used to receive payments from overseas buyers. When you create an account, be sure to fill in the real name (in pinyin form), address and related information, in conjunction with same email address as eBay.
 To ensure your account security, PayPal also require a credit card or debit card to your account for authentication.


The difference is that with eBay, PayPal will deduct from your credit card $1.95, you need to sign online banking to obtain the transaction code, and thus complete your authentication, $1.95 will be returned to your PayPal account or credit card within 2-3 days.
Alternatively, you can also choose PayPal account debit card authentication , PayPal will remit into your bank account with two small amount of money in 5-7 days, you need to login to online banking to find the money from these two records, and complete PayPal certification.
 Finally, your eBay trading account and PayPal capital account will be bound , so that it will allow buyers to purchase the product and pay you after via PayPal.


You can log in directly to your eBay account , under the label page Click to my PayPal account , follow the steps to complete the associated account .
 To be competitive in the market, choosing products with quality as well as controlling your costs, will be essential. You can contact the manufacturers or choose a relatively reputable wholesaler.


For example, if you want to sell jewellery or scarf, etc, you can search through Google to find various online wholesalers.
 In order to create a positive, transparent, progressive online trading community, while ensuring the safety and reliability of network transactions, eBay is committed to building a just and equitable credit evaluation system to optimized the interests of buyers and sellers, while urging both parties to bear their own transactions respective responsibilities and obligations.


eBay credit evaluation system is mainly consists of credit rating (Feedback), the seller rating (DSR) and trade disputes (Disputes) . These three indicators represents your reputation on eBay and user satisfaction for you.
 Both buyers and sellers can leave credit rating for each other on every transaction. Buyers can leave a positive (favorable) or negative (Average, Poor) evaluation as well as a brief comment to the seller.


Meanwhile, buyers can also make detailed ratings on the following four aspects of service provided by the seller in the transaction:

Accuracy (Item as described) items described
communication quality and response speed (Communication)
goods delivery time rationality (Shipping time)
Shipping and handling charges rationality (Shipping and handling charges)


This four score is called seller rating (DSR). Seller rating score is usually from 1 to 5: 5 being the highest score, 1 being the lowest point. If 1-2 points are given in any one of four DSR rating, it can be seen as a buyer to make a negative evaluation, and who are unsatisfied with this transaction.
 In addition, disputes between buyers and sellers are also an important measure of whether the transaction satisfaction. Disputes initiated by the buyer, include “Item Not Received (INR)", and “serious discrepancies with the description items (SNAD)". When you encounter a dispute, it must not be ignored, you should respond positively to identify the causes of disputes, in order to avoid the recurrence of such disputes.
 eBay evaluates sellers’ performance by compare trading experience provided from buyers. When buyer leave to the seller neutral or negative feedback or DSR rating evaluation 1-2 points (four rating in any one), or initiate trade disputes to the seller , the buyer experience is bad (Bad Buy Experience, referred BBE). Once the buyer made such judgment, the transaction was counted as a BBE deal.


When you receive excessive BBE, your performance will not be able to reach eBay sellers minimum seller standards, which will result in your online items being removed, restricted or the account frozen as penalties. In contrary eBay will give more incentives and deals for those who providing quality services to sellers.
Thus, to get positive feedback from the buyer at a higher DSR rating and avoid unnecessary trade disputes, to ensure a good trading experience is compulsory for every seller. Click “seller rating / DSR" score to see skills of how to improve and avoid disputes.
 Potential interested buyers usually will ask you some questions before making a decision of purchase through “Message”. Whenever receiving question from customers, we recommend that you respond promptly.


Taking into account the time difference, each reply message can not be guaranteed to answer for the first time; you can also set FAQ pages.
 Checkout with PayPal will make your collection become a safe and smooth transaction, the buyer can pay directly to your PayPal account; at the same time, you only need to view the collection status in PayPal account , confirm payment has been remitted to your account and afterwards, you can arrange delivery.
 After properly packed items, please contact a good service providers to collect the parcel and delivered according to the way you promised to the buyer. After delivery, we recommend that you contact the buyer to confirm the goods have been issued and expected to reach at a reasonable time, while providing the parcel tracking number so that the buyers acknowledge the situation .
 In order to get 5-star praise, you should do your best to achieve buys satisfaction and recognition. Four aspects including goods quality, timely communication, shipping time, postage fees, will be involved. When communicating with the buyer, you should sincerely invite them to leave 5-star praise, and inform the importance of 5 -star praise.
 As a seller , you are obligated to constantly improve the quality of products and services and try to make every buyer satisfied , however, disputes do occur and hard to avoid.


As mentioned above, " Item Not Received (INR)" and " seriously inconsistent with the description items (SNAD)" are two types of buyer complaints, once you receive it, please go to your "Resolution Center Now / Dispute Resolution Center " within 7 days to respond to this complaint ,communicate with the buyer to resolve the dispute.
In dealing with slow or unpaid buyers, sellers can also contact the “Dispute Resolution Centre" to initiate the “Unpaid / UPI" disputes. Through consultation with the buyer, you can cancel the transaction, get transaction fee refund; or send a reminder to buyers from the eBay, to complete the transaction asap.
 PayPal will not only provide a safe and convenient transnational payment methods, but also for Chinese users to tailor the program launched by telegraphic transfer to cash, the seller can be operated directly on the PayPal account, the money will be transferred to China within 3-7 days and your local banks will be able to transfer funds into your bank account. Be careful not to withdraw all your money from your PayPal account in case of refund disputes happen.
 Register eBay account will be free of charge. All fees are derived from your advertised and sold items. eBay will send a monthly bill to the seller , the seller can always go to your eBay "Account" to view your bill and make a payment directly with PayPal

