;
, Even if you have or are working towards a Bachelor's degree in health or life science, be sure to take courses that will give you experience and knowledge in topics relevant to conducting clinical research. These courses may be offered at your university or through a professional organization, such as the Association of Clinical Research Professionals (ACRP). Relevant courses should include topics such as:drug development cycle
study design
good clinical practice
research ethics
U.S. and international regulatory requirements
investigational product accountability management

, Only enroll in a certificate program with a reputable organization; beware of scam programs.Both the Association of Clinical Research Professionals and the Society of Clinical Research Associates offer reputable certification exams for people with a Bachelor's degree and at least one year of experience in clinical research.Consult these organizations for certification test details. Certification allows you to work as an associate with greater responsibility and earning potential.
Consider an advanced degree, such as an Master's degree or Ph.D., if you want to become a clinical research coordinator (CRC). CRCs usually must hold at least an Associates degree, but having an R.N., Master's degree, M.D., or Ph.D. and expertise in a specific field of medicine or life science is advantageous., Every clinical researcher must be trained in the International Conference on Harmonization (ICH) Good Clinical Practices (GCP) guidelines and ethics.It will be next to impossible to get a job doing clinical research unless you have documented training in ICH-GCP.You can get such training through your Bachelor's degree program in health or life sciences or by taking a course on ICH-GCP through professional organizations like the ACRP., If your education is ongoing, list the programs you are enrolled in and note that they are "in progress." In addition to your Bachelor's degree, highlight any additional courses or professional development to demonstrate you have the requisite knowledge in science, medicine, and technical skills to be come a clinical researcher. You should also highlight any "soft" or related skills that you gained through your education and that would make you a good fit for a clinical researcher position. These include:Communication skills
Time management skills
Project management skills, including organizational skills
Good documentation skills
The ability to assess and comprehend a situation
Flexibility and adaptability
Good interpersonal skills, like the ability to be a team player
Conflict resolution skills
Budget negotiation skills
The ability to recognize and appreciate cultural differences
Being detail oriented and analytical
Being innovative and creative
Good mastery of the English language
Trustworthiness, patience, and maturity
Critical thinking skills
Accepting and seeking challenges
Technical skills, such as computer skills and familiarity with clinical research equipment
Business skills, such as strategic thinking

, Potential employers may want to see documentation of your education, certification, and coursework, especially your ICH-GCP training. Keep detailed records, including your university transcripts and any certificates you earned, so that you can provide documentation when you are applying for jobs., It is difficult to get a clinical researcher job without at least two years of monitoring experience.One way to begin getting experience is to conduct research studies using human subjects while you are earning your Bachelor's or graduate degree.


You can either apply to be an assistant for a faculty member's study or see if your university will allow you to conduct your own study.
Consult your adviser about how to do so, and follow all regulations set forth by your university.
Get approval from your university's Institutional Review Board (IRB) before starting your research. This is required for all studies involving human subjects.Publish your research findings in a reputable journal. Having publications will boost your credentials when you apply for jobs later on and will also help strengthen your application if you plan on attending graduate school.
 After researching volunteering opportunities that are available in your area, volunteer to help with clinical research projects to get exposure to clinical research and its professionals.You may start out doing non-clinical research tasks, such as data entry or clerical work, but if you start at the bottom, you can work your way up to gaining clinical research experience over time. If you volunteer, be sure to discuss the possibility of applying for a position as a clinical researcher with the organization in the future.Volunteering opportunities may include:


ACRP Chapters or the chapters/special interest groups/regional events of other professional organizations related to medicine and/or the clinical research field. Hospitals or medical centers.Public health departments, medicine-related charities like the Red Cross, churches, patient advocacy groups, or assisted living/retirement homes.Institutional Review Boards or research ethics committees., While you are in college, seek out formal internships with medical centers; local biotechnology, medical device, and/or pharmaceutical firms; vendors of services to clinical researchers; or the regional offices of large contract research organizations. Some firms' internships may offer academic credits with partnering universities.Ask your university's internship office about any programs your school might have with firms that will give you experience with clinical research.
Some internships are paid, and some are unpaid. Keep in mind that even unpaid internships will give you necessary experience for getting a clinical research job later on.
If you apply for an unpaid internship, ask your university if you can get academic credit for it, even if the university does not formally partner with the firm that offers the internship.
 Networking is a key skill to develop and exercise for any career, but it is especially important in helping you get a clinical research job because it is a difficult field to get positions in if you are just starting out.


Join professional organizations related to clinical research. Actively participate in those organizations by attending their conferences. This will allow you to meet and learn from established professionals.See if your university has a database of alumni who are willing to mentor students and recent graduates in the field of clinical research. Reach out to those alums to ask for advice and see if they can help you find volunteer, internship, or entry-level job opportunities.
Initiate informational interviews or lunches with established clinical research professionals. You can find their information through your university alumni program and clinical research professional organizations. Use these meetings as an opportunity to ask about what clinical research jobs involve, what skills you need, how to gain experience, any tips the professional might have for you.This is also a good way to cultivate relationships with potential mentors by following up and staying in touch with the professionals after your meeting.
Ask to shadow a clinical research professional or observe a clinical research trial. Again, your university alumni organization or clinical research professional organization can put you in touch with established professionals willing to allow you to do this. Use the opportunity to develop a relationship with the person/people you shadow and see if they will become your mentor(s)., You need to have at least two years of experience as a clinical research coordinator (CRC) or a clinical trial assistant (CTA) before you can apply for a job as a clinical research association (CRA).Apply for these entry-level jobs to start. You will waste your time if you apply for jobs that you are unqualified for., Most people who want a job in clinical research apply for positions at the largest pharmaceutical companies and clinical research organizations, which make these jobs very competitive. As a result, most of these large firms' human resources departments will not even read applications for applicants who do not have the required 2 years of monitoring experience. It is easier to get jobs at smaller and mid-sized companies because such positions receive less applications and because these companies may be more willing to hire an applicant who does not have as much experience., A lot of smaller and mid-sized companies rely on word-of-mouth to find new employees and may not advertise open positions. Take a chance by sending them a letter of interest and your resume. Be sure to include an explanation about why you want to work for that particular company and which skills you have that will make you a good fit for a clinical researcher position with their firm., Large healthcare institutions, such as the National Institute of Health (NIH) or World Health Organization (WHO) may be willing to hire someone with your educational background and entry-level experience. Keep an open mind about the type of position you are looking for. Taking an entry-level position with a healthcare body can lead to career advancement in the government or non-profit sector or help you build career networks that can lead to later positions in the non-profit clinical research industry., Finding positions to apply for can be time-consuming, and it can be helpful if you expand your options by seeking help from your university or a job placement specialist.


Ask if your university has a job placement program or partnerships with local companies for clinical research positions.
See if mid-sized and large pharmaceutical companies and clinical research organizations have graduate recruitment programs. Some large companies have special programs for new university graduates that prepare them for clinical research jobs with those companies. Look on the companies' career opportunities web pages and their social media sites for announcements.Hire a head-hunter or life science recruitment consultants. Ask established clinical researchers if they can recommend job placement companies/head-hunters who can help you find a position that fits your skill set, or do research online for such companies. Many job placement companies exist that help job-hunters find suitable employment., Write a cover letter that is tailored to each position you apply for, and tailor your resume/CV for each individual application. Based on the job description/position advertisement, highlight the relevant skills on your CV/resume, and mention those exact skills in your job letter. Be sure to explain why you want that particular job with that particular company and how your skills will make you a good fit for them. Personalized applications have a much better chance of landing you a job than a generic one.Ask several colleagues or established researchers to show you their resumes and cover letters they wrote for their jobs so that you have examples to use as models.Ask one or more colleagues or established researchers to read your resume and cover letter and give you feedback and suggestions before you submit your applications.They can make sure that you don't have any mistakes/typos and that your application is as strong as possible. More experienced, established colleagues should be able to help you shape your application to be as appealing as possible based on the conventions in the field.
 Your resume should be brief and to-the-point. It should highlight your skills and experiences by including only information about your present and past experience, accomplishment, and skills that fit the job for which you are applying. Leave out non-relevant experiences and information.Your resume should typically be no longer than two pages.Organize your resume into different sections by theme, such as contact information; education; work experience; professional memberships, certifications, and licenses; honors/awards (only if relevant to the job); special skills; publications (only if relevant to clinical research); and references.List these experiences and accomplishments, and elaborate on each item by writing concise descriptions of each experience/accomplishment/skill, using bullet points below the job/accomplishment/education that you list.Begin each description with an action verb.This quickly conveys key information in an engaging way. Try to use some of the same words - the "buzzwords" - from the job description or job ad to show that your experience matches what they are looking for.Make sure each description is brief. Do not write long sentences and paragraphs because hiring managers generally read resumes quickly, so you need to provide them with only the most important information that they can see easily if they scan the page.Put the most critical information first in each section.In the job experience section, list your most recent position first, followed by your previous jobs in reverse chronological order, so that your oldest job is listed last.Be sure to list all experience you have with clinical research settings, including internships and volunteer positions.
Do not include non-relevant personal information, like your age, family status, religion, political affiliations, hobbies, etc.Print your resume on nice, thick white or off-white paper if you are submitting your application in hard copy. It will help your resume stand out in a pile of applications.
 Your cover letter should be no longer than two pages and must clearly and concisely explain why you want the job and why you would be the best fit for the position.


Before starting the letter, read through the job description carefully. Take notes on exactly what the employer is seeking so that you can address each requirement in your letter. The required skills and experiences will be different for every job, so you must write a different cover letter for each application.After you write your greeting, write your introductory paragraph. It should state the position you are applying for (i.e., I am writing to apply for the research coordinator position in your Clinical Trials Unit, which is advertised on your careers website).If you have a connection at that company, you may wish to mention that person and his/her position at the company and say that he/she encouraged you to apply.
In your next paragraph, explain why you want this job. Why do you want that particular position, and why do you want to work for that particular company/organization? Demonstrate that you are knowledgeable about the position and company so this does not seem like you just wrote a form letter and are applying simply because you want a job, any job. Also explain why you are the perfect person for this position, and what you will bring to the organization.Your next paragraph should explain why the company should hire you. Explain how your past experience and skill set will make you the perfect fit for this job. Be sure to address each aspect of the job as listed in the job description/job ad.Your conclusion should be brief and should thank the person for their time and say you hope to hear from them soon about your application.Then sign your name (i.e., Sincerely, X).
Use a professional font (i.e., 12-point Times New Roman), put the date at the top, use nice letterhead, use professional language, and use proper spelling and grammar.Do not simply repeat your resume, write a lengthy letter, or use informal language.