 If you've set strength-training or weight-loss goals and your progress has begun to plateau, you may be able to jump-start your program by adding steady-state cardio sessions to your overall workout routine.The low intensity of steady-state cardio means it's generally safe to do any day, or every day, of the week.
You can even do steady-state cardio on days that you have high-intensity sessions. For example, you may go for a light jog in the morning and do high-intensity strength training in the afternoon.
Steady-state cardio will improve your muscular endurance, which will enable you to work harder for longer. That will enable you to beef up your training sessions so you start progressing toward your goals again.
 Muscular endurance – which differs from cardiovascular endurance – is important for all athletes. Steady-state cardio helps you build muscular endurance, which allows you to train harder for a longer period of time.Steady-state cardio enables you to have an active recovery day, which can be helpful if you are the type of person who can't stand a day of complete inactivity even though you know you need a rest from high-intensity training.
The low intensity of steady-state cardio makes it safe to perform on rest days between higher intensity training. You can't train at a high intensity for several days in a row without getting sick or risking injury.
 Particularly if you're feeling as though you're over-training, building your aerobic base back up through steady-state cardio can be beneficial. To do this, you typically need to eliminate a few high-intensity sessions each week.If you've noticed a significant decline in overall energy or have been getting sick more often, you may need to stop high-intensity training, such as sprint intervals or CrossFit workouts, for a period of three to six months.
During that time, you can rebuild and retrain your cardiovascular system using steady-state cardio.
One way to determine whether you're over-training is to evaluate your level of exhaustion immediately after a high-intensity workout. If you're collapsed on the ground or feel like you're going to vomit, it may be time to take a break and move to steady-state cardio for a time.
 If your primary exercise focus has been strength training or body building, you can use steady-state cardio to decrease the amount of time you need to rest between sets and between workout sessions.Steady-state cardio has aerobic benefits for weight lifters because it gradually increases cardiovascular endurance. This is what allows you to take briefer rest periods between sets. The greater your cardiovascular endurance, the harder you can work for a longer period of time.
Engaging in steady-state cardio on your rest days is considered active recovery, which means you won't lose your gains in strength and muscle mass while you're resting.
If you frequently work yourself to exhaustion when lifting weights, adding steady-state cardio to your overall training regimen will enable you to recover more quickly by strengthening your heart to increase the delivery of oxygen and nutrients to your muscles.

