 Most courts will have a packet of prepared forms you can use to file a name change petition – you simply have to fill in the blanks to customize them to meet your needs., Some jurisdictions require fingerprints, criminal background checks, or other screenings before a judge will grant your petition for a name change., Once you've completed the forms and all other requirements, file them at the clerk's office of the civil court in your county.Be prepared to pay a filing fee for your name change petition. The fee varies among jurisdictions, but may be as much as several hundred dollars. For example, in California the filing fee for a petition for a decree of change of name or gender is $435., Many jurisdictions require you to publish a small legal notice in the newspaper of record for a period of time.


This notice alerts the public to your request for a name change and gives anyone who believes the court should refuse your request the opportunity to appear at your hearing and protest on the record., Nearly every jurisdiction requires you to appear before a judge in person to have your petition granted.


The judge will ask you questions about your name change under oath to make sure that you are not seeking a name change for an improper reason., When the judge grants your request for a name change, make sure you get certified copies of the order from the clerk., The judge's order along with a completed application for a new Social Security card should be all you need to get your name changed with Social Security.


If you changed your name more than two years ago, you'll also need to show an identity document such as an old driver's license that has the name you want to use.
Your new card will be mailed to you as soon as your application is processed, and you won't be charged a fee., You can take your old driver's license along with a certified copy of the judge's order to get your name changed on your driver's license.


You'll have to appear in person at a local division of motor vehicles office, and you'll have to pay a fee for a new license.
Check your state and county's rules before you go to make sure you don't need to bring any additional proof of identity or residency., Use your new photo ID to get your name changed on other accounts and records.


Make sure your name is changed with your bank and you have new credit cards issued as soon as possible to avoid any possible declined charges.