 You'll need to use cardstock weight paper for this project. Choose a ready-made design or print one from the computer.

Grab some scrapbook paper with an appealing design for a simple option.
Alternatively, you can print a special design, set of text, or photograph to use for your cufflinks. Make sure that the part of the design you want to use has been resized to match the dimensions of your cufflink blanks and glass tiles.
If you print a design from an inkjet printer, allow the ink to dry for at least an hour before continuing.
 Apply a dab of clear-drying craft glue onto the center of your chosen design, then firmly press the back of the glass tile into the glue.

To ensure even adhesion, use a paintbrush to spread the glue over the entire surface of the design before pressing the glass tile on top.
Continue pressing down on the glass tile until you can see the full design through it.
Readjust the placement as needed to center the tile over the design, and carefully shift the tile around to pop any air bubbles that appear in between the glass and the paper.
 Let the glue dry completely before attempting to handle the glass tile further.

If the moisture of the glue causes the paper to start bubbling up during the first few minutes, firmly press down on the tile for one to two minutes to smooth it out.
You will need to wait at least four hours for the glue to dry, but waiting overnight would be an even safer option. The glue should be completely dry when ready.
 Use scissors to cut the excess paper from around the glass tiles, trimming it as close to the edges as possible.

If you have trouble getting close to the tile using scissors, consider using a craft blade.
After you think you've cut away enough paper, try placing the tile paper-side down into the indentation of the cufflink blank. If it doesn't fit, trim away more paper and try again.
 Spread a small dot of craft glue into the inside indentation of the cufflink blank, then firmly press the paper-side of the tile on top of it. Repeat with the second cufflink.

As before, place a dab of glue into the center of the cufflink blank and spread it around with a paintbrush.
If some of the glue squeezes out over the sides of the tile when you press the pieces together, simply wipe the glue away with your fingers or a damp paper towel.
 Allow the glue to dry for at least four hours before handling the cufflinks.

To exercise even more caution, wait overnight before using the cufflinks.
 Simply insert the foot of each cufflink through the buttonholes of each sleeve to put them both on.