 For most people, you will not feel any significant physical discomfort after your endoscopy. However, it is important to remember that you will be taking a sedative for the procedure. It might take a while for that medication to wear off.You might feel perfectly fine after the procedure. But you might be less alert than you realize.
For many people, a sedative can impair judgement and delay reaction time. Avoid making any major decisions for 24 hours after your procedure.
Plan to take the day off work. You will likely be physically capable of working, but your mind not be working as fast as usual. Take a break.
 Because of the sedative, you should not drive after your endoscopy. Ask a friend or family member to drive you home. You can also ask them to be there for you during the procedure.Be honest about your needs. Try saying, "I'm having a minor procedure, but I'm a bit nervous. Would you mind being on site for moral support?"
Choose someone responsible. You want to know that the person you ask to give you a ride home will show up on time.
 Most people do not suffer from any complications during or after an endoscopy. However, as with any procedure, there are risks.Talk to your doctor about possible side effects. Ask him to tell you symptoms to look for.
There are several indicators to look for. If you have a temperature or stomach ache in the 48 hours following your procedure, make sure to contact your doctor.
Difficulty breathing and vomiting are also signs of distress. Call your doctor if you experience these symptoms.
 Your doctor may be able to give you some initial results immediately. For example, he can tell you if there are any obvious signs of damage. Your doctor might discuss these findings with you after the procedure.Remember that the sedative might impair your concentration. Depending on how you feel, your doctor might wait to discuss his findings.
Some tests will take longer to complete. If your doctor collected tissue, these samples will likely need to be sent to a lab.
It may take several days to get some of your results. Ask your doctor for a clear timeline about when you can expect some answers.

