 Mimic the style of the people around you. Similar to a group of soldiers, football players, or fireman, identifying an individual is difficult because they are all dressed alike. Aim to fit in with clothing choices around you.


Adapt to your environment by bringing a reversible jacket or a different colored undershirt for multiple options. Change color like a chameleon and fit into your surroundings.In a general setting without a like-minded group, aim for the middle-ground. Somewhere between the tightest and loosest clothes, between the brightest and most muted colors. Find a happy medium between neatest and sloppiest. Make sure if someone were to describe your appearance they'd also be describing several others in the group.
Wear what others are wearing. People in specific locations and climates dress to their needs and local fashion. Find the trends and fashion most popular in your area and start fitting in.;
, Try to imitate the speech patterns, common lingo, and behaviors where you live. In other words, adopt local customs. If everyone in your area says, “Hi y’all!” as a normal greeting, practice your twang.


In many Europe locations, for instance, counting on your fingers begins with the thumb. Therefore, if you want two of something, start with the thumb and then the index finger.Be comfortable even if someone is in your personal space. In Korea it's normal for male friends to physically be very close to one another. Personal space may be respected in America, but in some cultures it's not treated the same way. In Korea it's not uncommon for friends to hold hands, sit together closely, and be much closer than traditionally acceptable to Westerners., Avoid being the outright winner or loser of anything. While somewhat unhealthy to purposely throttle yourself, you certainly won’t gain notoriety for being average in every way possible.


If you are finished with a test in class before anyone else, wait until others finish before putting your pencil down and leaving the room.
When walking in a group of people, aim to be in the middle of the pack. If you're leading everyone is going to notice. If you're dragging behind, pick it up and get ahead of some people.
Avoid being in charge. Authority is often despised, and rebellion to it is even part of our psychological makeup.Even when marooned with several strangers, it's important not to be seen as an authoritarian or as the person controlling affairs.