 You need to present quite a bit of information to the county clerk, so gather it ahead of time before applying for the marriage license. Get the following:Full name, address, and place of birth, and date of birth for you and your future spouse.
Name and birth places of both for each of your parents.
Mother’s maiden name.
Social Security card for both of you, unless you don’t have one.
Valid picture ID for each person, such as a valid driver’s license, passport, or state-issued ID. You can also use a birth certificate if you also have a picture ID.Certified copy of any recent divorce decree. In some counties, you must present this document if the divorce happened within the past 30 days. In other counties, you must present it if the divorce occurred within the past six months.;
, People 18 or older don’t need anyone else’s permission to get married. However, if you are 16 or 17, then you need your parent or guardian to sign a consent form (unless you’ve been married before). You can obtain the form from the county clerk’s office. Make sure to take the signed form with you when you apply for your license.Someone 15 years old needs consent from a parent or guardian and must get the juvenile court to approve the marriage. The court must find that you are marrying voluntarily and that marriage is in your best interest. You may also get permission from a court commissioner. Contact your county clerk for a form.The judge can require a 15-year-old to meet certain conditions, such as continue to attend school or attend marriage counseling.
No one under 15 may get married in Utah.
 You can’t marry a close relative in Utah. Specifically, you can’t marry a first cousin or anyone more closely related than a first cousin, such as an uncle, aunt, niece, nephew, parent or child.First cousins who are both 65 or older can marry. They can also marry if they are over 55, so long as a court finds that they can’t reproduce.
 Both you and your future spouse must apply at the same time. You can find a list of county websites at http://www.utah.gov/government/citycounty.html. Although you don’t have to get the license from the county where you intend to marry, it might be easier to do so.


Look for hours of operation on the website. Offices are typically closed on weekends and holidays.
 Call the county clerk’s office ahead of time and ask the amount of the fee as well as acceptable methods of payment. This information might differ depending on the county clerk’s office, so be sure to call the office where you intend to apply for your license.


In Utah County, for example, you must pay $40.00 and can pay with cash, a debit card, or a Visa or MasterCard.Salt Lake County charges $50.00, which you can pay with cash, check, money order, Visa, MasterCard, or American Express.