 Almost every state requires drivers to have liability insurance, which covers damage you may cause to another person's property or injury to another person if you are at fault for an accident.Some states make drivers purchase a minimum amount of auto insurance. Agents or brokers who are licensed in your state will be familiar with the state’s minimum requirements. If you want to research your state’s requirements on your own, visit your state's Department of Motor Vehicles website (sometimes called a Department of Driver Services or Division of Motor Vehicles)., Research or talk to an insurance agent about all your options when it comes to car insurance. Some may be mandatory, and others may be optional. The amount of coverage and the cost depends on the terms set forth in your policy. If you are interested in keeping your auto insurance costs low, purchase only the coverage you really need.Bodily injury liability coverage pays for injuries you cause to others if you cause a car accident.
Property damage liability pays for damage to others’ property if you are responsible for an accident.
Medical payments coverage covers you and your passengers for injuries sustained in an accident.
Uninsured or underinsured motorists coverage pays your expenses if you are injured by a driver who does not have insurance.
Collision coverage pays for damage to your car if it hits another object or overturns.
Comprehensive coverage pays for your car if it is stolen or damaged by something other than an accident, such as the weather, a fire or vandalism.
 If you are trying to reduce your auto insurance costs, purchase only the minimum amount of coverage you need. Consider your risk tolerance and the needs of your family when making these choices, as well as any other insurance protection you may already have. Your insurance agent can also help you to consider which coverages you need and can do without.If you have a high salary or a lot of money in savings or assets, you have a lot to lose if you are ever found liable for an accident. If this is the case, you may need more liability coverage.
Also, if you have children of driving age, you may want to purchase more liability coverage. Young, inexperienced drivers have a higher risk of getting into an accident.
In the above examples, it may be cheaper to buy an umbrella liability policy that becomes effective after the auto or home liability coverage is maxed out.
If you have an older car and you own it outright, you may not need to pay for collision and comprehensive insurance. The value of your car may not warrant the expense of the coverage.
If you are financing your leasing your car, you may be required to purchase collision and comprehensive insurance.
If you have your own health insurance, you may be able to skip the medical payments coverage on your auto insurance policy.

