 Sometimes, your brain will jump to what it thinks is a logical conclusion, often a bad one. However, much of the time, that conclusion isn't correct. This type of thinking can lead to your brain working overtime, so learning how to notice it and change that thinking can help calm your mind.For instance, you may notice that you automatically think someone is snubbing you because she didn't invite you to lunch. Your mind jumped to that conclusion. However, it may be that she just didn't realize you were in your office.When you make a snap judgment, ask yourself if there could be another explanation.
 Your brain may latch on to the one negative part of an interaction or situation. In reality, it may be just a small part of the interaction that no one else pays attention to, but you hyper-focus on it, coloring everything negative. If you do this type of thinking all the time, your brain will be overactive, so trying to turn this filter off can help calm your mind.For instance, maybe you've made a meal for your family. Everyone seems to love it, except one of your kids, who makes a snide remark. Instead of focusing on the fact that everyone else loves it, you hyper-focus on the negative remark, wondering what you could have done better.Instead of looking for negativity, try to focus on the positive, especially if it far outweighs the negativity., You may also find yourself overgeneralizing from one incident. In other words, you had something bad happen once in a certain situation, so you decide to never put yourself or someone else in that situation again. If you overgeneralize everything, you're constantly thinking about what bad thing is going to happen next; to calm your mind, you need to learn to turn off this kind of thinking.For instance, say your kid cuts himself on a knife while helping you in the kitchen. You may decide that the best thing is to never let him help again to keep him safe, when really, he likely will learn from the experience and be more careful in the future. Maybe a more logical response would be to go over knife safety with him again.In other words, don't let one bad incident make up your mind, especially if you've had positive experiences in the past.
 This type of thinking can cause you to see everything as failure. It goes hand-in-hand with a perfectionist mentality; if you can't do something perfectly, than it's a failure. This type of thinking can make your mind overactive because you're always looking for your next mistake, so learning not to think this way can calm your mind down.For instance, say you have promised yourself that you are going to exercise everyday, and then you miss a day. If you're an all-or-nothing thinker, you may decide your exercise program is ruined and give up.Be forgiving of yourself. Not every situation is going to be perfect, and you're going to make mistakes. Give yourself permission to start over again with a clean slate., Basically, this type of cognitive distortion is always thinking the worst will happen. You might find yourself maximizing insignificant mistakes to justify the thought that the worst is coming. On the other hand, you might find yourself minimizing something to justify the same conclusion. Similar to other types of cognitive distortions, you'll find that this type of thinking has your brain going 24/7 thinking the worse, so turning this type of thinking off will help you calm down your mind.For instance, you might decide that because you forgot to send your kid's lunch to school, he's going to go hungry, and then he might eat someone else's lunch that has a peanut butter sandwich in it (which he's allergic to). You worry he might have an allergic reaction and die.Alternatively, maybe you decide that your friend (who has an impeccable driving record) isn't a good driver because she accidentally made a U-turn where she wasn't supposed to, and you use that to justify not riding with her because you don't want to get in a car crash.Look at each of the situations realistically. For instance, your kid is likely to remember he's allergic to peanuts, and even if he does accidentally eat some, a nurse is on hand at school to help deal with the situation. Alternatively, don't let your friend's one mistake ruin her whole record; everyone makes mistakes, and she's obviously a pretty good driver if she has a good record.
 Your mind is always willing to play tricks on you. Therefore, you should always take the time to step back from the situation and see if what you're thinking is really objective or true when your mind is on overdrive.

