 Make sure you meet them in a casual setting (like a party) or an app (like Tinder or Grindr). Avoid work and classroom settings. Ideally, the person should not be someone you interact with regularly.;
, Smile and don’t be too serious. Try to be funny, but don’t overdo it. For example, a bad joke is “Ok, so two whales walk into a bar and the first whale says to the other whale, ‘whaaaaaaaaaaaaallleeeeeeeeeeeeeee’ and the second whale says to the first whale, ‘Larry, give me the keys, you’re drunk.” That’s kind of funny, but not that funny. Don’t say that under any circumstances.


Keep conversations light and fun. Compliment them. Don’t come across as overeager and be confident in your body language.
 You can invite them over to your place or if they are open to it invite yourself to their place. Make sure that the other person is aware of the solely physical nature of the relationship. Get their number but do not ask them on a date or make plans.
 You don’t want to overwhelm them or show too much interest. 1-2 weeks is the ideal amount of time to wait. If the other person does contact you to initiate the booty call, feel free to stop reading this article. Congratulations, you have your booty call! If they don’t… read the next steps.
 Text them. Keep it short and straightforward. Invite them over or ask if you can come over. Do not meet in a public space. For example: ‘Hey! What are you up to? Want to come over?’ Make sure to text them at night, the later in the night you text them, the clearer it is that it’s a booty call. The same rules apply if you talk to them online.
 At this point, the other person may accept or reject the booty call. If they accept, great. If they decline, respect that choice - no means no. It is also possible for the other person to misunderstand you. While statements such as “Let’s hang out at my place,” or “I want to have some fun.” may imply casual sex, if the other person is not on the same page, respect that.
 Be honest about the situation and make sure that both people are looking for the same thing- something non-committal and purely physical.
 Remember, condoms are the only form of contraceptive that will prevent the spread of STDs and STIs. Make sure that you are prepared beforehand.
 To keep things at a casual and purely physical level, try not to spend the night (make sure you plan for a way to get back). If you invited the other person over, say you have an early morning or ask them how they’re going home. However, don’t be rude. Do NOT kick the person out of your house at 4 am. If they need to crash at your place, let them.
 Initiate another booty call with the same person or initiate a booty call with another person.

