 Parts of the fireplace can break or wear down, and it’s important to note these before the fireplace malfunctions or causes an emergency fire. While the fireplace is cool, open the damper (seal at the top of the fireplace) and inspect the flue (opening connecting the fireplace to the chimney). The flue should be open and clear of obstructions. Examine the hearth to make sure no bricks are damaged or missing, and that the firebox—the interior of the fireplace—is not cracked or damaged.If you’re more comfortable letting professionals inspect your fireplace and chimney, call a local chimney sweep. They will inspect both inside and outside of your house, and inform you if any cleaning or repairs are needed., The chimney cap is at the very peak of the chimney: a small, plate-sized lid that is attached to the top of your chimney pipe to make sure that no small animals or debris fall down the chimney. If it becomes clogged or broken, smoke will not be able to exit the chimney and could back up into your house. Make sure that the cap is in good condition, and is free from cracks, ash buildup, or birds’ nests.Since you’ll need to climb on top of your roof to do this, make sure to observe safety precautions. Firmly ground your ladder before you begin to ascend.
 Even if the chimney cap is clear, ash can still build up on the inside of the chimney pipe itself. This presents a risk, as excess buildup can catch on fire and lead to a dangerous and chimney fire. If your chimney has excess internal ash buildup, during summer months, smoky-smelling air can be drawn through the chimney into the house.To clean a chimney, you’ll need a specific set of pipes and brushes that you should be able to purchase at your local hardware store.
If you prefer not to clean your own chimney, a local cleaning or maintenance service should be able to do the job for you.
Also inspect the chimney flashing (the seal between the chimney and roof). This should be tight and not show any signs of damage or wear., Even if your fireplace seems to be in good shape and has been inspected regularly, you need to be aware of fireplace warning signs. You may smell smoke in the room while a fire is burning, notice damaged wallpaper on the wall by the fireplace (or “hot spots,” where the wall adjacent to the chimney is intensely hot in certain places), or begin to notice rust around the damper or firebox. If you see any of these signs, call a chimney sweep or local fireplace-inspection service before lighting your next fire.You may experience downdrafts when using your fireplace. A downdraft is caused by air rushing down your chimney and pushing smoke and ash out from the fireplace into your home. Your chimney cap should prevent downdrafts, but if they occur frequently, inspect the chimney cap and make sure there are no branches overhanging the top of the chimney, as these can interfere with proper airflow.