 Many credit card companies offer great airline and hotel discounts for rewards points. Each credit card will have its own rewards policies, so you should check with several companies. Look at the policies and read some online reviews to see which one best fits your needs and interests.Some credit cards are better for domestic flights, and some are better for international flights. Look into the rewards points conversion rates for each credit card to see which suits your needs.
 Some credit card companies only book travel tickets, like for airlines and trains. You may be able to pay for a whole trip by using your points on the airfare as well as the hotel. This is an attractive perk, but don't sign up for a card that has lower rewards exchange rates due to a wider range of rewards possibilities.
 Blackout dates are used by airline companies and hotels to keep customers using rewards points from booking flights on popular days. For example, you may not be able to trade in your airline points for the Easter weekend trip to see the family. If this is important to you, make sure to choose a credit card with no blackout dates on travel rewards.
 Look for a credit card that lets you earn airline miles for the trips you take. Some even let you earn double miles for those points. Another popular option is to actually convert the rewards points into airline miles. That means that you don't directly get a trip for your rewards points, but can apply them with an approved airline any way you wish.
 The cost of the flight may be drastically less than the cash equivalent of your points. For example, there may be If you can use the points in a more lucrative way, opt out of the plane ticket. It may be that you still need to pay a small amount for the trip, but the rewards points get you a pretty good discount.
 Schedule your trips and reservations prior to the expiration date on your credit card. Some rewards points may not be honored if your card has expired. Consult with your credit card company to verify the rules surrounding making plans and reservations for trips and vacations.

