 A big part of living a life of purpose is having passions and living them. Start by thinking about you are passionate about. Write down your passions, being as descriptive as possible. Ask yourself, “What do I love to do? What makes me happy?” Identifying your passions will help you realize what is important to you in life.For example, you may be passionate about providing for your family, being an architect, and owning a home of your own. Or you may be passionate about finding a romantic partner, about travelling to Asia, and about learning how to draw.
After you have identified your passions, speak them out loud every day to remind yourself.;
, Take your passions and put them into action. Try to integrate them into your everyday life, even if it is just in small ways. Put more of your passion into bonding with your family, as you realize you are passionate about having strong connections to your family members. Or set aside more time to do hobbies you are passionate about, such as painting, singing, or writing.You could have a major realization that you are actually passionate about a different career or job. Perhaps you realize you are actually passionate about community service and decide to focus your career on serving your community. Living by this passion may be more fulfilling for you, even if you do not make as much money if you were doing something else.
 Having goals in your life can also help you feel you are living a purposeful life. Set clear goals and work to achieve them so you can feel you are accomplishing what you want in life. Write down your goals and post them somewhere you can see them. Refer to them often and check them off as you achieve them. This can help you feel you are living with purpose and motivate you to embrace every day as another way to achieve your goals.For example, you may write down immediate goals like “learn how to bake a pie from scratch” or “watch more documentaries on politics this year.” You may also write down long-term goals like “take an online course on economics” or “improve my GPA this year and apply for college.”
Make sure that you are identifying realistic goals. You can also have short-term and long-term goals. Break larger goals into smaller ones and work towards those goals to achieve a larger goal.
Create a list of goals and work to achieve them one by one. Use rewards to motivate yourself to achieve these goals, such as a meal out or a night out with a friend if you achieve certain goals.
Use daily affirmations and reminders that you are working towards goals that are important to you. Tell yourself affirmations every morning like, "I will achieve my goals" or "I will get what I want" out loud or write them down in your journal.
 Having passions goes hand in hand with having values. Your values are how you intend to live your life and inform how you dictate your decisions. Living according to your values will help you feel your life is purposeful and meaningful to you. If your values are positive and deep, you will also be more open and generous to those around you. This can also help to enrich your life and make you feel you are living more fully day to day.For example, you may have values like honesty, compassion, and community. You can then put these values into action by being honest with a friend, volunteering in your community, and supporting a relative going through a hard time.
 When you live with intent you may enhance your own process of self-discovery. This process of self-discovery can help you to define who you are on a deeper, more meaningful level. It can also help you to identify what living a life of purpose means to you.


Be mindful. Take time to notice your surroundings and slow down.
Take time for yourself. Set aside at least 15 minutes every day that is your time to do whatever you want.
Trust your intuition. Gut instincts can help to guide you towards the right decisions. Listen to your gut the next time it talks to you.

Be kind to yourself. Self-compassion can also help you to live with intent. Be kind to yourself, especially when you make a mistake.

