 This might be less obvious than you think. Do you want to finish more work in less time, or become more efficient as a whole? Remember that these two options need not mean the same thing. Would you rather complete five assignments within an hour with okay quality, or five of your best work by the end of the week?;
, Just saying, "I'm going to be more productive every day," or, "I'm going to prioritize better," or, "I won't procrastinate anymore" won't cut it. You need to get concrete. Have an action, a number, and a time. Ideas include 'Write the day's entry in journal at 9pm every night', 'Do 15 squats before leaving for work', and even 'Be mindful every 3 hours'. That last one might require the alarm in your phone, although there's an app for that now too, if you'd like.
 This might vary according to your occupation, your lifestyle, your attitude, etc. Be realistic. 'Complete 20 high priority tasks every day' is not realistic, unless those tasks revolve around a season of Friends episodes. Here is a list of habits to develop:


Write down the task list(s) every morning.
Cut out three unimportant tasks every week (or day, if you're really super busy)
Delegate three tasks to other people
Do one high priority task every morning
Go through the schedule of the week ahead every Sunday
Cut down social network time to an hour a day (or two if you're a serious addict)
Cut down email time to ten minutes a day
Start on an assignment as soon as it is received.
 If you've tried cultivating productive habits before but couldn't keep at them, figure out why. There's no point starting a habit that's doomed before day 3. This will require some introspection, and while that may seem too tedious or take too much time, the result is worth it. Dig deep. If you find these anti-productive demons, you can learn how to defeat them and let your habits thrive. Some examples of reasons for habit failure include:


On some level, you fear change
You're afraid of disappointing someone, maybe even yourself
It was unrealistic or impractical
You feel alone in your quest
It's not really what you want
You fear failure.
 The reasons given in the previous step are close to what are called 'root-causes'. You don't fail in your habits because you missed a day and got demotivated; rather, it's because you couldn't face that feeling of failure again if you missed another day. If you've planned to delegate more tasks and couldn't keep up with it, it's because of the fear of giving up control or in many cases, a lack of trust. Note that many habits go down the drain because of fears. You've got to identify them and drag them out for each of your goal habits.
 Confront your fears of change or failure. Remind yourself why the habits you want to develop are going to work and are more important than what you've currently got going on. Sometimes, even the awareness of these pesky demons can help you dodge them.
 Its time to get into action now. Revise them and make sure they aren't too difficult to start with or too vague to follow correctly. Once you've got concrete productive habits and are aware of what could shut them down, you are ready to start.
 Pushing a large rock downhill is difficult when you start pushing it. When you get some momentum going, the rock rolls down without any effort. Its the same gist with habits. Here's what you do to get that momentum. Chances are your habit is a long term one:


Start with following the habit for just three days. Do not underestimate this trick. Focus only on the first three days. Pretend you don't need to follow it after that.
Take a day off on the fourth day. Just like exercise, rest periods are just as important as the workout itself. Even if you are motivated to follow your habit on this day, I suggest you rest.
Focus on five days now.
Don't take a day off, but reward yourself with something tangible: a new planner, a new handbag, a big mac, whatever works
Carry on

, At times it might feel like the cost outweighs the benefits. There will come a time you convince yourself you don't need the habit anyway. Watch out, these are those little demons we spoke about earlier. Fight them. Productive habits will yield you results in the long run when you've got momentum. Don't question the habit itself. Question what drives those insecurities.

