 Since you want to become well known, you are going to have to be dedicated to this. You have to practice to be a good writer. No one likes to read things with many grammar errors or typos, so make sure you proofread it before posting it.


Fact check and proofread for spelling and proper brand names. Use a program on your computer or online that will double-check your spelling and grammar as well.If you’re launching your own beauty blog, have at least 3-5 posts completed that you are satisfied with before you launch, so that you have good material to put up right away.
 Ideally, you will want to either purchase a good camera or arrange to collaborate with a photographer.However, when you’re just starting out, you can use the camera on your phone if you have one. You will want to have a video camera as well if you plan to create video blogs or tutorials., You will need a program for editing and sizing your images; for example, Adobe Photoshop.You will want to put a lot of images on your blog – the more, the better! Use your image editing program to size them down, and save them as internet-optimized so that they don’t bog down your hosting resources and page load time.Natural or studio lighting are preferable. Make or purchase a light tent with a minimum of three light sources. Consider using a tripod if you don’t have great lighting or a camera flash. If you don't have these things, a room with windows that provide a lot of natural light could also suffice, but you will have to take photos and/or videos during daylight hours., You probably need to buy some of the products you want to write about if you’re going to test and photograph them. When you’re first starting out, you won’t have the inventory and free product offers that established beauty bloggers do. However, you can acquire free samples to write about.


Visit beauty stores and department store counters. Try saying, “I’m starting a beauty blog and I was wondering if you have any free samples available that I can use.”Purchase some products that you would like to have and use for yourself, which you can also blog about! Before purchasing anything, check with local beauty stores to see if they have a free samples incentive, so that you can extend your purchase with additional new products for free.
 In order to have a unique appeal, you will need to have a distinct voice and point of view.You want to stand out from the crowd. In the same way that you talk differently from everyone else, your writing should be different from anyone else.Make a list of characteristics that describe you as a blogger. For example, what are some aspects of your personality that you want to incorporate into the style of your blog? Refer back the list often, so that your brand remains consistent.Reading and writing a lot will help you develop your own voice. Your voice and writing style will likely evolve and be refined as your blog progresses., Affiliate marketing is when you post actual advertisements for other companies on your website – for example, banner or text ads in the side bar or above/below your content. These companies may pay you per click, per impression (when the ad is displayed to users), or just for putting their ads somewhere on your site.


You can join an affiliate marketing network such as Clickbank, or become an affiliate for entities like eBay and Amazon. You can also sign up for the ad programs through a search engine, such as Google AdSense.
In order to avoid ranking penalties from search engines, your site should clearly distinguish ads from the rest of the content on your site. For instance, text should visibly indicate “Advertisement” and ads should not be disguised as articles or site navigation links. The original content of your site should be displayed more prominently than any ads, and the ads should not be overwhelming or overly distracting to users., If you can make a TV appearance or get published in a magazine, do it! You can even try guest blogging. Think of creative ways to spread the word about your blog. You may want to consider advertising your website on other sites through a program such as Google AdWords or Bing Ads.