 If you are experiencing severe chest pain, go to your local Emergency Room immediately.


It may be a sign of an aortic dissection, which is a life-threatening condition that needs immediate emergency medical attention.
Even if it is not an aortic dissection, severe chest pain may be another medical emergency (such as a heart attack or a blood clot in your lung, among other things) so it is key to receive professional medical attention immediately.
Ask a friend or family member to drive you straight to the Emergency Room, or call 911 to have an ambulance bring you there.;
, It is most often felt as an intense "ripping" sensation, and frequently correlates to aortic dissection.


However, imaging tests will need to be done to confirm the diagnosis of aortic dissection.
Aortic dissection cannot be diagnosed on pain symptoms alone.
 It may radiate to your shoulder(s), your neck, your jaw, and down your arms and legs as the condition progresses.


It is important to tell your doctor and the triage nurse, when you get to the Emergency Room, how the pain began and how it has progressed since its onset.
Characterizing the pain in as much detail as possible is very helpful to your doctor in diagnosing aortic dissection.
 This is because your decreased flow through the aorta means that you may be getting less blood flow to your brain, which is responsible for the onset of these symptoms.
 You can evaluate your pulse by placing two fingers on your wrist, between your thumb and first finger.


A normal heart rate is between 60 to 100 beats per minute. If your pulse exceeds 100 beats per minute, it is elevated and may be one of the symptoms of an aortic dissection.
For more information on how to check your pulse, click here.
 If you are experiencing shortness of breath or difficulty breathing, go to the Emergency Room immediately as it may be a symptom of aortic dissection or many other serious medical problems.
 This is because your body can sense that you are losing blood through the tear in your aorta, and the decreased blood flow triggers your sympathetic nervous system (your "fight or flight" response) to kick in. You may also become nauseous, and/or vomit.
 A delay in going into the Emergency Room (if you are having symptoms suspicious of an aortic dissection), could quite literally cost you your life. Call 911 for an ambulance to transport you there if needed.
 When you arrive in the Emergency Department, one of the first things your doctor will measure is your blood pressure (in both arms), in order to assess your risk for having an aortic dissection.
 The purpose is to rule out other conditions such as a heart attack (which can be detected by measuring troponin levels in your blood), or a pulmonary embolism (which can be assessed for by measuring D-dimer levels in your blood). In some cases the aortic dissection can weaken the arterial wall, leading to rupture of the artery and blood loss that will manifest as an acute blood loss anemia.


There are no definitive blood tests that "rule in" an aortic dissection.
However, if other conditions (such as a heart attack or a pulmonary embolism) are ruled out, it means that the likelihood that you are having an aortic dissection becomes comparatively higher.
 When you arrive in the Emergency Room, the doctors will also hook you up immediately to cardiac monitoring. They will set you up to receive an ECG - an electrocardiogram, which is sensitive enough to look for ischemia to the heart.


Ongoing cardiac monitoring is basically a way to continually keep tabs on your vital signs (such as your heart rate) as well as providing continual ECG tracings of your heart rhythm.
Cardiac monitoring and/or an ECG can provide information as to the stress on your heart and cardiovascular system, and can further help to rule out other conditions such as a heart attack or pulmonary embolism.
 A TEE (transesophageal echocardiogram - which is basically an ultrasound probe that is inserted into your esophagus to provide the clearest view of the heart and surrounding structures) may also be used to aid in diagnosis.


In some cases, an angiography may be performed.For this procedure, a dye is injected into your heart's blood vessels and X-rays are taken to reveal details about your blood vessels., You will likely also be given medications to control your blood pressure, as this helps to keep the damage from the aortic dissection minimized as much as possible.
 It depends upon the type and extent of your dissection. Some types can be controlled with medications alone; however, some require immediate surgical intervention to prevent a life-threatening bleed.


The doctors in the Emergency Room will be able to tell you which category you fall into.
If surgery is needed, you may be sent straight to an OR (operating room) without needing to wait due to the urgent nature of the procedure.

