 Take a ride or two. Take along some friends and make a day of it.


How many times can you ride the Ferris wheel before you're either tired of it, feeling woozy, or broke?
Take photos from the top of Ferris wheel. Share them on Twitter and Facebook – while you're up there!;
, Given that the date is also Valentine's Day, consider combining Ferris Wheel Day with Valentine's. Take your sweetheart to the fair and buy tickets for two on the Ferris wheel. Take your sweetheart around as many times as they'd like.


While on the Ferris wheel, give your love a foot massage.
Make sure to buy red food, like toffee apples and hot dogs, in honor of Valentine's Day.
 Do some online research about the invention by George Washington Gale Ferris, along with his own history. The Ferris wheel was invented to rival Paris' Eiffel Tower and does appear to have been as enduring. Here are some questions for you to research:Find out how long it took the original Ferris wheel to make two revolutions.
What was the cost of the ride on the original Ferris wheel?
How many cars did the original Ferris wheel have?
How many people could fit in each of the cars?
What is the largest Ferris wheel in the world today?

, Make a cake or some pinwheel cookies in the shape of a Ferris wheel. Try to develop a fairground theme to the food and decorations. Play party games associated with the fairground, like throwing quoits to win a prize, throwing beanbags or balls into buckets, and hitting targets. You could also develop a trivia quiz game along the lines of the questions asked in the earlier step.


Another game idea might be to use the Wikipedia list of the world's tallest Ferris wheels to create a game in which players have to put the Ferris wheels in order of tall to tallest. The first team to get it right wins. You might want to cull the list to say, 10 good ones, and include images.
 Cartwheels are your own personal Ferris wheel that you can practice in your backyard. If you're no good at them, you don't know what you're missing out on, so here's a good excuse to learn. If it's still too cold and snowed in where you are, visit a local gym and use their soft mats for landing; ask for an instructor to give you help and advice.
 For the singles, the cynics, and the "enough already with the Valentines", here is your perfect alternative excuse. Tell everyone: "Sorry, I'm too busy celebrating Ferris Wheel Day to do that Valentine's stuff."

, If you're the type who loves to collect things, what a neat idea for a collection. Find old and new postcards featuring Ferris wheels, tourist paraphernalia associated with Ferris wheels, cards, paper, models, etc., all associated with Ferris wheels.


Why not create a blog featuring your finds and sharing them with other Ferris wheel enthusiasts.
 Here's a great excuse for a vacation with a theme. Some of the places to consider visiting include:


London: The London Eye
Vienna: The Giant Ferris Wheel (Wiener Riesenrad) at the Prater (erected in 1897)Osaka: Tempozan Ferris Wheel
Nanchang: The Star of Nanchang
Singapore: The Singapore Flyer
Dallas: The Texas Star.

