 If you are attending high school in the same school district as your middle school, you will already have some friends. Talk with your friends before the first day and make plans to eat together. Also find out if your friends are in your classes. It will give you peace of mind to know that you have people in your classes that you can sit with and socialize with.


If you are starting a new school, you may not have friends that you can make plans with in advance. Know that there are going to be other new girls in your grade, and that they probably will be looking for people to sit with too!

, Especially for girls, planning that first day of school outfit can be a big part of preparing. You will want to pick out an outfit that is stylish, but also feels like you. Just because you are starting high school doesn’t mean that you have to dress differently or older than you usually do.Stick to a classic outfit over the latest trend. You may not know how people dress at your school, so it’s better to play it safe.
Try not to underdress or overdress. You shouldn’t wear sweats and a T-shirt on the first day. You also shouldn’t wear heels and a cocktail dress. Make sure that your outfit is a happy medium of the two, so that you look put-together but not like you are going to a night club.
If your school has a uniform, focus on your hair and makeup and your accessories. This is how you can individualize your look.
 The night before you start your first day of high school, put all of your new supplies in your backpack. If you are bring your own lunch as opposed to buying it, consider preparing it the night before and putting it in the fridge overnight. This will give you time to perfect your look in the morning and make you less stressed out about getting to school on time., You want to be rested on your first day. Being tired could make you even more anxious. Try to get to bed a little early, just in case you have trouble sleeping. Plan to sleep for at least eight hours on the night before the first day of high school., Make sure that you have a healthy and hearty breakfast before your first day. Even if you are feeling nervous and aren't very hungry, getting something in your system will make you feel a little better and will give you the energy you need.Try eating foods like scrambled eggs or oatmeal. They will give you the lasting energy that you will need for your first day!

, Whether you are catching the bus or getting a ride, make sure that you leave a little early and give yourself enough time. Nothing is more disorienting than being late, and you don't want to add to your anxiety about the first day.You can try setting your alarm 10 or 15 minutes before you had planned if you are worried that you won't have enough time.

