 You’ll probably want the eating side of the plate to be the face, but it’s up to you exactly how you want the mask to look. If you want to use more than one shade of brown you can add depth to the face.You can use craft paint if you have some handy or you want to buy some. You can also use a brown marker. Crayon or colored pencil will work but will not give you a full color.
If you paint it, let it dry as directed by the paint bottle. You’ll probably need at least 20 minutes.
 Make a straight line from edge to edge on the plate. Start about one inch down the line and draw the left curve of the heart up to the edge of plate and extending down to one inch from the bottom of the center line. Repeat for the right side of the heart.
 It’s not important for the bottom of the heart to be perfect, as it will be covered up. Just make sure the top has two nice curves. These will form the top of the opening for the eyes. It may work best to use a razor knife with the plate sitting on a cutting board or a piece of cardboard.


Don’t throw this piece away because you’ll be using it again soon.
 You can use scissors this time since you aren’t cutting out of the middle. You can cut perfect half-circles, or you can make them more oblong and ear-shaped.


Since monkeys often have large ears, it is okay to exaggerate the size of the ears a little bit. The size of the ears is up to you.
It may be easiest to simply cut the rounded tops off of the heart and use these pieces as the ears of the mask.
 These half circles will be the inner part of the ear that is lighter than the rest. You can cut them in the exact same shape as the ear pieces you just cut, or you can shape them more like an inner ear with curves.


If you don’t have tan or cream paper, you could cut the inner ear from the heart shape and color the unpainted part tan.
You could also cut from white paper and color the shapes tan.
 Using a glue stick is best because it dries faster and makes less of a mess. Line the small half-circles up on the big half-circles and glue in place. Then glue the whole ear to the back of the mask in the proper place, with the brown part matching the brown of the face.
 Using the tan paper from before, cut out an oval shape, which will be the mouth and the nose of the mask. You can draw the shape first, or you can simply cut an oval shape out of the paper.If you don’t have tan paper to use, white paper will work, but you’ll need to color it tan so it looks right.
Make the oval large enough that when you attach it to the paper plate, the heart shape you previously cut will be completely covered except for where the eyes are.
On the other hand, you want to make sure that the oval is doesn’t take up more than half of heart shape from top to bottom. If the area where you cut the heart shape from is seven inches or so, your oval should probably be about three inches tall, and four inches wide.
 The long side of the oval should be horizontal. The mouth can look however you want it to. It could be a fairly straight line across the oval, or could be a smile, or you could even draw it so it looks like the mouth is open.


The nose can just be two nostrils or two curves with nostrils under them.
You don’t have to scrutinize this part too closely, as people will be able to tell it’s a mouth and nose.
 Using a glue stick, glue the tan paper toward the bottom of the heart that you cut out of the plate previously. Don’t put the mouth too far down, but make sure it covers the bottom of the shape you cut out.


A little glue on each end of the oval should hold it in place.
 This will allow the wearer of the mask to hold the mask in place rather than having it sit right against their face.You can also cut holes just under the ears and tie a string through them to hold the mask in place.
