 It's the blue app with a white "A" made from writing utensils on it. You'll usually find the App Store on the Home Screen.
 It's in the bottom-right side of the screen and has a magnifying class icon above it., This option is at the top of the screen., You'll probably have to spend some money to download a call-recording app. A few of the best-rated apps include the following:TapeACall Pro - You'll pay $9.99 up-front but, unlike most other call recorders, you won't have to pay per-minute.

Call Recorder - IntCall - This app is free up-front, while the per-minute recording cost is around $0.10. You'll need to be connected to Wi-Fi to use this service.

Call Recording by NoNotes - Free to download and you get 20 minutes of free calls per month. After the free minutes expire, services cost around $0.25 per minute.
 If you're purchasing an app, this button will be replaced by the app's cost instead., It will be in the same location as the Get button., Doing so will prompt your app to begin downloading.

If you've recently logged into the App Store, you won't have to perform this step.
If your iPhone uses Touch ID, you may be able to use your fingerprint here instead.
 While the particulars will vary from app to app, they all work in essentially the same way. You'll be connected to their servers and then the call will be merged with the line you are calling.


If prompted, you may need to accept the Terms and Conditions and enter your phone number.
When the call is merged, the recording begins.
When the call ends or you've gone over the allotted or available recording time, the recording is terminated automatically.
 The calls are stored either in the cloud or on your provider's servers and will be displayed in a list.


For Call Recorder - IntCall, tap "Recording" at the bottom of the screen to bring up a list of your recordings, then tap the "Play" button to play back a specific recording.
Some services even provide online storage, management, and retrieval.
You can often edit your calls, trimming to only the parts of the call you want to save. From there, you can email or manage the recordings as you would any other computer file.

