 Though it might seem crazy, you will get even stronger than having just trained each group once a week. Be prepared for hard work, and know that it will require a lot of motivation. To assist you, listen to music while doing this workout. The music should be upbeat and energetic to keep your energy up as well.


Consider joining a gym that is diverse in equipment. The different lifts associated with your workouts will require a variety of machines and weights. If you can't join a gym, your options are limited if you try to follow this workout plan.;
,


Start the first lift. Do the bench press- first do three sets of five and then three sets of three. As you progress through sets, try to go up in weight. This is how you get stronger.
Second lift: Do the dumbbell bench press- first, three sets of eight and then three sets of five.
Third lift: Use the chest press machine- three sets of eight or three sets of five. This machine is typically more tiring.
Fourth lift: Do wide grip push ups- five sets of ten. Give yourself very little rest time for this lift.
Fifth lift: Use the lat pull down machine- do sets of five until failure.
Sixth lift: Do pull-ups/chin-ups- do three sets of max. 
Seventh lift: Kneeling dumbbell row- five sets of eight.
Eighth lift: Use the rowing machine- three sets of eight or three sets of five.
Ninth lift: Bicep curls drop sets- three sets of seven reps per arm. Alternate arms.
Tenth lift: Hammer curls drop sets- three sets of seven reps per arm. Alternate arms. 
Eleventh lift: Curling bar curls- three sets of eight.



First lift: Do a full back squat- three sets of five, then three sets of three.
Second lift: Do a full front squat- three sets of five, then three sets of three.
Third lift: Power cleans- five sets of five.
Fourth lift: Hex Bar/ Trap barDead-lift (Reduces stress on spine)- one set of five, then one set of four, then one set of three, then one set of two, and finally one set of one.
Fifth lift: Leg push press- four sets of eight.
Sixth lift: Leg curls- four sets of eight.
Seventh lift: Hamstring curl- four sets of eight.
Eighth lift: Standing calf raise- five sets of ten.
Ninth lift- Seated calf raise- five sets of twelve to fourteen.



First lift: Seated barbell shoulder press- max sets of five.
Second lift: Palms out seated dumbbell press- three sets of eight or three sets of five.
Third lift: Palms in seated dumbbell press- three sets of eight or three sets of five.
Fourth lift: Seated shoulder press machine palms in - five sets of eight or five sets of five.
 Fifth lift: Seated shoulder press machine palms out- five sets of eight or five sets of five.
 Sixth lift: Triceps push-down- four sets of eight.
Seventh lift: Close grip bench press- five sets of five.
Eighth lift: Diamond push ups- three rapid sets of eight.
Ninth lift: Two handed triceps extension- three sets of eight.
Tenth lift: Dips- four rapid sets of ten.



First lift: Kettle bell squat- one minute.
Second lift: Kettle bell swing- one minute.
Third lift: Suicides (forward and backward for agility)- one minute.
Fourth lift: Box jump burpees with one minute plank in between sets- five sets of eight.
Fifth lift: Side plank- five on each side, one minute each.
Sixth lift: Heavy bag two minute drills- three.
Seventh lift: Decline bench sit ups with plate on chest- six sets of ten.



A whey protein of some sort is recommended post-workout. Also, eat a big, nutritional dinner in addition to whey protein. Mixes with milk easily. Load up on carbs (pasta is good) before a workout. Eating pasta after a workout is also good. It's high in protein and carbs.
A separate amino acid (BCAA) powder is recommended to drink before, during, and after a workout. It tastes good and is better quality than tablets. If you can't access protein powder or amino acids, eat peanuts, almonds, milk, peanut butter, pasta, and cheese. Always be sure to eat healthy.

