 While meal replacements and protein powders are far from the best gastronomical experiences you will have in life, they are usually high in protein and often a good source of important vitamins and minerals. Be absolutely sure that the products are really free (some companies will try to trick you into weekly/monthly fees; always read the fine print before agreeing to anything). Your main priority will be the companies offering free shipping of the product. If you have to pay the shipping cost, make sure it will cost no more than what you think it's worth.;
, People standing in front of their stores may have plates with samples. The schedules, places, times and dates of this kind of freebie event may vary depending on where on the globe you live. Call your local malls and marts and ask about it. Bring along family and friends on these feasts for maximum joy!

, Depending on where you live in the world, some supermarkets and stores will have demonstration and taste-test foods for you to try. They are probably not going to be enough for you to feel full but in some cases, you may be able to add up the different free foods to amount to something adequate. Some examples include:

If you live in the state of Florida, and if it is a Monday through Saturday afternoon, many Publix supermarkets have free samples of easy-to-cook meals. Try to get some of that. The samples are offered at a stand with the word "Apron" displayed above the stand, and the stand is manned by a person wearing a blue or white apron.






If you already are a member of Sam's Club, and if it is a Saturday afternoon, move around the samples stations there. The store is so big you can eat an entire meal for free just by moving around these samples stations!







, Try it. Maybe you'll get free Jenny Craig food samples or something.
 Freegans dumpster dive for perfectly good food, eat like kings and queens and they do it on a zero dollar food budget. Going through dumpsters belonging to stores will be your main source of free food -- if you are serious about spending as little as possible on food.


Cook dumpster food thoroughly, even though a lot of the food found in store owned dumpsters and trash bins has not gone past the expiration date.






Bring a flashlight you can hold in your teeth or hang on the side of the dumpster while you rifle through. Sometimes you might want to get into the dumpster. You should also bring something with a long handle like prongs to get stuff from the far corners. If you do get into the dumpster, only dive with a spotter, in case one of you gets locked inside the dumpster.
Remember, if you are not lucky the first week; keep at it; check other dumpsters. Some dumpsters have locks on them to keep people from the goods.






Dumpster diving is frowned upon or even illegal in some jurisdictions. Know what's legal and what's not.
 Hunt game, or go fishing in clean water for free freshwater-/or seafood. Pick berries, find fruits and vegetables growing in the wild, etc. However, you must be absolutely certain of the foods you're seeking; your foraging ancestors had daily knowledge of what was safe and what wasn't safe to eat and unless you know the plants with certainty, don't eat them. Many berries, leaves and seeds are poisonous. Some seafood and fish species are toxic, and even when seafood sources are known to be safe foods normally, if algal blooms are present, they are not safe to eat.
 If skilled at dumpster diving, it's the other way around: get people to do some work for food.
 Explain your food needs and see whether it's possible to get either a food parcel or a food voucher. This won't be a long-term fix but they may be able to help you for long enough to see you through a rough patch., Explain that you're going without food. Unless you're not on speaking terms with them, they will likely want to help out., These often have free food.
 This is a movement dedicated to serving free veggie food. There are roughly 400 active kitchens serving free food of which almost half were located in the U.S., so be sure to check out whether they are active somewhere near you.It may also be worth mentioning that they know a thing or two about dumpster diving, as their main source of main ingredients come from dumpster diving.
 You will be expected to be polite and in some cases, to listen to attempts to convert you to the faith in question. It's a fair exchange for a free meal.

Dress nicely and be considerate. Don't crash a wedding, funeral, christening, etc. event.

