 When detangling your mane, always use a wide-tooth comb or your fingers, rather than use a brush. This will minimize breakage and damage and will also preserve the shape of your curls. Brushing your hair will separate the individual strands, making it much frizzier., If your hair is frizzy, chances are it is often difficult to brush through. Avoid starting from the roots and start detangling at the ends instead. Take a wide section of your hair, about three inches or so, and use a wide-tooth comb to detangle the strands, starting from the ends and working upward. Do this for each section of hair until you have detangled all of it.If you get pretty severe tangles, try a spray-on detangling product. Apply it to wet hair and then proceed with your wide-tooth comb.
 Brushing your hair while it is dry will only serve to make your hair frizzier by separating each strand of hair, especially if your hair is curly. A great way to avoid brushing dry hair is to comb it before you get out of the shower. Start by detangling large curls with your fingers, then use a comb to start combing out the tangles, starting from the ends.If you get a knot during the day, gently work through it with a wide-tooth comb.
 After you have stepped out of the shower, apply styling cream to your hair. This targets frizz before it even has a chance to start by forming a moisturizing protective layer over your locks.Styling cream can be purchased at a beauty supply store. Look for creams or sprays that protect hair against frizz, such as Moroccanoil Frizz Control or DevaCurl Frizz-Free Volumizing Foam.
 A diffuser is an attachment for your hair dryer that can be purchased at a low cost at your local beauty supply store. These attachments are designed for curly hair and work well for managing frizz and keeping the curls intact. Keep the dryer on a low-heat setting, as too much heat on wet hair can create humidity, creating the perfect environment for frizz to flare up.


Consider purchasing a high-wattage ionic blow dryer, as well. These tools can dry your hair quickly and help cut down on frizz.
 To effectively manage and contain frizz, consider braiding your hair. You can wear a single braid off to the side of your head, down your back, or sport pigtail-style braids for a more youthful look. Apply a smoothing cream or spray to your hair before you braid it to tame flyaways and keep frizz under wraps.
 After washing your hair and applying an anti-frizz styling cream, pull your hair up into a ponytail and then wrap it into a bun. A bun will prevent your hair from becoming frizzy and unmanageable, as it will be neatly contained on top of your head.

