 Your training plan should include ways that the trainers can evaluate the training as it progresses. There should be clear benchmarks that measure the effectiveness of the training. Specifically state the points during training where the goals should be measured.Have concrete assessment tools included in your training plan. For example, you could have trainees complete a quiz or test after each module.
Have trainers ask for feedback. In your training plan, indicate that trainers should observe the trainees attitudes. If the trainees seem lost or unmotivated, indicate that that trainers should address that.
 Not every group of trainees will respond the same to your training methods. You training plan should indicate that trainers will need to be prepared to teach the material in a different way. For each section of content, your training plan should indicate a couple of different ways to convey the material.For example, some groups may be less talkative than others. Instead of a large group question and answer session, have the the trainees work in pairs.
In your delivery of the material, you will likely use specific examples to illustrate your points. If the trainees do not seem to comprehend the material, make sure that there are alternate examples included in the training plan.
 Your training may be organization-wide, geared toward a single department or designed specifically for entry-level employees. You may develop separate training plans for different groups or teams. In each plan, be clear about the group that is the focus of the training.Group the trainees by training type. For example, some members of the organization may need simple overviews, whereas others involved in the day-to-day completion of tasks may require in-depth training.
 For example, you will need to calculate training costs. If you are not involved with accounting, you may need to ask someone familiar with your company's financials for some information. Review the list of required training resources to determine how much money you will need. #*Other costs to consider include meeting space rental, trainer compensation and employee time.


You may also need to speak to your organization's facilities manager. They can help you reserve conference rooms or lecture facilities.
Let your IT department know that you might need some assistance during training, particularly if you are teaching online or using tools such as video conferencing.
 In order to offer the most effective training, you will need to select the highest quality employee to conduct the training sessions. They may be people already working for the organization or outside experts. Examine their qualifications and experience before hiring.Look for trainers who have experience using the methods that you want to offer. For example, if your training is to be conducted online, make sure to find someone who feels comfortable using that platform.
Communicate with your trainers. Allow them the opportunity to ask questions and make sure that they clearly understand the objectives and desired outcomes.

