 Meditation devices such as candles, incense and chanting can help you enter into a relaxed meditative state. You can listen to a chanting CD or you can chant the name of your favorite Goddess or God. Keep the lights turned low or turn them off.;
, If you practice Celtic Wicca, you’ll probably want to practice your mediation outdoors. Your preference for the sights, smells and sounds of nature will enhance your meditation. Many Wiccans prefer to mediate at their altars, especially if the weather is inclement. The important thing is to choose a place to meditate that makes you feel naturally relaxed. If you mediate indoors, make sure the room is quiet and that you will not be interrupted.
 It doesn’t matter if you are seated or lying down or walking, as long as you are relaxed and comfortable. Your goal is to be receptive and alert, so don’t get so comfortable that you fall asleep.
 Passive meditation is the art of allowing images to arise in your mind and concentrating on those images or symbols. Active meditation involves you selecting the image or symbol you want to concentrate on; you can do this with your eyes open or closed. Whether you allow a symbol to come to you, or if you choose the symbol, give the image you have chosen your total concentration. Subjects to meditate upon include:


Pentagram
Magick
God/Goddess
Color(s)
Number(s)
Tree, flower or plant
Gem (crystal, amethyst, sapphire, etc. )

, Focus on your breath for a few minutes. Observe yourself breathing. When your breathing is calm and steady, take your awareness to your feet and move your focus all the way up your body. Release any tension you feel anywhere in your body. You can also stop and focus on tension and ask why the tension is there.
 Breathe in and picture white light entering your feet all the way to the top of your head. Exhale and release the white light, allowing it to enclose you in your magical space.
 If a thought or image intrigues you, begin concentrating on it, otherwise, let it go and allow the next thought to surface. (If your thoughts start to ramble, return to the focus on your breathing and start over.) If you have chosen to do active meditation, close your eyes and mentally focus on the symbol or image you have chosen. If you prefer, you can keep your eyes open and concentrate on your chosen symbol. Give it your total and examine every aspect of it.
 You may want to jot down ideas or sketch images that come to you during your meditation. Once you have done so, return to your meditative state.
 Try to think of at least 10 things you are thankful for; your list can range from minor pleasures (I’m thankful for my neighbor’s help yesterday) to major issues (I’m thankful I have enough food to eat.)

