 There are several over the counter medications that you can use to help with your acid reflux. There are many different brands, but they typically have the same function. Antacids help neutralize the acid in your stomach. These are generally used to provide relief for up to two weeks.


If you still need antacids after that time period, it is recommended you call your physician because long-term use of antacids can affect mineral balance, affect the kidneys, and cause diarrhea.
Foam barriers are a combination of antacid and a foaming agent. As the tablet dissolves in the stomach, a foam is formed that helps to block the entry of acid into the esophagus. Currently, the only foam barrier on the market is Gaviscon.
Follow manufacturer’s instructions and don’t overdo it. Antacids, if overdone, can cause some problems., H2 blockers are also over the counter remedies that come in many different brands. They decrease the stomach’s secretion of acid instead of just neutralizing it like antacids. H2 blockers include cimetidine (Tagamet), famotidine (Pepcid) and ranitidine (Zantac). The over the counter variety come in small doses, but your physician can prescribe higher doses.


Keep a look out for the side effects, which include constipation, diarrhea, dizziness, headache, hives, nausea, vomiting, and problems with urination. More serious side effects are difficulty breathing or swelling of the face, lips, throat, or tongue.If you are using H2 blockers, follow manufacturer’s instructions.
 PPIs block acid production by the stomach the same way that H2 blockers do. You can try many different types, including esomeprazole (Nexium), lansoprazole (Prevacid), omeprazole (Prilosec), pantoprazole (Protonix), rabeprazole (Aciphex), dexlansoprazole (Dexilant) and omeprazole sodium bicarbonate (Zegerid).


Side effects of PPIs include headache, constipation, diarrhea, abdominal pain, rashes, and nausea. Long-term use of PPIs are associated with a higher risk of osteoporosis-related fractures of the hip, wrist or spine.If you are using PPIs, follow manufacturer’s instructions.
If these do not help within 2-3 weeks, it is strongly recommended that you see your physician. You may need stronger medication or you may not be dealing with pure acid reflux. There may be something else going on.