 When in social situations, they don't always understand how and why people act the way they do. They also have difficulty understanding social cues, like facial expressions and body language.
People with Asperger's often have trouble forming and keeping friendships due to their social difficulties.
People with Asperger's Syndrome often dislike changes in their routines, and they tend to have strict preferences in all aspects of life.
People with Asperger's Syndrome often have limited interests, which they may be very knowledgeable about.
People with Asperger's Syndrome may talk a lot, usually about a favorite subject. One-sided conversations are common, and internal thoughts are often verbalized.
People with Asperger's Syndrome often have delayed coordination and motor developments. Many do not participate in sports and in general are not fans of sports.
People with Asperger's syndrome may have heightened sensitivity and become over-stimulated by loud noises, lights, strong tastes, or textures.
People with Asperger's often have poor executive function skills. This includes having difficulty keeping track of time or possessions, or not being able to complete homework and turn it in on time.;
, To be diagnosed with Asperger’s Syndrome, a person must have a combination of these symptoms and severe trouble with social situations.

. Many of these symptoms coincide with other disabilities such as ADHD, OCD, depression, or anxiety., Adults with Asperger's syndrome can obtain a better understanding of their own strengths and weaknesses. Most can eventually live independently, hold jobs, and even marry and have children. However depending on the individual, it may take them longer than usual to accomplish these.


Some traits that are typical of Asperger's syndrome, such as attention to detail and focused interests. Many people with Asperger's Syndrome seem to be fascinated with progress of the human race, breaking barriers to achievements. A common career choice is engineering.
Scientific careers are by no means the only areas where people with Asperger's Syndrome excel. Indeed, many respected historical figures have had symptoms of Asperger's Syndrome which has led to speculation that they had Asperger's, including Vincent Van Gogh, Albert Einstein, Benjamin Franklin, Abraham Lincoln, Bertrand Russell, Marilyn Monroe, Emily Dickinson, Henry Ford, Mark Twain, and George Washington.Each individual with Aspergers is unique in regards to traits. One may be very talkative and like sports, while another is very quiet and likes comics. Not all people with Asperger's will have the same components such as having limited interests, or not liking routine. One individual with Aspergers may have the obvious traits while another can fly under the radar for a long time. In other words, each person is unique and one shouldn't generalize someone with Aspergers.

