 Many jewelers may require special documents certifying the value and/or authenticity of heirloom stones that are precious. This is often for insurance purposes.Some documents that may be required by your jeweler include:


A GIA/EGL Certificate along with a certified appraisal of the stone.
An IGI lab report and its associated stone map., Many settings for heirloom stones have three to six metal claws or prongs that hold the stone to a flat metal piece or basket on the ring band. Other designs wrap the shaped metal of the band of the ring around the stone to hold it in place. Which setting suits you best will depend on your preference.


Fewer prongs or shallower settings will display your heirloom stone better, but more prongs and deeper settings might be best for especially precious heirloom stones.
The prongs of your setting can be shaped so that they are pointed, rounded, flat, V-shaped, or so that the prongs form pockets in which the stone is held., Depending on the size of your stone and its condition, some settings might not be suitable for your heirloom stone. Ask potential jewelers if your resetting plans are reasonable and, if not, what alternatives are open to you.


Even if your ideal setting won't work with your stone, you may be able to use a similar setting instead., When choosing a metal, keep in mind the tones that flatter your complexion, the kind of jewelry you wear most often, and so on. A metal that matches with your favorite colors will fit seamlessly into your wardrobe. Keep in mind that the metal's color may influence the color of your stone.Common metals to choose from include:


Platinum
Gold (yellow, white, rose, and green)Silver
Stainless steel
Titanium, This is also an excellent tactic for convincing others to get an heirloom gem reset. A jeweler can easily melt the metal from the old band and use some or all of it to create the new setting. This way, you keep all the ring's original material, but can enjoy a setting all your own., After all the particulars about the heirloom stone resetting have been discussed, you'll have to give your heirloom stone to the jeweler for resetting. Once it is ready, you'll only have to pay the jeweler and you can enjoy your new heirloom stone setting.

