 You want to be the one defining the issues at all times. Constantly responding to your opponents is a quick way to blend into the background and seem smaller in stature than your opponents.To use a recent example, Donald Trump was a master of this. No matter what the news was during the 2016 cycle—good or bad—it was always about Trump. Sometimes it was Trump attacking, sometimes it was Trump issuing a blanket denial to an attack on him, other times it was arguing about a policy that he proposed. No matter what, he kept the conversation focused on him, his character, his temperament, and his solutions.
 Very few people can aggressively attack their opponents without becoming unlikeable in the process. That’s not to say it can’t happen. Sometimes a person’s behavior is so odious that righteous anger is the only response, but that’s rare. It’s much safer to attack your opponent through implication than it is to openly attack. You want to highlight your good qualities while leaving your opponent’s bad qualities understood.For example, imagine yourself, a political novice, running for an open seat amidst a long-running corruption scandal going on in your opponent’s party. Your opponent hasn’t been implicated, and you wouldn’t want to accuse her of something that she hasn’t done. But you might say “The other party’s been in power for so long, and it’s been one scandal after another this whole year. Let’s leave the old politics behind. We need a fresh start all around—in this district, in the committee chairs, in the House leadership. What me and my party represent is that fresh start…”

, Relative to advertising, media have more influence on campaigns than ever before. The best kind of exposure you can get is positive coverage in the news (earned media). It pays to forge relationships with reporters in your area early and cultivate them often, because it increases the likelihood of positive earned media. Give them early access to stories, the occasional leak and several rounds of free drinks.Supplement this by appearing at public events, because that gives reporters (who should theoretically think positively of you) an excuse to give you coverage.
 Having an army of volunteers seems more typical of a presidential campaign than a congressional campaign, because congressional races have less money and are usually less competitive. However, a congressional campaign investing in the type of field operation that can recruit a lot of volunteers is a powerful statement in and of itself.Since your field operation—which is largely managing and recruiting volunteers to conduct voter outreach—is what really drives turnout, a well-developed one can create a movement type of atmosphere and an air of inevitability. It energizes your base and depresses your opponents.
Still, you must use your field operation smartly. Use your voter management software to target the most likely voters first.
 Once you’ve done all you can to frame the narrative, develop your field operations and create good relationships with the media, you should turn your attention to paid media. Paid media includes television and radio ads, yard signs, mailers, billboards, and any other type of political advertisement.All forms of paid media are of diminishing effectiveness in this day and time. While TV and radio are still more effective than the others, most studies show that they are really only effective in the last few weeks before the election. Any other form of paid media is of dubious impact at all.
 When Election Day comes, it’s time to get your voters to the polls. The volunteers you’ve recruited during the campaign season should knock on as many doors and make as many last minute phone calls reminding people to vote as they can.


If you live in an early voting state, encourage your voters to vote early. An early vote doesn’t count more than another, but getting the confirmation of the vote is important in and of itself, because that’s one less door to knock on or phone number to call on Election Day.

