 Although not proven to work, homeopathic remedies have reportedly been successful for many people. If medical treatment hasn't worked for you, discuss the option of homeopathic remedies with your doctor, and then search for an appropriate treatment. Use ABC Homeopathy's online remedy finder or a similar tool to help you find an appropriate remedy.
 For chronic cystitis, you need a remedy that addresses your disease and your mind, so check both MIND and URINE under "Where is affected?"On the next pages, check all the things from the listed that are close to your symptoms. Be as specific and precise as possible, and check everything that applies.


It could take around an hour to finish answering all the questions, but it is important to read everything and proceed carefully - and an hour checking stuff is better than a lifetime of suffering.
 When the test is done, you will get a list of possible homeopathic remedies, with percentages for each one. Don't be alarmed if they are mostly around 30% percent. It doesn't mean that the one for you isn't among them, so scroll to the names and  percentages, and take a screenshot so that you can remember the precise results.
 This will ensure that your final results are the most accurate for your illness in general, not for however you happened to be feeling the first time you took the test. Take the test every two days, and take it three or four times, for the best results.
 Find the average percentage for each remedy over all the tests you took. Then research the top five or ten remedies (those with the highest percentages). Read up on the personalities corresponding to each remedy, and learn about what each remedy does and how it works. Remember that homeopathic remedies can be fickle and work differently for each person, so choose the one that will work best for you. Ask your doctor or another expert if you have questions or concerns, and double check your chosen remedy with your doctor before you begin treatment.
 You can buy it directly from ABC Homeopathy, or find it in a local business. Don't worry, these remedies aren't terribly expensive. Even if you have to try a few before you find the one that works for you, you will spend a lot less than a lifetime of antibiotics and suffering.
 Most work best when taken with water. Dissolve the pills in clean water - usually tap water in a clean water bottle works just fine. Shake the bottle vigorously to mix the solution before taking it, and then take only the prescribed dose. Usually this will be about a capful of the solution four times a day for four days and then twice a day for two weeks, but confirm with your doctor or another expert before beginning treatment.
 Sometimes symptoms worsen for a day or two when you begin treatment, before improving dramatically or stopping altogether in the week or so following. Persist with the treatment for about a week before you decide whether it's working; if it is helping, continue treatment. If it doesn't work, discuss the treatment and symptoms with your doctor, and then go back to your list of possible remedies. Pick another one to try, and repeat the above steps to see if that works.


Continue trial and error until a remedy works or until you've gone through all possible remedies. Keep your doctor informed as you go through this process so that he or she can be on the lookout for anything that might be potentially dangerous.

