 Four Berry Salad offers a tasty combination of sweet and tart that is easy to throw together and takes very little time to prepare. While the recipe is called “Four Berry Salad” you can leave out any of the berries that you don’t like or incorporate other fruits that you feel would couple well with the taste of the dressing and other berries.Begin by dicing and mixing one and half cups of strawberries to one cup of blueberries, three quarters of a cup of raspberries and a half cup of blackberries.
In a medium bowl, whisk one tablespoon of balsamic vinegar with two teaspoons of light-brown sugar.
Pour the dressing over the fruit and serve with forks.
Add two tablespoons of mint leaves or a quarter cup of chopped nuts, if desired.;
, You can use hummus as a dip for various kinds of food, and because it’s primary ingredient is chickpeas, it’s a healthy alternative to more traditional dips you may want to serve your guests. Combine all of the following ingredients in a food processor, then run it until you’ve made a paste that can be spooned out into a bowl. Then use carrot sticks, celery, or pretzels as dippers.Combine two 15 ounce cans of rinsed chickpeas with a crushed garlic clove and a half teaspoon of salt.
Add 3 tablespoons of olive oil, a quarter cup of fresh lemon juice and 5 tablespoons of water.
Add 1/4 cup of tahini (roasted sesame seed paste) and turn on the food processor.
Run the food processor until the hummus takes on a paste link consistency. Spoon it into a bowl and serve with dippers.
Play up the flavor of the hummus by adding a quarter of a teaspoon of paprika, fresh chopped flat leaf parsley, and/or pine nuts.
 You can also make fresh guacamole using a food processor in just a few minutes. Simply combine all of the ingredients in the processor except the avocado and use the food processor to chop them into small bits, then add the avocado and keep the processor running until it creates the consistency of paste.Place a tablespoon fresh lime juice, an eighth of a teaspoon of salt, one and a half tablespoons of coarsely chopped red onion, and a garlic clove in the food processor.
Add one half of a small jalapeño pepper, then pulse the food processor five or so times to dice up the ingredients.
Add one whole ripe avocado and run the food processor until it takes on the consistency of paste. Then spoon into a bowl, sprinkle with parsley, and serve with tortilla chips.
 Smoothies are a healthy and delicious snack that can be as filling as they are good for you. Making a smoothie can be as simple as tossing the ingredients into a blender and running it for about two minutes or until it’s smooth enough to drink. One great smoothie option is the peach-mango smoothie. Simply add the following ingredients to your blender to get started:Place 2/3 of a cup of frozen peach or peach slices into the blender, then add 2/3 of a cup of mango or mango bits and 2/3 of a cup of peach nectar.
Add one tablespoon of honey and one six-ounce container of peach yogurt.
Turn the blender on until the combination is smooth enough to drink and serve immediately.
 Using skewer to serve fruit in much the same way one might serve a kabob can offer a fun and creative way to liven up your healthy snacks. Adding a simple fruit dip can add a flavorful kick to your snack without adding much to your preparation time.Slice fruit like strawberries, pineapple, or apple into small chunks, then slide them onto the skewer.
Mix one cup of sour cream with two tablespoons each of brown sugar and lime juice.
Sprinkle cinnamon and sugar over the top of the dip and serve with your fruit skewers.
 By swapping the peanut butter out for a low fat cream cheese and adding a few different kinds of dried fruit, you can serve an updated and even tastier version of this healthy snack in no time.Spread cream cheese lightly into the hollow of celery stalks.
Stick assorted dry fruit into the cream cheese like dried cherries, cranberries, currants or the traditional raisins.

