 If you’re dealing with a stinkhorn, this probably won’t take a lot of effort. stinkhorns are known to be a noxious fungus, and their smell can be likened to that of feces or a dead and decaying animal.Although the stinkhorns may smell offensive, they are not poisonous to humans or pets. Stinkhorn fungi will not harm your pets or any other plants in their vicinity.
Stinkhorns use their unpleasant smell to attract flies. Flies land on the mushroom, pick up spores on their legs and bodies, and distribute these sports wherever they fly. So, if you notice a large number of flies around a specific mushroom, you may be dealing with a stinkhorn.
 If you suspect you’re dealing with a stinkhorn, confirm that the environment it’s growing in correlates with a type stinkhorns prefer. Although stinkhorn mushrooms prefer moist areas and patches of ground covered in mulch, they can pop up in many types of terrains.Like all fungus, stinkhorns can also sprout out of the wood of dead and decaying trees.


Varieties of stinkhorn fungus grow naturally throughout nearly all of North America and into Central America. Some varieties prefer subtropical and tropical regions, including parts of Mexico., The most common type of stinkhorn fungus (‘’Phallus ravenelii’’) has a pale white stalk and a phallic shape. The mushroom typically stands between 10–15 cm (4–6 inches) high, and the cap at its tip ranges in diameter from 1–4 cm (0.4–1.6 inches). The cap itself is slimy and dark brown, with a course texture. The mushroom’s long, cream-colored stem has a spongy texture.At the very tip of a stinkhorn mushroom’s brown cap, there is a white ring-like circle with an opening at the tip.
 There are over 25 types of stinkhorn fungi that live in North America. Most, like ‘’Phallus ravenelii’’, have a thin stalk with a bulbous, slimy head which bears the spores. Colors can vary, and many stinkhorns are pink or reddish in color. Shape and size of the mushrooms can also vary. Most mushrooms range from 2–6 cm (0.8–2.4 inches), although some species grow as tall as 15 cm (6 inches).