 One bottle should be able to fit into the other with no difficulty. The inner bottle can be made of glass or plastic, but the outer bottle should be made of plastic. Make sure that the inner bottle also has a reusable cap.


The outer (larger) bottle needs to be cut apart, so that is why you should use a plastic bottle instead a glass one.
Glass is a better insulator than plastic under most conditions, so if you can find a glass bottle with a reusable cap, use that for the smaller inner bottle. The cap is important, though, so use a plastic bottle with a reusable cap if you cannot find a glass one that will work.
A 1-qt (1-L) bottle and 2-qt (2-L) bottle will usually work for this project. If you are not satisfied with the size of these bottles, however, you can use two different sizes as long as the smaller bottle can fit inside the larger bottle with a little spare room along the sides.
 Use sharp scissors to carefully remove the very top of the larger bottle, cutting just below the neck. You need to leave the curved portion of the top intact.


Note that this part of the bottle is usually one of the thickest portions, so you should exercise as much caution as possible when cutting through it.
The hole needs to be just large enough for the neck of the inner (smaller) bottle to poke through it.
Consider covering the sharp cut edge with a layer of thick electrical tape to prevent yourself from accidentally getting cut as you work.
 Lay the larger bottle on its side and carefully cut it in half, leaving the bottom half just a little larger than the top half.


Cut crosswise across the bottle, not lengthwise.
Cut evenly around the bottle. Your cut should be parallel to your working surface the entire way around.
Consider covering the sharp cut edges of the top and bottom with additional electrical tape to prevent accidental cuts and scrapes.
 Extend the foil so that it folds over the sharp, cut edges of the bottle, as well.


Metal is an insulator, so covering the inside of the outer bottle with aluminum foil adds a layer of insulation. You only need a single layer of foil, though, since you will be using other insulating materials to help retain the heat throughout the contraption.
 Lay a clean cotton rag on your working surface and lay the smaller bottle on its side along one edge of the cloth. Slowly roll the bottle over the cloth, wrapping the cloth around the bottle in the process.


Note that other insulating materials could be used instead of the cloth, if desired. You could use pink fiberglass, for instance.
If you do use cloth, stick with cotton or another material that traps heat well. Avoid light, airy fabrics like chiffon, which may not provide adequate insulation.
You will likely need to tape the cloth in place to prevent it from slipping.
 Rest the bottom of the smaller bottle inside the bottom of the top bottle, centering the two together. Use hot glue from a hot glue gun to hold the two bottles together.


Let the glue dry before continuing onto the next step.
 Stuff cotton balls into any remaining gap between the two bottles. Fill the gap as high as possible, packing the cotton in snugly.


If the bottom half of your outer bottle does not completely cover the height of your inner bottle, you may need to stuff some cotton into the top half, as well. Do so as you begin piecing the halves together in the next step.
You could try other insulating materials instead of the cotton, if desired. For instance, foam beanbag beads, styrofoam packing peanuts, or polyfill insulation could all work well., Fit the the top half over the bottom half so that the two overlap. Insert the neck of the smaller bottle through the hole in your top outer half as you slide the top piece on.


If you need to add cotton to the top half of your contraption, use tweezers or a chopstick to wedge pieces of cotton into the top half, working from its larger opening, once the two halves are partially connected yet not all the way pushed together.
Since both openings are the same size, you may need to press the plastic in on the bottom half as you slide the top half over it. Be patient since this step will likely take some time and effort to complete.
If necessary, make a 1/2 inch (1.25 cm) slit into the top half and bottom half of the outer bottle. Doing so loosens the plastic a bit, which may make it easier for you to get the bottle halves together initially.
 Tape the bottom edge of your top outer half onto the bottom outer half. Wrap the rest of the outside in electrical tape, as well, covering all sides.


The electrical tape has three purposes:

As tape, it helps hold the structure together, preventing the halves from slipping apart with use.
As electrical tape, it has insulating properties, thereby making your thermos even more useful.
As an outer coating, it hides the “guts” of your thermos from sight, making the contraption look a little neater.
 The construction phase is complete. To check on how long the thermos will retain heat, pour hot water into it and check the temperature. Check the temperature again in 15 to 30 minute intervals.


If you are satisfied with the amount of heat your thermos retains and the amount of time it holds it, the thermos is ready to use. If not, try making another thermos using different insulating materials instead of cloth and cotton balls.

