 Autistic children are mostly verbal communicators. However, communication and conversation are not limited to words.


Being able to strike the right conversation in the right manner involves non-verbal cues such as body language, tone of voice, facial expression, and eye contact.
Let your child know that proper conversation involves staying on track, choosing a good topic, taking the conversation in a direction that is interesting to all parties, and being able to sense others' feelings and steer the conversation accordingly.
 Autistic people often have trouble with eye contact, and may find it distracting or upsetting to make.Explain to them that non-autistic people usually like eye contact, and teach them some ways to fake it. Let them experiment and find what works best for them.


Ask if they are comfortable making eye contact. If they aren't sure, ask them to look you in the eye. A few autistic people can handle eye contact (but for most it is painful or counterproductive).
Discuss potential places they could look to feign eye contact: at the person's nose, mouth, eyebrows, or chin. They may want to practice on you, or in the mirror.
 Maintaining a good distance helps the other person feel comfortable. Autistic children may have a problem doing this, and tend to move too close to the other person. This can make the other person quite uncomfortable and does not serve as a good way to break the ice.


The ideal conversational distance with an acquaintance would be about an arm's length.
 Autistic children tend to be focused and are able to talk about their passions for great lengths, while non-autistic children get bored with this. Explain to your child how to accommodate non-autistic people's need for varying topics.


Using pictures, photos, cards, videos and computer apps, show them what a good conversation would look like and what the essential elements are.
Teach them how to ask questions to make the other person keep talking. Sometimes autistic people have an easier time letting the other person lead the conversation, because it is less exhausting.
 Autistic kids might not understand the significance of emotional or non-verbal cues such as body language, facial expressions, and eye contact. Try teaching these as a game, just as you'd teach math or science.


To assist them in picking up non-verbal cues, there are computer programs available that can be used to learn which non-verbal cues convey which messages and which emotions.
This may also help them become more aware of their own emotions.
 Many autistic children are bullied or antagonized, and while you can't make the bullies disappear from the face of the earth, you can help your child know how to recognize them and handle them.


Talk about turning it into a game (e.g. pretending to not hear or mishear, responding to insults with "Thank you!" and a sweet smile). Explain that this can confuse bullies. Try role-playing some scenarios and helping them select a few favorite strategies.
Discuss how to tell a grown-up, and what to do if the grown-up doesn't believe them or try to help.
Teach the phrase "I'm okay, you're mean." They can say this to the bullies, and use it to remind themselves that the bullies are wrong.
 Many autism groups and resources are based on the deficit model, one which emphasizes everything that is wrong with an autistic person. This can hurt their self esteem. Instead, tell them that they are different, that it's okay to be different, and they face unique challenges.


Try phrasing it as accommodating non-autistic people, rather than stating that autistic ways of communication are wrong or inferior.
You can even joke how non-autistic people are "weird"—it sounds odd, but it can really help them feel like they aren't broken.

