 This braid is a fun, youthful hairstyle that is somewhat advanced and so it may require more time to create a nice look. First, begin by creating a specific part in your hair. Starting at the end of your right eyebrow, draw a line up to your hairline, and begin parting hair along a diagonal across the top of your head. Then, when you are about an inch away from your other ear, draw a straight line above your ear to the end of your other eyebrow., After you've created this part, you will gather the hair that was sectioned off from the part into a bun at the top of your head to separate it from the rest of your hair. This will be the part of your braid that creates the bows., Starting at the top of your right ear, french braid hair from the right side of your head, along the back of your head, until you reach your left ear. You'll french braid all of your hair, so once you are done you should end with a regular french braid that is just sloped at a diagonal. Secure the end of your braid with an elastic., Next, you'll take the hair you previously secured from your part and remove the elastic from it, letting it fall down. Then, spritz hair with water to dampen it, or you can use a little bit of hair gel so that it is easily workable. Brush hair out afterwards to smooth it out., Take a loose bobby pin (one that is not completely closed together but creates more of a V shape) and stick it under the first stitch that you made in your french braid. Make sure the loop of the bobby pin is on the left side of the stitch, and the open ends are on the right side., With the loose hair on the left side of your head, take a small strand and create a loop. Then, slide it through the top of the hair pin and grab the loop on the other side of the pin with your fingers., Gently pull the bobby pin you used through the stitch in your braid, holding the loop in your hair loosely in your fingers. As you slide the bobby pin out of the stitch, the loop in your hair should pull through the stitch, creating another loop on the other side. This should create the bow look.

Once you have created the bow, you will have a loose end of the strand of hair sticking out of the braid, and that is okay. This loose end will be covered up by the next bow that you create.
 Using the same bobby pin, you'll once again pull it through the first stitch, and then loop a strand of hair through the bobby pin. Then, you'll again pull the bobby pin out creating a bow with each side of the bow on each side of the stitch.Make sure as you go along that you are taking the right amount of hair to use as a bow. You want to have as much hair as you need to create bows all along your hair, so as you go along, just make sure you are using an adequate amount of hair.
You may want to spritz hair as you go so that it is smooth and easy to work with.
 Your last bow should slide into the last stitch of your braid that actually rests on your head. You won't have any bows going down the part of your braid that is the traditional braid (the "tail" of the french braid). After you have finished, applaud yourself for doing an advanced hairstyle!