 Infections occur most frequently after home piercings or mistakes made during the piercing. If you feel any of the following symptoms, you might have an infected piercing:


Pain or soreness
Excessive redness
Swelling
Puss, blood, or fluid discharge

, Infections can progress rapidly if not cared for, and most infections can be wiped out quickly if they are properly cleaned early and often. Call your piercing parlor with any questions. When in doubt, always clean your piercing with warm water and soap.
 You can buy this simple antiseptic at most piercing parlors, but it is easy to make at home as well. Mix 1/8 tablespoon of non-iodized sea salt into a cup of water and stir until dissolved. Submerge your piercing in the water, or use a clean cotton swab to press it against your ear for 20 minutes twice a day.
 Use over-the-counter creams like polymyxin B sulfate (Polysporin) or bacitracin to fight off bacteria in your infection. Apply the ointment lightly to the wound with a Q-tip or cotton swab twice a day.


If a skin rash or itching develops, stop using the ointment. The rash may be caused by an allergic reaction.
 An ice pack will lower swelling around your piercing, which can help fight off infection. Never apply ice directly to the skin, as this can cause tissue damage. Put a layer of fabric or a cloth towel between the cold pack and the skin.
 They will have advice for you based on the piercing and symptoms. Oftentimes they will repeat the post-piercing cleaning process, which can help quickly eliminate an infection.


For simple infections, the piercer will likely give you treatment suggestions.
For serious infections, the piercer should send you to a doctor with detailed instructions about the wound, piercing, and potential solutions.
 Your doctor will most likely prescribe something to treat the infection, usually an oral antibiotic. If you see no improvement or your symptoms worsen after treating the infection at home, you should immediately see a doctor. Symptoms to watch out for include:


Muscle or joint pain
Fever
Chills
Nausea or vomiting