 It is recommended that you either keep your phone on silent in your purse or your pocket, or completely turn off your phone. You do not want to interrupt the service with a ringing cellphone.


It is also considered poor taste to be on social media during a funeral, like Instagram, Twitter, Facebook, or Snapchat. It's not the end of the world. Photography, unless authorized, is usually disapproved of during the funeral service.
 It is appropriate, and welcomed, for you to offer your condolences to the family. There are various ways to offer your condolences, but the conventional thing to do is to either send or bring flowers to the funeral, or you can verbally express your sincerest sympathies to the bereaved. The important thing is to act normal.


Before bringing flowers to a funeral, check with the family members or with the funeral director if it is appropriate.
You can offer your sympathies by saying, “I am very sorry for your loss” or “I am here for you and your family if you need anything.” If you are at a loss for words, you can simply offer a hug or bring a sympathy card., It is OK and acceptable to cry at funerals. Crying is a healthy, normal response. However, if you begin to cry uncontrollably, excuse yourself until you can regain your composure.
 While eulogies are a common procedure at funerals, not all funerals have eulogies. For example, in Roman Catholic and Anglican churches, eulogies are discouraged. However, if you are attending a funeral where someone gives a eulogy, listen respectfully to the eulogy. If you are distracted while the eulogy is taking place, others might take offense to this.Generally, laughing at funerals is unacceptable unless it is warranted. An occasion for when laughing is warranted is when the eulogizer recounts a funny memory about the deceased. However, stay on the safe side by following the family’s lead., Some services might have an open casket. If this makes you uncomfortable, you are under no obligation to approach the casket. If you do want to approach the open casket, but think you might become emotional, consider asking someone to walk with you to the casket.