 There are lots of container possibilities but the most important factor is ensuring that the containers will show off the green candies inside. As such, clear glass or plastic containers are an optimal choice, along with containers that lift up the candies and show them to their best advantage.


Try bowls, glasses, sundae glasses, jars (including Mason jars), vases, dishes and platters. Tall stemmed glasses with wide brims can be especially effective, such as those used for cocktails.
Tins and other opaque objects can also be used provided it is obvious to the guest as to what is inside.;
, The best implements are scoops and mini tongs, which will allow guests to collect a few candies at a time without being tempted to use their fingers. Maintaining the hygiene when many people are sharing the buffet is essential!


Provide small plates, bowls, baskets or other containers for guests to scoop their candies into.
 This is definitely the fun part! Once you are set to looking for only green hues of candy, you'll start seeing them everywhere. Some ideas include:


Green jelly beans and green gummy bears and other gel candies
Green wrappers on any kind of candy
Green wrapped chocolates and green chocolate; green Easter eggs if it's around Easter season
Green lollipops, suckers and any other candy on a stick
Green boxes of candies––the candies inside don't necessarily need to be green if the packaging is green, as it will simply look great on the buffet table
Green candy sticks, green rock candy
Green licorice
Green marzipan figures
Green mints
Green toffees, caramels
Green taffy.
 Consider using a green tablecloth for covering. If this is too much though, use white as it's a forgiving background for all-one-color themes. Plan out how you will arrange the containers on the buffet table, along with scoops, tongs and serving plates, etc. Some suggestions include:


Keep the larger items to the back and the smaller ones to the front
Provide green napkins (serviettes) for sticky fingers
Avoid having the tablecloth touch the ground or get in the way of the guests; with many people milling around the table, there is a risk of it all being pulled down
Place anything delicate away from the edge of the buffet table
Encourage guests to help themselves by making it obvious where the plates and scoops are
Consider having an area for sweet food that meets the needs of diabetics, vegans, gluten-intolerant, etc. guests so that they don't feel left out. Leave a small sign denoting the ingredients or stating that they are "gluten-free"/"dairy-free", etc., items.
 Green macaroons, green whoopie pies, green cupcakes, etc., will all help to create the green theme and add to the overall sweetness.
 To complete the green theme, dress the table up with a few inedible green decorations as well. Some suggestions include:


Green ribbons around jars and other containers
Green bows on the tablecloth
Green figurines, such as a little leprechaun or a tree
Green floral arrangement (use lots of leaves and flowers which naturally have green tinges)
Green beads, glass pebbles, rolled up yarn, etc. inside a glass jar with a tight lid screwed or even glued on (you don't want people mistaking these for candies).
