 Help to take your mind off of your craving by putting your attention into something else you enjoy. Your brain will be satisfied that you are doing something stimulating, and focus less on the need to fulfill your craving. How you distract yourself will vary from person to person, so choose something you enjoy.For example, instead of having dessert after dinner, go for a walk. If you have a dog, it's a great time to take it for it's evening walk. You can even make a date with your friend or significant other to go for a walk together.
If you’d rather just relax, you can grab an interesting book and distract yourself from your cravings.
Keeping your hands busy can distract you from your cravings, so try an activity like typing, painting, or crocheting. Any activity that keeps you active can be a great distraction.;
, A trigger is anything that reminds you of your craving. Keep in mind that positive emotions can also be triggers. While the trigger itself doesn’t have to be anything negative, experiencing it will encourage your cravings. If you know your triggers, you can avoid them, thus reducing your cravings. There are many types of triggers ranging from emotions or memories to items or events.Stress
Parties and holidays
Social situations
Childhood memories
Smell, especially of your favorite foods

, Make a plan for how you will avoid the common things that trigger your cravings. Plan ahead every day and stick to your plan. This will create a good habit of actively controlling your cravings before they are a problem.For example, if you know that you are hungry at the end of your work day, plan ahead and pack a healthy snack for the drive home. This will help to prevent you from stopping at a convenience store to buy something that you are craving, such as a candy bar.
If you are tempted by fast food, plan to drive a different route to avoid being triggered by your favorite restaurants.
 Making a grocery list before going to the grocery store will help minimize the amount of junk that you impulsively buy. When you are buying from a list, it is easier to stay focused on the healthy foods that you came for. Keep your goals in mind when making your list and leave your cravings off of the list. If they are hard to get (as in they aren’t lying around your home), you will have an easier time keeping a handle on your cravings.You should also avoid the grocery store when hungry, and use the “candy free lane” if that is an option at your local grocery store.
 Try to combine some of your cravings with a healthy alternative to create a new treat. By allowing yourself a treat, you may be less likely to give into your original, less healthy cravings. Be creative with combinations of healthy habits that minimize help you reduce your cravings for unhealthy things.For example, if you crave potato chips, replace it with something crunchy or salty like carrots or peanuts.
Likewise, if you crave a soda, try replacing it with carbonated water. If that isn’t sweet enough, mix it with 4 oz (118 milliliters) juice.
If you crave sweets, you could dip fresh fruit into melted dark chocolate instead of having a candy bar.
Some people prefer a crunchier, saltier snack. In this case replace chips and dip with pretzels and hummus.

