 If you search the internet for foods that spur creativity, you will find many, many pieces of advice, much of which has no solid foundation in medical science. However, legitimate research indicates that foods and supplements containing L-Tyrosine (TYR) can actually help enhance certain types of creative thought.L-Tyrosine (TYR) is a biochemical precursor to dopamine, which fuels your brain’s creative impulses (among many other things). A European study published in 2014 indicated a correlation between taking TYR supplements and improvements in creative thinking.
 According to the 2014 research study, TYR consumption boosts so-called “convergent” creativity — what you might call “deep thinking.” This involves your ability to develop a single creative solution to a single problem. Convergent creativity requires mental speed, accuracy, and logic, all of which seemed to improve with TYR supplementation.TYR supplementation did not, however, show benefits in “divergent” creativity, better known as “brainstorming” — that is, your ability to rapidly formulate a wide range of solutions or creative concepts of varying quality. So, if you’re having trouble coming up with a topic for your research paper, grabbing a banana or other TYR-rich food may not do the trick alone, although it is likely to have general body and brain benefits.
 It turns out that Steve Jobs may have been on to something with his diet of apples and carrots. These are two of the many foods that are high in convergent creativity-boosting L-Tyrosine. Fruits are typically the best food source for TYR, and good options include bananas, peaches, and oranges, among others.You don’t have to eat only fruit to get your TYR fix, however. Foods such as almonds, fava beans, duck, chicken, ricotta cheese, oatmeal, mustard greens, edamame, dark chocolate, seaweed, and wheat germ also contain the compound., In the 2014 study, participants consumed their L-Tyrosine as a powdered supplement (or received a powdered placebo instead). There is no known advantage to consuming TYR in supplement form, and TYR-rich foods tend to provide a host of additional health benefits. However, supplements may be a way to further boost your intake.TYR supplements usually come in either 500 mg or 1000 mg doses. Be aware that TYR has a stimulant effect, however, so if you have a heart condition, high blood pressure, or are on MAOIs or other medications for cardiovascular issues, always consult your physician first. In fact, it is probably best to consult with your doctor before beginning a TYR supplement regimen regardless of your condition.