 Cut up wafers or bars of white chocolate using a sharp kitchen knife. The pieces should be even in size, measuring about 1/4-inch (6.35-mm) to 1/2-inch (1.27-cm).









You could skip this step if you start out with white chocolate chips instead of larger pieces. Chips are already small enough to melt as they are without additional chopping.
For large bars, chunks, and wafers, you could also break them into pieces using your hands or shred them down to size using a box or hand grater.










Reducing the power on the microwave ensures that the chocolate will not become too hot, too fast. Leaving the microwave set at full power can cause delicate white chocolate to overheat quickly, resulting in a lumpy, grainy mess.
Note that microwaving white chocolate is not the recommended melting option. It is more difficult to monitor the temperature of the chocolate in the microwave than it is with a double-boiler. White chocolate burns at about 110 degrees Fahrenheit (44 degrees Celsius), and it is easy to burn it in the microwave if you do not watch it carefully.










The white chocolate will continue to melt from its own heat upon being stirred.
Do not cover the bowl since this can cause condensation. Condensed water can ruin the chocolate if it drips down into it.
Even if it does not look melted, you should check the temperature of the white chocolate before continuing to microwave it. The chocolate will retain its shape without being stirred, so merely looking at it is not a good indication of how warm it is.
Generally speaking, the white chocolate should be no warmer than the inside of your bottom lip. If you want to gauge how warm the chocolate is, you can test it by touching the chocolate with clean hands and comparing the temperature to the warmth of your bottom lip.
 If the white chocolate still will not melt after stirring it for about a minute or so, you can continue microwaving it in 30-second intervals at 50 percent power.









Stir the white chocolate in between intervals to give it a chance to melt outside of the microwave.
This tends to be necessary for large batches of white chocolate but not for small amounts.
To be on the safe side, you can even microwave the white chocolate in 15-second intervals instead of 30-second intervals.
 White chocolate that seizes and becomes lumpy or grainy might be able to be salvaged with the addition of butter or shortening.









Add about 1 Tbsp (15 ml) of butter or shortening for every 6 oz (170 g) of white chocolate. To be on the safe side, add it in 1 tsp (5 ml) at a time and stir in between each addition.
Warm milk, warm cream, or flavorless vegetable oil can also be used to re-emulsify white chocolate instead of butter or shortening. Make sure that these liquid ingredients are warmed to the approximate temperature of the white chocolate before you stir them in.
Even if you manage to salvage seized white chocolate, your uses for it may be limited. Salvaged white chocolate can often be used as a drizzle or as an ingredient in batters, frostings, and sauces, but it is generally not suitable for uses like candy coatings or elaborate chocolate decorations.

