 Make sure they have a solid knowledge of the foundation skills that make up their art-based course.


With every subject, there is going to be plenty of work to do to make sure they have the transferrable skills for their course.
For example in a classical music course, your student is going to need to have a high motivation level, strong sight-reading capability and the ability to absorb criticism, using it to work on their technique etc, without becoming too offended (particularly in vocal studies).
Making sure that they get the right amount of practice time - with classical ballet dancing and with classical instrument training (also for pop and jazz) 4 - 6 hours daily is recommended (except for voice, when it is recommended young singers stick to around 1 - 2 hours a day, spaced in half an hour slots).;
, This should happen both in person and through listening/watching to others experiences.


An arts-based student should have plenty of their own experience to learn from and to use when working in further projects. For example, knowing how to present themselves in an audition situation, both formal and informal.
Arts-based courses are also largely based on experience - when applying to the colleges, admission boards will want to see what students have to offer, using specific experiences to show contrast and versatility in behaviour.
Experience can be gained by being part of a company or an orchestra (there are plenty of these available in most areas, for free or for charge).
But experience is also gained largely by observing the experiences of others. Namely seeing professional dancers working first hand (open dress rehearsals are fantastic for this) or listening to as much music as possible (so that you have a diverse range to draw from when analysing).
This goes for art directly - being able to draw from paintings of a large portion of history to mark how change has occurred, or in literature how writing has evolved through the separate genres.
 Despite the student having a clear passion for the art-based subject they are applying for, the application provided should be one which appears balanced to the critical reader.


Some art-based courses,if vocational like a music conservatoire, will not focus too largely on the grades or personal statement written - they will look more closely at experience.
However, if an art-based institution is providing an academic course (e.g. academic music) then there will need to be a clear balance between grades, skill and experience - but it's highly recommended that you use this latter option for where ever you are applying as it means you will have less to edit for all of your applications and also means that you don't lose track of what you have sent to whom - it appears more professional in its strength of organisation/structure also.
Encourage your student to succeed in this by working hard. Hard work means secure grades alongside secure skills which never fails to appear neat and successful. This will be the most attractive portfolio option you can provide to the admissions board as a result.
 No matter how gifted the student in their field, the shift from high school to college is a big one and will be one that needs a lot of time to adjust to due to the that difference.


Make sure your student is happy that they are choosing the college right for them. Don't present your question in a condescending manner, just be subtle and informative about the options they will be able to take after completing an arts degree, as the options are often much more limited than with a further academic degree.
Perhaps refer your student, or suggest they see, to the school careers team, who will be able to provide the student with a more detailed outlook on the entire situation - whether it be providing them with a prospectus about the university or a contact number so they can find out more directly.
Make sure that you are not selfish in your opinions - be patient and kind. This decision will be one which your student is thinking a lot about and is entirely about them. As their teacher/parent, it is your place to support, encourage and help. Of course inform them of any worries, but do not tell them to do anything specifically based on this if it is about only your judgement and not theirs.
The aim is for you to be unbiased when aiding your student in this application and preparation process.
 After the application has been put through, the hard work sustained and the outcomes weighed, it will be largely about waiting to hear back from the university/college.


Be there for your student/child at this time by being quietly supportive. Enquire when possible and offer any further help that you believe would be useful to helping them achieve their success (e.g. further classes)
If you stay calm, it will be easier for them to stay calm so do not be afraid to set this example.
On an ending note - do not be too disheartened for your student if answers do not come back immediately. Remind your student of this also - there are hundreds of applicants to every course, so it is important to keep the focus on work and experience, allowing universities to take their time with the reply. The more distracted the student from the length of time, the less they will think about it and hence their stress levels should hopefully be kept down.
Hopefully, you should hear back fairly soon and the news will be positive! But until then, as stated, make sure the applicant continues to work hard at their studies.

