 There are many courses available at universities, community colleges, and online that examine the war either directly or as part of a larger curriculum about modern U.S. history, the Cold War, or military history.The war can be understood as part of a program in political science, history, international relations, or a related discipline.


Contact your local colleges and universities and express interest in learning more about the Vietnam War.
Alternately, search online for online courses that you could enroll in.;
, Historical fiction is a valuable tool you can use to better understand an event or historical period.Even though real people may or may not be involved in historical fiction about the Vietnam War, these tales can often explore what it felt like to fight in or endure the war in ways that nonfiction cannot. In the case of the Vietnam war, there are numerous novels, plays, and films about the conflict.


Some of the most popular films about the war include Born on the Fourth of July, Casualties of War, and Full Metal Jacket.
Some of the most popular novels about the war include The Short-Timers and Matterhorn.
 There is a world of nonfiction about the Vietnam War. Some of these books are memoirs, others are biographies of significant people, and others are more wide-ranging histories about the roots, development, and aftermath of the war.


Useful biographies could include those of the primary architects or participants of the war, including Ho Chi Minh, Lyndon B. Johnson, Robert McNamara, and Richard Nixon.
Some of the best histories on the Vietnam War include America’s Longest War: The United States and Vietnam 1950-1975 by George Herring, Vietnam: A History by Stanley Karnow, and We Were Soldiers Once….And Young: Ia Drang—the Battle That Changed the War in Vietnam by Harold G. Moore and Joseph L. Galloway.There are also countless biographies and memoirs that entirely or partially recount personal experiences of the war. These include memoirs by Tobias Wolff (In Pharaoh’s Army), William Westmoreland (A Soldier Reports), and Philip Caputo (A Rumor of War)., Documentaries are a great way to learn, and there are many documentaries about the Vietnam War. For instance, check out Last Days in Vietnam, a 2014 film that examines the close of the Vietnam War. Another film worth watching is The Fog of War. Directed by Errol Morris, the film examines the life and decision-making of Robert McNamara, who is considered one of the main architects of the war.