 You've heard it before, but breakfast really is the most important meal of the day. Eating a healthy, balanced breakfast kick-starts your metabolism after a long night of not eating and gets your body ready for the day.Eating breakfast will give you more energy so you will be more active throughout the day, thus increasing your appetite further.


Some good options for healthy, balanced breakfasts include wholegrain cereals, yogurt, granola and fresh fruit, and healthy fruit smoothies.
If you're trying to increase your calorie intake, try spreading some peanut butter on a slice of wholegrain bread or toast. It's tasty and full of healthy fats.;
, Eating small, frequent meals rather than the usual three a day is a great way to build towards a healthy appetite. People with small appetites can often be turned off by the large portion sizes at regular mealtimes. Small meals, on the other hand, can be less daunting and less filling than large meals, while eating them frequently still allows you to consume the same amount of food overall.


Eating smaller meals can also help you to feel less bloated and sluggish after eating, which is the reason many people with small appetites don't enjoy large meals. Try eating 4 to 6 small meals a day to avoid feeling overly full.
Don't be afraid to break with convention and eat whenever most appeals to you. If you prefer to eat your biggest meal in the morning rather than in the evening, go for it. If you prefer to break dinner time up into two smaller meals, that's fine too.
 Eating healthy snacks can help when you have trouble eating much food at mealtimes. The small quantities can be less daunting, while frequent snacking can help get you into the correct mindset when it comes to eating. Try putting small bowls of your favorite snacks in frequently used areas around the house, like the kitchen counter or living room coffee table, to encourage snacking throughout the day.Choose foods which are high in healthy sugars and fats, such as bananas, avocados and nuts, tasty spreads and dips such as hummus or cream cheese, or salty treats such as popcorn and pretzels.
Just remember that snacks are not meant to be eaten instead of meals, but in addition to them. So avoid snacking too close to meals times, otherwise you might ruin your appetite.
 Eating more is easier when you eat foods that you actually enjoy. Put some time and preparation into buying and planning out meals and snacks that you like, that way you should never end up not eating just because there's nothing in the house that appeals to you.If you are currently under your ideal weight, you shouldn't worry too much about sticking to a purely healthy diet. If you love chocolate cake or pizza, indulge yourself a little and allow yourself to eat your favorite sweet or savory treats. However too much fatty food can cause you to feel bloated or unwell, so eat in moderation.
You can also try eating your favorite comfort foods or foods you associate with your home or childhood - think hearty beef stews or chicken pot pies. You may find foods that you associate with good memories easier to eat.
 Foods that have particularly strong smells can be overpowering and may turn you off eating a dish completely, especially if you weren't particularly hungry to begin with. Avoid foods like tuna or stinky cheese (unless you happen to love them) or anything which has a smell that doesn't appeal to you.


Remember that hot food usually has more of an aroma than cold food, so try eating more sandwiches, salads or cold cuts of meat if smells are not your thing.
 On the other hand, foods that have a very pleasant or fragrant smell can be very appealing and might be just the thing to get your tummy rumbling. Try adding herbs or spices to your favorite foods to create wonderful aromas and add interest to food. You'll no longer be put off by bland and boring foods.


Cinnamon is one spice that is often said to naturally stimulate your appetite. Add it to baked goods, sprinkle a bit on buttered toast or add a little to a hot cup of cocoa to appreciate its warm and spicy aroma and flavor.Herbs such as basil, oregano, thyme, rosemary and fennel can all add interest and flavor to a huge variety of dishes. Experiment by using these herbs in different dishes until you find a combination that you like.
 Fiber, a nutrient found in fruits, vegetables and whole grain foods, is an essential component of any healthy diet. However, fiber-rich foods can be extremely filling, so it may be best to eat such foods only in moderation when trying to increase your appetite.


It takes longer for your body to process fiber-rich foods than other types of food, which is why it's great for people who are trying to eat less while still having plenty of energy throughout the day.
But if you're trying to increase your appetite, cutting back on high fiber foods such as brown rice or pasta and wholewheat cereals can help you to feel more hungry. This should only be used as a short-term solution, however, as fiber is essential for healthy and normal body function. Talk to your doctor before you try to decrease the amount of fiber you eat.

