 The causal link between people's’ happiness and their workplace performance is well established. They’ll not only appreciate the gesture, they’ll likely answer with realistic, productivity-enhancing ideas.In particular, make of point of occasionally asking the people that work for you something like, “Is there anything you think we could change around here that would make your job more enjoyable?”

, If an employee ever has a valid complaint or request about the tangible environment in which they ask, do your best to address it immediately. For instance, if someone feels that it’s too chilly or not well enough lit in your office, make the necessary changes.Adjustments like these can go a long way to not only make your employee happier and more productive, but also feel like they are being listened to.
 Stated more professionally, reward employees with things that cater to their self-esteem. In the most basic terms, people enjoy feeling respected and appreciated, and people work harder when they feel like they’re efforts are recognized. You probably also respect and appreciate your hardest working employees the most. Make sure they know it.The specific type of recognition that particular employees will most appreciate will vary widely.
For instance, some will like to be publicly praised, while it might mean more to another if you privately pulled them aside and said something like, “Alysha, I know you’ve been kicking butt lately. I want to let you know I really appreciate it, and your impact around here is extremely valuable.”

, Another adjustment you may be able to make to improve productivity generally is loosening schedule requirements. People who have the freedom to determine when they work may wind up working just as much, as well as more productively.The important thing is ensuring that your employees meet their responsibilities. If they’re able to do so more effectively on a slightly altered schedule, everyone wins.
For example, don’t insist everyone is in the office everyday from 8-5. Someone may have a doctor’s office mid afternoon, and then work from home later in the evening.
Trusting your employees with the freedom to manage themselves can often make them more productive, and it can also improve your relationship with them.

