 To ensure that the oven is warm enough to bake the shortbread, set the temperature to 300 degrees Fahrenheit (150 degrees Celsius) and allow it to fully heat. Next, line a cookie sheet with parchment paper to keep the shortbread from sticking after baking.Make sure that your oven rack is in the center position.
You can use a silicone baking mat in place of the parchment paper if you prefer.;
, Add 1 cup (125 g) plus 2 tablespoons (29.6 ml) (18 g) of flour, ½ cup (113 g) of unsalted butter that’s been chilled and diced, ¼ cup (50 g) of sugar, and ¼ teaspoon (1 g) of salt to the bowl of a food processor. Mix the ingredients together for 20 seconds.If you don’t have a food processor, you can use a blender to mix up the shortbread dough.
 Once the other ingredients are fully mixed, add ¼ cup (40 g) of dried cherries to the food processor. Process the mixture for another 20 seconds, or until the cherries are completely chopped.If you like, you can also mix in ¼ cup (30 g) of your favorite nuts, such as walnuts or pecans.
 After the dough is completely mixed together, remove it from the food processor and transfer it to a floured surface. Gather the dough into a compact ball, and then use a rolling pin to roll it out into a 7-by-9-inch (18-by-23-cm) rectangle that’s approximately ¼-inch (6-mm) thick.If you don’t have a rolling pin, you can use a wine bottle, full water bottle, or thermos to roll out the dough.
 After you’ve rolled out the dough, use a sharp knife to slice it into 12 even squares. Next, use a fork to prick each square 3 times., Once the shortbread is cut into squares, carefully transfer them to the lined cookie sheet, placing them so they’re at least 1-inch (2.5-cm) apart. Cover the cookie sheet with plastic wrap, and chill them for at least 20 minutes.You can make the shortbread dough the day before and chill the cookies overnight. However, you should let them sit out at room temperature for about 20 minutes before baking. Be sure not to preheat the oven until you’re ready to bake them too.
 After the cookies have been chilled, place the cookies sheet in the preheated oven. Let the shortbread bake for 30 to 35 minutes, or until the cookies are a light golden brown.You don’t want the shortbread to get too brown, so keep a close eye on the cookies near the end of the baking time.
 When the cherry shortbread cookies are finished baking, remove the cookie sheet from the oven. Let the cookies cool for 10 minutes on the sheet, and then transfer them to a wire cooling rack to finish cooling for another 20 minutes.Store the cherry shortbread in an airtight container. The cookies should stay fresh for 5 to 7 days.

