 You should call emergency services if you think the child faces an immediate threat to his or her safety. For example, if you see a child being beaten, then you should report the situation to the police.


In the United States, you can call 911.In Canada, you should call 911.
In the U.K., you can call 112 or 999.
In Australia, you should call 000, or 112 on a cell phone.;
, If the child is not in immediate danger, then you can report suspected abuse or neglect to your local Child Protective Services (CPS). Look in your phone book for the number. You can also find the number by searching online for “CPS” and your city or county.


In the United States, the Child Welfare Information Gateway maintains a list of state contact numbers.In the United States, you can also call the Childhelp hotline at 800-422-4453 for assistance.
 Once you have the phone number, you should call CPS and say that you want to report suspected child abuse or neglect. You will be asked a series of questions.


You may be able to report anonymously. Nevertheless, you should consider giving your name. If you give your name, then CPS can contact you later with questions. Also, if the case goes to trial, then you could testify in court., CPS will ask you a series of questions to help them identify the child that is in danger and to investigate the suspected abuse or neglect. Although each CPS will ask different questions, you generally will be asked the following:What is your relationship to the child?
What is the child’s name and address?
How old is the child?
Who is the suspected abuser and what is his or her relationship to the child?
What is the suspected abuser’s address?
What is the contact information for the child’s parents?
Where is the child currently located?
How much danger do you think the child is currently in?
Does the child have siblings?
Did anyone witness the suspected abuse or neglect? If so, what are their names and contact information?

, Some people hesitate to report suspected child abuse because they don’t want to get involved or because they fear they might be wrong.However, you are legally protected so long as you had a reason for suspecting the abuse.


You can protect yourself by documenting the suspected abuse or neglect. Write down your impressions of the child or your observations of the child’s interaction with the suspected abuser.
 Most states in the U.S. require that certain professionals report suspected child abuse or neglect to CPS. Many other nations, in addition to the U.S., also require that certain professionals report. The most common mandated reporters are doctors, social workers, and teachers.


You should have been told in your employment manual whether you were a mandated reporter. If you are unsure, then contact CPS anyway.
In 18 states, every person is considered a “mandated reporter.”If you fail to report as a mandated reporter, then you could face fines or jail. For example, failure to report is a Class B misdemeanor in Kansas. You could be punished with a $1,000 fine or six months in jail., A child day care should have a written protocol for reporting suspected abuse or neglect.

This protocol should cover what steps you should take. It should apply to suspected abuse committed by a parent or guardian as well as abuse committed by employees in your day care.

Don’t think that because you told the day care director about the abuse that you are relieved from reporting to government agencies. The day care owner might be afraid of a lawsuit and, therefore, has an incentive not to report the abuse. As a mandated reporter, you must report suspected abuse and neglect.
When you tell the director about the abuse, be sure to say, “And I’ll be making a mandated report today.” That way the director is on notice that you are reporting the abuse. Report to CPS and your state’s day care licensing agency.
 As a mandated reporter, you should first call CPS and report suspected abuse or neglect. However, your state will probably require that you submit a written report within a certain amount of time, usually 48 hours.Your state should also have a form you need to fill out in order to make a report. You should ask CPS for the form if you don’t already have one.
 Print neatly or use a typewriter. You can download some forms and type the information into the form on your computer. Each state’s form will differ, but you generally will be asked for the following information:The child’s name, current location, and sex, age or date of birth, and primary language.
The child’s emergency contact information.
Information about other children in the home or family, including their name, age, and gender (if known).
Information on parents or caregivers, including their names and address, phone number, date of birth, and language spoken.
Your name as the reporter, including your contact information (address and phone number).
Your relationship to the child.
The nature of the injury, abuse, neglect, or maltreatment. If you are getting this information second-hand, then identify the source.
Any related concerns with the child’s family, such as substance abuse, domestic violence, or mental health issues.
What actions you have taken to shelter or protect the child.
Whether you have concerns over social worker safety.
 You should be provided with the address or fax number for where you need to send the completed form. Make a copy for your records and submit the form as soon as possible.
 Generally, states do not require that mandated reporters inform parents that they have made a report of suspected abuse or neglect. Instead, CPS will contact the parents. However, your state might make certain exceptions:For example, if the child was abused or neglected in a school or day care facility, then the head of the facility must inform the parents.
Parents might also benefit from being contacted by mental health professionals or members of the clergy, who can offer support.
Medical professionals also might need to contact parents to figure out the extent of the child’s injuries.
 After receiving a complaint, CPS will open an investigation promptly. The agency will try to confirm the complaint. If they find that the incident did occur, then CPS will decide what services to offer the family or whether to remove the child. The investigation must be completed within a certain amount of time, often 30 days.

Depending on your state, you may be kept updated as to the status of the investigation.
 Each state has an agency that licenses day care providers. Anyone—a parent, guardian, employee, or even a concerned citizen—can make a complaint to the agency if they think the day care is not meeting its requirements. The following are complaints you should make:

The staff is responsible for too many children and therefore are neglecting some children.
Children are left in rooms without an adult present.
Children are not fed nutritious meals.
Children are being abused or neglected.
 You can find your agency by searching online for “your state” and “day care licensing.” You might also look in your phone book under government services.


The number might be the same number as the number for CPS.State agencies often share information, so you might be able to make only one report but have the information shared between CPS and the agency that oversees day care licensing.
 In some states, you can make reports anonymously. However, you should think about giving your name so that the agency can contact you in the future for follow-up information. You should be prepared to give the following information when you call to complain:The name of the day care program.
The program’s location.
The identification of any particular individuals involved in the incident.
The date and time of the incident.
Any details about the incident.
 After receiving your complaint, the state licensing agency will visit the day care. CPS will also probably send a representative to investigate. If the agencies can confirm the incident, then they will take appropriate action, including monitoring the day care so that future incidents don’t occur. If they can’t confirm that the incident took place, then the complaint will be considered “unsubstantiated.”In some states, such as California, you will be notified of the results of the investigation., Your children are not always cared for at a daycare center or school. They are often left at home with another parent, especially early in their life. Therefore, child abuse can also happen at the hands of the child's parent. If you come home and recognize signs of recent and ongoing abuse, call 911 immediately. Do not wait and allow the other parent to continue the abuse unopposed.


When the police arrive, tell them what you saw and what you would like done. In some circumstances, the parent can be arrested, fined, and/or taken to jail.
 If child abuse has been ongoing in your household, you need to have a safety plan in place to avoid the abuse. A safety plan can help keep you and your children safe from domestic violence. Your safety plan can be as simple or complex as you desire. The main objective is to make it easily understandable and actionable for your children.


Before and during attacks, try to escape. Defend yourself and take pictures of the injuries after your safety has been secured. Practice your escape with your children. Always have a bag packed and hide it in a location where you can get to it easily.
When you are getting ready to leave an abusive parent, open a bank account in your own name. Leave a bag of important belongings with someone you trust. This bag should contain your child's medicine, identification, money, keys, and other important papers.
If you live on your own, change the locks on your doors so the other parent cannot get in. Teach your children how to be safe and how to call for help if they need it., If you have to leave your home due to an abusive parent, know where to seek protection and shelter. Almost every area in the US has at least one domestic violence or children's shelter available for abuse victims. If the problem is ongoing, do some research ahead of time and know where you can take your child. If the problem is just arising, get out of the house and get to a safe place. As soon as you are in a safe place with your child, research shelters and call.


A lot of domestic abuse shelters are tailored towards abused women and children. If you are an abused woman or child, you will be able to access these shelters in emergencies. Some shelters cater specifically toward women, and others cater specifically toward children.Find a shelter that suits your needs and makes you feel comfortable.
If you are an abused male parent with an abused child, there are male shelters out there you can take you and your child to., If the child abuse is ongoing, you should get a restraining order. Once a restraining order is obtained, the parent will not be able to get near you and your child without breaking the law. To obtain a domestic violence restraining order, fill out the required court forms and file them with your local court. If you need help, ask your local shelter or CPS office for assistance. Once the forms have been served on the other parent, you will have to attend a court hearing and prove the abuse. If the court believes you, it will issue the restraining order.If the parent disobeys the restraining order, call the police and have them arrested. You will have to show the police your court order and evidence of the violation., Physical abuse can be easy to spot. It often leaves marks on the child’s body. However, sometimes physical abuse manifests itself in behavioral changes. Look for the following signs of child physical abuse:the child has unexplained burns, bruises, bites, black eyes, or broken bones
the child has fading bruises after an absence from school
the child withdraws when adults approach
the child seems afraid of caregivers and cries or resists going home
the child tells you that he or she has been injured by an adult
the child abuses animals or pets
the caregiver gives conflicting or unconvincing reasons for the child’s injury
the caregiver describes the child as “evil” or another derogatory term
the caregiver abuses animals or pets

, Children are neglected when caregivers ignore their needs for extend periods of time. Neglect can manifest itself in physical or behavioral changes. Look for the following:the child frequently misses school
the child begs or steals food or money
the child does not get needed medical or dental care
the child is consistently dirty and does not bathe
the child doesn’t have sufficient clothing for the weather
the child tells you no one is at home
the parent abuses drugs or alcohol
the caregiver appears indifferent to the child
the caregiver suffers from depression or acts irrationally

, Sexual abuse can be hard to identify. However, there are some common physical and behavior signs which you should note:the child has difficulty sitting or walking
the child suddenly refuses to participate in physical activities or change clothes for gym class
the child has nightmares or wets the bed
the child has knowledge of sex that is unusual or sophisticated for his or her age
the child gets a sexually transmitted disease or is pregnant, especially before age 14
the child runs away from home
the child reports sexual abuse by a caregiver
the child attaches quickly to strangers or other adults
the caregiver severely limits the child’s contact with children, in particular those of the opposite sex
the caregiver is secretive and isolated
the caregiver is jealous or controlling with other family members

, Emotional abuse is just as serious as physical abuse, and you should pay attention to common signs that the child is being abused. Look for the following:

the child has delayed physical or emotional development
the child shows extreme behavior, such as being overly aggressive or overly passive
the child has told you they don’t feel attached to their caregivers
the child has attempted suicide
the caregiver belittles, berates, or blames the child constantly
the caregiver rejects the child
the caregiver is unconcerned about the child and rejects any offer of help

