 If an automatic stay is not imposed in your bankruptcy case, creditors will be free to pursue your debts throughout the entire bankruptcy process. This can lead to increased stress and confusion while you are working with the court. To avoid this, hire a qualified lawyer who can help you through the bankruptcy process. Any lawyer you hire should know how to manage clients that have filed multiple bankruptcy cases in a short period of time.


If you do not know of any lawyers in your area, contact your state bar's lawyer referral service. After answering some general questions about your legal troubles, you will be put in contact with various lawyers in your area.;
, All bankruptcy cases are handled in federal court.This means the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure, as well as local court rules, will apply. These rules will help you determine the who, what, when, where, and why of filing a motion to impose an automatic stay. For example, the applicable rules will tell you how to format your motion and when it must be filed.


If you have a lawyer, they will know the procedural rules and you will not need to look them up.
To find a copy of the applicable rules, visit the courthouse where you filed your bankruptcy case. Ask the help desk if they have copies of these rules. If they do not, ask where you might be able to find them.
In most cases, if the applicable rules are not at the courthouse, you will be able to access them at your local law library. When you visit your local law library, talk to a librarian about your needs. Law librarians are incredibly knowledgeable and can help you find exactly what you need.
 When you draft your motion to impose an automatic stay, you need to be able to explain why you are asking for one. Because you have filed multiple bankruptcies that have been dismissed in the past year, your reasoning will have to be very persuasive if you want the court to rule in your favor. Generally, you will have to show that your current bankruptcy filing is made in good faith and you must describe the circumstances that led to your other cases being dismissed.In order to be successful with your motion, you must overcome a presumption of bad faith. The following factors, if present in your case, will help you overcome that presumption:Your prior cases were not dismissed because you failed to file important documents on time (i.e., motions, financial disclosures, repayment plans)
Your prior cases were not dismissed while a creditor was requesting relief from an automatic stay
Your financial situation has changed since your last case was dismissed (i.e., you lost a job, you got a divorce, you have taken on more debt)

, Your motion will be accompanied by various documents that help make a persuasive case to the judge. For example, you will file declarations, affidavits, and memorandums that will supplement the motion to impose an automatic stay. These documents will need to include facts that help back up your reasoning for asking for the stay. Some common supporting documents you will want to gather include:


Letters, voicemail, and other correspondence from creditors. These documents will help show the court that creditors are continuing their collection activities despite the bankruptcy case being filed.
A memorandum of law, which lays out all of the legal precedent regarding when motions to impose automatic stays are normally granted. The memorandum will compare and contrast the facts of your case to the facts of past cases. This process will help the court make a decision that is consistent with the laws in your jurisdiction. If a memorandum of law needs to be drafted, your lawyer will do this for you.
 Before you think about drafting and filing a motion to impose an automatic stay, talk with opposing counsel (i.e., lawyers representing creditors). In some, if not all, federal jurisdictions, this is required. Most federal courts will have a deadline when the motion must be filed by. For example, in the Bankruptcy Court for the District of Oregon, motions to impose an automatic stay must be filed within 30 days of your petition being filed.In cases where there is a deadline to file your motion, you must talk with opposing counsel at least five days before filing your motion.When you talk with opposing counsel , try to come up with a solution so you do not have to file the motion.


For example, maybe you can agree to a stay that is limited in time, which means that after the stay period is up, the creditor will be allowed to continue their collection procedures
You might agree to allow some creditors the right to continue collecting while others will be subject to the stay
You might also ask if opposing counsel will simply agree to the automatic stay (i.e., not oppose it in court).
 The federal court you filed your petition with might have motion forms available for your use. Forms are useful when you are representing yourself. If you have a lawyer, they will usually use their own forms or create a motion on their own. To find court forms, visit the courthouse, or their website, and search for motion forms.


For example, the United States Bankruptcy Court for the Southern District of Indiana has a form you can use that is specifically meant for motions to impose an automatic stay., If you are creating your own motion (i.e., you cannot find a form to use), the cover page will contain a caption, which describes the document you are filing. The caption needs to contain the name of the court, the name of the parties, and your case number. The specific format you will use can be found in the court rules., Every document you file with the court needs to have a title. The title tells the judge what they are about to read. In this case, your motion should be titled something like, "Motion to Impose the Automatic Stay.", The first substantive sentence of your motion should identify you and clearly state the relief you are seeking. Keep it short so the judge can easily identify what you are asking for. For example, the sentence might read, "I, Sally Sue, the Plaintiff in this action, respectfully request that this court impose an automatic stay."The subsequent sentences, and possibly paragraphs, need to cover at least the following:The case numbers, dates of filing, dates of dismissal, and the reasons why your preceding cases were dismissed
Specific reasons why you have filed the current case in good faith (e.g., circumstances have changed, you have retained the help of a competent lawyer)
The presumption of bad that you will have to overcome and the reasons why you think you should overcome it

, Your motion must provide information about the hearing date, which is important to include so opposing parties can defend against the motion. In most cases, you will not know when the hearing date is until you file your motion. You should therefore draft this section with a series of blanks that you can fill in later. You need to leave space so you can write in the hearing time, date, judge, and courtroom., In addition to your motion, the court will also require you to submit supporting documentation, which the judge will use to help them make a decision. The stronger your attachments are, the better your chance is of getting a ruling in your favor. While each court will have different requirements, you will generally supplement your motion with the following documents:A memorandum of law, which includes legal citations and arguments that support your motion to impose the automatic stay.
A declaration/affidavit, which is a sworn statement you make that includes the facts of your case that support your motion.
A proposed order, which the judge will sign if they grant your motion. Do not sign this attachment, but make sure you leave space for the judge to do so.
 Each of your documents, except for the proposed order, needs to be signed by you before you file. If you have a lawyer, they will sign these documents.
 Call the courthouse where you filed your bankruptcy petition and ask about filing procedures. Some courts want you to file motions in person, while others might allow you to file it online. Additionally, some courts want you to serve opposing parties before you file your motion. Other courts ask that you file before serving. Make sure you follow your court's rules to ensure the best possible outcome for your motion.
 In most cases, your motion should be filed in person with the court. Your motion will be considered filed when you bring the originals, as well as copies, to the clerk of court and the clerk accepts them.When the clerk accepts your motion, they will stamp the originals and the copies as "filed". The original motion will stay with the court and the copies will be returned to you. You will keep one copy for your records and you will deliver the other copies to opposing counsel., At the same time you file your motion, you will also ask the clerk to schedule a hearing date. The date of your hearing must be a certain number of days after you file your motion and serve opposing counsel. For example, in the Central District of California, your hearing date must be at least 31 days after the date when you file your motion and serve opposing counsel.Once a hearing date has been set, make sure you put this information in your motion.
 When you ask the court to impose an automatic stay in your bankruptcy case, all the creditors that could be subject to the stay need to be informed. In addition, you must notify the United States Trustee.The number of people you need to notify will depend on the size and complexity of your bankruptcy case. In large cases, you could end up serving tens, or even hundred, of creditors.


To serve an interested party, hire someone over the age of 18 who is unrelated to the case to deliver copies of your motion and supporting documents to each creditor and the United States Trustee. If your server cannot serve a party personally (i.e., by hand delivery), the server may be able to mail or leave copies at the creditor's normal place of business., Your server will fill out a certificate of service each time they serve an interested party. The certificate will indicate when each party was served and the manner in which service was completed. The server will sign and give you these certificates as they complete them.You need to file these certificates with the court as soon as you can.
 Each interested party will have an opportunity to respond to your motion. If an interested party does respond, it will usually be for the purpose of asking the judge to deny your motion. Each response will have to lay out the reasons why they think the motion should be denied. These motions in opposition must be filed with the court at least 21 days before the hearing. If the court thinks a creditor is using this process to stall the proceedings, the court can reprimand that party.


If one or more creditors do file a motion in opposition, you will have an opportunity to file a reply, which should rebut any arguments the creditors make in their opposition. Any reply must be filed with the court at least 14 days before the hearing., After the court receives your motion, any motions in opposition, and your reply, the judge will look over the documents. If the judge can make a decision based on the written documents alone, they will cancel your hearing altogether.If your hearing isn't cancelled, make sure you show up early. Give yourself enough time to park, get through security, and find your courtroom. Once you find the correct courtroom, enter and sit quietly while you are waiting for your case to be called.
 When your case is called, step to the front of the courtroom and introduce yourself. If you have a lawyer, they will do the talking. The judge will start the hearing by asking you )or your lawyer) questions about your motion. These questions will be about why you are asking for the imposition of an automatic stay, what law is on your side, and why you have rebutted the presumption of bad faith.


Explain your position clearly and succinctly. For example, if the judge asks you what legal precedent exists for granting your motion, respond with a legal citation and the legal standard laid out within that particular authority. Do not add anything extra and do not stretch the truth.
Make sure you bring every document you have related to the motion. In some cases, the judge may ask to see something and you will need to make sure you can provide it to them.
 If any opposing party is at the hearing, the judge will ask them to respond to your arguments. Listen carefully to what they say and think about how you will respond. Opposing party arguments at the hearing will be similar to what they put in their opposition motion. Therefore, you should be well prepared to respond. When the judge allows, respond to opposing arguments succinctly and clearly. Make it easy for the judge to understand your arguments and take your side.


For example, assume a creditor argues that the debt you owe them is classified as alimony, which cannot be discharged during bankruptcy.In response, you might tell the court that there are no court orders requiring you to pay alimony and that, therefore, the payments should not be classified as such.
 When the hearing is done, the judge will consider what they heard and make a decision. This will usually be done in open court before you leave. If the judge grants your motion, an automatic stay will be imposed. You will give the judge your proposed order for them to sign. Once the order is signed, it will be official. Take the signed order and file it with the clerk.


If your motion is denied, to automatic stay will be imposed and creditors will be able to continue the collection attempts.

