 If you have a wealthy, elderly relative, you may receive money when the time comes to read his or her will. Of course, if your relative regards you fondly, s/he is more likely to write you into the will, so try to stay on your elderly relatives' good sides. Hopefully, this goes without saying, as treating the elderly with love and respect solely in an attempt to get their money is obviously incredibly cruel and cynical.
 Lottery tickets generally cost just a few dollars and are available at most grocery and convenience stores, so this is one of the cheapest, least work-intensive ways of making money. However, you're much more likely to lose money by playing the lottery than to win a big prize.


Always expect to lose the money you spend on lottery tickets. While it's true that it's impossible to win the lottery without playing, you should never count on it as a means of supporting yourself. To put things in perspective, your odds of winning a Powerball jackpot in the United States are about 1 in 200 million.Many people use this method of earning money by setting aside a few dollars every week or month. For example, instead of buying coffee everyday for a week, buy it six days a week or brew coffee at home. This way, the extra money can go to lottery tickets and even if you do not "win it big" your life is still perfectly normal.
 Much like the lottery, a contest or sweepstakes can completely change your life over night. Your chances for winning are not very high, but it does happen. The more contests you enter, the more likely you are to win money and other valuable prizes.The advantage of contests over the lottery is that it is often free to sign up. Try searching online and on social media for free contests and sweepstakes that you can enter. You can also learn about contests by paying attention to advertisements for them on products while you're out shopping. Many of them don't even require a purchase for entry.If you're serious about entering as many sweepstakes as possible, try searching online for a sweepstakes newsletter, like SweepingAmerica.com or SweepSheet.com. This might help you keep on top of the newest contests out there, so you don't have to spend hours of your time searching.
There are lots of sweepstakes scams out there, so proceed with caution. You should never be required to pay a fee or give a credit card number to collect winnings from a legitimate contest.You should also be very cautious about how much personal information you provide when signing up for sweepstakes.

