 Just as with other methods, you will need to unfold the hanger and straighten it, except for the end. Use a pair of pliers to form a short hook at the end of the hanger. Leave only a half inch or so as the lip of the hook, while leaving the rest of the hanger straight.You may need to bend the hook a few times in order to get it right.
Make sure the rest of the hanger is a fairly straight line.
 There should be a length of black rubber weather stripping running along the lower edge of your car window. Peel this strip back from the window a bit using your finger, then gently insert the curved end of the coat hanger into the gap between the window and the rubber. You should be able to lower the coat hanger into this gap a few inches without encountering much resistance.You may have to replace the weather stripping if you damage it during this process.
It may be easier to insert the hanger with the hook facing the front or rear of the vehicle.
 With the hanger and hook inserted in the door, rotate it until you believe the hook is facing the inside of the car so it can catch the lock bar inside the door. It may be difficult to determine which way the hook is facing inside the door; you can mark one side of the hanger with a marker to make it easier to keep your bearings.The hook will need to face inward in order to grip the lock bar.
You may need to try a number of times in order to get this method right.
 As you move the hanger back and forth, it will come into contact with a bar or pin that controls the lock post and door lock. Try to pull up on the pin or bar to disengage the door lock. It will usually be located about 2 inches (5 cm) below the bottom of the window, near the interior door handle. Different vehicles may have different interior door designs, so this method may not work on all vehicles.
Do not use excessive force when pulling up on the pin or bar. Because you can’t see inside the door, you may be snagged on the wrong thing.
In some vehicles you will need to pull the pin or bar back toward the rear of the car instead of up.
 If you see the lock move slightly when your hook catches a bar or pin inside the door, try to pull up or backward on the bar you’ve come into contact with to disengage the lock. If you catch the bar properly, it should not take too much force to move the lock.Pulling up and toward the rear of the car can help ensure you have leverage on the bar or pin as well as improving the odds that you get it right for your specific vehicle.
 This method is extremely difficult, as you can’t actually see what is going on inside the door and vehicles each have slightly different designs. You will need to continue to try until you are able to catch the bar in just the right manner and pull it with enough force to unlock the door.Be careful not to damage the weather strip on the door.
You may need to re-bend the hook if you pull too hard on the wrong part inside the door.

