 If you're serving frozen and thawed mice, it's important to heat them enough so that they seem as though they're still alive or were just recently killed. This is especially important for boas and pythons, which have receptors in their faces that can sense heat coming from their prey, triggering a feeding response.Try holding the prey against a warm light bulb for a few moments before offering it.
Don't heat mice in the microwave unless you have one reserved for that specific purpose. If you use a microwave, use very low power setting.
 Puncturing the prey's brain releases a scent that can help it seem more attractive to a snake. This technique can be used on either live or dead mice, though it's not easy to do if you're squeamish. If you wish to try this method, use the following steps:Insert a sharp knife or scalpel into the mouse's frontal lobe, at the top of the head.
Insert a toothpick into the would and draw out brain matter.
Smear the brain matter on the mouse's nose.
 It sounds strange, but you can make a dead mouse more appetizing to a snake if you rub it with the body of a lizard. Purchase a dead anole, swift, or fence lizard from the pet store and apply its scent to the body of the mouse. While this method isn't really feasible to use every time you need to feed the snake, it's a good way to get the snake used to eating the food you're offering.


This is a particularly good method to use when you're introducing a snake used to eating live mice to frozen food. It can take a few tries to get the snake used to eating food that has already been killed.Other methods of helping a picky eater include changing feeder size or color. Also try changing types of feeder (ie. if you tried a rat, try something else like a mouse, gerbil, etc.). Try turning off the lights. Some snakes, like ball pythons, are nocturnal are more active during the evening or at night. You can also try dipping the feeder in chicken broth. Try rubbing the scent of another animal on your feeder (ie. used bedding from gerbils/hamsters/etc.).

