 You need to get into the inside of lemon trees while they flower to reach the pollen. Therefore, a paint brush with a fine tip is best to use. You can buy one online or at a craft store.Longer, skinnier paint brushes tend to work best.;
, If you don't already know the anatomy of flowers, you need to learn this prior to pollinating your lemon trees. The stamen, anthers, and pistil all play a roll in the pollination process, so make sure you know where to find these parts of the plant.The stamen is found deep within the flower. It's a tiny, bulb-shaped piece of the plant found within the center of the flowers.
The anthers are tiny buds found at the end of the thin stems sprouting from the center of the flower.
The pistil is found inside the stamen. While you may not be able to see it, you can access it with your paint brush by brushing deep within the flower.
 Take your paint brush and insert it between the leaves of the flower. First, brush it against the anthers. Then, move it inward and brush it against the tip of the stamen., After you get some sticky pollen on your paint brush, transfer the pollen to another flower. Insert your brush into the center of the flower and brush it around to pollinate the pistil., When kept indoors, regular pollinating is key to getting your lemons to grow. At least once a day, pollinate all the flowers on your lemon tree. With persistence, you will begin to see results as lemons grow.Pollinate your trees as soon as they start to bloom. The precise time of year your trees will bloom depends on your region and climate.
 There is no significant difference between the pollen in one flower and another flower. Therefore, there is no need to wash your paint brush during the pollinating process. Refrain from washing your brush until you've pollinated all your flowers., If a bee occasionally gets into your home, it can do some pollinating for you. This generally occurs most effectively if lemon trees are close together. This encourages cross pollination so, if you have two trees, keep them side by side., Keep your trees by a window, on a balcony, or near another source of sunlight. Pollination on its own will not make lemons grow in the absence of sunlight., There is no need to pollinate lemon trees that are kept outdoors. They will be pollinated naturally by bees. Pollinating outdoor trees is extra work that's not necessary., If you do keep lemon trees outdoors, keep an eye on when they bloom. If your trees bloom before the last frost date, uproot them and move them indoors. Lemons may not grow if flowers begin to bloom when it's still cold out., Lemon trees cannot withstand temperatures cooler than 20 degrees Fahrenheit (-7 degrees Celsius). If you're keeping your trees on a balcony or porch, make sure to move them elsewhere if the temperature drops.