 A plain cross consists of only the shape of the cross, while a crucifix also has an image of Christ on the cross. Either can be blessed, but only the crucifix is used in most official Catholic and Orthodox ceremonies. Protestants typically prefer the bare cross, not the crucifix.


Many variations on the cross and crucifix exist, with different numbers and types of crossbars, and the appearance or lack of various letters. If you belong to a church, you may wish to ask your priest or minister what type of cross your denomination uses.
Some crucifixes include a skull beneath Christ's feet, representing the bones of Adam. This is more common in Catholic tradition, but is not required or banned by most denominations.;
, In many churches, including the Catholic church, a blessing from a priest, deacon, or other church leader is considered to be more effective than a layman's blessing. For a small cross, such as one you would wear around your neck, the blessing used is up to the priest.


One possible Catholic blessing: "May this cross and the one who uses it be blessed, in the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Spirit."One possible Orthodox blessing: "O Creator and Author of mankind, Giver of spiritual graces and Bestower of eternal salvation: Do Thou, the same Lord, send down Thy Holy Spirit, with a blessing from on high, upon this cross, that, fortified by the might of heavenly protection, it may be potent unto bodily salvation and succor aid aid, unto all who shall desire to make use of it, through Jesus Christ our Lord. Amen."For more information on the difference between a priest's blessing and another person's, see the section on using the blessed cross.
 Blessing the cross yourself may not carry the same effect as a priest's blessing, but anyone may plea to God to bless their cross or other object. You may recite any prayer while doing so, for instance one of the following:


Lord, bless this Cross that it may be an instrument of Your Divine Mercy in the Name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Spirit, Amen.
Bless this Cross in the Name of the Father, and of the Son and of the Holy Spirit, Amen.
 While the Bible does not include any rituals for blessing the cross, the Catholic church has created a collection of official rituals called the Rituale Romanum. Here is a solemn blessing intended for crosses for display, such as on the wall of a church: