 Many times when you go on a diet, you eliminate sources of carbohydrates like bread or pasta. But these foods also tend to contain fiber, which is vital for a healthy digestive system. You need to make sure that you get at least 25 grams of fiber each day. This can be achieved through many healthy, diet-friendly foods that are not full of carbohydrates.Vegetables, fruit, beans, and nuts all contain fiber. Increasing these foods can help you reach your daily fiber goals.
 Folic acid is the synthetic version of folate that is added to wheat-based products, such as breads, cereals, flours, pastas, and rice. If you stop eating most carbohydrate foods for your diet, then you need to make sure you get folate in your diet.You can get more folate by eating larger servings of green leafy vegetables, broccoli, lentils, beets, cauliflower, and asparagus.
 Eating protein when on a diet not only helps you stay full, but it also provides important nutrients your body needs. Make sure to eat lean cuts of meat. Buy antibiotic- and hormone-free meats that are grass-fed or vegetarian-fed to ensure you are getting only nutrients and not harmful chemicals.Try lean red meats, like beef, lamb, or venison. Make sure to choose grass-fed beef when possible.
Go for vegetarian-fed, antibiotic-free poultry.
Include seafood, like salmon, tuna, halibut, cod, scallops and shrimp.
Greek yogurt has high amounts of protein, along with calcium.
Beans are also a good source of protein.
Quinoa contains a good amount of protein.
 Some vegetables have more minerals and nutrients than others. By incorporating these vegetables into your diet, you can be confident that you are getting most of your vitamins and minerals. Add more of the following vegetables:Leafy greens, like kale, spinach, chard, collard greens, turnip greens, and mustard greens
Bell peppers
Brussels sprouts
Broccoli
Spaghetti squash
Cauliflower

, Many diets limit fruit consumption due to their natural sugar content; however, you should still include fruit in moderation because it provides a lot of essential vitamins and minerals. Eat fruit for a snack or as an after-dinner dessert.Avocados are one of the most nutritious foods you can eat. Eat avocado in moderation for a nutrition boost.
Try eating berries, like strawberries, raspberries, and blueberries. Other good fruits full of nutrients are apples, bananas, cantaloupe, and papaya.
 Enriched carbs, like white pasta, white rice, and prepackaged baked goods like cakes and cookies, are eliminated when on a diet. These refined carbs offer less minerals than healthy whole grains. Instead of giving up grains completely, you should add complex carbohydrates in the form of healthy grains that contain important minerals.Include barley, quinoa, oats, or brown rice.
 In addition to those major food groups, there are other foods you should eat when on a diet to make sure you get the proper nutrients. This helps make for a well-rounded diet that includes all the nutrients your body needs.Eat mushrooms, which are full of important trace minerals like selenium and copper.
Sweet potatoes are a healthy starch that contains many nutrients and minerals.
Low-fat dairy, like yogurt, cottage cheese, Greek yogurt, or organic milk, can provide calcium, protein, and other minerals.
Eggs are packed full of minerals your body needs.
Beans, lentils, and peas are also full of nutrients and minerals. Go for garbanzo, kidney, navy, or pinto beans.
Include healthy grains, like barley, oats, quinoa, and brown rice.

