 Many places have very specific requirements on how a landlord must be notified about repairs or other conditions that are making your apartment or home unlivable. Before drafting a complaint letter, you should review the landlord-tenant laws for your area.


You can review landlord tenant laws for your state at: http://www.nolo.com/legal-encyclopedia/state-landlord-tenant-laws

For a guide to landlord-tenant law in Northern Ireland visit: http://www.nihe.gov.uk/index/advice/renting_privately/advice_tenants/tenants_rights.htm

For a guide to tenant rights in the U.K. visit: https://www.gov.uk/private-renting/your-rights-and-responsibilities

For a guide to landlord and tenant rights in Germany visit: http://www.globalpropertyguide.com/Europe/Germany/Landlord-and-Tenant

For a guide to tenant rights in Spain visit: http://www.idealspain.com/pages/information/Tenants.htm
;
, Your lease is the legal contract between you and your landlord. While laws may establish a landlord’s legal duties, a landlord or property owner may have assumed additional responsibilities in the lease. Carefully review your lease for any provisions on repairs and make sure that you follow any requirements for notifying the landlord in the letter., When sending a request for repair letter, your letter should follow a business letter format. This conveys that you are serious about the request and puts the landlord on formal notice about the need for repairs.


Your letter should be typed. If you do not have access to a computer and printer, you can hand print your letter.
Your letter should be addressed to the person who is responsible for repairing your apartment. If both a live-in landlord and a property management company maintain the building, consider addressing the letter to the landlord and sending a copy to the property management company.
Type the addressee’s full name and mailing address at the top left of the page. If you rent from an individual, this should be his or her name and address; if you rent from a company, this would be the name and business address of the property manager.
Your letter should be dated, with the date placed above the address of the landlord or on the right side of the page as the first line of text.
As discussed below, your letter should explain the problem that you are having and request the landlord’s assistance in correcting the problem.
Provide your contact information, including phone number, address and email address so that the landlord can contact you to schedule any repairs.
Sign the letter and type or print your name below your signature.
 A written request for repairs allows you to more fully explain the problem for which you are requesting assistance. Often, tenants have already orally requested a repair and the letter is a second, more formal request, for the landlord’s assistance. When drafting the letter, you should include the following:


A clear and concise description of the problem should be included in the opening paragraph of the letter. Be as specific as you can in describing the problem. For example, instead of saying “I have a leak” say instead, “There is a slow leak in the plumbing under the kitchen sink.”
Provide the date on which the problem began. If you are unsure of the exact date, provide the approximate date or the month in which you first noticed the problem(s) or began having the issue.
If you previously requested that the landlord repair the problem, your letter should include the date(s) that you spoke to the landlord about the problem.
If you are requesting a minor repair, it may be helpful if you explain how the minor problem could become worse. For example, if you are asking for the tile grout to be replaced because some of it is missing, you could state that you are concerned that water is getting behind the tile and may cause a serious mold condition.
Highlighting how a problem could get worse or become dangerous may motivate a landlord to make minor repairs.
Explain any steps that you have taken to resolve the problem, including if you obtained an opinion or estimate from a professional. If your received an estimate, you should attach it to your letter.
In a new paragraph, you should request that the landlord fix or resolve the issues. You can request that the problem(s) be fixed by a certain date, and if necessary, describe how you would like the issue resolved. You can also offer your assistance in fixing the problem., You should make a copy of the letter for your records. If the landlord refuses to make the repairs, you may need the letter to present as evidence in small claims or housing court.
 While it may be easier to send the letter via email, if you have previously requested assistance and your landlord has failed to rectify the problem, you should send the letter by certified mail. You can also send the letter via email or facsimile but this should be in addition to a hardcopy letter being sent.


A hardcopy letter should be sent via certified mail. This will allow you to document that the letter was delivered to the landlord.
You may begin checking the United States Post Office (“USPS”) website for delivery confirmation approximately 2-3 days after mailing a letter by certified mail. You can find the USPS’s track and confirm utility on its website at https://tools.usps.com/go/TrackConfirmAction_input. Once you receive confirmation of delivery, print it, and staple it to your copy of the letter.
If you have corresponded with the addressee via e-mail in the past, you may choose to deliver your complaint letter as an attachment to an e-mail, in addition to hardcopy. When delivering a legal letter via e-mail, request a delivery receipt. Check your e-mail reader’s documentation for instructions on how to do this using your specific e-mail software.
Once you receive confirmation of e-mail delivery, print it and staple it to your hardcopy of the letter.
Sending a letter by fax is appropriate in most cases where the recipient commonly uses a fax for business purposes. If you rent from a company or individual that maintains office hours, you may choose to send your letter via fax to the business’s fax number.
Most fax machines print a delivery confirmation page, which you should staple to your copy of the letter.

