 Alternatively use unflavored protein powder (available at drugstores, and some grocery stores) for thickening low carb chili. Add a slurry made from 1/4 cup (60 ml) cold water (or dip out some of the chili juice to use) and 2 Tbsp (30 ml) flour.Mix the flour and water in a separate bowl, beating well with a fork so that the resulting thickener is smooth and without lumps.
Add the flour mixture to the chili and cook over medium to medium-high heat on the stovetop, stirring constantly, until the liquid boils and thickens. This should only take a few minutes.
Continue cooking and stirring an additional minute after the chili thickens so that the flour is completely combined into the chili. Otherwise, you might be able to detect hints of flour in the flavor of the chili.
For larger batches of chili in which the excess liquid equals 2 cups (500 ml) or more, double the amount of flour and water you use.
While flour is a flavorless thickener, some believe that using too much flour and water in your chili can dull and dilute the flavor, making it less potent.;
, Mix together 1 Tbsp (15 ml) cornstarch with 1 Tbsp (15 ml) cold water to add to the chili.


Beat the cornstarch and water together thoroughly in a small, separate bowl before adding it to the chili. Make sure that there are no lumps.
Stir the cornstarch slurry into the warm chili and heat over medium to medium-high heat until the mixture bubbles and thickens. You should see results within a few minutes.
Add more cornstarch and water, if needed. If the chili is still not thick enough, you can create more of the slurry to add in. Large batches with more than 2 cups (500 ml) of excess liquid may need twice the amount of cornstarch slurry, if not more.
Let the chili cook for an additional 2 minutes after it thickens so that the cornstarch breaks down completely. Otherwise, it could tint the flavor of the chili.
Note that cornstarch gives liquids a slightly glossy appearance.
Also note that cornstarch is flavorless and will not alter the taste of the chili; though, if you add too much of the slurry, it can dilute the flavor and tone it down.
 Adding 2 to 3 Tbsp (30 to 45 ml) of either cornmeal or masa harina straight to the chili will also thicken the liquid.Add the cornmeal or masa harina to the chili without mixing any water into it first. Mix it in thoroughly so that it absorbs some of the liquid, thickening it up.
Let the chili simmer for an additional 5 to 7 minutes after adding the thickener.Fine cornmeal resembles flour but has a strong corn taste, as it is ground directly from corn. Masa harina also has a strong taste, since it is ground straight from dried hominy, which is a product of corn.
Adding either cornmeal or masa harina will affect the taste of the chili. It can impart the taste of polenta or tortilla shells to the liquid.
While many individuals may find that the added taste complements the flavor of the chili, others argue that it pollutes the taste, instead.



Mix the water and arrowroot separately in a small bowl until smooth.
After adding the slurry, allow the chili to come to a simmer, stirring constantly. The liquid should thicken quickly.
Arrowroot refers to a starch obtained from the arrowroot plant. It can usually be found near the cornstarch.
Arrowroot is flavorless and potent, so only a small amount is needed. Since a small amount is used, it should not dilute the taste too much, making it a favorite among many chili fans.
Like other starches, arrowroot will add a slight gloss to the appearance of the chili liquid.
 Remove the lid from your pot of chili and let it simmer for an additional 30 to 60 minutes.


You can bring up the temperature to reduce the amount of time, bringing it closer to 30 minutes. Do not let the chili reach a full boil, though. If you keep the chili cooking on low at a slow simmer, it may take closer to 60 minutes before significant reduction is noticed.
This process uses evaporation to reduce the amount of liquid in the chili. Removing the lid maximizes the effect by allowing more steam to escape.
The remaining chili liquid will have a stronger, more concentrated flavor after the reduction is complete.

