 Decide if you want to be a certified teacher, private instructor, or a commercial vocal coach. Ask yourself if you want to work in a studio, or for a recording company. This will help you be clear on your course of study and how much training you’ll need. While there is no formal training required to become a vocal coach, many professionals spend as much as 10 years developing their skills. Determine who you want to teach, and who you want your customers and clients to be. For example, do you want to teach children, teenagers or adults? Or do you want to work with up-and-coming singers or celebrities?

, Search for “vocal training services” online and look into at least five different training programs for aspiring vocal coaches. Compare and contrast which is best for you according to cost, the length of program, and the types of courses offered. You can choose a certificate, diploma or a degree-based program, and receive training on a class-by-class basis, through online training videos, or on a semester-based program. Create a budget for a full-year of classes at least, as you might need to take out a loan and pay-out-of-pocket for your training.


Check with your instructor to verify the classes will offer you personalized training for your vocal technique, and also teach you the best way to meet the needs of your students. A good vocal training program should teach you proper voice technique, vocal science and psychology.
Note: you can train for as little as six months if you want to be a private vocal coach. However, if you want to be a vocal teacher in a school, it may take you as long as four years, as you’ll be required to have a degree. Be serious about your professional development.
 Put together a resume and cover letter featuring all your education, certification and training so far as a vocal coach. Design a logo, and come up with a catch phrase for your services. Create a website that showcases yourself as a vocal coach. Invest in business cards, and other marketing materials, like flyers and ads, to promote yourself.
 Join a singing or songwriter’s guild or association. Sign up for vocal workshops with an established vocal coach to observe how they teach and how students respond to them. Research dance and recording studios online and the services they offer. Nail down a few you’d be interested in working with and pitch volunteering as a vocal coach to them.

