 Dial 1-800-922-0204 from your home telephone only. Press 1 for English, and press 2 to speak with a rep. Enter your mobile number. Then press zero for an agent.;
, It is the best customer service on the planet when it comes to problem resolution. Customer service will allow you to speak to what they call supervisors however, they are just glorified customer support reps who will tell you anything to get you off the phone.
 The instance will be noted to your account. Once your account has been flagged it becomes very difficult to be heard, taken seriously or advanced to someone in management. From that point you are seen as a troublemaker or an abusive client and you will not receive the benefit of the doubt or more than the required common courtesy.


Try being overly polite and thankful. If you seem pleasant, thank even the lower people on the totem pole for listening, giving advice or just being pleasant about the situation they will be more inclined to advance your complaint.
 Ask them to verify the amount due. Once the agent has viewed your account and confirmed your balance, they have entered into the account database and this ultimately leaves an audit trail of who you have talked to and when.(if you are in one bill to get your balance you need to speak to residential, dial #BAL from your wireless phone, or visit verizon.com keep in mind verizonwireless.com and verizon.com are two different web sites)

, In many cases you will need to wait a day for a call back. That's alright, just be patient.(if you are a one bill customer and requesting credit on the wireless bill you will either need to wait until adjustment appears on next statement or place a claim with residential. when enrolled into one bill residential is paying the wireless bill on the customers behalf and forwards to you for the reimbursement. all payments are due to residential and not wireless when enrolled with one bill)

,, Tell them you would like to avoid the expense and hassle of Verizon having to send a legal representative to your town's court system.


You may want to make these calls when you can sit, take notes and wait on hold. Avoid calling when you are on the road or have something pending. You may get connected to management as you are running into a meeting or dropping the call.
 Underlings will often make promises to get you off the phone and not note your account of exceptions or agreements. Don't be ugly or snide but ask them to "read the notes to the account to you". Document the names, dates, and times involved in each conversation, of who you talked to and what was said. Get last names, case numbers and be diligent to write the information down.
 You do not need an attorney! It generally costs less than $240 to file a claim. Once you file, you will get a court date and Verizon Wireless will be notified the very same day you get your "date" in the mail.
 They will call you. Don't be greedy. If they (Verizon Wireless) have wronged you, they will make it right. If you are just being a pain in the butt, they, and the courts, will see right through you.
 Explore the In-pulse plan of theirs, but explore competitors plans also, to be familiar with available offerings in the cellphone marketplace.(customers are able to port a post-pay number to a pre-paid cell phone just keep in mind if you are in contract with a post pay number that by porting your number to a pre-paid phone will result in the breaking of that contract and can result in early termination fee)

,(you do have 120 days to dispute any billing)

