 Your surface must be clear of debris before you begin to weld.


To prepare carbon steel, use a grinder or sander and polish it down to a bare, shiny metal.
For aluminum, it is best to use a dedicated stainless steel wire brush.
For stainless steel, just wipe down the weld area with some solvent on a rag. Make sure to store the rag and chemicals in a safe place before welding.
 Unscrew the back of the electrode holder on the collet, insert the tungsten electrode, and screw the back on again. Generally, the electrode should hang about 1/4-inch away from the protective sheath on the collet.
 Use an angle iron and/or a flat bar with c-clamps to secure the parts you want to weld together.
 A tack weld is a very small weld that is intended to hold a part in place until the final weld can be completed. Place tack welds every few inches where your two metals meet.
 Be sure to hold it at about a 75 degree angle with the tungsten raised no more than 1/4-inch off the metal.


Don't let the tungsten touch the work piece or it will contaminate your material.
 Your weld puddle should be about 1/4-inch wide. It is important to keep your puddle size consistent throughout the weld to avoid a messy finish.
 Hold it so it rests horizontally at a 15 degree angle from the work piece at the base where the torch will heat the piece.
 The heat of the arc will create a puddle, a pool of molten metal that is used to fuse the two pieces of metal together.


Once there is a puddle on both pieces of metal, tap the filler rod into the molten puddle in quick dabs to avoid clumping.
The filler rod adds a reinforcement layer for your weld.
 Unlike MIG welding, where you lead the puddle in the direction that the torch is leading, with TIG welding you push the puddle the opposite direction that the torch leans.


Think of your hand motion as that of a left-handed person operating a pencil. While a right-handed person moves their pencil like a MIG weld, with the angles both tilted to the right, a left-handed person has their pencil tilted to the left, though they must push the pencil to the right.
Continue to advance the puddle until you have welded the entire area desired and you've completed a TIG weld!

