 Life is suffering. There is always suffering in life.;
, Suffering comes from attachment. You suffer, if you did not get what you want. You suffer, if you lose, what you have.
 Take things as they are. Let your false wishes go. What is your false wish? How can you let it go? "My way of wisdom is..."

, You can let a false wish go, if you find a helpful positive thought. What is your positive thought (for example: I cannot always get what I want. I see the reality. I take things as they are. I seek happiness primarily in myself. Happiness comes 90 % from the inside of a person."

, Meditation is a way to overcome all negative thoughts. And suddenly you are positive again. Stop all thoughts for a while. Then let all thoughts and feelings come and go as they want. Stay in silence. After a while all feelings in you come to rest and suddenly you can think positive again. You get inner peace. You are happy from inside.
 On a deeper level you overcome all suffering of life if you are enlightened. Your ego disappears and you can look at all things with great serenity. If you train your mind with meditation and positive thinking (thought work, right thinking), you some day overcome all detachment. Then you are free. Then you live in the light (oneness, nirvana).
 A Buddha is a fully enlightened person. He or she is full of inner peace, power and happiness. Visualize yourself as a Buddha and think, "I am a Buddha of peace. I live in the peace. I go the way of peace."

, A Bodhisattva wants all beings to be happy. He or she wants all people to live in the light, to be enlightened. Move a hand in blessing and think, "I send light to (my friends, my enemies, all people). May all people be happy. May the world be happy."

, There are many techniques and groups in Buddhism. Test it. What fits you well? Find your way of daily spiritual practice. Then you will grow towards happiness and some day become a buddha. That is the goal of Buddhism. You will be a winner in the game of life.

