 This is the number one rule. Don't make up a fake name or give a fake number or tell lies in an attempt to seem more attractive. First of all, this won't always work, and if you end up really liking a guy, you want to have a real relationship with him, rather than one built on lies. Secondly, no guy is worth compromising who you really are - never change things about yourself in order to attract guys.;
, Any girl is unattractive when she is slumped over, drawn in, and spends the whole night staring at her shoes. Instead of doing this, be outgoing, with your body language as well as your conversation. Stand up tall, have good posture, and be confident in how you look. This is the easiest and most effective way to attract a guy's attention.
 If you see someone you like, walk right up to him and introduce yourself! Most guys will find this confidence attractive and will appreciate that you made the first move. And the surest way to get a guy to talk to you is to go talk to him.
 Most guys don't understand flirting and subtle movements that girls may think are simple and easy to understand. They can be obtuse and unobservant, or they can misinterpret signals that you thought were obvious. They will always prefer an outgoing girl who asks them to dance or is up front with them. This approach is black and white, no grey zones, and they look for this and feel more confident and comfortable once they know.
 If you're approached by anyone whose character or intentions you doubt, or if anyone makes you feel uncomfortable, say no and walk away. Find a close friend to stay with you - these guys are much less likely to approach you if you're with someone else. Take care of yourself, and if someone gives you a bad feeling in your gut, listen to it. You don't know someone by their outward appearance.
 A lot of guys like a simple look, one that maybe doesn't show off too much. Don't go out with the sole intention of attracting guys. They will come over time, and gradually build up.

