 Note when the symptoms started and any actions you are taking to alleviate them. The more information you can include the easier it will be for the professional to assist you.


Do not give your dog any liquids after ingesting a poisonous substance. Doing so, may help disseminate the poison throughout the body faster., Walk around your house and yard to check for potential dog poisons such as rodent bait, anti-freeze, mushrooms, or fertilizers. Keep an eye out for upturned boxes, damaged prescription bottles, spilled liquids, or disturbed household chemicals.If you suspect your dog ingested a poisonous product, check the back label of the packaging for warning disclaimers. Most products with toxic ingredients will list a company telephone number that customers can call for advice. Here is a list of commonly ingested poisonous substances:
Wild mushrooms (need to check individually in a reference text)
Moldy walnuts
Oleander
Lilies/bulbs
Dieffenbachia
Foxglove
Household cleaning products
Snail Bait (metaldehyde based)
Pesticides
Herbicides
Some fertilizers
Chocolate (particularly dark or baker’s chocolate)
Xylitol (sugarless gum)
Macadamia nuts
Onions
Grapes/raisins
Yeast dough
Alcohol, Poison hotlines are not just for people. Because poisons have similar effects on people and dogs, their representatives will be able to advise you.Call your veterinarian. Describe the symptoms and possible causes of the accidental poisoning.Discuss any concerns you may have regarding the poisoning. Ask if the symptoms warrant an immediate visit to the clinic.


Do not induce vomiting unless instructed. In general, after 2 hours, the substance is already out of the stomach.Also, if your pet is having trouble breathing, is staggering, or is partially conscious, do not induce vomiting because they might choke on their own vomit., Time is of the essence when treating accidental dog poisoning. If symptoms persist even after your veterinarian's initial assessment, take your dog to a clinic immediately. Locate the nearest 24-hour care facility if symptoms persist over a weekend or during nighttime hours.

