 Federal law does not prevent management from expressing views about the union. However, you are limited in what you can say. In particular, you should stick to facts, opinions, and examples.Facts. You can factually state, “Employees who strike can be permanently replaced.” That is a fact.
Opinions. You can also say, “I don’t think you should sign a union card.” This is solely your opinion. You cannot follow up the opinion with a threat or with questions about what the employee will do. Nevertheless, you can state your opinions.
Examples. You can also give examples of what has happened in unionized workplaces. For example, you could say, “In the 1990s, our largest competitor was unionized. They shut down only a year later.” If this statement is factually correct, then you can state it. However, make sure your facts are accurate.
 You have the right to inform your employees about the union’s history and record.You can be sure that the union is presenting a rosy view of their success. However, you can counter with facts and examples which tell a different story.


Perform basic background research on the union using the Internet. You can find out the history of the union and any embarrassing incidents (such as criminals who have worked for the union).
Use more advanced search engines. For example, you can use Lexis-Nexis, which is an online search engine with a repository of newspaper stories.
Look for businesses which had to close after the union was formed. You can then use them as an example.
 One legal way to counter a union drive is to emphasize everything that is good about your company: the pay, benefits, job security, etc.This is a subtle way to remind employees that they don’t need a union.


You can also compare your company’s wages and benefits to those of unionized workplaces. If your compensation compares favorably, then you should emphasize that fact. Some employees might assume they will get a huge raise if they join a union. You can puncture that dream with well-sourced facts.
However, you cannot threaten to lay people off. You can’t say, “If this union goes through, I’m going to have to lay a bunch of you off.” That sounds too much like a threat (even if it accurately describes the economic realities of your business).
You also can’t lie. Don’t make up statistics or loosely quote things you might have heard on television. If you aren’t sure whether your wages and benefits are competitive, then don’t state that as a fact.

