 Facing the audience directly, versus turning your back towards them, while you sing makes it easier for you to be heard. Stand at an angle to ensure that your voice is heard as loudly and clearly as possible.Place your focus on the back of the auditorium or the room to help the sound of your voice carry by giving its range a focal point.Pick a person or an object in the crowd to help center your focus even further. Having someone in the audience to sing to is a helpful tactic in honing your focus. Choosing a tangible object as a focal point while you sing is equally effective.;
, If you don't, you won't physically be able to project. Stand up straight and keep your back and shoulders straight but relaxed.


A great way to perfect your posture is to imagine you’re a marionette puppet on stage and that a string is holding you upright by the top of your head by a puppet master.Your posture will be perfect but in a much more relaxed way.
Maintain straight posture, but do it in a way that it doesn’t place too much tension onto your body. You want your focus to be on singing, not on how uncomfortable your body feels in that position., This is where most of your power will come from. You can stand in a relaxed position where your feet are a few inches apart and one foot is slightly in front of the other.
 Singing from the throat can feel like second nature to an untrained singer, but it is actually the worst thing you can do for your vocal cords and is not the best way to try to project.


Support your voice through breath control. Pull breath from your diaphragm and abdomen muscles by breathing slowly and deeply into your belly. Regulate the amount of breath you use by releasing the breath in a controlled way versus exhaling quickly with force.While you sing, imagine that your mouth is a resonator guitar. Unlike typical acoustic guitars where the sound comes from the top of the guitar, sound leaves the resonator guitar through the bridge to the resonator, one or more of the spun metal cones.A resonator uses vibrations to project along the guitar’s mouth. Replicate that effect and pull your singing voice to the areas around your mouth where you feel the sound vibrating to project while you sing.
 Vocal placement is important for vocal projection and is essential to learning how to put your voice in the “forward” position it needs to be in for optimal projection.Find this by practicing humming exercises. Hum at the end of “mmm” sounds. This will help you feel vibrations and resonance in your face near your mouth and nasal area.Don’t pay attention to how you hear yourself in your head, instead focus on this area to learn where your voice will come from.This creates less force when you sing.
 It might seem counterproductive since a lot of emphasis is placed on warming up your vocals as much as possible before performances, but resting your voice is actually very important. Save conversation and excessive singing for after a performance to prepare your voice properly.Although vocal rest can be done before performances to rest the voice and remedy vocals that have been over-practiced, vocal rest is also useful after performances as well.Put yourself on vocal rest at least one full day per week, especially if you perform regularly and/or sing aggressively., Warming up your voice not only acts as vocal prep, but also acts as a vocal preserver as well. Do a couple scales so your voice will be able to handle the singing to come.


Warm ups should gradually build in intensity. Start gently and build slowly to volumes, efforts, and ranges of higher intensity.When the voice is warmed up, start with less vocally challenging songs to sing. That way you give your voice time to continue to warm up and stretch before moving on to more vocally demanding material., Just like warm ups are crucial to preserve the vocal cords before singing and performing, cooling down your voice afterwards is equally important. Cool down by doing gentle voice sounds and sighs to relax and de-stress your voice post-performance., Wake yourself up each morning with hot water with lemon. Carry a bottle of water around with you to rehydrate your throat as much as possible. Drink at least 64 ounces of water each day and avoid beverages that dry the vocals, like caffeinated drinks and alcohol.Drinking herb tea with lemon or honey daily can help maintain your vocal capabilities.Dry throat can also be prevented with the help of sleeping with a vaporizer or humidifier that adds moisture in the air., Coughing is how your body naturally rids itself of germs during times of infection, but it proves to shred your vocals. Take a cough suppressant or an herbal throat tea to help suppress coughs and relieve your throat., While it’s not necessary to avoid every concert, pub, or sporting event, just protect your singing voice by decreasing your volume and the length of time you spend using your voice., Projecting when you sing can potentially strain your vocals if not done correctly. Make sure that your throat and jaw are relaxed as you sing to reduce the possibility of strain.A tight throat is similar to the way your muscles constrict when you swallow. A loose, relaxed throat is how your throat feels when you yawn. Notice how even if you project a loud sound in that instance, it does not strain your vocals whatsoever. That’s the place you need to sing with.Practice vocal warm ups in front of the mirror to monitor and observe throat movements when you sing certain notes, especially with higher notes.