 Use a space that has hardwood floor or a carpet with low pile, so that you have a good grip.;
, The chair back should rise above your waist. The ballet bar that is used in these exercises serves to give extra stability, not to hold your body weight.
 You want to be able to check your posture throughout the routine.
 Make a playlist with 20 minutes (or more) of music with at least 120 beats per minute and 5 minutes of slower music. Barre is a cardio and strengthening workout, so you want to keep a fast pace.
 free weights to the side. Consider also investing in a mini stability ball. It is an elastic ball in a 7, 10 or 12-inch (18, 25 or 30 cm) size that helps increase the resistance during barre exercises.
 Remove your shoes and socks. If your carpet doesn’t grip well, wear athletic shoes instead of keeping your feet bare or do the whole series on an exercise mat.
 You will need to repeat the exercises for 1 or more minutes.
 Stand with your feet parallel and together. Allow your fingers to rest gently on the back of the chair for support and look at the mirror.Ensure you have good posture before starting. Rest your hands on your hips. Lift yourself onto your tiptoes while keeping your entire body stable. Rest on your toes for 1 second and lower for 2 seconds. Repeat 10 times.
Increase the speed, lifting and lowering your calves every 2 seconds. Repeat for 1 minute.
Focus on keeping your core and back steady. Always lift your stomach up and in, as you would in Pilates.
 Stand with your feet together and your hands on your hips. Open your toes out 2 to 4 inches (5 to 10 cm) in a “turned out” position.


Make the movement from the hips. As your toes go out, your hips and knees should also point at a diagonal.
Return your toes forward on the next count.
Repeat for 1 minute.
 Stand with your heels together and toes apart. Kick your right leg out to the right side a squat.


Slide your right leg along the floor as you stand up to starting position.
Keep your back and shoulders and stomach parallel to the ground, instead of leaning forward. Repeat 16 times to the right, and then 16 times to the left.
 Get down on all fours and lift your legs and hips until you are in a downward dog pose. Lower your hips until you find the plank position.


Hold for 2 seconds. Then, lift your hips and find downward dog again. Repeat 10 times, lowering your body for 2 seconds and then lifting your hips for 2 seconds.
Do 10 repetitions faster, lowering for 1 count and raising for 1 count.
Make sure your shoulders are right above your wrists when you are in plank position.
Focus on keeping your abs lifted and your heels down when you lift.
 Stand up straight with your legs hip-width apart and your abs lifted and flexed. Hold the dumbbells at your sides and roll your shoulders back.


Return to this position at the start of each exercise.
Bend your knees slightly to avoid locking them.
 Lift your right up until it is at shoulder height. Lower it as you lift your left arm straight up to shoulder height.


Move slowly, taking 2 counts for each rep.
Repeat for 1 minute.
Rest as needed after the set with your arms hanging at your sides. Try not to rest long for maximum benefit.
 Lift your arms straight up to your chest level. Bend your elbows until your forearms almost touch your shoulders.


Repeat for 30 seconds.
Do a half rep, moving from straight arms to 90-degree angles from your upper arms. Repeat for 30 seconds.
Rest as needed after the set.
 Lift your upper arms to shoulder height and bend your upper arms till they are in a 90-degree angle. Lift your upper arms 1 inch and lower them 1 inch.


Do pulses for 1 minute.
Rest as needed after the set.
 Step your right leg forward into a high lunge. Move your entire core forward in a straight line, so that you are pitched slightly forward.


Keep your arms straight and raise your elbows as high as they can go.
Move them forward 4 inches for 1 count. Then, move them as high as they can go again for 1 count.
Repeat for 1 minute.
 Keep your arms lifted to the back as high as they can go. Fold your forearms in until they touch your upper arms, then push them straight again.


Aim to flex your muscles tricep muscles at your full extension.
Repeat for 1 minute. Rest and repeat for 1 minute. , Get on a plank position or kneeling plank position on your exercise mat. Place arms at shoulder level and bend your arms in a push up.


Take 2 counts to lower down and 2 counts to raise up.
Repeat 20 times. Do several arms stretches before you start on your leg exercises.
 Stand in a neutral position with your toes forward and your hands touching the back of the chair. Bend your knees and move your butt and torso down 6 inches. Pause and rise again. Keep your back straight, as though it’s moving down a wall, during the entire exercise.
Repeat for 1 minute.
For added difficulty, place a mini exercise ball between your thighs. Keep your feet fist distance apart and repeat the exercise.
 Rise on your toes and repeat the exercise for 1 minute, while on your toes for the duration. Pause on your last repetition and pulse up and down 1 inch (2.5 cm) for 30 seconds.


Keep your legs glued together during the entire exercise.
For added difficulty, do another round with the exercise ball between your thighs.
 Kick your right foot back and bring it in, kick it to the side and bring it in and kick it to the front and return it to starting position.


Start with small movements, keeping your torso steady. As you feel stronger, you can kick further in each direction.
Repeat for 1 minute., Start in a turned out position. Then, bring your right foot behind your left as though you are going to do a curtsy.


Bend both knees as low as you can while keeping your back straight. Repeat for 1 minute.
Repeat with the left leg behind the right for 1 minute.
 Stand 2 feet (0.6 m) from the back of the chair. Fold your body over so that your hands grasp the chair and your elbows are pointing down.


Your spine should be in a straight line from head to tail. Your stomach should always be pulled in.
Lift your right leg as high as you can. It should stay straight and rise no higher than your hips.
Lower your leg 1 inch, and then lift it 1 inch. Keep the movement small and steady. Repeat for 1 minute.
Switch legs and repeat for 1 minute. , Stay in the folded position, but place a mini-stability ball in the crook of your knee. Lift your leg as high as it will go and curl your calf in toward your hamstring.


Repeat for 1 minute.
Switch legs and repeat for 1 minute.

