 Take the bundle of cilantro and place it inside the bowl. Twirl the cilantro around in the bowl and then let it soak for about 10 minutes. This helps to gently loosen any dirt particles on the cilantro leaves.






;
, Turn on cold water and place the cilantro underneath the water in the kitchen sink. Rinse the cilantro well. Move the bundle of cilantro around while the water hits it.









By moving the cilantro around, you help to rinse away dirt particles underneath and between the leaves, Place the cilantro onto a large paper towel. Absorb any excess water from the cilantro with the paper towel. Keep the paper towel for storing the leftover cilantro.
 Pick these out of the bundle and discard appropriately (compost if available). You can simply use your hands for this. Make sure only the healthy, green leaves remain.
 Depending on your preference for the texture and taste of cilantro stems, you may want to remove some of the long stems of the cilantro. For salsas and curries, many find the cilantro stems add a pleasant amount of concentrated cilantro flavor. If your recipe doesn't specify on the inclusion of stems, use your best judgement., Place a cutting board on the counter. Place the cilantro on the cutting board and with a sharp knife, cut the long stems. These stems are located near the bottom of the cilantro bundle.









You can place a moist washcloth underneath the cutting board to help provide traction so the cutting board does not slide around when you are chopping the cilantro bundle.
 This is where the abundance of cilantro leaves are located. When you need to use a small amount of cilantro, separate the bunches in half. Avoid removing the leaves from the portion of the cilantro you are storing for later, as it will last longer intact.
 Wrap the unused bundle and the stems in the paper towel you used to dry the cilantro. Place them in a zip lock bag and place the bag in the refrigerator. This will keep it fresh for three to five days.
 Cilantro is tender, so it isn't usually necessary for it to be very finely chopped. The later in the cooking process you intend on adding the cilantro, the more finely it should be chopped. If you are using your cilantro as a garnish, chop it just enough so that it can be easily sprinkled over your food., Use a rocking motion with the knife when chopping cilantro. Go back again with the knife to ensure that all the cilantro is chopped. Regardless of how fine you want your cilantro, try to keep the chop even.







