 In the majority of cases, the impression you're going to leave on most people will be summed up by a single trait or role. You'll already be unforgettable to the close friends, family and loved ones in your life, but the window of opportunity to impress others will be narrower. Chances are you'll have to narrow your role down accordingly. Focus on a couple of your best traits and emphasize them as much as you can.


Write up a list of your most distinctive traits. If you've got a razor-sharp wit, you can leave a lasting impression on people with that alone. If you're really physically adept, you could excel in athletics and leave a similarly vivid image in the minds of those around you.;
, You probably saw this one coming already. Confidence nonetheless is one of the essential building blocks in making a good impression on someone. Learning to love yourself, and knowing why you should be loving yourself are necessary steps towards being unforgettable. If you are confident, you will naturally be a closer approximation to the real you than you would otherwise.


If you're having a really hard time building confidence, you should approach friends and ask them to list their favourite things about you. Try to take what they say to heart-- they're not just saying that stuff to make you feel better!

, Given the tendency of people to remember your boldest traits and forget the details over time, you'll stand the best chance of being remembered if you get very specific and exceptional with what you do. Pursue your interests with intensity, no matter how unfashionable they may seem. Passion is a universally appealing trait in someone, and you'll be remembered all the better for it.
 Let's face it; no one ever made a permanent impression on someone without being at least a little weird and off-key. Even if you're a paragon of averageness, there's almost certainly a subset of yourself you would usually prefer to hide away from the world. In that case, you should do everything you can to bring that part of you to the forefront.


The best way to unlock this side of yourself is through placing yourself in unfamiliar situations. Without habits to fall back on, you may find yourself acting in ways you never thought plausible before.
 With confidence and some healthy eccentricity in place, it's time to remove any doubt from the equation. No matter how sure of yourself you are, there is always the chance when heading off the beaten path that you'll doubt what you're doing. If you're looking to be truly unforgettable, you'll be carving out a unique path for yourself in the process. It will be natural to have reservations, but it's important to keep your sights set on the goals ahead of you.
 Dressing well is important for most every situation, whether it's for work or a first date. As it happens, the way you dress and physically present yourself has a crucial impact on the way you are manifested in someone's memory. In most situations, it is recommended you dress cool but casual, and to fit your body type.


If you're looking to be truly unforgettable however, you may want to go a step further. For instance, wear an otherwise respectable outfit, then throw a neon-coloured boa scarf around your neck. Everybody likes an oddball.
 There is certainly a strange side to you; it's just a matter of trying to bring that side to the forefront. Relaxing your social filter when interacting with people, if only slightly, will make you stand out in their minds much more easily. Got a weird or off-kilter thought on your mind? Don't be afraid to speak it! Most of the time, you'll find people are at least pleasantly amused, if not enthralled by a fresh idea or opinion.


On the other hand, try not to be too crude, unfriendly or vulgar with your weirdness. It may still make you unforgettable, but probably not in the ways you're looking for.
 Among these, welcoming body language is a universal form of communication, and will innately make people feel more drawn to you.


Remember to smile! Smiling is your best physical asset If you're not usually prone to smiling, try smiling a lot more. In time, it'll start becoming a natural reaction to things that make you happy.
Make plenty of eye contact. With eye contact, you'll keep someone focused completely on you. Even if you're having a great conversation without looking at each other, you can communicate a lot below the surface simply with your eyes. Make use of the opportunity.
Assume good posture. Posture is one of the strongest physical indicators of confidence. You'll attract the most attention if you're standing as tall as you can.
 The most remembered people aren't always the loudest, but they do find ways to make themselves stand out from the crowd. Even if you're naturally introverted, you can manage this by getting out of your comfort shell and taking charge of the social situations you're a part of. This is obviously easier said than done for many people, but it is possible, and even necessary if you're looking to be unforgettable.


In the conversation's you take part in, try saying everything you would normally say with greater confidence and volume. This is an easy exercise to build confidence and assertiveness with time.
Exercising good posture and eye contact will naturally boost your social morale.
 Saying 'thank you' whenever it applies to your situation is a cheap, simple way of getting in someone's god books, as it demonstrates you are genuinely appreciative of the things they have done for you. not surprisingly, that gratitude will make them that much more likely to do nice things for you in the future.


Dole out compliments frequently. It's like they say-- people may not always remember what you did, but they'll always remember the way you made them feel.
 The people who are remembered most in this world are those who realized their passions actively in some way, whether through arts, science, politics or business. To be truly unforgettable, you have to think big. What are you really interested in? What do you want your legacy to the world to be once you have passed from this world? If, for example, your goal is to write a book someday, there is no better time than today to start. Invest your inspiration and the entirety of your excess energy into making your dream a reality. People will take notice.


Get as ambitious and idealistic as possible, provided having a far-fetched goal isn't going to keep you from pursuing it to the fullest. Consistency and hard work are the most important elements of achievement, whether you're going to med school or pursuing a career in avant-jazz composition.
 Once you've dedicated yourself to accomplishing something, other people will start having a big reason to notice you. In order to leave an active impression in the minds of others however, you'll need to forego any modesty. Stand proud with what you have, and don't hesitate to show others what you've accomplished thus far in life.


There is a fine line between pride and shameless arrogance. Don't try to compliment yourself; show off what you've done impartially. Let others judge for themselves.

