 Vaseline is a good way to keep the scab moist and keep any bacteria out of the scab as it peels off. The moisture will help the scab to soften and allow new skin to grow over the scab, healing the wound and the scab.Dab a small amount of Vaseline on the scab throughout the day to keep it moist. Over a few days, it should soften and fade away or peel off on its own.
 Honey contains antibacterial properties and can speed up healing. Put a small amount of medical grade honey on the scab to help it heal faster.You can find medical grade honey online or at your local drugstore.
 Tea tree oil is a great natural oil for treating scabs. It can speed up the healing process and prevent the scab from leaving a scar. Apply tea tree oil to the scab once to twice a day.You can find tea tree oil at your local health food store or online.
 Garlic is a good natural way to heal a scab as it is antibacterial and an antiseptic. Blend or mix two to three cloves of garlic with one cup wine. Then, let the mixture sit for two to three hours. Apply the mixture to the scab with a cotton ball.Rinse the garlic wine mixture off after 10-15 minutes with warm water. If the garlic causes your skin to itch, remove it right away.
 Onion contains antibacterial properties. It is good at healing wounds and scabs as well as preventing infection. Chop up the onion and make a paste with honey. Then, apply the paste to the scab and let it sit for 10-15 minutes. Rinse the paste off with warm water.You can apply the onion honey paste up to four times a day.
 Baking soda is a mild antiseptic and good for removing scabs. Mix 10 grams (0.35 oz) of baking soda with 100 milliliters (3.4  fl oz) water to make a paste. Then, apply the paste over the scab. Let it sit for 10-15 minutes and then wash it off with warm water.You can apply the baking soda paste two to three times a week.
 Aloe vera is a great natural substances that you can put on the scab to help speed up healing. Put aloe vera on the scab and let it sit for five minutes. Then, rinse it off with warm water. Do this three to four times a day.You can find aloe vera in gel form online or at your local health store.
If you have access to an aloe vera plant, you can squeeze the juice from the plant onto the scab.

