 If you are experiencing hypoglycemia, you should treat it quickly before it turns into something more serious. You should always have fast acting glucose items around in case of an emergency. These are foods or drinks that will quickly raise your blood sugar.You can take glucose tablets.
Drink five to six ounces of a soda, lemonade, or fruit juice with sugar in it
Take four or five teaspoons of sugar
Check your blood sugar levels 15 minutes after you eat or drink the sugar item. If your levels are not normal, take another sugar item. If they are normal, eat a carbohydrate food, such as a slice of bread, a large apple, medium banana, or a granola bar.;
, One way to prevent diabetic emergencies is to keep up with your blood sugar levels. This helps you know where your blood sugar is and if there are any problems, like elevated or sudden changes in levels.You should check your levels before and after you eat, when you wake up, and before you go to bed.
Discuss with your doctor if there are any other times you should check your blood sugar throughout the day.
Checking your blood sugar levels can help you prevent low blood sugar or high blood sugar emergencies.
 Your body uses insulin differently in the heat. This means your normal amount of food, drink, or insulin may not be enough. Check your blood sugar often when you are in a hotter environment to make sure your blood sugar is not dropping or climbing.You may need to take a different dosage of insulin, drink more, or eat more or less in the heat.
 Exercise is an important part of managing diabetes. However, there are times you should not exercise because it can cause more harm than good. If your glucose levels are higher than a certain point, usually 250 mg/dL, and you have ketones in your urine, you should not exercise.If you exercise without following doctor’s orders, you may end up with a low blood sugar emergency. Exercise may cause your blood sugar to dip significantly. Always follow your doctor’s orders when exercising.If this occurs, you should consider contacting your doctor.
 Another way to avoid any emergencies is to know where your blood sugar levels should be. Talk to your doctor about the range where your blood sugar is normal, and what levels move into dangerous territory because they are too high.When you know your range, you can pay closer attention to your blood sugar if it gets too close to the high or low end so you can avoid letting it go over and causing an emergency.
High blood sugar emergencies usually happen over a few hours or days. Knowing your target range can help you monitor whether or not the levels are creeping towards too high., You may need to adjust the amount of insulin you take based on various factors. You should discuss with your doctor how much insulin to take depending on your activity level, your blood sugar level, the food you eat, if you are sick, or anything else.Knowing how much insulin to give yourself in certain situations can help you avoid giving yourself too much or too little and causing problems.
 If you have take insulin or have problems with diabetic ketoacidosis, you can prevent emergencies from occurring by checking your urine. You can buy urine tests at the drugstore that test for the amount of ketones in your urine. Monitoring your ketones can help you avoid getting too many in your blood.