 Instead of using water to apply distress marker ink to the paper or painting water on top of the ink, you can try spraying ink with water. Apply the colored ink where you'd like it to go on your chosen paper, and then use a spray bottle to apply water to the page.This technique is particularly good if you're trying to achieve a rainbow look.
Don't spray too close to the paper - if you do, you risk oversaturating the paper with water and causing the structure of the paper to break down.
If your brush the color after you've sprayed it with water, you can achieve an ombre effect.
 Once you've applied the distress marker ink and water to your paper with the technique of your choice, sprinkle some salt on the color. Then use a heat gun to apply heat. This will cause the colors to pool around the salt, making the pigment more intense but still preserving the original color under the salt., Using stamps with distress marker ink and water can help you to create personalized, handmade cards and stationary. You can use stamps as an outline for filling in an image with water color, or you can use distress marker ink directly on the stamp.

If you're using a stamp as an outline, keep in mind that you're not necessarily limited by the lines the stamp makes. You can blend the colors across the lines of your drawing for a more natural look.
If you're applying distress marker ink to the stamp, let the stamp ink dry before you then apply distress marker ink and water. Otherwise, the lines of the stamp will run. You can use a heat gun or hair dryer to speed up the drying process.If you mist the stamp before you apply ink, the lines of your stamped drawing will have a more watercolor look to them.
 Apply distress marker ink to your paper, and then drop water on top of it - a straw is a great tool for this technique. Once you're finished, blot the dropped areas dry. This will create a watermark effect on your paper., There are many types of craft paper available that you can use with distress marker ink. However, the different types of paper will react to the marker ink and the addition of water in different ways. Experimenting with different papers types and water coloring techniques can help you to create specific looks, depending on your project.Watercolor paper will allow you to blend and spread the colors the easiest.
Card stock is best if you're working with a smaller image - the inks will blend but not as far.
Coated paper will give let your watercolors spread the least, which is best if you're looking for very precise lines and colors.