 Before you can embark on changes to your diet, you should set diet goals that are realistic and possible to attain. Creating realistic goals will allow you to sustain your healthy eating plan and stick to healthy eating in the long term.Adults who are obese should try to lose five to ten percent of their current weight over a period of six months. Lose weight slowly at a rate of 1 to 2 pounds a week so your weight loss is safe and sustainable. If you lose 10 percent of your body weight and keep it off for six months, but are still overweight, you may need to try further weight loss plans.
Children and teens who are overweight should try to maintain their current weight and focus on healthy eating and maintaining a physical lifestyle. You should also talk to your doctor about ways to lose weight in a healthy weight as you grow into adulthood.;
, One of the major ways to reduce your body fat is to focus on healthy eating. Creating a healthy eating plan will help to lower your body weight and treat your obesity. You can make a healthy eating plan on your own or with the help of a nutritionist. Try to write out your healthy eating plan, with meal plans for three meals a day for several months to a year. Your healthy eating plan should include a good balance of:Foods high in protein, such as lean meat, fish, chicken, beans, and peas.
Whole-grain foods like whole-wheat bread, oatmeal, and brown rice. You can also include other grain foods like whole-wheat pasta, cereal, tortillas, couscous, and quinoa.
Fresh fruit and frozen fruit.
Fresh vegetables and frozen vegetables.
Olive oil, walnuts, and almonds, which give you healthy fats in your diet and keep you feeling satisfied and full for long periods of time.
Start slow and make short term healthy eating goals, such as eating healthy for one month or having two healthy meals a day. Making short term goals will help to build up your confidence and lost weight in a healthy and sustainable way.
 Cutting back on your daily calorie intake can help you to lose weight and maintain a healthy diet. You should first calculate your daily calorie intake and then determine how many calories you will need to cut every day to lose weight. On average, women should consume between 1,200 to 1,500 calories a day and men should consume between 1,500 to 1,800 calories a day.Your daily required calorie intake will depend on your age, body weight, and the level of physical activity you do every day. People who are obese should start slow and only cut 500 calories a week. The amount of calories you cut will depend on your fitness goals. To be successful, the reduction of your calorie intake should be done along with healthy eating and exercise.
 Eating out can be expensive and add more pounds to your waistline. When you eat out, you have little control over what is being put into the food you are eating and it can be difficult to make healthy eating choices. Try to commit to making atleast one to two meals a day at home, following your healthy eating plan.When preparing food at home, cook with healthy oils like canola oil, olive oil, and coconut oil. Look up healthy recipes online to incorporate all the food groups in your healthy eating plan.
If you bring your lunch to work every day, prepare your lunch the night before with healthy ingredients. Try to avoid eating out every day for lunch or dinner.
If you end up eating out, choose healthy options, such as a leafy green salad with broiled fish or chicken. Ask for your dressing on the side, or replace your dressing with olive oil and vinegar.
 These foods raise your blood cholesterol and are high in calories, thereby raising your risk of heart disease. Try to limit or eliminate these following trans fat and saturated fat foods from your diet:Ground beef, sausage, and processed meat such as bologna, hot dogs, and deli meats.
Chicken that has skin on it, such as fried chicken. Go for skinless chicken breasts instead.
Dairy products high in fat like whole-milk cheeses, whole milk, cream, butter, and ice cream.
Processed foods, particularly foods that contain lard and palm oil. You should also avoid pre packed products and baked products like cookies, doughnuts, and breads.
Foods made with hydrogenated oils like margarines and shortening.
Eggs, which are high in cholesterol, and shrimp, which are also high in cholesterol and sodium.
You can enjoy these foods occasionally to avoid feeling deprived, but know that moderation is key to losing weight and staying healthy.
 You should always go grocery shopping with a shopping list and read food labels before you buy anything. Look for any artificial or processed ingredients in foods, such as high-fructose corn syrup or added flavorings. These added ingredients will only fill you up with empty calories that have no nutritional value.Avoid junk foods, packaged desserts, canned fruit, and sugary drinks like soda. A good rule of thumb is that if the first four ingredients on a label are high in fat or sugar, you may want to put it back on the shelf.
 A portion is a certain amount of food that you consume for a meal or a snack. This is different than a serving, which is a measured amount of food and is required to be noted on all nutritional labels on food. Reducing your portion sizes every time you eat can help you to consume fewer calories and have control over how much food you consume.You can also use the concept of energy density to help you feel full without consuming a high amount of calories. This concept works by focusing on foods that have a low energy density, where they provide a larger portion size and a fewer number of calories. Fruits and vegetables are considered low energy density foods. You should avoid eating high energy density foods such as desserts, candies, and processed foods, as they have a small volume but they have a large number of calories.
Eating larger portions of low energy density foods like fruits, vegetables, and healthy protein sources (skinless chicken, beans, tofu), you can feel full but take in less calories. You will also be full for longer and are less likely to experience hunger pangs.
 Alcoholic drinks contain a high amount of calories and sugar. If possible, reduce the amount of alcohol you drink every week and increase the amount of water you drink. Drinking water will help your body stay hydrated and healthy., Though you may be tempted to try quick fix weight loss diets or drastic weight loss programs, these can often lead to other health issues and very little weight loss. Once you stop a crash diet, you will likely regain all the weight you lost. The only way to really lose weight and keep it off is to adopt healthy eating habits and maintain them over a long period of time.