 The warp consists of strands of yarn or thread strung lengthwise, under tension, across the loom. The ideal warping thread has a slight spring to it. Choose wool yarn, strong cotton thread, or a non-traditional warping material, like grape vine., When warping a standard frame loom, start in the bottom left corner of your loom. Double-knot the end of your thread or yarn to the bottom cross-bar of your loom frame. Pull the piece of thread or yarn under and over the top cross-bar. Bring it down to the bottom cross-bar and loop it under and over.While the thread or yarn should be pulled tight, you must be able to lift the warp with one finger. When warping a cardboard loom, begin in the top left corner. Secure the warp thread to the back of your cardboard loom with a piece of masking tape—the tail should reach the middle of the board. Insert the thread into the first slit in the top left corner. Pull the warp thread to the bottom left corner and insert it into the first slit. Wrap the thread around the back of the cardboard loom and insert it into the next available top slit., Loop the thread or yarn around the top cross-bar followed by the bottom cross-bar in a figure-eight pattern.As you move from left to right, evenly space the loops across the cross-bars.Continue to wrap the warp thread around the cardboard loom. Insert the warp thread into the next available top slit, pull it down to the bottom, slide it into the next available bottom slit. Repeat., Create approximately 20 loops. When the thread or yarn reaches the top right corner of the loom frame, loop it around the top cross-bar and double-knot it. Cut the thread or yarn from the spool or ball if you have not done so already.After you have inserted the warp thread into each slit, pull the warp thread to the back of the cardboard. Cut the warp thread so that the tail hits the middle of the cardboard loom. Secure the tail to the board with masking tape. To maintain the warp’s tension, secure each piece of warp thread to the back of the cardboard with masking tape.