 Most likely, you have friends from other religions. Even your Muslim friends will most likely have different religious opinions on different matters. Treat all of your friends as individuals with different beliefs, opinions, and practices. Some good friend qualities include:Being honest and trustworthy.

Being a good listener.
Not judging your friend.
Being loyal and dependable.

Showing empathy for your friend.
Supporting your friend in good times and bad times.;
, While there are different schools of thought regarding the relationship between Islam and Judaism, many scholars agree that there are considerable similarities between the faiths. Instead of focusing on your differences, think about what you both have in common. Look for core beliefs that you both share, and consider the values, morals, and ethics that you and your friend both have.How do you both feel about helping others? Do you have similar philosophies about generosity, hard work, or respect?
Are you both spiritual people? Is prayer important to both of you?
What non-religious characteristics do you have in common? Do you like the same books or shows? Do you share hobbies? Do you have a similar sense of humor?

, If you are curious about ways you can reach out respectfully to your Jewish friend, you might want to contact an organization that specializes in interfaith relations. There are many that focus specifically on the relationship between Muslims and Jews. These include:


Judaism and Islam in America (co-operative dialogue held by the Islamic Society of North America and Jewish Theological Seminary)Joseph Interfaith FoundationJudaism-Islam.comImams and Rabbis Council of the United KingdomThree Faiths Forum, Friends discuss sports, movies, music, social events, their feelings, and many other things. If every conversation you have with your friends slips into a debate about religion, you might want to change the subject. Instead, think about other things you both enjoy. For example:


What interests and hobbies do you have in common?
Can you talk about work or school?
Have you seen any movies or TV shows recently that you want to discuss?
What is the latest news in your social group?

