 If you're overweight, talk with your doctor about safely losing weight. Your doctor or nutritionist can work with you to create a personalized weight loss plan. Even a small amount of weight loss can help to raise your HDL levels., Complex carbohydrates offer more fiber, which can increase your HDL while lowering LDL and triglycerides. Complex carbohydrates also take longer for your body to process, so you'll feel fuller longer. This may help you lose weight as well. To include complex carbohydrates, choose:Beans
Legumes
Fruit (include the rind): plums, peaches, nectarines, apples
Vegetables: artichokes, broccoli, brussels sprouts
Oats
Barley
Millet
Quinoa
Buckwheat
Rye
Whole wheat breads and pasta
Brown rice

, Choose lean meat like poultry. Avoid eating the skin which contains a lot of fat and cholesterol which may raise your LDL cholesterol levels. You can also eat wild-caught fish like salmon, cod, haddock, and tuna. These are also good sources of omega-3 fatty acids which can improve your HDL.Don't forget that beans are also a good source of protein which are high in fiber and low in fat. Try to eat one or two servings of beans a day.


Avoid red meat because it contains a high amount of cholesterol which can raise your LDL levels.When you do eat red meat, choose grass-fed (not corn-fed) red meat.
Eggs are also a good source of protein, but the yolks are high in cholesterol. Choose egg whites or limit whole eggs to one or two a day., Not only will this increase your fiber intake, but it will also get more vitamins and minerals into your diet. Aim for a variety of fruits and vegetables. Keep in mind that green leafy vegetables also have high levels of sterols and stanols, which help to improve your cholesterol ratio. Consider including:Leafy green vegetables (mustard, collard, beet, turnip greens, spinach, kale)
Okra
Eggplant
Apples
Grapes
Citrus fruit
Berries

, Foods containing soluble fiber have been associated with lower LDL. Soluble fiber is a form of fiber that dissolves in water to form a gel that slows digestion.Scientists theorize this form of fiber helps reduce LDL by binding to cholesterol particles in the digestive tract and preventing their absorption.Some food sources of soluble fiber include:

Oats
Peas
Beans
Citrus fruit
Carrots
Barley

, Trans fats are artificially produced fats that raise LDL cholesterol and triglyceride levels. Studies have linked trans fats to increased risk of heart disease, stroke, and type 2 diabetes.To protect yourself from these negative effects, avoid foods that contain trans fats such as:


Packaged and processed baked goods such as pies, cookies, and crackers
Margarine
Nondairy coffee creamer
Fried foods like French fries, doughnuts, and fried chicken
Refrigerated cookie dough, pizza dough, or biscuit dough
Snack chips like tortilla chips and potato chips
Luncheon meats, hot dogs, fatty snack foods

, It may be tempting to cut out all fat from your diet, but the American Heart Association recommends keeping "good" fats. These monounsaturated fats can lower bad cholesterol and triglycerides. They also have nutrients that improve cell health. To get monounsaturated fats, eat:Olive oil
Canola oil
Peanut oil
Safflower oil
Sesame oil
Avocados
Peanut butter

, Exercise can increase your HDL levels, so if regular exercise is not already a part of your lifestyle, start an exercise routine. For example, start by walking for 30 minutes a day, five days per week. Make sure that you choose an activity that you will enjoy so that you will be more likely to stick with your program. Some good options include:Walking or jogging
Biking
Swimming
Dancing
Using an elliptical walker
Practicing martial arts
Ice skating or rollerblading
Cross country skiing

, Smoking can make it harder to raise your HDL levels, so if you smoke, do your best to quit. You can raise your HDL levels by as much as 10% when you quit smoking.Talk to your doctor to learn about smoking cessation programs in your area.While quitting smoking improves HDL levels, especially in women, it does not lower LDL levels., If you drink, limit yourself to one drink a day (if you're a woman) or two drinks a day (if you're a man).Drinking in excess can lead to higher risk for high blood pressure, stroke, certain cancers, obesity, accidents, and suicide. Drinking too much alcohol has also been shown to increase triglycerides.Drinking a moderate amount of alcohol has been linked with higher HDL levels, but you should not start drinking alcohol or begin drinking more alcohol as a way to raise your HDL levels.
 Your doctor will probably be the one to suggest lowering your cholesterol and triglycerides if blood tests show your levels are high. Your doctor may recommend combining any number of cholesterol-lowering medications with lifestyle changes.


If you're over 20 and haven't been diagnosed with cardiovascular disease, get your cholesterol levels checked every four to six years.If you have been diagnosed with cardiovascular disease, you'll need to have it checked more frequently.
 Your doctor may prescribe statins which are enzymes (HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors) that effectively lower LDL cholesterol and triglycerides.But, statins also interfere with the formation of other important substances like CoQ10. Ask your doctor about taking a CoQ10 supplement (at least 30 mg/day) while taking the statins.


Side effects of statins include headache, nausea, muscle weakness, muscle pain, and increased risk for diabetes.
Statins may interact with prescription medications and herbs. Tell your physician about all medications and herbs you are taking.
 These can reduce the absorption of fats and reduce the formation of cholesterol in the liver. Bile-acid sequestrants are most effective at lowering LDL but have little effect on HDL-cholesterol or triglycerides.For this reason, your doctor may prescribe them to be used along with other medications. Talk with your doctor if you have gallbladder disease, phenylketonuria, or are taking medications for your thyroid. You should not use bile-acid sequestrants since they may interfere with your medication.


Side effects of bile-acid sequestrants include constipation, gas, nausea, and upset stomach.
 These inhibitors are antibodies that make up a new class of drugs. They work to prevent the formation of LDL cholesterol by the liver. Since this is a relatively new drug, more studies are needed to determine its safety and effectiveness.Side effects are rare, but they include flu-like symptoms, urinary tract infections, muscle pain or spasms and diarrhea.
 If you're taking statins, your doctor may also prescribe an inhibitor of dietary cholesterol absorption. When combined, they can lower your LDL cholesterol and reduce your triglyceride level to some degree. Cholesterol absorption inhibitors do this safely without disrupting your body's absorption of other nutrients.Side effects include diarrhea, abdominal pain, back and joint pain

, If statins don't effectively lower your cholesterol and triglycerides, your doctor may prescribe fibrates (like gemfibrozil and fenofibrate). Fibrates primarily reduce triglycerides while increasing HDL cholesterol.You shouldn't take fibrates if you have liver or kidney disease.


Side effects include upset stomach, nausea, diarrhea, headaches and muscle aches.
 You can purchase an over-the-counter niacin supplement (niacinamide) to lower your triglycerides, lower LDL, and raise HDL. Take a supplement of no more than 1200 to 1500 mg a day or follow your doctor's recommendation. This B vitamin should not be taken if you have liver disease, an active peptic ulcer, or a bleeding disorder.Side effects include hot flashes and nausea, vomiting, liver problems, gout and increased blood sugar levels.
Niacin is also available by prescription, which tends to be more effective. Talk to your doctor about getting a prescription niacin supplement.
 Ask your doctor if you should supplement with plant sterols (beta-sitosterol and gamma oryzanol). These can increase your HDL while lowering LDL.With your doctor's approval, take 1 gram of beta-sitosterol 3 times a day. Or, take 300 mg of gamma oryzanol once a day. Be sure to follow the manufacturer's instructions for use.


If you prefer to get plant sterols from your diet, eat seeds nuts, vegetable oils, and foods fortified with sterols (like some orange juices and yogurts).
 To lower your LDL and triglycerides while increasing your HDL, take a supplement (if you don't eat omega-3 fish a few times a week). Take two 3,000 mg capsules of combined EPA and DHA (total milligram count of these two fatty acids should not exceed 3,000 milligrams per capsule) every day.To get omega-3 fatty acids from your diet, include salmon, mackerel, sardines, tuna, trout, flaxseed, flaxseed oil, soy products, legumes, walnuts and dark leafy green vegetables.
 Garlic may help more with lowering LDL cholesterol than increasing HDL cholesterol, but it does decrease the cholesterol ratio. Include a garlic supplement to see if this helps to improve your cholesterol ratio. Take 900 mg of garlic powder every day. Make sure that you check with your doctor first because garlic can interact with some medications, such as blood thinners.


Garlic supplements have also been shown to lower triglyceride levels., You're probably familiar with psyllium being used as a bulk forming laxative. But, using a daily psyllium husk supplement (in powder, capsule, or biscuit form) can help your body excrete more LDL cholesterol and triglycerides.Take 2 teaspoons of psyllium powder a day and follow the manufacturer's instructions.


Psyllium fiber is a soluble fiber and can count towards your daily fiber goal of 25 to 35 grams. 2 teaspoons of psyllium contains about 4 grams of fiber.

