 One of the most tell-tale signs of demonic possession is a sudden change in personality.

A usually happy and social person might become quiet and withdrawn, followed by negativity and hostility. Be very quiet and only speak when you are spoken to.

Reply in a monotone, emotionless voice and act defensively when you are asked any questions about your behavior.
You can also mimic people in a sarcastic voice when they talk to you, repeating whatever they say in an eerie tone before abruptly walking away.;
, Appear listless at all times and don't visibly enjoy anything. When asked your opinion or when friends and family try to otherwise draw you into a conversation, respond with a sullen “I don't care” and stare off into the distance.


Make angry, unexpected comments in the midst of a casual conversation or a quiet dinner. Have explosive, violent reactions to benign, random things. Make it seem like these comments and reactions are happening without your control.

Look disoriented and confused after a sudden outburst.It should be over almost as quickly as it began, leaving everyone around you feeling jolted and confused.
Project your voice loudly, give it a sharp edge, and speak more quickly than you normally would during these verbal outbursts.
Twitch a bit, like you’re experiencing muscle spasms.
 Walk around in a sort of fugue state, almost like you’re sleepwalking. Look exhausted and completely without energy, as though you haven’t been sleeping well or eating enough.]

When someone does stop you or tries to get your attention, narrow your eyes a bit and stare at them wordlessly before returning to your blank, empty facial expression.
Don’t overdo it. You want to look exhausted and even a little bored. If you’re too dramatic, it won’t be believable.
 Place books about the occult and drawings of strange symbols in places where people will see them.Be seen tracing over a symbol on a piece of paper over and over again, as though you’re in a trance, until your pen tears through the paper. Look perplexed by this.


Keep these incidents to a minimum – maybe one or two instances. If your room is suddenly littered with crystals, tarot cards, and other occult tools, it won’t be quite as believable.
Such incidents will plant the idea in the minds of your friends and family that something very sinister is going on with you, but it won’t be so over the top that it reveals your ruse.
 Sit in a chair facing the wall and laugh hysterically to yourself. Be seen having furtive conversations with no one in dark corners. Rock back and forth catatonically while repeating a phrase under your breath. Hiss at people suddenly as you walk by them.


This is another area in which you don’t want to overdo it to be believable. Start with an isolated incident and have them grow more frequent and weirder as time goes by.
You also want to avoid being too dramatic with these incidents because it might get you into trouble at school or work. This takes all the fun out of your prank.

