 Deciding whether to stable your horse or not on a particular night depends on a number of factors, including the age of the horse and the weather. Sick or older horses should always be stabled on nights when severe frosts are forecasted. A healthy, rugged pony, on the other hand, might be okay staying out on a colder night with the correct rug.


Your horse will likely need to come in at night at some point over the winter in order to protect him from temperature extremes, harsh wind, and snow. You will find it helpful to develop a routine where the horse goes out during daylight hours and comes back in at night. This allows him to stretch his legs and have a change of scenery, so he is less likely to become bored when stabled.;
, For the times when you do leave the horse outdoors, you need to provide a proper setting to care for the horse. This includes making sure he has access to shelter to get out of wind and rain. This could be a lean-to, a shed, or barn to which the horse has free access and can wander in and out at will.


Make sure he has drinking water available at all times as well. In freezing temperatures, this means ensuring the water trough has a heater or a no-freeze device, so the water never freezes over.
 When preparing the stable or barn for winter, ensure that the horse's quarters are clean, warm, well ventilated, and free from drafts. Clean bedding is a priority, so you should prioritize regular changes of the bedding. Remove anything that might injure or tempt the horse, such as low-hanging lights, nails sticking out, toxic cleaning substances, etc.


Bank your horse's bedding up against any doors that lead out to the pasture so drafts don't chill him.
Read How to Winterize a Livestock Barn for more information on this topic.
 This will help keep your horse healthier because he can breathe fresh air and adjust to the temperature changes on a regular basis.


Encourage lots of movement and exercise to keep warm. This is how horses keep warm in the wild.
 Blankets (also known as rugs) come in different weights. There are three main types of blanket for horses: stable blankets, turnout blankets, and sheets.


Stable Blankets are lightweight and not waterproof. Never put a stable blanket on a horse that is going out in the rain as it will act as a towel and soak up all the rain. Stable blankets are ideal for a clipped horse to wear in a stable during the winter to keep the chill off.
Turnout blankets are made of tougher fabrics than stable blankets and are waterproof. They are designed to have better insulation and keep the horse warmer. They also help keep the rain out.
Horse sheets are not as relevant during winter. They are a lightweight cover to keep the horse clean after grooming, such as prior to attending a show.
 When you touch a horse with your bare hands in winter, it will feel cold to you. In reality, the horse's coat and body heat do a wonderful job of insulating the horse and keeping the warmth directed into the horse. Some experts recommend that blankets only be used on horses with special needs, such as clipped horses, old horses, sick horses, thin horses, rescued horses, horses which seem cold by nature, and horses without shelter. However, this should be balanced against the severity of the weather. In snow and ice, any horse will need to be given a blanket or preferably be brought indoors.


If you do use a blanket, keep using it. The horse adapts its temperature regulation to wearing a blanket.
Keep in mind that your idea of cold is not your horse's idea of cold. Don’t add too heavy a blanket or too many. Follow the recommended uses of the blanket by the manufacturer according to its weight.
Wet cold is worse than dry cold for horses. A good quality waterproof rug is a great investment. This helps to keep your horse dry and reduces heat loss. It is possible to have a rug re-waterproofed, so be sure to keep your equipment maintained and in the best order.
 Horses can easily become sick during winter just like humans. It’s important to know what to look for and how to manage the problems that human intervention can cause.


Horses are susceptible to respiratory illnesses during winter. The ammonia buildup, mold, and dust inside barns and stables can bring on a variety of respiratory illnesses. Do your best to prevent this by ensuring adequate ventilation. You also want to clean out the stalls regularly. Give your horse plenty of outdoor opportunities to breathe in fresh air as well.
Horses are also susceptible to skin conditions during winter, such as rain-rot, bed itch, ringworm, lice, and infected scratches. Keep the horse clean, groomed, and medicated appropriately. Be careful not to blanket a wet horse. Use breathable blankets that do not cause moisture buildup. See your vet promptly for treatment of skin ailments.
Mud fever and rain scald are other specific skin conditions. Rain scald tends to affect the horse's back and rump (where the rain hits) wheres mud fever affects the legs (where the horse stands in mud). The softened skin allows bacteria to invade and set up infection. Crusts, scabs, and swelling develop, and the hair starts to fall out in clumps. You can treat the conditions by washing with a common disinfectant, such as Hibiscrub. However, the horse also needs to be kept in out of the weather for this to be successful.
 Even when the weather is foul and bleak, be sure to sit with your horse in the shelter and talk to him, groom him, and just be with him. He'll appreciate your company, and it keeps the two of you connected. It will also help you to look forward to the better winter riding days, and the warmer days to come.


Keep a regular grooming time in place during winter, no matter what the weather.
If you can't get to your horse as often as you'd like because of winter conditions on roads, etc., have someone else check in on your horse regularly to make sure he's fine.

