 Your skin is your body's largest organ, and has many important functions. One of those functions is helping you grow hair. Caring for your skin is one of the most effective ways that you can support the growth of fuller facial hair.


Exfoliate your face. Hair follicles can become blocked with dirt and prevent your hair from growing. Once a week, wear an exfoliant mask with eucalyptus. It's great for your skin, and can help promote hair growth.Use hair-healthy grooming products. Shampoos, or lotions with a vitamin B complex, will help.
Massage your hair follicles. A gentle massage can help stimulate your hair follicles. Use your finger tips, and gently massage your face in circular motions for about two to three minutes. Try applying a facial moisturizer to create a smoother massage., What you eat can have a major impact on all aspects of your physical well-being. This includes healthy skin and healthy hair growth. There are many vitamins that have been found to promote hair growth--including facial hair. Pay attention to your diet, and make sure that you're getting enough of these particular nutrients.


Incorporate hair-healthy vitamins into your diet. While you can always apply hair-growth treatments to your face, and hope for the best, working from the inside out is always the better option.Take in vitamin A. This vitamin stimulates the production of sebum, which keeps your hair follicles and skin hydrated.You can find vitamin A in eggs, meat, cheese, liver, carrots, pumpkin, broccoli, and dark green leafy vegetables.Get plenty of vitamin E, which has long been recognized as key for healthy skin, and can increase blood flow, which leads to an optimal environment for hair growth. Foods rich in vitamin E include oils, leafy vegetables, nuts, and beans, and most people get plenty of vitamin E when eating a normal diet.Boost circulation with vitamin B3. Healthy circulation may have a positive effect on hair growth. Reports find that B3 is even more effective when taken with biotin.Take in vitamin B5. This is also known as pantothenic acid. It not only helps the body use fats and proteins, necessary for healthy hair, it also has been reported to help reduce stress; and stress can definitely inhibit hair growth.Vitamin B5 occurs naturally in brewer's yeast, broccoli, avocado, egg yolks, organ meats, duck, milk, lobster, whole-grain breads, and more., There are many health benefits of exercising such as increased circulation, which promotes hair growth. No matter how you choose to exercise, just try to get your heart rate up for about one hour everyday. Making this part of your routine can help encourage healthy hair growth.Choose an activity that you like. If you like sports, organize a weekly game of basketball or soccer with your friends. Bonus: involving others will make you more likely to stick to your exercise plans.
Change your habits. You can find a lot of ways to get more movement in your day. For example, try taking the stairs at work instead of the elevator.
 Get plenty of sleep. Your body uses sleep as time to grow and repair. Teenagers need around eight to nine hours of sleep every night, and adults need about seven to eight hours of sleep every night. Be sure to plan your schedule so that you are giving your body enough time to function properly, and grow your hair.Try to go to bed and wake up at the same time each day. This can be hard on the weekends, when it is tempting to sleep in. But having a regular sleep schedule is great for your overall health.
 Manage your stress. One of the noted side-effects of stress is hair loss. This means avoiding stressful situations, and finding time throughout the day to relax. There are several techniques you can use to lower your stress. Try talking to a friend or family member if you're feeling stressed--they can often be a comfort.Focus on your breathing. Taking several deep breaths in and out during a stressful situation is a great way to calm your heart rate and clear your mind.
Be patient. Remember that not everyone's facial hair grows at the same rate. Worrying about it isn't going to help, and can in fact make the situation worse. Try to focus on other things throughout the day.

