 You need to make sure that people you classify as independent contractors are not actual employees. Employees are entitled to benefits such as unemployment compensation and overtime pay, which are unavailable to independent contractors.There is no simple way to determine if someone is an independent contractor or an employee. However, the Department of Labor looks at the following factors:How permanent the work relationship is. The more permanent, the more likely the worker is an employee, not an independent contractor.
How integral the worker’s contribution is to the employer’s business. If the worker’s product is sold directly to consumers, then the worker is more likely an employee.
The degree of control exercised by the employer, such as hours worked and when those hours are worked. The greater the degree of control an employer exercises, the greater the likelihood that the worker is an employee.
Whether the person can work for other people. If so, this factor points toward the worker being an independent contractor.
The level of skill required to perform the job. If the worker performs routine tasks, then he or she is more likely to be an employee.
Whether the worker has his or her own business, which they advertise to the general public. When this happens, the worker is probably an independent contractor.
Whether the worker is reimbursed for the purchase of supplies, materials, or tools. Independent contractors are generally not reimbursed.
 In order to avoid paying an employee overtime, you need to check whether the employee qualifies as a “manager". Examples of managers include executives, administrators, and professionals (e.g., lawyers or doctors).To qualify, the salaried employee must meet the following criteria:the employee must be paid at least $455 per week
the salary cannot be reduced based on the quality or quantity of the employee’s work
the employee performs work typical of a managerial or supervisory role

, If you are hiring individuals that are represented by a labor union, you will have to pay special attention to labor laws. If employees choose a labor union to represent them, you, as the employer, will be required to negotiate in good faith about wages, vacation time, insurance, and other job related subjects. If you hire union employees, you cannot threaten to fire people if they join the union, threaten to close your place of business if people join the union, promise benefits to those that do not join the union, or punish employees in any way for being a part of the union., Wait staff are employees who customarily receive more than $30 per month in tips. If you hire a wait staff, you may be able to take a tip credit, which will allow you to pay the employee a certain amount below the minimum wage., If you hire outside sales employees, you may be able to avoid certain provisions of the Fair Labor Standards Act (FLSA). If an employee qualifies, you may not have to pay them a normal minimum wage or overtime. To qualify as an outside sales employee, the person you hire must be making sales and must be doing most of their work away from your place of business., H1-B employees are non-immigrant aliens with a specific visa that allows them to work certain jobs within the United States. An H1-B employee must work in a field that requires highly specialized knowledge and the attainment of at least a bachelor's degree.Examples of H1-B jobs include engineers, architects, biologists, or economists.If you are employing H1-B workers, you must attest to the U.S. Department of Labor that you will pay wages to these workers in an amount that is equal to the amount you pay other workers doing the job, or the prevailing wage for the job in your area, whichever is greater.
 An intern is someone who volunteers at an organization in order to learn skills. You do not have to pay the intern if he or she qualifies as an intern under the law. In the U.S., someone is an intern if:

the internship is similar to training which would be received in an educational environment
the purpose of the internship is to benefit the intern
the intern does not replace regular employees but, instead, works with existing staff
the intern is not necessarily entitled to a job upon the internship’s completion
your company derives no immediate advantage from the intern’s activities and may, in fact, suffer on occasion from using the intern
both you and the intern understand that the intern is not entitled to wages

