 If you woke up and are struggling to get back to sleep, one excellent method of falling back to sleep quickly without moving or getting up is to try a technique called progressive muscle relaxation. It's easy and effective in helping people get back to sleep quickly.


Start with your feet, focusing all your attention on your feet. Breathe deeply, sending all your relaxation and your energy toward your feet. Feel your feet start to relax and start to fall asleep.
Next, move up your legs and feel your legs start relaxing. Progressively move to each section of your body, breathing "into" that body part and slowly relaxing your body in this way. Try to take at least 5-10 deep breaths per body part.;
, Sometimes, just focusing on breathing very deeply into your diaphragm can be an effective technique to help you fall back to sleep quickly. There's no big secret to it. Just focus on breathing deeply, holding it for a count of three, and letting it back out very slowly.


Breathing deeply helps to oxygenate your blood, making you feel relaxed and drowsy. Focusing your attention on your breath also helps to calm you mind and relax you.
 If your room is the wrong temperature, it can be very difficult to fall back to sleep. Some studies reveal that most people sleep best at a temperature of 68ʡF (20ʡC).The ideal sleeping temperature will vary depending on your personal preference, as well as the climate that you live in, but adjusting things gently can help you get more comfortable.


If you're too cold, get another blanket, or wear some more layers in bed. Adjust the thermostat or use a space heater if the room is very cold.
If you're too warm, try losing a blanket, or losing some layers. Turn on the air conditioning, or use a fan for some cool air and ambient sound in the room.
 If you're struggling to sleep, the position that you're sleeping in can be partly to blame. Try sleeping on your back if at all possible, or on your side if you feel more comfortable. Try to keep your neck and shoulders relatively straight while you sleep, to strengthen your spine and allow your muscles to relax.


Make sure your pillow is wide enough, and not too tall. If your pill angles your neck down, or bends your neck too much it can be very difficult to get to sleep and stay asleep.
If you sleep on your side, put a pillow between your legs to help keep your back straight.
Avoid sleeping on your stomach. This puts a lot of strain on your neck and can make you breathe improperly, making it very difficult to get to sleep.
 If you're feeling restless, your clothes could be to blame. Try to wear comfortable and loose cotton sleeping pajamas and avoid synthetic fabrics, wool, and other itchy fabrics that might irritate you during the night.


Some studies show that people who sleep naked actually report longer hours of sleep and better quality of sleep as well.Consider going au natural.

