  As part of your accounting process, you need to perform an annual stocktaking exercise to determine the value of your inventory.  This means making a list, or inventory, of your stock, noting its location and recording its value.  Tools such as barcodes or radiofrequency identification (RFID) tags help you to keep track of your stock.  You can keep track manually by having staff physically count the stock or electronically with stock control software., Manual systems work best for small businesses with few stock items.  You can choose from two methods for manual inventory control.  The first is known as the two bin inventory control system.  The second system involves creating a descriptive index and using inventory control cards.For the two bin system, determine a buying cycle for items and the amount purchased in each cycle.  For example, offices may purchase office supplies weekly or monthly.  To begin, purchase enough of the item to last two buying cycles.  Divide the items into two bundles.  When the first bundle is used up, it’s time to reorder enough for one buying cycle of the item.  Materials from the second bundle are used while the materials are being reordered.

 For the second system, create an index that lists all of the items in inventory and a file of cards for each item.  On each card, record an item description.  When an item is purchased or reordered, someone records the amount received, the unit price and other information such as an ordering description, a catalog number or the serial number.
  Inventory management software tracks inventory levels and records purchases, deliveries and sales of items in inventory.  Factories can also use it to produce production-related documents such as work orders and bills or materials.  It can perform an EOQ analysis of your inventory to help you keep optimum levels of inventory on hand.The advantages of using inventory management software include decreased carrying cost and ordering costs, increased efficiency of inventory management, better organization and security and information about trends in how materials are used.

 The disadvantages are that the software can be expensive, and it can be complex to use.  


