 Some nail avulsions are minor, leaving most of the nail attached, whereas others can take off an entire toenail. After your injury, properly care for the portion of the nail that’s left over to get your healing off on the right foot. Whatever is still attached, leave it attached. If a portion of the nail is unattached, gently clip it with clean nail clippers as close to the cuticle or to the attached area as possible.Cut along the line of the tear.


File any part of the nail left over so that it is smooth. This will help you avoid catching it on socks and bedding.
Ask a friend or loved one for help if you're squeamish or are having trouble. Children will probably need help from an adult when caring for a torn toenail.
If you are wearing a toe ring, make sure to take it off before you treat the torn nail. You can use soap and water to lubricate your skin if the jewelry is difficult to remove, or call a healthcare provider if you cannot remove it.;
, Apply direct pressure to the bleeding area with a clean cloth or a gauze pad.Keep pressure on the area for 10 minutes, or until the bleeding stops. It will also help to slow bleeding if you lie down and elevate your foot by propping it up on pillows.


If the bleeding hasn’t slowed after 15 minutes of pressure, seek medical care.
 Wash your toe with warm soapy water and a washcloth. If the wounded area is dirty, gently scrub the dirt away. Scrub off any dried blood or debris from the injury. Don't be afraid to ask a friend or loved one to help you. Clean the area as well as possible to prevent infection.


Gently pat the area dry with a clean towel or washcloth. Do not rub the area, which might cause more bleeding.
 When your toe is clean and dry, dab a topical antibiotic ointment such as Neosporin, Polysporin, or any of the "triple antibiotic" ointments onto the entire injured area. You can get these at most drug stores, without a prescription.These often come in cream form, as well. Be sure to get the ointment, which is better at preventing your bandage from sticking to the wound.
If the skin is intact and there are no cuts or scrapes, then you can just apply some petroleum jelly instead of antibiotic ointment.
 Apply a gauze pad or bandage over the injured toe (cut the pad to fit, if needed), then wrap around the toe with gauze several times to keep the bandage in place. Leave enough extra gauze at the top of your toe to gently fold it over the nail, creating a sort of bandage “cap” that you can later pull off easily. Tape over the top twice in crisscross fashion (like an X). Use two pieces of medical tape to adhere the bandage to your toe up by your foot, to help keep it in place.


Either purchase non-stick dressing, or be sure to apply antibiotic ointment or petroleum jelly before bandaging your toe. Be careful when removing the bandage not to pull on your toenail or injured area; if the bandage is sticking to your toe, soak it in warm water for a few minutes so it’s easier to remove.Don’t wrap your toe so tightly that it turns red or purple or loses feeling. The wrapping should stay in place and be snug, but not be uncomfortable tight.
 Every day, gently remove the bandage and wash your toe with warm, soapy water. Reapply your antibiotic ointment and put on a fresh bandage. If your bandage gets wet or dirty, put on a fresh one.You should do this for 7-10 days until the nail bed, the soft sensitive area underneath the nail, hardens.Ideally, put your new bandage on your toe each night before you go to bed. This will protect your injured nail from snagging on bedding or hitting something while you sleep.

