 The best way to prevent house fires is for your family to have a plan of escape in the event of a fire. You should form your plan and practice it at least twice a year to get comfortable with the routine and to ensure that you'll be clear-headed enough to carry out your plan if the time ever comes. Here are some things to keep in mind as you do this:


Plan to find two ways to escape from each room. You should always look for a second way out in case the first way is blocked. For example, if a door is blocked, you should find a way out through a window or a different door.
Practice escaping by crawling, being in the dark, and having your eyes closed.
 To make sure that your home is prepared for a house fire, check that your smoke detectors are functioning and always have fresh batteries, and make sure that your windows can be easily opened and that their screens can be quickly removed. If you have windows with security bars, they must have quick release devices to allow them to be opened right away. Everyone in your family should know how to open and close these windows. If your home is prepared for a house fire, you'll greatly improve your chances of staying safe during one.Buy collapsible ladders that are made by a nationally recognized laboratory (such as the Underwriters Laboratory, UL), in case you'll need them to get down from the roof.
 To prevent your house from catching fire in the first place, there are some safety precautions that you should take:Teach your children that fire is a tool, not a toy.
Always be in the kitchen when you're cooking something. Don't leave cooking food unattended.
Do not smoke in the house. Make sure you put out your cigarettes completely.
Dispose of any electronics with frayed wires, which could lead to a fire.
Avoid lighting candles unless they're directly in your light of vision. Do not leave a lighted candle in a room where no one is.
always check that you have turned the gas off before leaving the kitchen.
try to use gun or lighter instead of matchsticks.

