 Otherwise you could be pretty, behave nicely and still look like an unattractive person because of your clothing and makeup choices, or have great style, a great look, and still be unattractive because you are immature, rude or obnoxious.;
, Many stars have bad bone structure, crooked features or an overlarge nose, and still manage to look like a reasonably attractive person because they are fit and glowing with health. If you are anorexic, bulimic, or exercising too much, you'll really look unhealthy and you won't have the look. If you're consuming 5,000 calories a day, never exercising, and/or letting yourself go, then you will be unhealthy and thereby unglamorous as well. Go on an ideal weight website, and calculate your ideal weight for you age and height. You should be within 12 pounds of this weight. If not, ask a doctor whether or not yours is a healthy weight.
 If you are more than 9 pounds above your healthy weight, you may want to do something about it. The trick is not doing too much dieting or exercising excessively. Limit yourself to a maximum of two hours of exercise a day, but you probably only need around 15-60 minutes. Further, eat at least 1,300 calories a day if you don't play a sport or 1,700 if you do. Eat what you think is appropriate. Weight watchers is a good diet plan, but only your doctor can prescribe something that is 100% likely to work for you.
 If you are more than 9 pounds under your ideal weight, try consuming more healthy fats, like bananas and fat which is found in meats (not fast food meats or sausages; ham and chicken work). Try exercises that maintain flexibility rather than those designed to burn fat. If you play a sport, make sure to have enough protein and carbs.
 Remove all make up at night, drink at least 6 glasses of water a day and try to get at least 8 hours of sleep a night. Moisturize nightly and apply sunscreen daily. If you have acne, try an acne medication and change your pillowcase every night so you don't re-expose yourself to bacteria.
 Don't let your hair get greasy. Wash at least 3 times a week. Get a haircut to cure split ends, and try something fun and flirty. If your hair is just shoulder length go for a cut short style. If it's longer, try rocking long hair! Don't flat iron or blow dry often. It's terrible for your hair and it creates frizz. If you hair is flat use a teasing comb. Too full, use a sleek and shine serum.
 If you need glasses, try getting cute and chic frames or go with contacts.
 If you're curvy, emphasize your curves and your waist. Cinch your waist. If you're not curvy, don't wear clothes that will bag up in those areas. You can rock almost anything if you are skinny and flat. If you're skinny with curves, you can rock anything at all. If you're plumper, and without curves wear clothes that cinch at the waist to give the illusion of curves. Don't be afraid to wear skirts. Wear tops that have ruffles along the bust. If you're plumper with curves, also look for clothes that cinch at the waist and try curvy cut jeans or skirts that cinch at the waist. If you a medium without curves, you can get away with wearing lots of clothes. Avoid very low cut tops and curvy cut jeans. Try straight leg or skinny jeans. Try ruffled tops, and belts at your hips.
 If you have to chose between buying something classic or something trendy, go with classic. Don't have wild, all over the place outfits. Try not to layer to much. It looks sloppy. Wear clothes that are appropriate, and if you're skirt is slightly inappropriate, compensate by wearing an appropriate top or vice versa.
 They also make you automatically curvier and skinnier.
 If your outfit is wild, try for no accessories or only one. Chanel was wise to say, "Take off one piece before you leave the house." If you're only wearing a shirt, bottoms, and shoes, than you can discount this. The point is, if your wearing 4 accessories, lose the one that you least like or that clashes most. Try to go with at most, 2 accessories, apart from your handbag. This includes head bands and large scrunchies.
 If you must have a ponytail, try a layered ponytail. First pull up the hair around your crown so that your hair is half up. Secure it with a hair band. Next, pull all you hair into one ponytail and secure it with a hairband. By first pulling half up, your ponytail is given a slightly different style, and more volume that will stay. Two braids, half up, and side parted are also some things to try. If your hair is short, try clips or a headband.
 You should stay true to yourself, but you need to be calm at least 50% of the time. Calm doesn't mean bored or boring. It just means not hyper. You should be able to get excited sometimes, but not all the time. Always try to be friendly and if you don't like someone, at least be polite. Smile a lot, and make people believe that being around you is a fun thing.
 If it gets too quiet, they can come in handy to talk about or show off. Make sure to also ask people about their talents or interests. Do something really out there like write a book or a movie or go sky-diving or go somewhere exotic, so you can keep people interested always.
, Follow this guide, and trust me, you'll have no trouble getting the best of both worlds.

