 Traveling should be fun. When you are on a trip, you will want to do lots of activities that you are enjoy. Preferably, your companion will want to do the same things as you.Think about your travel priorities. Make a list of all of your "must dos".
For example, maybe you are planning a trip to France. If visiting The Louvre is a priority, make sure your travel partner wants to go, too.
Remember that you don't have to do all of the activities together. But when you travel with someone, it is fun to do at least some things with each other.;
, When you travel, there are many types of experiences that you could have. You could be very active or you might be looking for a more sedate trip. Find a travel partner who has an agenda and energy level similar to yours.Think about what type of trip you want to have. Are you looking forward to walking a lot? Do you plan to be doing a lot of physical activities, such as scuba diving?
If you anticipate being active, try to look for a friend who enjoys being active. Maybe your pal from the gym would be a good choice.
Likewise, if you plan to chill, take that into account. If you want to spend your days relaxing on the beach, you don't want a travel partner who will be constantly nagging you to get moving.
 Before you travel, you should plan a budget. Figure out what items are most important to you. For example, do you want to splurge on luxury lodging and save by not doing many excursions? Get a good idea of what things will cost.Before traveling with a friend, make sure that you are on the same page concerning money. You don't want to be planning an expensive getaway at the same time your friend is looking for budget travel.
Try asking specific questions. You can say, "How much do you think we should spend on a hotel each night?"
You can also plan a budget together. Say, "Let's sit down and work out how much we want to spend per day."

, If you are thinking about traveling with a companion, take some time to have an open discussion. You should discuss your goals for the trip. You could also talk about your travel style.Schedule a time to sit down and talk. Try saying, "I know we've talked hypothetically about traveling through Europe together. Let's have coffee this week and actually talk that through."
Be upfront. If there is something about you that your friend needs to know, go a head and share that.
For example, you might need to say, "I'm a nervous flyer. Is there anything I should know about traveling with you?"

, No matter how carefully you plan your trip, it is likely that something will go awry. Maybe it will rain on the day you planned to visit the Grand Canyon. Or you might not be able to get reservations at that French restaurant you've been dying to try.Choose a travel partner who can adjust. You don't want to be stuck with someone who declares the whole trip ruined if you have to adjust plans.
Travel with a friend who is pretty easygoing. Do you have a buddy who is willing to go out for sushi, even if you'd planned on having pizza? That person might be easy to get along with.
Make sure that you're flexible, too. Remember that you're on vacation to relax and have fun. Try to just go with the flow if you have to change your agenda.

