 This small-bodied snake is the most common snake in North America—there are over thirty species of garter snakes, with many more subspecies.While most garter snakes are a dullish-brown or green shade with stripes that run the length of their body, some species are not striped at all, some are much more brightly colored (for example, some are vermillion red, while others are bluish-green), and some exhibit a checkered pattern.Before you hit the wilderness in search of a garter snake to catch, you'll want to learn about the specific species of garter snakes in your area. You should be able to go to the website of your local DNR (Department of Natural Resources) to see images; this will help you identify the unique markings of garter snakes in your area and avoid those which may be more dangerous.;
, Technically, the garter snake's bite is venomous (their venom is a neurotoxin which slows down or paralyzes its prey), but the venom is not dangerous to humans.Even so, you may be worried about mistaking a dangerous venomous snake for a harmless garter snake. There's no one venomous snake that the garter snake mimics in appearance, and because it can look so different from region to region, and because the population of dangerous snakes also varies across the country, your best bet will be to research all of the snakes found in your area before you go out in the field.
You should visit the website of your DNR or purchase a field guide for your area to be able to view pictures of both the common garter snakes and the more dangerous snake species in your area.
 There are various reasons for deciding to catch a garter snake, of course. You may be thinking about catching one for a science project, to observe for a day or two, or perhaps even to add to an indoors tank (to become your “pet” of sorts). Many people, though, think that if they see garter snakes in their garden or yard, they must catch them to be rid of them (to either relocate them or kill them).


While there's no doubt stumbling upon a sunning garter snake as you reach for a ripe tomato will give you quite the scare, there's absolutely no need to run for the hoe or to set out traps with an eye to ridding your garden of snakes.
Indeed, snakes are a great addition to your garden's ecosystem, and can help you in your crusade against pesky rodents and crop destroying insects., You may be surprised to learn that many gardeners go to great lengths to try to attract garter snakes! You can try to entice them by providing them with hiding places (stacked rocks, sheets of plywood, or stumps) and fresh water sources (such as shallow fountains or ground-level birdbaths)., If you are intent on catching a garter snake for observational purposes or to keep as a pet (please think twice before catching one to use as part of a prank!), you should spend some time scoping out the areas where snakes are most likely to be found.


Generally speaking, garter snakes migrate around moist areas with still water sources; you may be able to find them in these areas when they are on the hunt for their various prey (insects, frogs, and small mammals).As reptiles, garter snakes are “ectotherms,” which means that they must obtain their heat from external (outside) sources. Consequently, these “cold-blooded” creatures can often be found basking on rocks on cooler days in an effort to warm up, and resting in shady spots when it is warmer.
 Garter snakes also spend a good amount of time in their dens. They tend to create their dens under large rocks or stable structures. Thus, good places to look for them are around or under piles of building materials, along the foundations of buildings, under steps, or tucked away in log piles or stone walls., Luckily, you don't need any special equipment to catch garter snakes. Because they are not harmful to humans, you don't need to worry about expensive protective gear (though you should take care to not get bitten in order to avoid a possible secondary infection—plus, it probably won't feel too great to be bitten, even if the bite won't cause lasting damage!).


Some materials that you may find helpful are a soft net, bag and/or pillowcase and a forked stick.We'll explain how you will use these materials in subsequent steps.
Alternatively, you can bring a large bucket along with your forked stick. Make sure that the bucket has a lid with ventilation.
 Garter snakes will usually attempt to flee when they feel threatened, but they can become aggressively defensive, especially if they feel trapped or are captured. They may bite, and they may also secrete strong smelling anal secretions.Because the garter snake's venom is not dangerous to humans, you don't need to worry about expensive protective gear. Even so, the bites can become infected, and some people experience swelling and/or get a rash after being bitten.Thus, it's a good idea to bring (and wear) protective gloves when you head out. Gardening gloves (or slightly heavier work gloves) should be thick enough to protect you but still allow you to grab and handle the snake with relative ease.
 You'll have better luck catching a garter snake if you can be prepared in the early morning as the snake leaves it den and sets off in search of its breakfast.


The snakes are more likely to be a bit sluggish in the morning than they will be later in the day.Taking advantage of this will improve your chances that you'll be able to snag one of these slippery creatures.
 Garter snakes are excellent at sensing both their prey and their predators (you!), so you'll want to take precautions to not scare them off as you advance.


Because garter snakes can sense vibrations in the ground, you'll want to be as quiet as possible. Wear soft-soled shoes, tread lightly, and if possible, limit the size of your “hunting” party., Garter snakes can also “smell” the air around them and will quickly identify any foreign odors. If the snake is downwind from you, your scent will have reached it far before you arrive, alerting it to your advance.Thus, you should avoid wearing any strong scents, colognes or perfumes, and travel into the wind if at all possible.
 Once you've spotted a snake, continue to move as quietly as possible. Approach the snake from behind and stay as low to the ground as possible., So long as you are certain that the snake before you is a garter snake, you needn't take extreme precautions as you would with a more dangerous snake. Of course, if there's any chance that the snake may be a more dangerous type, you should put a halt to your outing until you are able to verify that the snake is not a threat.


If you brought along a forked stick, you can now use it to help you pin down the snake. This will make it easier for you to be able to grab it or scoop it into your net, and can also help prevent it from biting you.
Try to place the forked end of the stick as close behind the snake's head as possible. If you place it lower down on the body, the snake may be able to twist around and bite you., If you are certain that the snake you are attempting to catch is a harmless garter snake, then you can scoop it up in almost any manner that you like (or are able to). This means that you can grab it by the tail and attempt to drop it into an open net, pillowcase or bucket (drop the lid on top as soon as the snake is in—they can move quickly!).


To be on the safer side though, do your best to grab the snake behind the head so that it won't be able to swing back and bite you., If you forgot your gloves, or if the snake manages to bite through the material, you do not need to worry about being in immediate danger. If you are bitten, you need to carefully clean your wound and keep a close eye on it.


Puncture wounds caused by the snakes fangs may appear to heal quickly, but if you haven't thoroughly cleaned the wound, dirt and bacteria could be trapped under your skin and lead to a potentially dangerous infection.Don't hesitate to seek medical attention if your wound doesn't heal soon or if you experience significant swelling or a rash.
 If you only plan on keeping your garter snake for a day's observation, it should be fine kept in a deep, lidded bucket (with ventilation holes) with a bit of grass and a misting of water.


If you decide to keep your garter snake, you will need to transfer it to a more suitable home and learn about its dietary needs. Be sure to read our our wikiHow on how to take care of your garter snake.

