 Hair that feels severely dry and brittle should be handled by a professional, since treating it at home can often cause even more damage. Bleach strips the hair of natural pigment, and when too much pigment is lost, professional treatments are required to restore it back to health.If you do get a professional treatment, you'll need to follow up at home by applying hydrating conditioners during each wash and deep conditioning masks at least once a week. You should also avoid dyeing your hair again for several weeks or months, depending on the severity of the damage.If you're satisfied with the color of your bleached blonde hair but just need to add a little moisture back in, you might consider home treatment. Going to a salon will still minimize the risk of further damage, but as long as your hair isn't breaking apart every time you handle it, you can probably restore it to health without altering the color at home.
 If you choose to fix brittle bleached hair at home, you need to stay away from shampoo for at least one week. You can still shower every two or three days during that week, but only apply conditioner during this initial period.Bleach strips away pigment and oil, leaving your hair raw and weakened. Shampoos also strip away oil, but does so to a lesser degree. While the amount of oil stripped away by shampoo is usually healthy for your hair, hair weakened by bleach needs time to recover and restore a healthy balance of natural oils, and constantly removing those oils with shampoo will prevent that from happening.If your scalp feels too oily during this first week, switch to a cleansing conditioner but still skip the shampoo. A cleansing conditioner will be a much gentler way to clean the skin of your scalp without removing healthy oils from your hair., After the first week passes, you can probably return to shampooing your hair. Select a gentle moisturizing or color-preserving formula, though, and stay away from harsher clarifying shampoos. You should also skip one or two days in between washings to avoid stripping away too much.


It’s also a good idea to use warm water instead of hot water when shampooing. Hot water will dry your hair out faster, worsening the damage caused by bleach. Try to make your showers shorter, too, to limit the amount of time your hair is exposed to the water.
 When you begin shampooing again, put away the clarifying conditioner and switch to an ultra-hydrating leave-in conditioner. Your hair is still dry and damaged at this point, so you need to use a product that will add moisture back into your hair to restore it to health.After washing your hair with shampoo and rinsing it out, apply the leave-in conditioner according to label instructions. This may mean massaging a dime-sized amount of conditioner into your hair or spritzing your entire head of hair with conditioner in spray form. Either way, it’s important to leave the conditioner in your hair without rinsing it out.
 A natural oil mask can be a great way to restore additional moisture to your hair. Apply the oil mask before shampooing your hair, leave it in for 30 to 60 minutes, then wash your hair with a gentle shampoo and skip the leave-in conditioner. Do this about once a week until your hair feels and looks healthy again.You'll need anywhere from 2 to 4 Tbsp (30 to 60 ml) of oil, depending on the length of your hair. Stick with either olive oil or coconut oil since other oils may not hydrate your hair quite as well.
Focus on applying the oil to your hair while avoiding the scalp. Your scalp should already be producing oil at this point, and applying additional oil to the scalp can make your roots feel grimy even though the rest of your hair could still be dry.If you're not interested in natural hair masks, you should still consider a commercial hair mask once per week for correcting bleach damage. Apply the commercial mask according to label instructions.
 If possible, allow your hair to air dry instead of using a hair dryer. Heat will dry your hair out further, making the damage worse. If you cannot skip the hair dryer completely, let your hair air dry mostly, then touch it up by drying the remaining moisture with the cool heat setting of your dryer.Consider misting your hair with a heat protecting spray before drying it.
Even if you blow dry your hair, it's vital that you completely skip the flat iron and curling iron while restoring the health of bleached hair.

