 But first, make sure you have an adapter with a car mount so you can use it yourself when your friends aren’t around (no tickets or accidents for us!).;
, One day, likely a long time from now, you will want to remember that time in your life and - well - he was there for some of it. So keep a couple that reflect who you were and put them in a deep subfolder for much later retrieval. If you're in deep pain - put them somewhere where you don't have access right now but will later - find someone who will not give you their password or the pics until you have shown yourself to be ok for at least 3 months.


Deleting the pics that you're going to: When you’re ready, make sure you have a good camera battery, call a best friend and delete all the pictures of what’s-his-face. The friend is there so you don’t get stuck on any one picture of relational bliss, and the new and fully-charged camera battery—well that’s just good sense. It would be terrible if your battery ran out and you had to go through the pain again. Try not to leave any favorite photos—they’re just masochistic, and loan your friend an old t-shirt so you don’t cry mascara on her new favorite tank.
 Gather your friends, or set out on a photo safari alone, and make new memories. Get your tripod, hit the timer and pose away—until your memory card runs out, that is! You can use these photos to fill frames that might be empty, or replace your computer background with friendly faces. No matter where you choose to put them, it certainly can’t hurt to be surrounded by pictures of the people who love you no matter what.
 No one needs to be watching your love life that closely—not even your mother! Open up your laptop, sign in and remove the “Relationship Status” section all together. Just say no. I know it’s hard, but ending the relationship and putting up “single” doesn’t make it easier. You can even ask friends who aren’t going through this to take the plunge with you and delete their statuses too. Taking that information down means no one can track your relationship status or ask unnecessary (and often inappropriate) questions. If anyone asks where it went, tell them you’re trying to fend off certain nosey individuals (and hopefully they’ll get the hint). Trust me; this will save you lots of tears reliving the heartache (or the felony charge for punching over-inquisitive girls in the face).


If the boyfriend or you are having a hard time, it is good to un-friend them for awhile. Then reset your privacy settings so that info/pics on you are only available to friends. Revisit your profile while you're at it. Likely you have new favorite songs, sayings, interests...good time to make some updates.

If he has been tagged in pics with you or you with him, you likely want to get rid of these. Easy if you did the tagging - there should be a command below to do that. If not you, check out Facebook help or the other online sites to find out how to do it.
 And make it a big change, not just a couple of letters or the year. Use this as a one word statement to remind yourself that you're going to get better every time you sign on. This also keeps ex from figuring out new one.
 Many times there is a lot of drama among friends and family as well as with ex and you'll want to know if anything bad is being said anywhere that you can control. If it comes up, go to the ISP or the company controlling the site, contact their help desk and tell them to take it down. Use your own drama here if you have to. If ex is really out of control report it to the abuse at whatever site. Example: abuse@yahoo.com.
 This also eliminates being the subject of the 2 a.m. messages, the drunk messages, the prank calls and texts from their accounts. You can always take the filters off later if or when you're friends.
 Sign up with a non-traceable user i.d. and account and join in on some of the really good forums out there with people going through the same thing - and those who are further along in the process. It helps to read up on the different stages of breakups and healing.

