 No matter the room, changing the color of paint can give a familiar space new life. Use neutral colors like tan, light gray, and off-white if you’re planning on putting up art. If you favor bare walls, try more sophisticated colors like navy or olive. Kids will love rooms painted in vivid blues or greens.Try to match your paint to your furniture. For instance, if your furniture is mostly brown, paint your wall a light brown or a complimentary color like olive or maroon.
To provide a visual center to a room, paint one wall a different color than the rest. For instance, you might want to paint three walls of your bedroom a light gray and paint the fourth a tangerine shade.;
, Interior lighting comes in many different forms. Certain types of lighting work best in the kitchen, while others work best in the living room. For instance, pendant lights look great over the sink.Run some rope lights beneath the edges of floor-level cabinets in the bathroom and kitchen. Sometimes making over the lighting is as easy as changing a lampshade or a light fixture.

Antique or vintage stores are great places to pick up unique lampshades and lighting fixtures.
 There are multiple options for sprucing up your floor. Install flooring that is flat and smooth in kitchens so that it can be easily cleaned when spills inevitably occur. Tile and natural wooden floors are the best options. Use natural wooden floors in bedrooms, bathrooms, and living rooms.If you want to install carpets or rugs, dark colors will better conceal stains, but lighter colors will make the room feel bigger.
If you already have wooden flooring, consider re-sanding and resealing it.
 Sometimes you can give your old furniture a new lease on life by simply adding a coat of paint. Choose a color that compliments the walls and floor. Alternately, consider stripping the paint off your furniture, sanding it down, and resealing it for a beautiful, natural look.Instead of repainting, wrap your furniture in wallpaper. This allows you to create unique patterned furniture.

