 Exfoliating prior to shaving and after should become integral to your shaving routine. The first step aligns the hairs and gets rid of dead skin cells to get a smoother more even cut and the second time around wipes away all the up-churned bacteria and skin that can clog otherwise clean pores.


So if you have razor bumps already, exfoliating will force away the very top layer of dead skin cells, in time exposing the hair that is curled up underneath. The more you exfoliate, the quicker this process will go.
 Every time you shave, you should finish off with a moisturizer. Aloe vera, baby oil, or any non-scented, non-perfumed lotion will do. But to treat razor bumps, consider also using a razor bump cream or other, anti-inflammatory cream.


Hydrocortisone creams, retin-A creams, and products like Neosporin will reduce redness and itch. Products with salicylic acid or glycolic acid (for in razor bump creams) will eliminate the top layer of skin, to get rid of the ingrown hair.
 Some people have very sensitive skin, especially around their pubic area. To avoid the razor but still be hairless, switch to waxing. However, know that waxing can lead to histamine reactions and ingrown hairs, too -- so take the pain with a grain of salt.


The other option is not to shave. Yeah, yeah, yeah, not an option. But really, would you rather have some hair growing in or little red bumps? Because right now it's one or the other. Try skipping a few days between shaves if you shave often. You'll live.
 You want to avoid as many possible irritants as possible when you've got a case of the bumps, and tight clothing is at the top of that list. Wearing tight undies doesn't let your skin breathe and as a result, the skin clogs, bacteria gets trapped, and the problems get worse. No thank you!


Go for loose clothing if you can, too. The bumps around your thighs won't benefit from tight jeans or leggings. If anyone asks why you're wearing sweats, well, for starters it's none of their business. But you can tell them you're running a wikiHow experiment. Results inconclusive, but you'll keep them posted when you know.
 If you're out of creams in your mom's medicine cabinet and out of gas in your car, search the kitchen for other possible alternatives. Razor bumps have been around for ages and there are treatments to prove it.


Make a "mask" out of pureed cucumber and milk (1:2 ratio). Apply it to the area for 10-20 minutes and then rinse it off. The redness should be greatly reduced.Douse the bumps in cornstarch and let it sit for 20 minutes. Then, rinse off thoroughly. It should dry up the redness and shrink the bumps.