 Narcissa came from a wealthy, pure blood family, so it is certain that her clothes would be new and in very good condition. You can look at pictures of her online for inspiration, but she mainly wore green and black robes.;
, The first thing you need is a ruffled tan shirt. It should preferably have a puffy collar. If you find a shirt with a ruffled collar and sleeves, but don't like some ruffles, you can cut them off. Save the ruffles for making the pants, but don't cut off all the ruffles, it is an essential part of her costume.
 They should be tight, but not too tight. Sew the ruffles on the ankles and a little bit up the calves. The ruffles on the calves should make a curved upside down V when the pant legs are pressed together.
 To make one, pick up a big swath of black fabric (satin is best) and make sure it reaches your ankles. Cut holes for your arms to go through and add sleeves that droop at the wrists. Cut off any excess fabric and sew it on to create a hood. Finally, add some silver embellishments to make it shine. Add a silver clasp at the neck to hold it together. If you want, you can also add a Slytherin crest, as that was Narcissa's house.


You can also purchase a ready-made cape or ask to borrow one.
 These should be plain, and preferably flats, although heels will work as well. If you choose heels, make sure you know how to walk in them a few day before the event you're dressing up at without tripping on the robe.
 Narcissa had black hair in the books, and blonde highlights in the movies. Any darker hair colour can stand on its own, but if you adore her highlights, you can either dye your hair (temporary or permanent), but there's also the option of buying several light blonde hair extensions and weaving them through your hair. Alternatively, you could buy an inexpensive costume wig (check online sites for cheap options).


If you have blonde hair, however, it might be easier to get black hair extensions instead.
 If you want it, look at the article How to Do Narcissa Malfoy Makeup. If you don't, just washing up the night before will do.
 It was well known Narcissa supported Voldemort, but unknown to whether she had the dark mark or not. This is a matter of opinion (although it is unlikely she did, seeing as Bellatrix is the only female Death Eater, and Narcissa was not summoned when the Dark Lord was reborn). If you think she did have the mark, either use a black eyeliner pencil or temporary tattoo.
 You can buy a Narcissa wand or make your own wand.

