 Instead, cater to a specific interest or niche. Browse through message boards and blogs to get an idea of what people want. You can also visit online stores and marketplaces that rank search results by popularity.
 The downfall of selling jewelry online is that buyers cannot examine the piece in person. As a result, clear, informative photographs are essential. Take pictures using a high-resolution digital camera. Photograph each piece of jewelry from different angles, getting as close as possible without blurring the image and using natural light or other clear lighting. You may even want to prop the jewelry up next to coins or other items that show the size of each piece.


As your business grows, you can consider hiring a photography student or professional photographer to take better pictures for you.
 Pricing an item too high will discourage customers for obvious reasons, but pricing an item too low will decrease the perceived value of a piece. There are several common pricing models used by jewelry designers.First, you must determine the wholesale value. Then, determine the retail pricing that you will sell at.


The simplest wholesale value scale is to take the total material cost and multiply it by 3 or 3.5.
You can also factor labor into the wholesale cost more directly by multiplying the number of hours you worked by an hourly wage, like $35 per hour, and taking the product of that equation and adding the total cost of the material to it.
Determine the retail price by multiplying the wholesale price by any number between 1.4 and 2.0, depending on how high quality you feel your jewelry is.
 Accurate keywords will draw interested customers to your shop while making sure uninterested customers are not misled there. You should also take into consideration the types of keywords you choose.


When people shop via online search engines, they generally type in the most basic information possible. For instance, someone looking for a heart-shaped pendant is likely to search for "heart necklace" or "heart pendant." When choosing titles and keywords, avoid using overly specific terms that are unlikely to show up on a search engine hit.
At the same time, you should avoid being too vague. A necklace titled "silver aquamarine heart necklace" will pick up more hits than one titled "heart necklace," since anyone interested in "silver," "aquamarine," "heart," or "necklace" will have a chance at making it to your online shop.
 Advertise you products on as many social media websites as possible. Actively seek out friends and followers, and continually post links to new listings in your online store.
 Instead of advertising in forums that are geared toward jewelry makers, advertise in forums that are a little more neutral. Create a blog and connect to other bloggers with an interest in fashion and design. Join message board communities and leave a link to your online store in your signature, as long as the rules of the board allow it.
 You only pay for these advertisements when someone clicks on the ad and is redirected to your store. Essentially, you are advertising your online shop and only paying for the people who notice your ad.
 Your homemade jewelry business may stay online, but that does not mean your marketing campaign should. While the majority of your advertising should be done online, you can also print flyers or business cards to spread out around your local area. Include information about how to visit your online jewelry listings, as well as information and pictures of some of the jewelry you sell.

