 Making a mouse sock puppet is easier than it might seem, but you will need some special materials and tools. Gather these items before you begin:two fuzzy socks (you can use one green and one white sock, or use two different colors of your choice!)
Styrofoam ball halves (NO3 type)
one pompom (red is a good choice, but you can choose the color!)
precision knife
craft foam in red, green, black, and white
scissors
hot glue gun
marker
piece of cardboard;
, The parts pattern will give you an actual size diagram that you can use to trace and cut out the parts that you will need to make your mouse sock puppet. Print out the pattern and cut out the parts for the mouth, ears, and tongue so that you can trace them onto the craft foam.You can download the parts pattern at: http://anadiycrafts.com/mouse-sock-puppet/


, Make sure that you give the hot glue gun enough time to warm up before you use it. Otherwise, it will not be as effective. Try switching it on about 15 to 20 minutes before you get started.


Also, when using a hot glue gun, keep the gun tip close to the item that you are gluing. If you hold it too far away, then the glue will dry before it reaches the item., Take the mouth pattern and lay it over your cardboard piece. Then, use your marker to trace the mouth shape onto the cardboard. Next, cut along the marker lines to create your cardboard mouth piece., Lay the sock heel side up on your work surface and position your cardboard mouth piece to see where you will need to glue it. You will need to place it near the toe of the sock and allow a little space around the edges.Once you have decided on the best position for the mouth, apply some hot glue to the back of your cardboard piece and press the cardboard piece onto the sock.
 Curl up the sock around the cardboard piece's edges to create a raised border. Apply a line of hot glue to the edges as you go.Make sure that you press the sock into the edges and hold for a second.
 After you have finished creating a border around the cardboard piece, take the mouth pattern and lay it over the red craft foam. Use the marker to trace around the edges of the pattern and then cut it out., Lay the red foam mouth piece over the cardboard piece. Then, apply glue to the back of the red foam mouth piece and secure it to the cardboard piece.Make sure that any remaining marker is facing down.
Check the position of the red foam mouth piece before you attach it to the cardboard piece.
 Use the tongue pattern to trace the tongue piece over the black craft foam. Then, cut out the tongue piece. It should look like a black heart when you are done. Position the tongue piece over the lower portion of the mouth piece.When you have decided where to position your tongue piece, apply glue to the back side of the tongue piece and press it into place.
 Your foam ball or ball halves will be the eyes of your puppet. If you just have a foam ball, then you will need to cut it in half. Then, take the two halves of the foam ball and lay them flat side down. Next, use the precision knife to cut off a piece of the foam near the edge.When you are finished, you should have two foam ball halves that have a flat edge on one side. You should be able to place the foam pieces side-by-side and they should fit together.
 Cut out two thin strips of black craft foam. Then, use hot glue to attach these strips to the rounded parts of the foam so that they look like the edges of eyelids.Next, cut off a piece of your second fuzzy sock. The piece should be wide enough and long enough to wrap all the way around the foam ball.
Glue the sock material over the eyelid area to create the fuzzy eyelids.
Cut off any excess sock material from the edges of the eyelids.
 Cut out two 1.5 centimeter circles from the black craft foam. Then, cut out a small wedge from each of the circles. Next, glue the circles onto the rounded foam part of the eyes so that the wedges are pointing in the same direction (either to the right or to the left)., Once your eyes are finished, you can glue them to your sock. Glue the eyes onto the fuzzy side of the sock, opposite the puppet’s mouth. The flat sides of the eye pieces should be facing each other. The eyes should also be placed close together so that the fuzzy sock borders are touching., Use a dot of hot glue to glue the pompom to the center of the sock’s toe area. This will be the puppet’s nose. The pompom should be positioned on the opposite of the mouth side and just a little below the eyes., Use the ear pattern and your marker to trace the ears onto the green craft foam. Then, cut out the two ears from the green craft foam. Check the position of the ears and then glue the ears to the sock and to the backs of the eyes.Apply a line of hot glue along the flat edges of each ear and apply a dot of hot glue to the bottom part of each ear as well. Make sure that you press the ears firmly into place.
 Cut out six long, thin strips of black craft foam. Then, attach each of the thin strips to the base of the nose using a small dot of hot glue at the base of the nose. After all of the whiskers are attached, trim the whiskers to that they are all about the same length., Cut out two white foam squares for the teeth. Then, apply some hot glue to one side of one of the foam squares and fold it in half. Make sure that the edges are lined up and hold the edges in place for a few seconds. Then, apply hot glue to one side of the foam and fold it in half again in the same way.Repeat this process for the other tooth.
Trim the short edges of the teeth so that they are about the same length and so that the edges are even.
 Take one of the teeth and apply a line of hot glue to one of the short edges. Then, press the tooth into top part of the puppet’s mouth near the edge of the red foam.Make sure that the tooth is placed on one side of the nose and that there will be room for the other tooth on the other side. Leave a small gap between the teeth as well.
Press gently to make sure that the teeth stay in place.
When both teeth are attached, trim them down a bit so that they are even with each other.
 Your sock puppet is now finished and ready to use! You can use your puppet to play, entertain your friends with it, or make some more puppets and put on a puppet show!

