 One way to help improve memory and keep it sharp is to use memory-triggering phrases on a daily basis. You can repeat these phrases to yourself aloud or have others around you use them. Memory triggering phrases have been shown to improve memory loss.For example, you may use a common saying that the person uses as a memory trigger. Perhaps the person tends to say the phrase, “A rolling stone gathers no moss.” You may then have the person say the phrase often, with you saying the first part of the phrase and them completing the second half of the phrase.;
, Another option is to post reminders around your home on post-its or small slips of paper. This can help trigger your memory and keep you sharp. You may write down the reminders yourself or have someone close to you write down the reminders and post them around your living space.People with Alzheimer's often find it difficult to remember how to complete daily tasks, even if they were once routine. You may get halfway through a task and not remember the final steps. Having the steps written down can help you go through your day without too much interruption.For example, perhaps you want to be sure you remember how to use your coffee machine. You may then write down instructions and post them on the coffee machine so they are there for reference in the event you start to forget how to use it.
You can also post reminders for important tasks you might forget, such as to turn off the stove after cooking.
 You can maintain your memory by putting up photographs and images of loved ones and relatives in your living space. You may print out pictures of your family and tape them up around your home or frame images and hang them in a room you use often. Visual cues like photographs can really help your memory stay present and sharp.Label the pictures with each person's name.


For example, you may hang a piece of string over your fireplace and hang photographs of friends and family on the string, replacing the images when you start to worry you are forgetting someone’s face.
You can also carry photographs in your pocket or your purse to help you remember the names and faces of your loved ones. This way, when you are in a conversation with someone and start to forget a name, you can pull out the photographs to help you remember.
 You can improve your memory by doing word games on your own or with family and friends. You may do crossword puzzles, word guessing games, or spelling challenges. Doing word games can help your memory stay sharp and allow you to retain information about language.You can also try playing board games with others, as they are a good way to keep your memory present.
 You may play “name that tune” on your own or with others. Listen to the radio and challenge yourself to remember the name of the song as well as the name of the artist.You may also play your favorite music and play “name that tune” to ensure you have not forgotten any of your favorite tracks.

