 If she only sees you around every once in a while, you won’t be on her mind that often. If you want a shot with her, you need to see her regularly


Join her friend group. Ingratiate yourself to her best friends. If her friends hold you in high regard, chances are she will, too. Being part of her friend group ensures that you will be invited to events that she will be attending.
Get her phone number. Wait for a natural opportunity to ask for her number. You were having a conversation and it was cut off? Ask for her number so you can continue talking. You’re planning a get-together for your friend group? Perfect reason to make sure you have her number.
 Make sure she sees that you’re a positive person to have in her life. Do you have a great sense of humor? Are you empathetic and open to talking about your feelings? Are you particularly creative? Slip these traits into your conversation with her or her friends. She’ll start to see what she’s missing out on.
 No relationship is perfect, and there are likely things she’d change about her boyfriend if she could.


Casually ask her about her relationship. As she grows to trust you, she’ll share more information with you. If she tells you that her boyfriend never takes the time to hear about her day, don’t tell her that you’d always make time to listen to her if you were in his shoes. Store this information. Another day, make sure you ask her how her day is going and actively listen.If you are hanging out with her friends while she’s not around, pay attention if they are gossiping. They may say something about her relationship that you can use to play up your strengths in contrast to her boyfriend’s weaknesses.
 You’ve set the stage so that she sees you in good light. You can decide if your move will be verbal or physical. Will you tell her you’re attracted to her or just lean in for the kiss? Wait for a time when the two of you are alone and the mood is light.
 Though you've been contemplating this for a while, it could be totally out of the blue for her.


If she tells you she’s attracted to you, too, give her some time to decide if she wants to act on that. Don’t pressure her. That will make her withdraw from your friendship and undo the work that you’ve done to show yourself off.
If you physically hook up with her, recognize that there will be consequences. In all likeliness, she’ll feel guilty, and might even be angry with you for disrespecting her relationship status. You will seriously damage any relationship you have with her boyfriend, and likely with mutual friends.

If you make this move and she tells her boyfriend, you will probably be cut out of her life unless they decide to break up.
 Regardless of whether you expressed your feelings emotionally or physically, give her time to process her feelings. She may decide that she wants to give a relationship with you a shot. She may decide that she wants to stay with her boyfriend. Once she makes that decision, that’s it. Trying to convince her to change her mind will only make her put up walls. 