 You should have showered the night before, and your ponytail or bun ensures volume and waves. Change into fresh underwear and put on your pre-picked clothes for the first day. Go have a delicious breakfast, and scrub your teeth until they're super clean! Use mouthwash if you have some, and don't forget to floss. If you have whitening strips, feel free to put some on while you get ready. Brush your hair and put it into your preferred style for the day. Paint your nails if you have time, and always remember the clear top coat matters!


When you put on nail polish, color it to match that day's outfit (you'll have to take it off at night) or make it neutral for the whole week (one week only, then take it off or repaint it).
 You should be early, so you can start talking. Put everything away in your locker. Make it organized, that'll get you points.
 Walk down the hall with a sincere smile. If you see someone whose not talking to anybody and isn't walking, go up to them and introduce yourself. If they're in the same grade, great! If they like you and they're older, even better.


Socializing with upperclassmen is fantastic, because you'll get known by the older kids. People want to be friends with kids who are in with the older kids - it's a one way ticket out of bullying!

, Try to be one of the first in line, and if the teacher asks if anybody would like to introduce themselves, take the offer. People should know about you - your name, age, what you like. Introduce yourself to the people around you.
 Just take a seat and greet them. Tell them your name. If they engage a discussion, as them what they're into, and then tell them a little about you. Hopefully they'll be a little more chatty by then!

, Make sure they know your name, because you want everyone to! When you have to leave, say goodbye and you hope you can talk with them tomorrow. It makes people know you care about them, and that you enjoy their company. Compliment everybody you meet on their top, pants, shoes, jacket, outfit, necklace, etc. if you mean it. It makes people feel liked.

