 Hydrophobia is the fear of water. This condition occurs when a bitten person enters into the late stage of rabies infection. He or she will go into a panic or have spasms at the sight, touch, or sound of water.Aerophobia (fear of breezes) and photophobia (fear of bright lights) have also been known to occur in people who have been infected with rabies., Convulsions start when the virus enters the bloodstream and gains access to the brain. Once in the brain, it starts to disrupt the brain’s functioning. This causes the bitten person to have uncontrolled jerky movements of the whole body or parts of the body.The person may develop aggression that can also lead to aggressive, jerky movements. If this happens, take measures to keep yourself clear of their saliva and rush them to a hospital.
 When the virus begins affecting the nerves, it will make some parts of the body begin to lose sensation. This loss makes the bitten person feel numb in some parts of the body. The feeling is like if you had had anesthesia injected into a part of your body—you know that part of the body is there but you can't feel it.
 Dysphagia means the person is having difficulty swallowing. The bitten person will have difficulty swallowing because the virus will cause the muscles in the throat to begin spasming. This can also lead to an increased amount of saliva, as described in the previous step.The person may also begin foaming at the mouth.
 The virus can make the bitten person have sensory impressions of things that are not present. This includes smelling things that are not there or seeing things that are not there. This is caused by the effect virus affecting the normal functioning of the brain.


The person might begin talking to people that you can't see, or reacting to things that you aren't experiencing.
 Unfortunately, when the symptoms of this condition are apparent, treatment will not help, and there is pretty much nothing that can be done to alter the course of the illness. These late stage symptoms will generally last for two to ten days, and will almost always result in death.There have been only two reported cases of survival after administering antiviral therapy in this late stage., If you think a person may have been bitten and then not treated right away, or if the person is exhibiting the symptoms listed in this section, you must get him or her to the hospital immediately.
 When there is a delay in treatment and the patient develops the symptoms, supportive treatment is usually given. The patient will be given powerful painkillers, tranquilizers and sedatives to help them be as comfortable as they can be., The areas of the body that have muscle spasms should be massaged and stretched to help in reducing the pain. This will be done by trained nurses.

