 While there a lot of different ways to choose a bat, the most important criteria is comfort. You should, first and foremost, feel natural when swinging. To find the correct bat you should take your dominant hand and hold the bat parallel to the ground. It should feel slightly heavy and difficult to hold up. Choose a bat a 1/3 of an ounce lighter than this weight.Check out this table of bat lengths by body type to get a good idea where to start shopping.
 This is the best thing you can do to get more power on the ball quickly. You want your arms and knees to be slightly bent and loose, not tensed. Work on swinging naturally and smoothly, avoiding jerky movements meant to hit the ball hard.








Remember, good mechanics and a smooth swing are more important than trying to force as much power on your swing as you can.
 Despite its reputation as a little-league tool, the tee is great way to practice your swing mechanics and work on hitting the bottom 2/3 of the ball. Take 20-30 reps every day your practice, practicing not only how you hit the ball but where.


Focus on hitting the lower two-thirds of the ball to get the best height and distance on the ball you can. You can tell when you hit it well by comparing distances.
 While even smaller players can hit the ball out of the park with good mechanics, it is easier to hit the ball farther when you are stronger. Remember, however, that swinging a bat requires your whole body, not just your arms. Areas to focus on include:



Abs and Core: A strong core helps you transfer energy from your legs through your torso, and is essential for bat speed and power. Incorporate sit-ups, crunches, planks, and medicine ball throws into every workout.

Legs: Most of your power comes through your legs, so you can often make the most dramatic gains through squats, leg presses, and box jumps.

Arms: Of course, you have to have strong arms to hit the ball hard. Practice swings and hitting off the tee should be a part of every workout, but you can also incorporate barbell rows, bench-press, and forearm curls to gain the bat speed needed for home runs.
 This is one of the best ways to diagnose problems with your swing and get more power. Set up a camera and take 10-20 swings from a pitcher and 10-20 off of a tee. There are several common problems to note:


Dropping your or hands before your swing.Moving your lower body frequently before and during the swing.
Forgetting to turn your hips.
Opening the feet away from the plate., The best way to hit home runs is to keep practicing. You need to work hard to get used to different pitches, hone your mechanics, and build strength with the bat. Practice makes perfect, so take as many chances you can to hit pitches. Having a coach or trusted friend to point out mistakes or tweak your form often helps.

