 Each state has its own set of laws and regulations that control who may see a driver’s motor vehicle report. The driver himself may, of course, request the report. Therefore, as an employer or prospective employer, you could require employees or prospective employees to obtain their own reports and then present them to you. Alternatively, you will have to check with your state’s Department of Motor Vehicles to find out if you are authorized.


For example, in Oklahoma, only certain categories of requests may be allowed by someone other than the driver himself. These include insurance companies, licensed private investigators, or employers if the employee uses a commercial driver’s license (CDL) in his or her employment.Michigan, by contrast, has a longer list of individuals who may request another person’s motor vehicle report. The list consists of thirteen different categories and does allow for employers to check the reports of their employees. However, this allowance is only to check for fraud and not for making employment decisions.The Commonwealth of Kentucky will allow a record request by anyone for any purpose, as long as you can demonstrate that you have the permission of the person whose report you are requesting.;
, Whether you are going to apply on paper or online, you will need the same basic information from your prospective employee. Each state is different, but most states request the same basic information in order to provide a motor vehicle record report. As part of your hiring process, you should ask for the following information from your applicant:name (legal name and any alias)
address
sex
date of birth
height
weight
driver’s license number
license plate number
car’s VIN
social security number, or last four digits (this will depend on your state’s requirements)A signed authorization for you to conduct a motor vehicle record search. You can accomplish this by including a statement like, “I authorize ____ to request a motor vehicle records report on my behalf,” and then have the prospective employee sign.
 Most states will require employers to submit requests in writing. You can generally obtain a copy of the request form either online or from your state’s driver’s license offices.


For example, Georgia uses a “Request for Motor Vehicle Report MVR)” form, which is available online at https://dds.georgia.gov/sites/dds.georgia.gov/files/related_files/document/dds-18.pdf. You may also get a paper copy of the form by visiting any state driver’s license customer service center., Some states will allow an immediate motor vehicle check online. However, in many states, the online application is only available to the individual driver. An employer or prospective employer making the request will usually have to submit a request in writing.


The state of Arizona, for example, has an online service to view the report immediately. However, as part of the application process, you must check a box that certifies that “I am the above listed person.” This suggests that this service is available only to the driver alone or with the driver’s permission., States charge a range of fees for motor vehicle reports. These charges may be as low as a few dollars or could be $25 to $50. The cost may vary from state to state or may also depend on whether you wish to get an unofficial report or a certified copy, which is likely to cost more.


If you are requesting the report online, you will need a credit card available at the time of making the request.In Kentucky, as an example, you may only request reports by mail. The fee is $3, which must be paid by check or money order.North Carolina allows online requests, with a fee to be paid by credit card. The fee for an unofficial report is $10, while the fee for a certified official report is $14.