


The required length of the contract is an important factor to consider when comparing phone companies. Some companies require that you sign up for a 2- or 3-year term, but only offer incentive rates and pricing for the first 6 months of the contract, which could end up costing you more in the end than signing up with a company that only requires a 1-year service agreement.;
,


Compare phone company contracts by looking at the cost for individual services versus bundling services together. Combining your home phone, cable and Internet services into a bundle package could seem like a deal, but could be more expensive than individual services through separate companies. Compare the overall pricing for each option. There are several web sites that can you help you compare phone, cable and internet services.



The time structure of a phone contract is another important factor to consider when comparing phone company prices. Phone companies offer "anytime" minutes as well as night and weekend hours that are limited or cost different rates. Consider when you make the most phone calls, as well as how many of them are long distance, and how many minutes you think you need per month and compare companies based on that.



Make a list of the essential features your contract has to have, like unlimited long distance, and the features that are desired but not required, like web capabilities. Look at each phone company's offers for your required features, then factor in the bonus features you'd like to have, but can ultimately live without. Having a prioritized list will keep you from being swayed by a phone company's incentive promises.



The Better Business Bureau is an organization that aims to protect and inform consumers by providing information about the credentials and customer service ratings of vendors and retailers. Compare the ratings of each phone company you're considering according to the Better Business Bureau's criteria. This rating will give you a good idea of the kind of service you can expect.



Ask friends and family members what phone companies they use and how satisfied they are with the overall options, costs and service. People tend to remember good and bad experiences with phone companies, so use the opinions of the people you trust to rate the customer service levels of each phone company.



Always look at the basic monthly rate you will be charged after any sign-up discounts or new customer deals have expired. This is the cost you will be dealing with for the length of the contract, so this is where you should start your comparison.

