 Options involve less risk if you are buying options only. They provide a lot of leverage for investing but are also very useful tools for hedging. Some investors choose a "LEAP" (a long-term option lasting years, where most options last a few months). LEAPS carry higher premiums, because they allow a better chance for stock price improvement over time.
 If you are long a stock and you want to reduce downside risk, you will want to buy put options. If you are short a stock, and you want to reduce upside risk, you should buy call options.
 You will have to find the options appropriate for your timeframe, the strike price you are willing to take, and the premium you are willing to pay.

If you are planning to hold a stock for more than a year, you may consider LEAPS instead of standard options.
You will want to pick a strike price you are happy with. If you have a strict rule of cutting all your losses to a maximum of 10%, you can choose an option with a strike price of up to 10% away from your purchase (10% below with a put option if you are in a long position, 10% above with a call option if you are short). It doesn't have to be a 10% variance; it can be 5%, 2%, even the purchase price itself, whatever makes you comfortable. If you are already profitable, you can keep a put option above your purchase price or call option below the short price to lock in some of the gains.
Keep in mind that the premium of an option is partly dictated by its strike price.
 Your stock is literally locked in at that price as long as the option is not expired. If your stock is profitable at the time of your option's expiry, your option expires worthless, but you keep the profits from your investment. If your stock shows a loss at the time of your option's expiry, no matter how big the loss is, you can exercise your option and sell or buy back your shares at the strike price, either cutting losses or reaping some previously locked-in profits. The beauty of options (unlike futures contracts) is that you can decide whether or not to exercise the option (in a long position).

