 Most high schools require specific courses in order to graduate, but there are ways you can focus your studies and learn some important skills during your high school years to help you during college.


In addition to required coursework, choose courses in chemistry, physics, and biology. The more science, the better, but don't forget to also devote yourself to studying English (or your local language), math, and the humanities-- these are all important for your college success and will be used throughout any career.Study a foreign language. You can get a leg up on college studies by beginning your foreign language skills now and honing them further throughout college. If you know a country you'd like to work in, choose that language; if you're American and you don't know what language to choose, learn Spanish, which is increasingly valuable for job seekers in the United States.;
, If you need to take a job during high school or college to support yourself, don't just waste your time at the local fast food restaurant or daycare when you could be using those years to gain valuable work experience. Any experience you gain now in plant-related jobs will help you secure work later on.


Apply for a job with your local plant nursery. You will learn valuable skills about plant identification and care.
Consider landscaping. Mowing lawns may not seem like the job of a botanist, but landscaping requires knowledge of plant diets, climates, plant diseases, and a host of other relevant skills related to botany.
Other choices for part-time or summer work during the high school years include work in a park or farm; florist; or summer camps, particularly science- or outdoor-themed camps., Graduate at the top of your class so that you can attend a well-regarded college with a good reputation in the biological sciences and a good career placement rate. Applying yourself to your studies will not only help you to get the grades you need, it will also increase your skills and knowledge needed to succeed in your career.


Establish study skills early on. Check out this helpful wikiHow guide to learn about establishing and implementing study skills that will help you succeed throughout high school and college.
Develop your research skills. In addition to studying the material you learn in your classes, it is important that you learn how to do your own research from start to finish: that means studying the existing literature on a topic, gathering data, evaluating your data, and writing it up in a report. Take assignments seriously that ask you to research a topic. Visit your local library if you need help with your research skills.
 This will depend on your career goals, your financial resources, and how well you've done in high school in order to get accepted to the college of your choice.


When selecting a college or university, consider the specializations and majors at each school. Larger universities tend to offer more choices for courses and majors and more opportunities to work with professors on research projects, but they also tend to be more expensive and selective in admissions. Smaller colleges may only have a general botany major, but they may meet the requirements of what you need for your career and be more affordable.
Don't overlook rural areas in your search. While a lot of students hope to attend college in a big city or on the coast, many colleges and universities in more rural areas have very well regarded programs in agricultural science or related fields because of their locations in agrarian communities.
 Most undergraduate degrees take four years to complete, and you want to be sure to maximize those years so that you learn all the needed knowledge and skills for your chosen career.


It is helpful if you research and decide early on what you want to do with your degree so that you can focus your program of study and specialize if possible. However, be sure to take into account what jobs are actually hiring and don't just choose based on what you enjoy the most. Many college graduates learn the hard way that just because you love a specific field does not mean you will find a job in that field.
Take core courses such as physics, biology, chemistry, plant pathology, horticulture and agronomy; these will differ depending on your university's offerings and major requirements. Also think about what types of courses will be helpful in your particular career field. Will knowing Spanish be important? Will it be useful to be proficient in computers and software? What about business management, communication, or geography? Sometimes the courses that are not required in a program of study are still necessary for your career success.
 The internship helps you gain the experience you need to become a botanist. Many internships during your junior or senior year of college lead to job offers and help to kick-start your career, so begin talking to your professors early on in your studies to determine what places to apply.


Where you intern should depend on what you hope to specialize in during your career. It will also help you to know if you've made a good choice before committing to a full-time job.
Good professors and advisors will be able to help you locate local businesses with opportunities for interns, but some places to consider include: the local government's parks and recreation department, any local zoo or botanical garden, research internships with faculty, wilderness programs, national parks, or large industrial companies that work with plant sciences like Monsanto, Pfizer, or others that are local to you. 