 Toxicity is often a sign of insecurity. By giving the co-worker credit or highlighting something that they’ve done, you may give them some semblance of positivity in their life, which could help with the toxicity. You may also find a friend you didn’t think you could have.


For example, tell your boss all that your co-worker has done if you’ve worked together on a project. Or nominate them for employee of the month. You never know what this act of kindness could do for someone.;
, Chances are, you’re not the reason for the behavior. However, you may be the person on which they are taking out their frustrations. But that doesn’t mean you should allow it.


Hold the person accountable for their behavior and don’t justify it. Attempt to talk to them about it. You could ask them why they behave the way they do towards you. Your confrontation may be enough to make them stop. Keep in mind that being direct and respectful is a much better option than letting the behavior slide. Letting it slide may lead to more problems over time.
 Dealing with a toxic co-worker can affect more areas of your life than just work. It can make you act differently at home and in other aspects of your life. Find people who could potentially lift you up, especially if it is at work.


Along with surrounding yourself with people who are positive, give yourself some positive self-talk, as well. Remind yourself that you are a good person who has many things to contribute, despite how this person may make you feel., There are always two sides to every situation. Try to help the person see the positive rather than the negative. Tell the person the reasons why the situation isn’t as bad as they think it is. Doing so could put a spin on their perspective, making life easier for both of you.


For instance, if the person says, “I hate these hours. I can’t ever do what I want.” You could say, “I actually like the hours. It allows me to have more flexibility with my schedule outside of work.” Telling them a positive to their negatives may also make them stop flooding you with the toxic comments.