 Put Crohn’s disease in perspective for your audience by sharing information about how many people suffer from Crohn’s. You might tell your audience, for instance, that in the U.K. alone there are over 115,000 people living with Crohn’s disease.In the U.S., some 780,000 people have Crohn’s. The disease affects as many men as it does women.To explain the scope, you could say, “In the U.K. alone there are over 115,000 people living with Crohn’s disease. More than three-quarters of a million people in the U.S. also have Crohn’s.”
There are no reliable numbers describing how many people around the world have Crohn’s but it is known that five million people worldwide have either Crohn’s or ulcerative colitis, both of which have similar symptoms and are classified medically as inflammatory bowel diseases.Explaining the scope of the problem is a good way to grab people’s attention and demonstrate that Crohn’s disease is a serious issue.;
, The exact causes of Crohn’s disease remain unknown, but medical scientists believe that it occurs due to a combination of factors. Some of the factors believed to contribute to Crohn’s disease that you might mention to interested parties include:Genetics - You should explain that if your parents or ancestors had Crohn’s disease, you’re at greater risk of developing it yourself. For instance, you might say, “Genetic factors – such as having a parent or ancestor with Crohn’s disease – puts you at greater risk of developing it yourself.”
The immune system – You can explain that the immune system sometimes gets confused and attack healthy bacteria in the gut, which leads to Crohn’s disease. For instance, you might explain, “Your immune system could get confused and attack healthy bacteria in the gut, causing Crohn’s disease.”
Previous infections – Remind your listeners that if they’ve had a previous infection, they may end up with Crohn’s disease. For instance, you might explain, “Prior infections could increase your risk of getting Crohn’s.”
Environmental factors – Share with your listeners that Crohn’s disease is more common in Western nations. For instance, you might explain, “If you live in a Western nation, you’re at a higher risk of developing Crohn’s disease.”
Smoking – Remind your listeners that Crohn’s disease is more severe in smokers than in nonsmokers. For instance, you might explain, “Smokers more commonly experience severe symptoms of Crohn’s disease.”

, Crohn’s disease has a suite of symptoms. Explain that most symptoms occur in the last section of the small intestine, or in the large intestine. Go on to explain that while Crohn’s disease is a lifelong condition without a cure, symptoms may go into remission for periods of time during which there are no symptoms.For instance, you might explain, “Common symptoms of Crohn’s include fatigue, weight loss, abdominal pain, diarrhea, and blood and/or mucus in your feces.”

, Crohn’s disease, your audience will be interested to know, could damage certain portions of the intestine. For instance, the intestine may be narrowed in width (known as stricture). Additionally, share with others that Crohn’s patients might develop a channel between the end of the bowel and the anus or vagina. This condition is known as a fistula and will require surgery to correct it.For instance, you might explain, “Crohn’s disease might lead to serious medical complications. Your intestine might actually be narrowed in width, which could lead to a life threatening bowel perforation.You could also develop a fistula, a channel between the end of the bowel and the anus or vagina which could become infected.”, Say, “Treatments focus on symptom management, since there is no cure for Crohn’s yet.” You could explain that anti-inflammatories are often the first line of defense against Crohn’s because they are good at reducing symptoms. Other treatments include corticosteroids, which are prescribed more sparingly since they have many unpleasant side effects and immunosuppressants, a class of drugs that suppresses immune system responses.Explain that in severe cases, Crohn’s patients might have surgery to remove inflamed portions of their bowels. For instance, you could explain, “Surgery could be required to remove inflamed portions of your gut.”

