 If you intend to tell your parents that you are going to be mature enough to relieve them of the burdens of your pet, you have to show a little maturity. Screaming, yelling, throwing things, etc., will send the message that you are just angry and immature. Instead, stay calm and collected while talking to your parents, and they will be more willing to have the conversation.If your parents do not immediately allow you to keep your pet, yelling “I hate you! You are so unfair!” is not going to help you. Instead, try something like “I know you already said that we need to get rid of our pet, but please hear me out before you do.”

, Part of being mature is entertaining and respecting someone else’s point of view. You also need to understand exactly why your parents object to keeping your pet in order to beat those objections. When your parents are talking, listen carefully and respectfully.Your parents might say something like “Buying food for a pet is just getting to be too expensive.” Now you know what the problem is and you can respond “I will earn extra money to cover the cost of the food. I’m sorry I didn’t realize how difficult it must be to provide the money for everything all of the time.”

, The situation is emotional, but you have to stay on topic if you are going to make your point. Go through the list of reasons that you made to keep your pet, and support each reason as well as you can. Then, clearly state the things that you will do to make keeping the pet a tolerable request. When your parents see you put this much thought and passion into something, they are likely to listen.For example, if you are arguing that keeping your pet will teach you responsibility, be very clear about how that will happen. Say something like “Letting me take on the responsibility of caring for our pet will force me to plan my day ahead of time, earn money for pet food, and be considerate of how my actions affect others.”

, Backing your parents into a corner will most likely rush them into giving you an immediate “No.” Instead, make your case and give your parents time to think it through. They will most likely spend a day or so thinking about how they can make the situation work for everyone, and that will work in your favor.It is a good idea to say at the very beginning of the conversation “Please, don’t answer right away. Take some time to think this over after we talk.”

, Whatever your parents finally decide, you will have to be respectful. Not only does this continue to show maturity, it also builds a stronger case for future conversations with your parents. Be appreciative of the time they took to discuss things with you and think about keeping your pet, no matter what the final decision is.Show this appreciation by saying something like “Thank you for talking to me and thinking things over before making a decision.”

