 If you are are planning to fully remove your body hair--either by shaving or waxing--it is important to exfoliate the area both before and after the process. In the shower, using a loofa or washcloth and a cream cleanser, massage the area with circular motions.

This makes both hair removal methods more effective, reduces skin irritation, and significantly reduces instances of ingrown hairs.
Between shaving/waxing, continue to exfoliate every few days.
 If you plan to remove your gray/white body hair at home, shaving is the classic option. In order to do this, take a hot shower to open your pores and dampen the area you plan to shave. Then apply a thin layer of shaving cream to the area.

Shaving can be done on your chest, pubic area, or practically anywhere else on your body.
 Carefully move your razor across the surface of your skin to remove the hair. Begin by moving the razor in the direction the hair is growing (to prevent razor bumps and ingrown hairs). If this does not accomplish a close enough shave, you may try moving against the grain.Shaving needs to be repeated around once a week.
 The longest lasting way to remove gray/white hair from your body is to visit a salon and have it professionally waxed. Some people swear by waxing, while others do not enjoy it. Weigh the benefits against the concerns, and decide if professional waxing is right for you.Some concerns with waxing include: the pain involved (which varies for individuals), the cost (if done professionally), and various skin reactions (especially for those with sensitive skin).
Some benefits to waxing include: a longer-lasting result (usually around 6 weeks between touch-ups), softer regrowth, and greater ability to shape your body hair in a way that obscures your gray/white hair as opposed to removing it all.
 If you’d like to wax your body hair at home, you can purchase a home waxing kit. Choose between a traditional wax kit (which uses cloth strips) and a hard wax kit (in which the wax hardens and is removed without cloth). Prepare the wax according the the instructions.

Traditional waxing is best for legs, arms, chest, and underarms.
Hard wax works best for coarse pubic hair.
Most wax can be prepared with on your stove or in your microwave.
 Apply hot wax to your skin using the wooden stick provided. Then, if you are using a traditional waxing kit, press a cloth strip onto the wax, wait 10 seconds. If you are using hard wax, simply apply the wax and wait 15 seconds for it to harden. Then pull off either the cloth strip or the hardened wax, in the direction opposite the hair growth.Repeat this until all unwanted hair is removed.
 Perform an internet search (or make a few phone calls) to locate a salon in your area, and make an appointment. The esthetician (professional waxer) will apply hot wax to the area, then--if they are using traditional wax--they will press a rectangular piece of cloth onto the wax. After 10-15 seconds, the esthetician will swiftly remove either the rectangle of cloth or the hardened wax, taking the hair off with it.They will repeat this method until all of the desired hair is removed.
 After removing the hair (using the method of your choice), you will want to apply a gentle moisturizer. Use a product intended for use on your face. This helps to keep the skin smooth.

Between shaving/waxing continue to apply moisturizer every few days.
Avoid over-moisturizing, as this can clog your pores.

