 This is your Speed day. This day's running exercises focuses on making your legs and body explosive, while building fast twitch muscle fibers, which is the key to running fast. In all of the exercises you do today, you want to be going as fast as you possibly can. Push yourself.


Warm up by jogging around the track for 5 minutes. Don't tire yourself out, since you will be needing that extra stamina later on.
Do some stretching exercises. These are some easy ones, that will soften you up before taking on the first exercise: http://exercise.about.com/b/2010/09/15/why-you-need-to-stretch.htm


Exercise 1. We'll start off with running 80m five times (5x80m), with a 3 minute rest in-between. If you don't know, 100m is the one side of the oval track you are running on. There should be an 80m mark. If not, just don't run all the way to the finish line. Running with the proper form is important, and this video explains perfectly how to run properly: http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RQ38yE39NYI. If you feel like the language is too damn hard, watch this: http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6BmtGNjm7BE. Between the exercises, take 10 min break, drink some water, let your pulse go down.

Exercise 2. 4x70m, with a 3 minute rest in-between. You'll figure out about where 70m are. It's not that important to be precise.

Exercise 3. 3x60m, with a 3 minute rest in-between.

Exercise 4. 2x20m, with a 3 minute rest in-between.
That's Monday. Let's move on.;
, This is Gym day. On this day you will hit the gym to build up the strength needed to sprint faster. The most important muscles needed for sprinting are your legs, shoulders, and core. Follow this set of exercises specifically for training the muscles needed to sprint: https://www.wikihow.com/Gym-Exercises-for-Beginner-Sprinters.
 Endurance training. This is for improving your stamina, so that you are able to keep going when the lactic acid sets in at the end of your run. It's good for your heart too.


Warmup for 10 minutes.
Stretch.

Exercise 1. You will only run 300m two times, but you will run it as fast as you possibly can. If you aren't completely wasted after one set of 300m you are doing it wrong. Rest until you feel like you can do it again.
The 300m is 3/4 of one full lap around the track. The two straights on the track is 100m each, and the two bends are 100m each.
 Semi-speed day. Today we incorporate the endurance and the speed training into one. Today you will run the two most popular sprint distances, the 100m dash, and the 200m dash. You'll finish of with a nice sprint of 50m.



Warmup like Monday

Stretch.

Exercise 1. Start with the 200m. You will do this 3 times. Don't push yourself as hard as you can, since you will most likely stop at 150m and be exhausted by then. Begin with a good, fast pace, and start accelerating at 130m. Rest 5-10 minutes in-between

Exercise 2. Next we have the 100m. The real deal. You'll run this twice. Push as hard as you can. Rest 5-10 minutes in-between.

Exercise 3. We'll finish of with one 50m dash. Push it boy!
Stretch.
 Gym day. Exactly like Tuesday.
 REST.

