 Connect the laptop to a power source with the AC (power) adapter if you’ve not already done so. Leave it plugged in for several minutes before turning it back on.;
, With the laptop unplugged, remove the battery. Reconnect the power cable and try turning on the computer. If the computer turns on without the battery, you’ll need to buy a new laptop battery.


If it still won’t power on, unplug the power cord from the laptop, then hold down the power button for 5 to 30 seconds.
Next, attempt to turn the computer back on—first with no battery, then with the battery installed. If it turns on without the battery this time (but not with the battery installed), buy a new battery.
 First, if you’re using a power strip or extension cord, remove it and plug the laptop directly into the wall. Both extension cords and power strips can fail. If the computer still won’t turn on with those items out of the equation, rule out problems with the power outlet by plugging in a different electrical device, such as a lamp that you know works.
 Lightly jiggle the connector back and forth, up and down. If the LED flickers, the issue is either with your AC adapter or the power port in your computer. Even if it doesn’t flicker, one of these components could be the issue.


Look inside the power port of the laptop to see if anything appears loose, broken or missing. If you can, try to jiggle the connector inside the port (gently) with your finger. Abnormalities indicate that the port will need to be repaired. If something is off, call your manufacturer’s support line to see if you qualify for a free repair.
Another option is to replacing the power jack in the laptop yourself. Like going to a repair shop, replacing the power pin yourself could void your warranty.
 If the power jack appears normal, or if you’re simply unable to determine whether or not it’s defective, try a new power adapter. It’s crucial to remember that the adapter must be the exact model recommended by your computer manufacturer. Using the wrong power cable can fry your computer. See How to Check the Compatibility of an AC Adapter and Your Computer for tips on finding the right adapter.
 If the laptop still won’t power on, the issue is likely with the motherboard. If your computer is still under warranty, you may qualify for a free replacement or repair.

