 People who follow their passions, hobbies, desires etc, are considered very attractive. For example musicians, tech entrepreneurs, actors, adventurists and the list goes on. Living an interesting life also gives you a lot of interesting stuff to talk about. Also it gives you deep inner confidence and enthusiasm. Most people are boring and lead a quite straightforward life. For example go to work or school, then come back and play some video games, talk and hang with friends, watch TV etc. Life pretty much revolves around these things and this is what they talk about.


Ask yourself, what is the most interesting or adventurous or spontaneous thing you did in last 100 days? What are your passions? Make a habit of doing something interesting and new from time to time. For example: hiking, sky diving, visiting new places or exploring your city, visiting animal shelters, volunteering, working on your passions etc.
 Having a good balance between these three aspects is tremendously important to get good at pickup. Since all these aspects are interconnected and back each other up. People who maintain a good balance between these aspects have a great potential to quickly get good at pickup. As they would easily be able to connect the dots between these areas and sub-areas. For example: people who have a good social life are more likely to be confident.

While lacking in one of the aspects would, most likely, affect the other two in the long run. For example: if you are investing too much time in making money (wealth) and working out (health), there is a good possibility that your social (relationship) life may suffer, which in turn would affect your wealth and health(emotional and physical) in the long run. Similarly, if you have the right amount of wealth but don't have have good social life or health, then eventually it could affect your wealth.
However this could work like a priming affect too. Which means If you are spending a lot of time just doing pickup, then eventually you will realize the importance of relationships, health and wealth in the long run to get good at pickup. There's a possibility that you may burn yourself out in this process before realizing it. Since everyone is different so experiment to find the method that works for you.
 Lets clear this: Yes, they matter and if someone say otherwise, they are lying or don't know.

In some cases they matter more and others not as much. However they don't matter as much as men think they do.. In a way men are lucky, as many women are not into looks as much as men.

