 Grab an exercise mat on a flat surface. You can leave your shoes on, or use it with bare feet.
 Warm up with 5 minutes of cardio before you work your back and stomach muscles.
 Get into a pushup position on the mat.


A plank position is the same as a pushup position, where your body weight is resting on your feet and hands. Your body should form a straight line from your shoulders to your ankles, while your core muscles work to keep you stabilized in this position. Get out of the position, while you ready the foam roller for use in an advanced plank position.
Place the foam roller on the mat where your hands will be. Get into plank position with your hands pressing down on the foam roller. It should be more difficult, because the foam roller tries to move. You will get extra benefit by working the muscles harder while you hold the position.
You can also do the plank position on your forearms. Clasp your hands together and make sure your elbows are directly below your shoulders as they rest on the foam roller. This is a slightly easier variation, because you do not have to keep the entire length of your arms stable. However, it is easier on the wrist and shoulder joints.
Hold the plank for 1 minute. You can also do advanced push ups in this position.
Move the foam roller to the bottom of your mat. Try the plank and push up while your feet stabilize the roller.
 Place the roller parallel with your spine. You should feel some instability with side-to-side motion.


Stabilize yourself with your feet while you do crunches or twisting oblique exercises.
Stabilize yourself with 1 foot (0.3 m) at a time, during lower abdominal exercises. Keep your upper body lifted off the foam roller from the shoulders upward.
 Place your foam roller slightly behind you while you stand on your mat.


Stand with your feet hip width apart. Place your body weight on your left leg and you reach your toes back to rest on the foam roller.
Bend your left knee and roll the foam roller back, balancing with your left leg.
Repeat on the opposite side 5 to 10 times. This exercise will improve balance when done 2 to 3 times per week.

