 First, check your face thoroughly in the mirror, under good lighting, to look for any changes that could be indicators of mouth cancer.


Look specifically for any skin color changes, sores, moles, or any new growths on the face.
Look for any lumps, swellings, or bumps that are present on one side of your face and absent on the other side.
Normally your face should be roughly symmetrical, with no major differences between each side.;
, Slowly feel along your neck with your finger tips for any abnormal swelling, bumps, or painful areas that could indicate the presence of cancer.


Press along the sides and front of your neck for any lumps and bumps.
Also, check below your lower jaw for painful areas, swollen lymph nodes, and abnormal lumps.
 Check over your lips for any signs of malignant cancer growth, often seen as discolored or diseased patches of skin.


Pull out your lower lips in a downwards direction.
Check inside your lips for any color changes like red, white, or dark patches and sores.
Now hold your lips with your thumb and forefinger and slowly feel and press the lip surfaces.
Check for any change in the texture of your lips, including lumps and swelling.
Now do the same inspection for your upper lips as well.
 Open your mouth wide so that you can clearly check the inside cheek areas for any signs of cancer.


Use your finger to pull away your cheek for better visibility.
Check for color changes and abnormal sores.
Now, place your index finger inside your cheek and your thumb outside your cheek.
Gently roll and squeeze the cheek areas in between your fingers and check for any painful areas, bumps, or lumps, or thick band-like areas.
Now, repeat the same procedure for your other cheek.
Also, check the area between your cheek and teeth area, and the gums of the lower back teeth, for the color changes, lumps and painful sores

, The roof of your mouth can also contain warning signs of oral cancer, so be sure to check that area with a flashlight in your mirror to look for any changes or abnormalities.


Gently tilt your head backwards and open the mouth wide, looking for any changes.
This will give you better visibility for the mouth roof area
Now slowly run your finger tips along the roof of your mouth and check for any bumps and lumps.
 Open your mouth wide to check your tongue's outer surface for any color and texture changes that could indicate cancerous cells.


Now pull your tongue forward and check both sides of the tongue for changes in color and texture, and bumps.
You should check along the sides of your tongue, towards the back of your mouth, which is a common area for tongue cancer.
Check the under surface of your tongue by touching the tip of your tongue to the roof of your mouth.
Check for any abnormal changes, ulcers, or color patches under the tongue.
 Gently press along the floor of the mouth with your finger tips, checking for painful areas that could indicate cancerous tissue.


Check for any lumps, swelling, sores, or ulcers.
 If you find any abnormal changes, sores or ulcers, or painful areas that do not heal, even after two or three weeks, then visit your dentist immediately for an oral check up and cancer screening test.


Getting a cancer screening test to detect cancer early can help you get the treatment you need.
The earlier treatment begins, the better chance you have of making a full recovery.

