 The widely accepted stereotype of the "typical mother-in-law" can lead into unfavorable mental sets even before marriage. Unfavorable stereotypes about the elderly, that they are bossy and interfering, can add to in-law problems. Remember that you are now a part of their family. So instead of thinking it in a bad way, try to put yourself in their place. If the younger ones in your own family get into trouble or so, you might as well interfere with their lives because you care about them without knowing that you may be annoying them with your interference. This could be the same with your in-laws. Trying to understand the reason of their actions will help you take things easy.;
, Young married adults tend to resent advice and guidance from their parents, even if they must accept financial aid, and they especially resent such interference from in-laws which can possibly make a huge gap in your relationships. Being independent may be good, but everyone needs help sometimes. Learn to put down your pride occasionally and accept help from your parents and in-laws. In turn, they would be willing to accept help from you when it is them who are in need. A process of give and take which is an indication that you are in a healthy relationship with them.
 Though there might be some cases when in-laws will not like you for some reasons, showing disrespect as a revenge will never help you solve the problem. Instead, it will only make the matter worse. Never think that they are mean to you because you are "just an in-law". Your own parents might have as well misunderstood you sometimes or get mad at you with no apparent reasons while you were with them, and yet you were still bound to love and respect them. Your in-laws need the same respect and kindness from you.
 If you have risen above the status of your families or that of your in-laws, do not try to keep them in the background. People often find it hard to deal with a person who thinks too much of himself and makes others feel inferior. Most parents and relatives resent this and hostile relationships with you as well as marital friction are likely to develop.
 Particularly when the married couple are young and inexperienced, in-laws will try to exert some control over their lives, especially if they are responsible for their support. But for couples who have proven themselves on their responsibility and are better established financially, in-law interference with their lives is less likely to occur.
 Marital adjustments are complicated when your spouse devotes more time to relatives than you want to; when your spouse is influenced by family advice; or when a relative comes for an extended visit or lives with the family permanently. It is important that you and your spouse will find way to resolve these matters or you will have bad feelings towards your in-laws. This will affect your treatment towards them which they may find strange and can create misunderstandings.
 If you and your spouse have to contribute to or assume responsibility for the financial support of your in-laws, it may and often does lead to a frictional marital relationship. Make a clear agreement with your spouse about what things you both have to sacrifice to make the aid possible. This way, you do not just establish a good relationship with your spouse, but you are less likely blame your in-laws when your specific wants or needs are not met.

