 Any new medication should be first administered in a physician's office so the patient can be monitored for allergy signs and symptoms. However, if signs or symptoms of an allergic reaction develop during subsequent treatments, seek medical attention immediately.Signs of an allergic reaction include hives, a rash or itching; shortness of breath; difficulty swallowing; feeling like your throat or airway is closing; and swelling of the mouth, lips, or face.
Call 911 if symptoms of an allergic reaction develop. You have just injected a medication into the body which speeds up the reaction time if an allergy is present.
 Even the best injection technique can sometimes allow entry of contaminants.Contact your doctor as soon as possible if you develop a fever, flu-like symptoms, headache, sore throat, joint and muscle aches, and gastrointestinal problems.
Other symptoms that warrant prompt medical attention include chest tightness, nasal congestion or stuffiness, a widespread rash, and mental changes like confusion or disorientation.
 Watch for changes in skin tissue at the point of injection and the area immediately surrounding it.Injection site reactions are more common with some drugs than others. Read the product literature before drug administration to know what to look for.
Common reactions that occur at the site of an injection include redness in the area, swelling, itching, bruising, and sometimes a raised lump or hardened area.
Alternating injection sites can help to minimize damage to the skin and surrounding tissue when frequent injections are needed.
Persistent problems with injection site reactions warrant medical evaluation.
 Sharps containers are a safe way to dispose of used lancets, syringes, and needles. Sharps containers can be purchased at your local pharmacy and are available online.Never put lancets, syringes, or needles in the regular trash.
Review your state’s guidelines. Your pharmacist can help you to find a program that meets your needs. Many states have clear guidelines and suggestions on developing a safe system for disposing of biohazardous waste created from giving injections at home.
Sharps, including used needles, lancets, and syringes, are biohazardous waste since they are contaminated with skin and blood from direct contact with you or the person receiving the injections.
Consider an arrangement with a company that provides mailback kits. Some companies provide a service that supplies you with sharps containers you need and make arrangements that allow you to safely mail the containers to them when they are full. The company takes responsibility for proper destruction of biohazardous waste.Ask your pharmacy about safe ways to discard any vials that contain unused medications. Often, any opened vials of medication can be placed into the sharps container.

