 Cats, dogs, and many other pets will require a collar to aid in training and to provide a measure of security should they get lost. You may also want to consider a leash for your pet if you take regular walks. A harness is best for those pets who like to pull against the lead or who require a little bit of extra guidance.You’ll want to purchase the appropriate size so that all of these items sit snugly, but not tightly, against your pet’s skin. A too tight collar, for example, can cut into the skin of your pet or even choke it.
Don’t automatically discount the use of a leash or harness with a non-dog pet. Many people have find it quite fun, for example, to train their cats to walk with a leash., If you and your pet are participating in some type of sport it is important to purchase supplies specifically designed for that activity. You’ll want to make sure that these training supplies not only enhance performance, but also protect your pet from possible injury. When in doubt contact your local sporting agency or fellow participants for advice.


For example, if you are working with your cat on agility training there are certain items, such as ramps or hoops, that are commonly used by owners., Similar to sporting, if your pet is pursuing some type of advanced training that will lead to a certification then you will want to buy the right gear for this activity. For example, therapy dogs will often need specific patches and vests early on in the training process. These items aid in the training process by preventing people from interfering with your pet’s work.As part of the class your pet may receive some of these supplies. You can also ask the instructor for assistance in selecting any other necessary items.
 Clickers are all the rage right now. They are little hard plastic boxes that make a clicking noise when pressed upon. They are usually held in your hand for ease of use. If you are considering any type of obedience training a clicker may be useful. They are also fairly cheap so you may just want to purchase one to see if your pet responds to it at all.To train with a clicker you give a click for certain positive behaviors. You then pair this click with praise or another type of positive reinforcement, such as a treat. Cats, dogs, rabbits, pigs, and other pets generally respond well to clicker use.
For maximum effectiveness you could pair your clicker with a target stick. This is a light, hand-held stick with a ball at the end. An owner can use it to point to a desired location or item. Cat and bird owners find these useful for agility and behavior training., This is the one type of necessary training that many pets have in common. Do some research online to determine what is the best approach to housebreaking your pet. You may need to go through numerous different products to find the right one that your pet agrees with.


For example, purchasing a litter box and training your cat to use it isn’t always as simplistic as it sounds. You need to use the right litter for the stage-of-life. You also must choose the type of box that your cat prefers.Some animals even prefer food in their restroom area, such as rabbits. Indoor rabbits like to munch on hay while they take care of restroom business. Training them to use a box is far easier if you accommodate their wishes., While training your pet you need to look out for your own safety as well. Some pets are more difficult to handle and require a bit of preparation in advance. For example, if you are working with certain types of birds you may need a specialty glove for them to perch upon. Talk to other trainers in your area to discover what works the best.