 If you are think that your baby is not eating enough, or seems to only feed for very short periods of time, there is not necessarily a cause for concern. There are many reasons why a baby might refuse food, ranging from simply already being full, to being tired, distracted, or a little ill. Try to trust your baby and avoid making feeding time into a battle. If you are concerned, and she if appears underweight or the change is dramatic or sudden, don't hesitate to talk to your doctor., It is not uncommon for a baby to turn her nose up at a new and unfamiliar food. In most cases she will grow out of this, but that can take a while. Be patient, and if she rejects something, offer her something you know she likes. Return to the new food later.She might also be avoiding the food for other reasons, such as teething, tiredness, or just already being full.
Don't get restless and annoyed with her. Just set the new food aside and come back to it later.
 Spitting up is a common occurrence for babies as they get used to digesting food, and tends to reduce as they become a year old. Frequent spitting up can interfere with your baby's diet, so taking steps to reduce spitting up will help her get into good eating habits. Be sure to burp her regularly, don't overfeed her, and keep her upright when you feed her. It is also advisable to avoid playing with her immediately after eating so she has time to digest a bit.


To manage reflux, feed her a bit more slowly, and a little bit less at each meal. Keep her upright for half an hour after eating, by sitting her in a chair or buggy.
If she spits up often, throws up violently, or is increasingly sick, you should contact your doctor., Food intolerances or allergies could be one reason why your baby might not seem to be eating as much. Allergies can appear suddenly, and will often have very noticeable symptoms, such as vomiting, a rash, diarrhoea, sweating, or stomach pain. Food intolerances may produce less severe symptoms, but can result in your baby feeling bloated, gassy, and uncomfortable.If she has a allergy or intolerance she will most likely not want to eat, so look out for any symptoms and contact your doctor.
Your doctor will be able to run tests to investigate a potential allergy.Take your baby to the doctor or emergency room immediately if you see signs of wheezing, swelling, hives, or trouble breathing.

