 Familiarize yourself with note values, time signatures and scales. Memorize chord shapes and patterns so you can easily recognize them in songs you might teach. Learn how to read and write music quickly so you don't waste time trying to figure out songs during your sessions. Take lessons for instruments like the guitar, the piano, the drums and the ukulele.Practice each instrument every day until you feel comfortable playing it. You should also train with a vocal coach to learn how to use your voice effectively.


Always practice with a metronome to develop great rhythm.
String instruments like the guitar will require you to build finger strength before you can play them comfortably.
Learn to play a variety of styles of music. Students may want to play country, jazz, rock or any other type of music.;
, To become a music therapist, you’ll need a degree in music therapy from a university that is accredited by the AMTA (American Music Therapy Association). You'll need to take classes in subjects like music theory, behavioral sciences, disabling conditions and general studies. There's a few different degree plans available depending on what you need.A bachelor's degree program is open to high school graduates and takes at least four years to complete. You'll take classes in music foundation, therapy, human development and general education topics like math and English. You'll have to do field work with three different populations and complete an internship. After you earn your degree, you'll be eligible to take the national certification exam to become a music therapist and you'll be able to work in a treatment team but not independently.
An equivalency program usually takes about two years and is open to people with bachelor's degrees in related subjects. You’ll skip the general studies that you learned while earning your first degree and focus only on subjects involved in music therapy. You'll need to do field work with three populations and complete an internship. Upon graduation, you'll be able to take the certification exam and work in a treatment team but not independently.
Master's degree programs are open to anyone with a bachelor's degree in music therapy. You'll expand your knowledge of music therapy and specialize your skills. You might get a master's in a certain area of music therapy like administration. With your master's degree you'll be able to work independently with clients. You may also be able to teach your specialty in an academic setting or rise to a supervisory position in a music therapy practice.
Doctoral degree programs are open to anyone with a master's degree in music therapy. At the end of your doctoral degree, you'll have to write a dissertation relating to your specific area of study. You might want a doctoral degree in music therapy if you'd like to be a professor of the subject or if you want to do clinical research about it. A doctoral degree can also make it easier to rise to a supervisory position in a music therapy practice.
 To be eligible to be a licensed music therapist, you’ll have to complete a six to nine month internship. During your internship, you must complete twelve hundred hours of supervised fieldwork in a health or education related setting. You should complete your internship over the last two years of your degree.Some places you can look for musical therapy internships are hospitals, schools and rehab facilities.
Make sure your internship is approved by the AMTA.
 The CBMT (Certification Board for Music Therapists) doesn't offer any specific study guides for the certification exam, but it does offer a self assessment practice examination. Take the practice test to get an idea of how well you know the material. You should also read journal articles, any materials you have from your degree and any publications you can find reflecting current music therapy practices. There's a reading list on the website for the CBMT with a helpful list of some reading material to get you started. Some other things you might want to know for your exam are:

the music therapy code of ethics
music therapy methods and scope of practice
music therapy terminology
music theory
types of music
guitar chords and structures

, It might be beneficial to take the exam right after finishing your internship so most of the material is still fresh in your mind. The National Council For Therapeutic Recreation Certification will administer the test. When you pass, you will be considered a licensed MT-BC (Music Therapist-Board Certified).


You can find information about taking the exam on the board’s website, nctrc.org.
You must renew your certification every five years., You’ve spent the last six to nine months building a relationship with them and you should be fairly familiar with the way they do business. By hiring you, they’ll likely be able to save money on training someone else from scratch. They’ll also be able to minimize their risk of hiring an inadequate employee as they’ve already seen you do work in the field.


If you decide that you want to work where you complete your internship, you should let your supervisor know as soon as possible. You may even be able to secure a position before you graduate.
 The demand for music therapy is increasing as people begin to recognize its benefits. You’ll likely be able to find a job very soon after earning your certification. There are a variety of places you can search. Each opportunity has its own advantages and disadvantages.For example: Schools have a lot of funding, so they can usually pay well, but hospitals always need music therapists so they offer reliable job security. Some places that hire music therapists include:


medical hospitals
psychiatric hospitals
schools
rehab facilities
mental health facilities
senior centers

, Music therapy falls under the broader category of recreational therapy. While the governments of the most populated areas in the United States recognize the benefits of recreational therapy, there a few state governments that do not. If your state doesn’t offer funding to support music therapy, you may need to move to a larger market like New York or California to find employment.
 If you want to be your own boss, you can create an independent music therapy practice. You may even earn more money than most music therapists because you’ll be able to set your own rates. When deciding on a fair price, take into account all the expenses involved in running your business.Factor in costs for things like:


room rental
heating and lighting
indemnity insurance
instrument maintenance
travel

, A career in music therapy can be very fulfilling if you have a genuine desire to improve people’s lives. Most everyone has a certain type of music they like and you can learn a lot about a person from their musical tastes. You’ll be working with people that have a variety of psychological and physical ailments. Get to know your patients so you’ll be driven to find the right type of music that will help them with their problems.Music has been shown to lower blood pressure.
Music causes the brain to release less cortisol (the stress hormone).
Music causes the brain to release endorphins which give you a feeling of contentment and happiness.
Fast music has been shown to stimulate quicker brainwaves while slow music has been shown to relax brain waves.
 Learning to play music requires a great deal of concentration. Children in particular can have trouble focusing. You may have to wait for them to calm their minds before you can teach them. Learning to concentrate is like learning any other skill. The more your students practice focusing, the better they’ll be able to do it.


Having a guided meditation before starting lessons is a good way to help your patients concentrate.
Having students do a few stretches before a session can help them get out some of their extra energy.
 Don’t give up on your patients. You may have to try several different types of teaching methods before you find one that works for a particular person. You may have to go over music theory many times before a patient finally understands it. Continuously strive to find new ways to help people learn music.Instruments like the guitar and ukulele can take longer to learn because they require finger strength and dexterity. You may have to find ways to keep students motivated when they start learning them.
Some people learn music better by actually seeing it while some people prefer to hear it played. Adjust your lessons based on whether your student is a visual or auditory learner.
 Many of the people that you work with may not be able to control themselves and may have severe behavioral issues. The goal of their therapy sessions will often be to help them manage those issues. Be ready to deal with a few outbursts. If one of your patients loses control of their emotions, you may have to wait until they regain their composure before continuing the session.


Some patients may be returning from service and have post-traumatic stress disorder.
You may be working with inmates in a correctional facility.
Your patients may occasionally curse or yell or even break your instruments if they lose control of themselves.

