 Initially, you will likely work in some kind of medical setting (hospital, clinic, office). In order to advance in the field you will need practical experience working with billing data. Once you that experience is obtained, you can then use it to qualify for various certifications and gain promotions.Outside of obtaining advanced degrees, certifications are the best means of advancing your career.
 Eventually, you may find that you have the opportunity or desire to work from home. Since much of the job is data entry and management, the advent of telecommuting has made it easier for people working in health information management to work from home. After working in a certain setting for a time, you may find that you are given the option of doing your work from home. You may also consider asking your supervisor whether working from home is a possibility.You may also find that your employer is willing to let you work from home part-time and come into the office for the remainder.
 Once you have significant experience working in the field, you may consider starting your own business. You will want to have developed significant connections with medical professionals in your community and made arrangements with a credible billing clearinghouse. In order to be successful, you will need to market yourself to doctors and other providers looking for a medical biller.To avoid being scammed, make sure that the clearinghouse you are working with checks out with your State Attorney General’s Office, the Consumer Protection Agency, and the Better Business Bureau.
In order to start your own business, you will need a clearinghouse to send you medical billing claims, a computer with internet access, medical billing software, medical insurance forms, billing reference materials, a phone, a printer, and a fax machine.
 If you continue working in a hospital or other medical setting, you may eventually want to become a medical and health services manager. These professionals may manage an entire hospital, a clinic, or medical group. You will need at least a bachelor’s degree in a health administration or a related field, and many employers prefer that health services managers have master’s degrees.In some instances, an employer may be willing to pay for your education in order to grant you a higher position.

