 Toddler’s heads grow at different speeds, and there is no genuine one-size-fits-all style of sunglasses that will fit every child. When purchasing sunglasses for your toddler, bring your child with you and have them try on at least four to five pairs of sunglasses. Ask them which feels most comfortable, and look to make sure that the frames fit them well. The frames should be close-fitting, and should have springs in the hinges so that they won’t snap if opened wider than 90°.Frames that are too large will have extra room between the child’s temple and the hinge of the glasses, may barely balance on the child’s nose, and will fit their ears poorly.
Frames that are too small for the child will barely reach the toddler’s ears, and the hinges will look over-extended.
 In order to make sure that the lenses themselves have an even tint and will not distort your toddler’s vision, hold the glasses up to your eyes and look through the lenses. Make sure that both lenses appear to have the same color and degree of tint. If the tint or coloring is uneven, the glasses may not provide uniform protection from UV rays.Don’t stretch out toddler-size glasses by stretching them around your head. You can hold them about 5 inches away from your eyes to look through the lenses. Alternately, turn the glasses backwards and bring the lenses close to your eyes.
 Toddlers are both active and unsteady on their feet, so it’s likely that the sunglasses you choose will wind up on the ground a few times. Look for lenses that are scratch-proof and impact resistant; these qualities will likely be listed on label or attached tag. Plastic lenses have the advantage here: they are less breakable, and if they do break, won’t risk getting glass shards into your toddler’s eye.Because of the rough treatment to which your toddler may subject these sunglasses, you may also wish to purchase a backup pair. That way, if the first pair of glasses breaks or if the lenses get seriously scratched, you’ll have a second pair to offer the child.

