 While it's important to many to give their pet a final resting place, burying an animal is not legal everywhere. Prior to burying your cat, check local regulations. You can call someone at your local courthouse or Department of Natural Resources to see whether it's legal to bury a pet in your backyard. Usually, you cannot bury a cat in public place like a park.Refrain from burying a cat near a body of water. This could contaminate the water supply.
You should also make sure you're not digging into any cables in the ground. Choose an area of your yard that's far away from home. If you encounter any cables while digging your hole, stop digging, refill the hole, and pick a different spot.
If you're renting, make sure to check with your landlord. Not all landlords will allow people to bury pets in the backyard.;
, Once you have made sure burying your cat is legal, select a burial site. You can pick a spot in your yard or an area in a public place.You may want to pick a special or symbolic place to bury your cat. If your cat always hung out near the wildflowers in your yard, for example, this may be a good spot to bury it. If your cat loved to play in the woods, you could bury your cat there.
However, think about logistics when deciding to bury your cat. You do not want the grave somewhere in the yard where it will frequently be stepped on or disturbed. Choose an area of your yard where you don't usually go. If you have young children, pick a spot where they do not play.
 You want some kind of vessel to place your cat in prior to burial. This is particularly important if your state or area has certain regulations regarding burying pets. You may be required to use a particular type of container due to concerns about contaminating the ground.You can purchase a coffin for a pet online. If it's important to you to have a formal coffin, this may be the right option for you.
However, coffins can be expensive. You can also bury your cat in something like a cardboard box. If your cat had a bed it loved, consider burying your cat in its bed.
If you don't need to use a container, you can always just wrap your cat in a towel prior to burial.
 There are many things you could use to mark your pet's grave. You can purchase a marker for your pet online, which you can custom create to include your pet's name and other details, such as the date of birth and death. However, if this is out of your budget, there are other options.You can gather stones and rocks from your backyard and pile them near the grave. If it's important for you to have your cat's name on the grave marker, you can use paint to write the cat's name on a larger rock.
If your cat loved a particular type of plant, consider placing a plant over your cat's grave. You can also put down something bigger, like a tree.
 You want to bury your cat before the body starts to decompose. Ideally, bury your cat within the day it died or the day afterwards. A prompt burial is especially important in warmer months.Unfortunately, if a cat dies in the winter a prompt burial is not always possible. The ground may be frozen over. In this case, ask your vet whether you can store your cat's body with them until you're able to bury it.
You can also wrap your cat in a towel and place it in a Styrofoam container filled with ice. However, you should only use this method if you're storing your cat's body for a few days prior to burial. It will not work for long term storage.
 You will need certain supplies to bury your cat. You can find most of them at a local hardware store if you don't have them on hand in your home. You will need the following:Gloves
A spade or shovel
Rope to tie around the box or container

, Use gloves when handling your cat's body. If you want, you can bury your cat with a few of its favorite items. You can, for example, wrap your cat in its favorite blanket. You can also place your cat's favorite toy in the container with it, or other items the cat liked when alive.Make sure to tie the box closed with rope after placing the cat in it.
 You want to make sure the hole is deep enough that your cat's body will not be targeted by predators. Make sure to dig the hole wide enough that you can place your cat's coffin into the ground.Remember, if you notice any cables, stop digging immediately. Fill in your hole and look for another place to bury your pet.
 Many people find a memorial is helpful when burying their cat. Before placing your cat in the ground, you can say a few words, sing a song, or read a poem.Consider inviting friends and family members over to say goodbye your pet.
Young children may find a memorial particularly beneficial. You can encourage them to all collect things that remind them of their lost pet. They can place these things in the hole alongside the cat's coffin.
 After saying a few words, gently set your cat's coffin in the ground. Refill the hole with the soil you dug up. Make sure to press the soil down as you place it over the grave. You want the soil to be firmly in place to prevent predators from digging up your cat., Do not skip the grave marker. While it may not be important to you as a symbolic gesture, a grave marker prevents the grave from being disturbed. If you purchased a coffin, set it over the grave. If you're using rocks or other materials, pile them over the cat's resting place.If you're planting something in the ground, make sure to surround the base of the plant with something heavy. This will keep predators away.
 Once the marker is up, you may want to decorate the gravesite. You can put up temporary decorations, like flowers and other foliage.If you have young children, they may want to decorate the grave. You can encourage them to do something like write notes to the cat or draw pictures to leave at the gravesite.

