 Once you have your scanner and have hooked it up to your computer, you can begin scanning your documents. Open the lid of the scanner, in much the same way you’d open a copy machine, in order to reveal the glass scanning surface.
 Place the side of the document that you want scanned down onto the glass. This will allow the camera below to see the item. Place the document the appropriate place; the space for a standard-size paper, as well as several other common sizes, will be marked along the edges of the glass. Any part of the document which does not fit on the glass will not be scanned. Once you have placed the item, close the lid.
 Now that the item is place, open your scanning software on your computer. This can be accessed in a variety of ways. Try to install the software such that an icon is always readily accessible.
 Adjust the settings as necessary for the document that you plan to scan. Text documents can often be scanned in black and white, while some scanning software may make allowances for scanning photos vs scanning posters. The software varies widely across brands and devices, so you will have to experiment.


Often the settings you will want to change will be relating to the quality of the scan. Higher quality scans will produce much larger files. Scan only to the quality you need. Images may need to be high quality where text can generally be scanned at a very low quality. Some software will have preset settings for this.
 Once the settings have been adjusted, you will need to tell the software or the scanner to begin scanning the document. There may be a “Scan” button in the software or you may need to press a “Scan” button on the machine itself. Read your user manual if you become too confused.
 Once the item is scanned, your software will usually give you the option to make further adjustments, such as changing the orientation of the image. Make whatever adjustments you feel are necessary and then tell the software to save the file.


Be aware that scanned images are usually quite large, especially if you have chosen to scan at high settings. Change the settings and rescan the image if the file size is simply too large for your purposes.






Pay attention to the file format that the document saves in. You may wish to choose something other than the default.







