 They can be any race, gender, or IQ level. Not only will they make you happy, but they will make you popular and make you feel good about yourself.;
, Beauty exists in all shapes and colors. Some people have beautiful eyes, hair, or figures. You can have it all or just have one. If you only have one, exaggerate the thing you do have! Lets say that you have big pretty brown eyes, and you wear glasses. Just find a pair you love, and that emphasizes your eyes. wear some mascara, and eyeshadow also. If you have beautiful long black wavy hair, don't tie it in a ponytail, wear it down!

, Talk to your mother, or a friend and ask them to find something about you that is pretty.
 Try never to wear your hair in the same hairstyle two days in a row. It makes you seem boring. Straighten your hair, curl it, crimp it, braid it, put it up. There are all kinds of cute accessories out there like headbands and ribbons.
 It will most likely give you some confidence.
 Be yourself, and if you are smart, use it as a good quality in you.
 Don't freak out if you are fat. Don't freak out, period. If you freak out, people will find you too self conscious and will not feel comfortable to hang out with. It's a really good idea to talk to your friends about it, and don't try to be perfect. No one likes a perfect person. Admit that you're fat, and you work hard to lose weight. Or admit that you hate your skin and you've tried Clearasil and no one will make fun of you. If they do, then they are just a jerk because you know she isn't exactly the thinnest person ever, and that she doesn't have angel soft skin.
 No one likes a smart aleck or rude person. If you make people feel good about themselves, then people will like hanging around you.
 Wearing long skirts or comfortable fitting shirts will make people respect you for not trying to be someone else or not trying too hard.
 Get good grades. Don't compare yourself with other people when it's with grades. Don't make people envy you, and don't brag about your grades either.

