 The room will not be for you alone, so talk to everyone who will be spending time in the room and see what they want. Talk to the kids to see how they would like the room to look and to your partner or whoever else will be playing with the kids in that room.;
, Making the room look like a rainforest or the open seas with pirate decorations will, of course, excite everyone who enters the room at first but could grow stale over time. Picking a theme doesn’t have to be as intense as turning the whole room into a submarine but can be as simple as a certain pattern present in different areas of the room. Other themes that are not as consuming include making  it look like an old-time classroom or just including a lot of wooden furniture and wooden accents in the room. Have fun with it! You can be as simple or as complex as you want.
 Picking out bright colors and large patterns will attract a child’s attention and stimulate their senses. Soft yellows, pinks and blues are good colors for walls because these leave the room bright and can go with a various amount of furnishings. Primary colors, red, yellow and blue, are popular and are always a good choice, but exploring other color palettes in order to create a room that suits you as well as your young one is completely encouraged.
Remember, you’re going to end up spending a lot of time in the room, so making a room that you like is just as important as making it so your kid will like it as well. , If you choose to make your room outer space themed, try to have everything you pick out for the room geared towards that. Maybe have a light fixture shaped like a helmet or a ceiling fan like a ufo, put stars on the ceiling and have a rug designed like a meteor. The sky’s the limit (literally!) with how many things you can have in the room that match the theme.
 Pinterest is overflowing with playroom decoration ideas that can help inspire you in making your playroom. This can help get you moving if you’re unsure of the direction you want to go with your space. But don’t just copy what someone else did. This room should have your thumbprint on it, giving it its own unique style.

