 This label means the food has 140 milligrams of sodium or less per serving.You can also look for "sodium-free" (less than 5 milligrams per serving) and "very low sodium" (less than 35 milligrams per serving). You can also look for "unsalted.", Even if it's not labelled "low sodium," you may need to pick the best option out of several brands. Look for one that has only about 5 percent of your daily value of sodium per serving.Remember that 'low sodium' may still be more than your particular daily allotment allows for. Keep in mind that these are based on very general guidelines and yours may be more specific.
 If a can of soup labelled "low sodium" has two servings in it, then you're really getting double the amount of sodium on the label if you eat both servings at once.
 Many restaurants offer menus with nutritional values these days. Sometimes, you may need to find the menu online before going to the restaurant, or you may need to ask your server for a menu nutritional facts. Alternatively, ask your server for low-sodium options, or ask if certain items can be served with less salt.Remember, you can even use this trick at fast food places. Many fast food places will make french fries without salt if you ask for them.
 Stick the list to your refrigerator so you'll see it often. That way, you always know what's best to eat when you go in search of a snack.The high-sodium list could include items such as pickles, olives, cured meats, tomato juice, dressings, chips, pretzels, soups, bouillon, and condiments. The low-sodium list could include foods such as fresh vegetables, fresh fruits, fresh or frozen meat, beans, yogurt, and cereal., Even small amounts of salt can add up, and you may not think about salt in foods such as milk and bread, both of which can have 130 milligrams or more of salt per serving. Though that falls under "low sodium," you may miscalculate your daily intake if you don't pay attention to all the foods you're eating.Remember that even sweet items may have salt added. Salt enhances sweetness, therefore it is added to many desserts and other sweet items.

