 Every time you go to a pop punk show, pick up a t-shirt from the band and wear it proudly with a pair of jeans to school or work. A collection of band tees from pop punk bands, new and old, can serve as key elements in your pop punk wardrobe.For a throwback pop punk look, you may opt for band t-shirts from 90s pop punk bands like Blink 182 or Sum 41. You can also harken back even further and get a Ramones t-shirt or an Undertones t-shirt, both big influences in the power punk scene in the 80s.;
, Plaid is a popular print in the pop punk world and you can wear this print on a button up shirt or a jacket. Look for red and black plaid or black and white plaid.You can also wear neutral colored button up shirts with a collar for a more put together day look, especially when paired with skinny jeans.
Camouflage print is also popular in the pop punk world. You can wear camo print in the form of a t-shirt or a button up shirt with a collar.
 Most pop punk enthusiasts wear skinny jeans in dark blue or black, or boyfriend fit jeans, which have a more relaxed fit around the thigh area.Jeans are great for everyday wear, as they look good with band t-shirts or a button up shirt with a collar. They are also comfortable and easy to take care of in terms of washing and cleaning.
 Footwear is almost exclusively in the style of sneakers in pop punk, especially sneakers made by Converse or Vans. Go for the low top look and pair your Converse sneakers with skinny jeans and a band t-shirt. Or wear high tops with a jean skirt or long shorts and a button up shirt.You can also wear combat boots in black or brown to vary up your footwear.
 Many pop punk dressers will opt for all black, such as a black shirt and pants or a black skirt and top. You can then add a pop of color, like a bright pink tie, colored wristbands, or brightly colored socks, to still have a pop punk look.
 Add to your pop punk look by wearing jewellery like a choker around your neck or stud earrings. You can also wear a trucker hat or a beanie to complete your casual day look.Many pop punk musicians also have piercings and tattoos, such as ear piercings or arm tattoos. These would be considered more permanent accessories and should only be done after some thought as they can be painful and difficult to remove once you get them.
 Dress up a simple plaid shirt by pairing it with a black tulle skirt. You can then finish the outfit with black tights and combat boots or Converse shoes.This look would be ideal for attending a pop punk show or going out with friends for the night. You could also wear a band t-shirt under the plaid button up to show you are a fan of the band when going to the show.
 For a more dressed up look, you could pair a clean collared shirt with nice dark jeans and wingtip boots. Look for wingtip boots in dark colors like black or brown, preferably made of leather.You can finish the look with a statement watch, especially if you already have piercings or tattoos that carry the accessories element for you.
 Pairing a more dressy piece, like a long black lace dress, with a more casual piece like a jean jacket, will help to create a fun and interesting night out look.Add pins from your favorite pop punk bands to your jean jacket for a more personalized look.
 Lean on the punk element of pop punk and wear dark eyeliner in black or a dark purple. It may take some practice to apply eyeliner properly but with enough patience and time spent in front of the mirror, you can master it.Often, in the pop punk style, you leave your eyes pretty minimal besides the black eyeliner. You can add some dark eye shadow or some black mascara to finish the eye look.
 Put on a dark shade of purple or even black lipstick. Try to keep the rest of your makeup pretty minimal, with just foundation and eyeliner, so your face does not appear too dark., If you already have straight hair, this beauty look will be easy for you. If you do not have naturally straight hair, you may want to straighten your hair with a hair straightener and part it in the middle to create a very Avril Lavigne like hair look., Give your hair a dose of pop punk by styling it into a faux-hawk with the help of hair gel. Mohawks are popular among punk rockers and the faux-hawk is the pop punk version.
 In the pop punk world, wild hair colors like hot pink, bright red, bright green, or dark purple are completely acceptable. Get some bold streaks of various colors or dye all your hair one bold color.