 To decrease the chance of the cat injuring himself during the seizure, look around for objects that he might thrash against. Try to move objects out of the cat's way rather than pick your cat up and remove him from danger. Touching your cat stimulates him, and in his neurologically sensitized state this could worsen the fit or extend its duration.


For example, if your cat experiences a seizure near a sharp table leg, put a cushion between him and the table to act as padding, rather than picking your cat up.;
, A seizuring cat is not conscious of what goes on around him. He lies on his side, his legs paddle and thrash, his jaw chomps, and he may lose control of his bladder and bowels. In this state the cat has no conscious control of his actions and could easily bite or scratch anyone who touches him.The only is exception is if the cat is in danger of falling, which is covered in Step 4 of this section.


Do not put your fingers near or in his mouth because the cat will bite down and not be able to let go until he recovers consciousness.
 Get everyone else to leave the room. It is normal to cry out when witnessing a beloved cat in the grip of a seizure, but this does not help the pet. To reduce the stimulation around your cat:


Turn off the television or radio.
Switch off electric lights.
Close the curtains.
Avoid the temptation to talk to and soothe the pet. Sadly, this is another form of stimulation and you are likely to do more harm than good, unless he is in danger of falling (which is described in the next step).
 While you should try to avoid moving or touching your cat during a seizure, the exception is if he is in danger of injuring himself.For instance, if your cat has a seizure whilst on a high window ledge use either a duvet cover, or a large, thick towel to cover and then pick up the cat. Doing this will hopefully protect you from accidental bites and scratches.
With the cat still inside the towel carry him to a safe place, such as a flat, open space, and gently put him down. Make sure his head is uncovered so he can breathe, and then step away.
 The average seizure lasts two or three minutes, and your priority during this time should be to keep your cat safe. Once the cat comes round, keep him indoors so that he does not wander off, and phone your veterinarian for further advice. If this is your cat's first seizure he will need to be checked over, and have blood work run to investigate any underlying reason for the seizure.


It will help your veterinarian to have a full description of the seizure. With this aim, try to note the start and end time of the fit.
If you have a phone handy, take a video of the fit so that the veterinarian can witness the event first hand.

