 Zinc may prevent cold viruses from replicating and is thought to shorten the duration of your cold.You’ll benefit most from taking zinc as soon as cold symptoms appear.
Take zinc as a throat lozenge. Allowed it to fully dissolve in the mouth — do not chew or swallow.
When purchasing zinc, make sure the source is either zinc gluconate or zinc acetate.
Take 13.3 to 23 mg of zinc every two hours while symptoms persist. Do not exceed 40mg daily of zinc for more than a few days in a row.The combination of excess zinc and low copper levels can actually suppress immune system; Make sure you have adequate copper intake while using higher than usual doses of zinc.
 If, however, your body endures high physical stress, vitamin C may increase your resistance to colds.Any dosage of vitamin C over 500 mg cannot be absorbed by the body. 1,000 mg spread over the course of a day is plenty.
Do not take more than 2,000 mg of vitamin C per day.
Do not take vitamin C supplements if you have kidney disease.
 These reduce swelling, which eases stuffiness and pressure associated with congestion.Phenylephrine, phenylpropanolamine, and pseudoephedrine are especially common types of decongestants. There are several forms to choose from, including sprays and pills. Always follow the directions on the medication's packaging.


Be careful with decongestant sprays. They should not be used for more than three consecutive days. Using longer than this can lead to rebound symptoms, meaning your symptoms may return even worse than before.Limit decongestant use when pregnant. Past studies have tied phenylephrine and phenylpropanolamine use during the first trimester of pregnancy to rare birth defects.More recently, research has indicated that pregnant women can safely use over-the-counter decongestants for short-term ailments.Use only those products that are appropriate for the symptoms while pregnant and talk to your doctor or pharmacist before taking medications while pregnant or breastfeeding.
Do not take decongestants while breastfeeding.Do not take decongestants if you are taking monoamine oxidase-inhibiting antidepressants.
Consult a doctor before taking decongestants if you have:Diabetes
High blood pressure (hypertension)
Hyperthyroidism
An enlarged prostate gland
Liver damage (such as cirrhosis)
Kidney disease
Heart disease (or weak blood circulation)
Glaucoma



, If a stuffy nose is caused by an irritant that leads to an allergic reaction, antihistamines will be especially effective in relieving congestion.Take care when using antihistamines, as they may cause you to become drowsy. Do not operate a vehicle while taking antihistamines if you are unaccustomed to their effects upon your body.
Do not take antihistamines if you are breastfeeding. Though antihistamines are safe during pregnancy, they may irritate your nursing baby, and may decrease the flow of breastmilk.