 This depends on how much rice you need cooked in each batch.

1-10 Cup Rice Cooker: Best for home use. This size is very small and will often not be used in a commercial setting. If you cook rice often at home and want to invest in a good cooker, then 1-10 cups is likely your size.
21-30 Cup Rice Cooker: Best for light commercial use. For restaurants that serve rice with only a few dishes and are not extremely busy, a 21-30 cup rice cooker should fit your needs.
31-40 Cup Rice Cooker: Best for medium commercial use. For a mid-sized restaurant with a handful of rice dishes , a 31-40 cup rice cooker should be the right fit.
51-60 Cup Rice Cooker: Best for heavy commercial use. Often, 51-60 cup rice cookers are reserved for restaurants that include rice in almost every dish. Asian and Mexican restaurants almost always opt for the heaviest use cookers.;
,

Aluminum -- inner pots are most often made of aluminum as it is durable, light, and dent resistant. It cannot however be washed in a commercial dishwasher as the chemicals will erode the aluminum.
Stainless Steel -- these can be harder to find but can be washed in the dishwasher (given the inner pot is removable).
Ceramic -- usually only small, residential use rice cookers will come with a ceramic inner pot. They don’t often last long in a commercial setting where equipment is constantly being moved around and often dropped.


Most slow rice cookers are electric and come with a cord and plug. These are the most common simply because most modern kitchens place their rice cookers on a counter and want to use an electrical outlet.
There are still a number of gas rice cookers out there for those with gas lines rather than outlets in the kitchen. Most use a Piezo Ignition system which does not require an outside power source. If you have a gas rice cooker though, most local codes require it be under a hood. Refer to your local authority before purchasing a gas rice cooker to make sure you are meeting all safety requirements.


Rice cookers with a hold feature are great when you have a large capacity cooker that you would like to hold your rice warm for the next few hours. Most slow rice cookers with a hold feature will keep your rice warm for 2-5 hours depending on the model.
Rice cookers without a hold feature are created purely to cook the rice and nothing more, they shut off after the cycle is completed. If you are using large amounts of rice quickly then a hold feature may not be necessary.

