 Practice is very important in order to improve your batting. Make sure to practice regularly, even if it is for a short interval, even half an hour. The more you practice, better your play will be.


An unplanned practice session helps in nothing but tiredness. Keep everything preplanned to help you out while practice session.
You can get a coach to help you on improving your batting skills. But remember, no one can teach you anything before you put your own efforts in your game. ;
, You should know your weaknesses and strengths and try to bat as much as possible to turn them into a strength. It is always better to have no weak points instead of having a few strengths. Work on balls which you feel hard to face or part of the ground where you mostly get out., It is vital to believe that you can bat well. For this, you need to be passionate about cricket. Confidence comes with practice. The more you practice, better you will know about your game. Keep yourself motivated during games. Congratulate yourself on every single run.
 Don't stick to a particular shot. Different balls need to be angled differently. You can practice a shot to master it, but should not make the same response on every ball. If you play a particular shot on a couple of balls, the bowler may realize that it is your strong zone and would avoid you bowling there.
 Try to set your goals such as 'Scoring 25 runs; playing yorkers'. Through this, you will increase your potential and more accurately come to know your capability. Start from small targets and then increase your levels step by step.



Play unofficial games. Play some pick-up games among friends that involve batting, but not necessarily in a true game. This would help you to increase your enthusiasm for batting and improve your skills at the same time.
You will come to know about handling pressure and play under tense circumstances.

Know your role. Find out what team wants from you and what position do you play in. Sometimes your team expects very much from you, but you do not know what you have to do when you go in.

Interact with your teammates. Attend team meetings and discuss strategies. An effective communication will help your teammates play well as a unit.
 Guess what could be the next ball from the bowler. If you know the tricks and the bowling speed of the bowler, you can decide your shots and adjust your timing.


Nothing can be done once the ball is delivered. You have to guess right from the run-up.
Place yourself in the bowler's position. Guess what you would have done if you were at the other end. This will help you guess and respond accordingly.
 Learn different tricks like playing the hook shots and playing drives. Always try to play from the middle of the bat, called the sweet spot.
 Try to watch more and more matches and observe the strategies, then apply them in your own game.


Follow one of your favorite cricketers. Notice their style of playing and adapt those styles in your own game.
 If you can't achieve your goal, don't lose confidence. Every player has variations in capabilities and talent; some players don't achieve their goal even after many tries. The key is to not give up and keep practicing.
 Most importantly, you should love and enjoy the game. Play with a cool mind ;accept defeats and take them as a challenge and move on. Be fair and respect other players and your teammates, too. No one wants his/her team to lose the game.

