 IMEI Info is a site that will read your IMEI information and confirm whether or not your iPhone is unlocked. The process is free, but you'll need to create an account., This will include filling out the following forms:


Login - Your preferred login name. Must be distinct from other login names on the site, or you'll be prompted to select a different one.

Name - Your first name.

Email address - A working email address.

Country - Your country of residence.

Verification code - The code displayed to the left of this text field.

Password/Confirm password - A password for your account. Your password entries must match each other.
 This button is at the bottom of the page. Doing so will prompt IMEI Info to send a confirmation email to your provided email address., This must be the same email address you entered on the Registration form for IMEI Info.

If you aren't logged into your email address, do so when prompted.
 It will be from a sender address called "notify", and the email's subject line will read "Activating your account on the site IMEI.info".

If you don't see the email within a couple of minutes, check your email account's Spam folder.
 It's in the body of the email as part of the "Click here to activate your account" sentence. Doing so will take you to IMEI Info's main page where you can enter your IMEI number., This is the grey app with gears on it that you'll likely find on the Home Screen., It's near the top of the "Settings" page., It's at the top of the "General" page., The number to the right of the "IMEI" heading is your iPhone's IMEI number., This text field is in the middle of the IMEI Info page., Doing so will prompt you to click all entries in a window that match a theme (e.g., "Click all boxes with road signs in them") to verify your identity., It's to the right of the "Enter IMEI" field., It's the green button beneath the "Free checks:" heading on the right side of the page., This option is in the middle of the page. Doing so will take you to a page on which you'll see one of the following lines of text:


Unlocked: false - Your iPhone is locked.

Unlocked: true - Your iPhone is unlocked.

