 The side kick is a great way to burn calories and work up a little sweat and it can be fun too! This is a great kick to add to your kickboxing exercise routine.


You can use a punching bag, a partner holding a pad or just shadow kick without anything at all. , Your legs should be slightly spread at a bit more than shoulders width with one leg in front and the other in back. Your kicking leg will be in front. Keep your fists up in front of your face.


You should practice this with both legs so try it in both directions. After practicing with one leg, switch your stance and practice with the other leg also.
Your hands should be in front of your chin and mouth to protect your face.
You should be sideways to your target. , This bent knee creates the power for your shot so bring it up as high as possible.
 Straighten your knee directly forward into contact. You should make contact with the blade, or outside edge, of your foot because it will be stronger and safer for your kick.


Make sure you are extending straight forward into contact. This means you will have to be turning your body and hips simultaneously.
Think of the kick as a stomping motion to give you extra power and strength.
Do not lock out your knee, or extend it completely, or else you could hurt yourself. You will want to maintain a slight bend even when making contact. , You must rotate your non-kicking foot at the same time to create extra power and strength in your kick. It should end up facing almost completely backwards when you make contact with your target.


The non-kicking foot should rotate about 180 degrees so that it faces backwards when you make contact.
This rotation is very important so make sure it is moving correctly during your kick.
It will feel like you are giving your back to the target because you are rotating your hips into the kick. , Bend your knee again after contact to bring your knee back to your chest. Bring your foot down to the ground directly in front of you.


Your non-kicking foot will have to rotate back to its original position when landing.
You can shuffle back after your foot is on the ground to bring you away from your opponent. 