 Bok choy is perfectly fine and tender for eating raw, especially with the right pairings in a salad. If you're going to eat raw bok choy, buy them small and brightly colored. Young bok choy is tender and delicious.


Most bok choy is fairly limp, compared to heftier lettuces and other greens, so that's not necessarily a sign of quality. Avoid any especially soft ones, with brownness or other discoloration.;
, Each boy choy will be like a little head of lettuce. To start preparing raw for a salad, trim off the very bottom stem end. This should loosen all the individual leaves and let you examine, clean, and prepare them individually.


Don't discard the tender inside leaves. Those are the best-tasting part of the bok choy. The outside and the greenest parts tend to be somewhat bitter, so make sure to save the inside most of all.
 Sometimes, a little dirt and other sediment can get stuck inside the boy choy, so it's a good idea to rinse them all individually. Place them in a colander and rinse them all together, or run each under the water if you want. You can also use a salad spinner to dry them.
 Depending on the kind of salad you want to make, you can chop the leaves roughly, leave them whole, or chop them very finely, depending on your taste.


Generally, the salad leaves are a bit better if you chop them somewhat finely, helping the dressing mask the bitterness of the greens.
Use about 2-3 heads of medium bok choy for a good salad.
 Bok choy is generally not eaten as a salad by itself, but pairs excellently with other leafy green vegetables. Use a basic mixed-green package or salad mix that you enjoy to add some bok choy to, or pair with any of the following greens:


Bibb lettuce
Butter lettuce
Kale
Swiss chard
Baby spinach
Mint leaves, cilantro, or other fresh herbs

, Bok choy salad goes well tossed with any sort of oil-based dressing that you like. If you want to mix one up yourself, try whisking together the following ingredients until smooth:


Lime juice
Soy sauce
Asian fish sauce
Brown mustard
Minced garlic or shallot
Black pepper

, This salad goes excellently topped with some slices of grilled steak. Grill the steak, then slice it thinly and top the salad, letting the steak wilt the greens gently. Great combination.If you don't eat meat, fried tofu can be used in the same way.

