 You may find many fresh herbs growing in your garden, in the wild, or in the produce section of your local natural foods store. Dried herbs can be found in the bulk department of many groceries as well. Particular herbs have been shown to benefit people with thinning hair or hair loss.


Basil will strengthen hair against breakage, improve the circulation in the hair follicles to stimulate new growth. It has been shown to have anti-inflammatory properties as well.Watercress is loaded with zinc, iron and biotin, each of which are beneficial for scalp and hair.
Stinging nettle can be used to create a tea rich in nutrients to care for your scalp and hair. Nettle is rich in iron, which improves overall circulation, including blood circulation to the scalp It contains a healthy amount of minerals and vitamins, while also being high in protein. It's best made with freshly harvested nettle, which grows abundantly in the wild.Rosemary has long been used as a hair treatment, both to darken and thicken the hair.Rosemary is healthy for hair follicles, the tiny bulb-shaped appendages embedded in your scalp. By clearing away oily buildup in the scalp (sebum), rosemary promotes new cell growth.Horsetail is an herb that stimulates the scalp, acts both as an antiviral and an anti-allergen. It also contains silica, which will thicken and strengthen the hair.You can easily combine herbs to create your own personal hair tonic, based on your own hair's needs. For example, one tonic for thinning hair uses a mix of horsetail and nettle combined with aloe vera gel and essential oils.;
, A tea, or tisane, is simply an infusion of the herb into water. Boiling water extracts the herbal properties most effectively. Strain the herb from the water when finished. A french press or tea pot might be used if you have one readily available.


In general, a good ratio of herbs to water is about a half cup of the fresh herb to one cup of boiling water, or a quarter cup of dried herb. This ratio is not exact. It can be adjusted based on the strength of the tea you desire.
Steep until the water is room temperature, or overnight. The longer you steep the herbs in the liquid, the stronger your infusion will be.
You might also want to add essential oils, such as clary sage, rosemary, or lavender, to the tea.
 Pour it slowly, while gently massaging your scalp with your free hand. Having your head below your heart will maximize circulation to your scalp.


Use a small cup or a cupped palm to repeat the process, filling your palm or the cup with the liquid in the basin.
Make sure your head is completely treated by the herbal tea before removing your head from the basin.
 Rub gently, being careful not to pull or tug the hair.


Massaging will stimulate the hair follicles and skin.
Take care to prevent herbal tonic from getting in your eyes. Tilt your head backwards on your shoulders, or keep your eyes closed.
 Continue to massage gently with your fingers to make sure that all the herbal tincture is removed. Rinse until water flows clear from the hair, showing no evidence of remaining tonic.


Continue to treat daily, in addition to your regular hair care. Depending on the variety of herbal tonic you are using, you may notice that your hair doesn't require as much shampooing when you use the herbal tonic.
Because this tonic doesn't contain preservative, continue to make it fresh for each use. For a longer-lasting herbal tonic, create an oil infusion.

