 Although your adrenaline might be pumping during the negotiation process and this can be a stressful situation, you will do more to help your case by being respectful, polite, and calm.You could lose your negotiating power by being disrespectful or trying to strong-arm someone.If this situation goes the way you hope, the person you are negotiating with will likely be your landlord, and you don’t want to start off with a negative relationship.
People are usually more willing to be accommodating and helpful if they are being treated well. No one wants to deal with a rude tenant.
 When negotiating, it’s important to initially ask for a lower price than you are willing to pay, because it’s possible the landlord might agree to the deal. If they aren’t amenable to the initial offer, this tactic usually encourages them to name an alternate price, and then you can counter with another offer., One of the keys to successful negotiating is offering a deal in which the other person also wins something. Offering to give up on something or be accommodating might help you seal the deal. Here are a few ideas to consider:If you do not have a car, you might be able to give up access to a parking space.
If you have the available funds, you could offer to pay your rent in advance.
Commit to a longer lease term in exchange for a lower price.
Agree to provide longer notice when moving out.
 If the landlord is unwilling or unable to lower the rental price, you might still be able to negotiate amenities or discounts that save you money and make the apartment a more affordable option. Unless you are willing to ask, you never know what options might be available.Ask for specific repairs to be made to the apartment or painting to be completed before you move into the unit.
See if you can pay a lower security deposit or if application fees can be waived.
Request free parking or additional parking.
Ask that utilities be included.
Inquire about free cable or internet service.
 Your landlord might be open to providing a rental discount if you offer to help out around the complex or unit.


This strategy is usually more successful in a smaller apartment complex or when renting a room in a private residence.
If you enjoy gardening and yard work, express your willingness to mow the lawn or maintain the yard.
Offer to help staff the office on the weekends or at busy times of the year.
If your landlord seems to need help when it snows, offer to shovel the walkway.
 If the landlord knows you are considering other places with lower rents, you might have an extra bargaining chip.If you have done your research properly, you can show the landlord these options.
If your research reveals that people are paying less for similar properties nearby, ask the landlord to explain why there is a difference, and see if they might be willing to change their price.
 If you successfully negotiate a reduced rental rate, discounts, or amenities, make sure these items are written into your lease.If your landlord denies this agreement in the future, you will have the official lease as proof.
Verbal agreements are not sufficient.
 If the landlord is uncompromising or unwilling to negotiate, this might not be a place you want to live.


Their willingness to negotiate, or lack thereof, reveals a lot about how responsive they might be as a landlord.You don't want to live somewhere that doesn’t care about attracting good tenants and maintaining positive relationships with tenants.
If you still feel that this place is the only viable option, then you might need to consider looking for a roommate. Splitting rent will drastically reduce your monthly costs.
You could also consider downsizing to a smaller apartment in the same complex to lower costs.

