 If you are around frigid water, such as the Arctic or Antarctic waters, you may be required to know how to use a survival suit. If you are told to put it on, do it immediately. It will allow you to survive longer in the coldest waters on the planet.


Don't venture into icy cold waters on a boat without preparing in advance. If you don't have a survival suit to keep you safe, the risk is just too great.
Even if you're wearing a survival suit, you shouldn't stay in freezing water for too long.
 This aquatic garment seals out water completely and will keep you warm in cold water. If you know you will be around cold water such as the Pacific ocean or certain rivers where you might go whitewater kayaking), a dry suit is probably an acceptable level of protection.
 This is good choice for warm to cool waters, such as what you'd encounter while SCUBA diving or snorkeling in certain areas.


Not all wetsuits are created equal. Some cover only the torso, while others cover the arms and legs as well. Make sure you know what type of wetsuit you need for the particular water temperature you're entering.
 Whenever you are out boating or doing some other water activity (apart from diving), always wear a personal flotation device. If will help keep you floating and it adds an element of warmth.


Some PFDs have good insulation that can make the difference between surviving or not in cold water.
Consider putting reflective tape or another reflective material on your PFD in case you're caught in the water at night. This will help a search party find you more quickly.
 If you aren't actually wearing a wetsuit, wear layers of light clothing rather than heavy clothes. The layers will help to trap air but the lightness will prevent you from being weighed down.


Don't wear cotton. This fabric weighs you down when it becomes wet, and it doesn't keep you warm.
Wear a wicking layer and a waterproof layer. Wool or another fabric that wicks moisture away from your skin should be worn underneath a protective layer of waterproof clothing., You can prevent the loss of too much body heat by focusing on keeping your head warm. If you'll be in cold water, wear two swim caps. Wear ear plugs designed for underwater use, so you don't lose too much heat through your ears.