 While the premiums are higher and there is usually a deductible, you have a broader range of choices for providers with PPOs than with HMOs. However, if you need to see an out-of-network provider, your costs will be lower with a PPO than with an HMO. Consider also whether the higher premium fits in with your budget in regards to how much you're getting in return and whether you’ll save money. Different PPOs will have different rates and different deductibles.For instance if a PPO has a higher deductible (e.g., $1000) and premium (e.g., $200/mo) than an HMO (e.g.,$500 and $100/mo respectively), but your specialist is covered under the PPO and not the HMO, you may save money by going with the PPO. If your specialist's bill is $5000, for instance, then you would pay $5000 under the HMO, because the provider is out of network. With the PPO, you would pay the deductible of $1000, thereby saving you $4000.
 There are different levels of PPOs with different benefits. Generally the higher the premium, the lower the copays and deductibles. Again, though, you need to determine whether in your yearly budget it is worthwhile to pick a higher premium plan.For instance if one plan has a low copay ($10-20) but a higher deductible (more than $2000), it may be better for a healthy person than a plan with a higher copay ($40) and a lower deductible (less than $2000), which might be better for a person who knows they may need surgeries or other expensive care., An HSA is a good way to help you cover the costs not covered by your PPO. It allows you to save money specifically for medical expenses. Besides, enrolling often has many benefits through the insurance company, including discounted rates.In order to sign up for an HSA, you need to have a High Deductible Insurance Plan (HDIP), which can be a PPO.Your employer may offer the HSA, or you may be able to go through your bank or credit union., While PPOs often are more flexible than other plans, consider the flexibility of each PPO. The premiums are also usually higher than other plans. By looking at the specific plans you will have a better sense of whether what they offer is worth it.While PPOs may provide more flexibility (more doctors in-network), they may come with a higher deductible, a higher out-of-pocket maximum, and a higher premium than other plans. Be sure to look closely at these figures, and if you are receiving a lot of expensive care, weigh the deductibles, out-of-pocket maximums, co-pays, and premiums before deciding on a PPO., Different PPOs cover different doctors, procedures, etc. You’ll need to know what each plan offers, and whether it is worth your while given your current health plan to enroll in any particular PPO. One of the advantages of a PPO is that it often covers a percentage of out-of-network providers, where a lot of other plans don't cover out-of-network providers at all. If you know you'll need a lot of flexibility for your healthcare (you have a rare or dangerous condition), you may want to look to see what percentage of out-of-network coverage is provided. For instance some plans may only cover 50% of out-of-network services, while covering 80% of in-network.