 This project will require glow sticks. Unfortunately, glow sticks only glow for a certain amount of time, so it would be best to do this project in the evening when it is already dark. This way, you will not be wasting any of your glow sticks' "glow" time.;
, You can use any size jar you want, but keep in mind that the smaller the jar is, the more glow you will get. A larger jar will have a less intense glow, and may require more glow sticks. You can also use a bulb-shaped glass bottle with a cork stopper.


Consider using a tinted mason jar. You can also tint the jar yourself by mixing a glossy decoupage glue with a few drops of food coloring, and then painting the jar with it.
 Any sort of glow stick will work, but the 6-inch (15.24 centimeters) glow sticks will have better results than the bracelets or necklaces, which do not glow for very long. The size of your jar will determine how many glow sticks you will need to buy. The larger the jar is, the more glow sticks you will need.


You will need two to three glow sticks, depending on the size of the jar. For example, a 16-ounce (473.18 milliliters) jar will need two to three 6-inch (15.24 centimeters) glow sticks.Consider purchasing a long-lasting glow stick. Most glow sticks only shine for only shine for 2 to 3 hours, while others will shine for 4 to 6 hours. Some glow sticks, however, will shine for up to 12 hours. The package will tell you how many hours the glow stick will shine for. The longer the glow stick shines, the longer you will be able to enjoy your fairy jar.
Consider purchasing multiple colors of glow sticks. Most glow sticks come in basic colors, such as: red, pink, orange, yellow, green, blue, purple, and white. You can create new and exciting colors by combining existing ones. For example, if you mix blue and green together, you will get teal.
 Hold the glow stick with two hands, and bend it in half until you hear a "snap." This will shatter the glass tube inside the glow stick and release the chemicals that cause it to glow.
 You can use a craft knife or a pair of scissors. Glow sticks are non-toxic, but the chemicals can burn and irritate your skin. Protect yourself by wearing some rubber gloves for this step.


Adult supervision is required for this step.
Consider placing a small, tightly-woven strainer over the mouth of the jar. The strainer will catch any bits of glass that might fall out of the glow stick. Do not use this strainer for cooking or baking after this project.
 Turn the glow stick upside down and pour the liquid into the jar. You may have to shake the tube a little bit to get all of the liquid out.









If there are any large pieces of glass inside the jar, you can scoop them out using a plastic fork or spoon. Discard the fork or spoon after using it; do not use it again for eating.
 You can use any type of glitter you want, but iridescent glitter will give you the best results because it will allow the glow to shine through. How much glitter you use will depend on the size of your jar as well a your preferences. For example, for an extra glittery 16-ounce jar (473.18 milliliters), you will need ¼ cup (32 grams) of super-fine glitter.









Consider using shaped pieces of glitter, such as flowers, hearts, and stars.Consider mixing super-fine glitter and chunky crafting glitter in different colors for an interesting effect., The glow stick fluid will cause the glitter to stick to the sides of the jar, but you can make the glitter appear as though it is suspended inside the jar by adding filler, such white tulle or organza.You can also use clear, iridescent cellophane. Simply cut a piece of your chosen filler, and scrunch it inside the jar. You want it to be big enough so that fits loosely into the jar, but not so big that it completely stuffs the jar.
 Be sure the glow stick material and glitter coats the inside walls of the jar.
 You can make your jar extra special by painting the lid or even covering it with some glitter or pretty fabric. Read the section in this article on decorating your jar for more ideas.
 The glow stick fluid will shine during daylight, but it will be even brighter and more effective in a dark room.

