 You can find this information by using your computer or by accessing an online IP address service. Once you find your IP address, make a note of it so that you can tell if it has changed after going through the process.


You can use Google to check your IP by doing a search for "my ip." Your public IP should appear at the top of the results page.
You can use an IP website online to check your IP address. Popular options include:

What Is My IP Address: http://whatismyipaddress.com/

My IP Address: http://www.myipaddress.com/show-my-ip-address/

My Proxy: http://ip.my-proxy.com/



You could find out your IP address using your computer by typing "ipconfig" into your Windows Command Prompt or Mac Terminal.
 Turn off or completely unplug your modem or router for five minutes before turning it back on. Once everything is back up and running, check your IP address again.


If you have a dynamic IP address, this simple disruption to your Internet service will likely be enough to change your IP address.
For this portion of the process, you do not need to restart your computer.
Once your connection is back up, check your IP address again and compare it to the old one. If it changed, then try going to Chatroulette again. If it did not change, continue along further in the process.
 If temporarily turning off your modem did not work, turn off or unplug the modem overnight. During this time, you should also turn off your computer.


Again, this only works if you have a dynamic IP address—an IP address that changes on its own when certain conditions are met.
Since this reset lasts longer and is more in depth, it might leave a stronger impression on your modem, thereby triggering the desired IP address reset.
Once your connection is back up, check your IP address again and compare it to the old one. If it changed, try going to Chatroulette again. If it did not change, move onto the next step.
 If you cannot get your IP address to change on its own, you might need to consider going into your computer's settings and changing the IP manually.

From your Network and Sharing Center, go to "Change Adapter Settings."






Get the Subnet Mask to fill the IP address in with a random string of numbers. Type "111-111-111-111" into the box and hit the Tab key on your keyboard to automatically generate new numbers.






Right-click on your local connection and select "Properties." Check the "Obtain an IP address automatically" box before closing out. Your IP address should now be changed.
 When all else fails, or when you have a static IP address, you need to call your ISP and ask to have your IP address changed remotely.


If the ISP will not change your IP address remotely, the operator might at least be able to guide you through the process of changing your IP address on your own.

