 Prepare a 13-inch by 18-inch by 1-inch (33-cm by 46-cm by 2.5-cm) baking sheet by lining it with parchment paper.


Note that the modern version of this recipe does not use banana leaves like the traditional version uses.
 In a large mixing bowl, combine the coconut milk, condensed milk, and melted butter using an electric mixer.Note that as you beat the ingredients together, in this step and in later steps, you should periodically scrape the sides of the bowl with a spatula to ensure that all of the ingredients are being mixed into the batter equally.
 Add the eggs to the batter one at a time, beating after each addition until combined.
 Mix these coconut strings into the batter one can at a time. Beat after each addition to combine.


Do not drain the syrup from the cans of macapuno. You should add the entire contents of the cans, syrup, coconut strings, and all.
 Add the rice flour to the batter in 1/2 cup (125 ml) amounts, beating well after each addition to combine.


Do not add the mochiko flour all at once. If you do, the batter will become very clumpy, and you might not be able to smooth it out again even after prolonged beating.
 Pour in the brown sugar and finely chopped almonds, then beat into an even consistency. When done, add the vanilla extract, and beat quickly to mix it into the rest of the batter.
 Quickly inspect it to make sure that there are no air bubbles or lumps.


If you notice any air bubbles, remove them by gently tapping the bottom of the pan against the counter.
 Bake the cake for roughly 45 minutes, or until it turns a light brown. Sprinkle a little cinnamon over the cake in an even pattern, then continue to bake it for another 2 to 15 minutes, or until it turns golden brown.


The center of the cake should be set when it is ready to come out of the oven. Check the center by inserting a toothpick directly into the center of the cake. If it comes out clean, the cake is ready.
 Remove the cake from the oven. Lift the parchment paper off the baking sheet, lifting the cake with it, and allow the cake to cool on the parchment paper but off the baking sheet until it reaches room temperature. Cut the entire thing into 2-inch (5-cm) squares and serve.


To make the cutting process easier, use a long, clean ruler and a pizza cutter.
You can store the cooked bibingka in an airtight container for 1 to 2 days at room temperature. If refrigerated, you can store it for 1 to 2 weeks.
The consistency of this version tends to get harder once the cake has completely cooled, so you might want to reheat it in the microwave for 20 to 30 seconds before enjoying.

