 What do you need it for? Fun, general or professional use? I would suggest writing your individual needs down to ensure the camera you choose best fits your requirements.;
, What is your budget? You have to remember it’s not just about the camera body, lenses are equally important. So consider this when budgeting along with additional batteries, memory cards, filters, flash, tripod and camera protection such as bags and cases. Buying a DSLR means buying more than just the camera body so take this into account when looking at your budget. There are some great deals and package ‘Kits’ out there where you can buy the body + lenses + tripod in a Kit so it is worth looking into these options as well.
 You don’t want to spend hard earned money on a product, only for it to be upgraded next week. Many cameras now have firmware upgrades, which is a great help in prolonging the life of your DSLR.
 These days Cameras have so many mega pixels. Only four years ago 8MP was considered high - it’s actually what Canon 1D started off with and that camera was used for incredibly high-end work. Now the Canon 5D Mark II has 21.1 MP. In all honesty, anything above 10MP is fantastic. Requirements depend on your individual needs, if you want to create large professional prints then high resolution is essential. For small images to email to family, then it is not essential.
 Do you need a Full Frame Sensor? A full frame sensor means that you get the exact same frame size as you would with a traditional 35mm film camera. This means that you get the true angle of view from the lens you are using – this is good for wide angle architectural or landscape work. They also perform very well at a high ISO. Many people have gotten used to the crop size of a smaller sensor and having that little extra on their zoom – this is good if shooting nature, wildlife or sport to get tighter shots. The Canon 5D Mark II has a full frame sensor, whilst the Canon 1D Mark IV does not even though the 1D is more expensive.
 Do you need to shoot in RAW? RAW is what many professional photographers shoot in. RAW captures large files that can be non-destructively graded and manipulated in the post stage without an image quality loss. Many Cameras now have the option to shoot in RAW and it can dramatically improve the quality of your final image and your digital dark room experience.
 This again comes down to use. Will you be running around shooting wildlife or travelling a lot? If so, then a small and light model would be best.
 Personally, even if you are a Stills Photography purest and never think you will use it, if you are buying a new DSLR today I would suggest getting one with a HD Video function, simply because they are so good. People are shooting high-end commercial work on them. Even if you don’t think you will ever really use it, having a HD Video Camera to hand built into your DSLR is never a bad thing.
 If you require a video function, is it important to be able to shoot in slow motion? If so this will narrow your choice of DSLR’s that can do this.
 You can use a Nikon Lens on a Canon camera by simply using an adapter; this helps widen your choice. For more information on choosing a Lens, please read my article on Top 7 Tips for choosing a Lens for your DSLR.
 Some models of cameras are compatible with each other, in terms of using the same batteries, chargers, battery grips and so on. If this is important to you this may affect your decision. Previous gear and accessories that are compatible with your new DSLR can help reduce cost and save you having to buy all new gear again.
 At the end of day, you want your DSLR to last as long as possible and not be outdated next month. Spend as much as you can afford and getting the model that best suits your needs whether as a consumer, pro-sumer or professional. It might be worth spending a little more on a model that will keep up with future upgrades and allow you to grow and learn with it, rather than buying a cheaper entry level model which will soon be out of date and although cheaper might not be beneficial in the long run.

