 The fancy word for buying low and selling high is “arbitrage.” All arbitrage means is buying something at one price and selling it somewhere else for a higher price. The biggest trick to pulling it off is finding a good that people want but have a hard time getting, and making it convenient for them to buy it.For example, if your school allows it, you can buy candy cheap in bulk, and sell it to your classmates during lunch. Make sure to buy candy and snacks that are not available at your school.
Wheeling and dealing like this is one of the best ways for a young person to get into business, because you don’t need to get a loan or sign a contract to start--anyone can do it. , In order to make a profit, you need to sell for more than you paid. The easiest way to do that is to buy in bulk—sellers charge less for high amounts of good than they do for small amounts. Buying in bulk is also called buying wholesale. Some notable wholesalers are Sam’s Club, Costco, and BJ’s, but you’ll need a membership, and you might not be able to get one as a minor. However, retailers like Amazon and Walmart have prices almost as low as wholesale.For example, if you buy a box containing thirty full-sized Reese’s, Hershey’s, and KitKat at $15, (the going price on Amazon), you can easily sell them for $1 apiece, which will double your money., After you do make a profit, you’ll probably be tempted to go spend your profits on something fun. While you should have a little reward for your hard work, keep the spending to a minimum. Since, as a minor, you probably don’t have many expenses, keep at least half of your profits to put towards your next purchase.The more money you have, the larger the quantities you can buy (meaning lower prices and more profit) and the more expensive items you can buy.
 It’s easy to fall into the trap of not keeping records. As a business person, it’s crucial that you do keep records. You need to record your total costs and sales, the length of time it took you to sell what you have, profits on each unit sold, and costs for each unit. This kind of information is vital to have, because it helps you minimize your own costs and adapt to what people want to buy.Don’t just get estimates of these numbers. You need to know all of them down to the cent. To get your total costs and sales, just add up how much money you spent and how much you took in. To get the per unit cost, take the total costs and divide it by the number you units you bought. To get the profit per unit, take the total sales and subtract the total costs. Next, divide it by the number of units.
 There’s no better time to try new business strategies than when you’re a minor and your parents are footing the bill for your basic expenses. There’s much less for you to risk when someone’s guaranteeing a roof over your head. Try selling in new locations and selling different items at different prices. Adopt the practices that work and discard the ones that don’t.It’s okay to risk, but don’t risk everything on a new strategy. Always keep whatever money you’ll need to maintain your current operations. Only spend what’s leftover on the new strategy.

