 If you want to stop underarm odor, one easy trick is to avoid certain pungent foods or foods that are known to increase underarm odor. Here are some foods that you should avoid:Garlic






Onions
Fish
Curry
Hot peppers and other spicy foods
Red meat

, You may love your morning coffee or have a few beers or glasses of wine throughout the week, but if you want to eliminate your underarm odor, then you should cut down on -- or even eliminate -- these beverages as soon as you can.
 Drinking a lot of water helps naturally cleanse your body and to keep you smelling fresh. Aim to drink a t least 8 - 10 8 oz. glasses of water a day.
 Some foods that have been proved to improve your body odor include fruits, veggies, and whole grains. These foods can help improve your body's metabolic function, helping it to work more efficiently. Eating a healthy balanced diet will also help lower your body's stress levels, which may decrease the amount you sweat, and therefore will lower the amount of bacteria that is attracted to your body.Take a wheat grass supplement along with your meals.
Chew on parsley, alfalfa, or other leafy greens after meals to help neutralize strong scents.
 Foods that are rich in chlorophyll, such as kale and spinach, have been recommended to help neutralize the smells of foods that cause underarm odor., You can add magnesium and zinc to your diet through vitamins, or by eating foods that are rich in these vitamins. Here are a few foods to try:Foods rich in magnesium: nuts and seeds, spinach, lentils, avocado, bananas, and figs






Foods rich in zinc: pumpkin and squash seeds, dark chocolate, and peanuts







, Studies show that if you are overweight, obese, or even just an unhealthy eater, you've placed more strain on your body, which makes movement more difficult and makes it easier for you to sweat, thereby attracting bacteria that can cause underarm odor. If you're overweight, it may be time to eat a more balanced diet to shed those pounds and eliminate that pesky underarm odor.

