 Look for something that is around 12 to 14 inches (30.48 to 35.56 centimeters) long and ¼-inch (0.64-centimeter) wide. If you can't find any dowels the right length, you can buy longer ones and cut them down yourself.Consider spray painting the dowels a neutral color, such as white, silver, or gold.
Consider staining the dowels using a natural stain, such as vinegar and coffee., This will make twisting the eye screws in easier. A thumb tack will be the easiest way to make the hole.If you have a drill with a tiny drill bit, you could try that instead.
 The thinner the eye screws are, the easier this will be. At one point, you may need to use pliers to help twist the screws in the rest of the way. Be very careful at this point; thicker eye screws may cause the dowels to split., You will need around 4 to 5 pieces of ribbon for each wand. The ribbons can be all different, but they should match your wedding colors. Aim to make them around 24 inches (cc centimeters) long. This will give you a nice, full wand.Play around with different widths and textures, including satin and sheer.
 Starting with the widest ribbon, feed one end through the eye screw, and tie it in a secure, double-knot. Continue tying ribbons to the eye screw until you have 4 or 5. As you continue to add ribbons, the eye screw will start to fill up. Be sure to leave enough space for one last ribbon so that you can tie the bell on.
 You will need one of these for each wand that you are making so that you can attach the bells. Aim to make these around 12 inches (cc centimeters) long.
 Thread the ribbon through the bell first, make sure that it's centered, then tie it in a double-knot.The standard, trumpet-shaped bells work better for this style of wand than the ball-shaped jingle bells. You can use silver or gold bells--whichever one fits your color scheme better.
 Thread the ribbon through the eye screw. Tie it into a secure knot, then tie it into a bow.Trim down the tails if they are too long.


If you want to, you can do a double bow instead.