 Things like shouting, yelling, belittling comments, are all obvious signs of condescension.In the workplace, however, people are sometimes condescending in more subtle ways, such as talking about people behind their backs or trash talking in the form of jokes. If you recognize this behavior, point it out. You can also help to avoid it in the workplace by fostering an environment that discourages gossip, making jokes about coworkers, etc.
 Everyone says stupid things now and then, or has a bad day, or unintentionally lashes out at someone. If the condescending comment was just an isolated comment, try to be forgiving and get on with things.
 Sometimes, you can deflect a person’s condescension. If a coworker acts superior or more knowledgeable than you, communicate with him or her in such a way that those feelings are turned into productivity.Try saying things like:


“Could you help me understand?”
“What do you think we should do?”
“Maybe you’re the best person for this job.”

, Try to have proof of the problem, such as condescending emails that you have saved. If it is your supervisor that is being condescending, things can be more complicated. However, you can still seek support from your coworkers who might be in similar situations.
 If you don’t want to divulge what the meeting is really about beforehand, suggest that it is for something neutral sounding, like “workplace communication strategies.”


You might also ask a supervisor to attend the meeting to serve as a mediator.
 Without anger, courteously but directly respond to the behavior. Try something like, "I really appreciate your input, I know you have a lot of experience in this area. But, you know, sometimes it can be difficult to ask you questions because I feel like you don't respect me when I don't know something. It can feel very condescending."

, If the condescending coworker responds with more condescension, resist the urge to retaliate. Take a moment to breathe, calm down, and assess the situation before moving on., When discussing the problem of condescension with your coworker, watch your body language as well as what you say. Avoid things like:


Pointing your fingers
Rolling your eyes
Crossing your arms
Getting in the person’s face
Standing above the person while he or she sits

, Try rising above the situation and your own feelings, and seek to understand your coworker's point of view.


Invite your coworker to explain what he or she was thinking or feeling when saying something you perceived as condescending.
Be courteous by saying something like “Why don’t you tell me about your perspective?”

, This report can be directed just to the individuals involved in the conflict, or guidelines for avoiding condescending language and comments can be shared with your whole workplace.

