


The Black Belt is equivalent to graduating High School. You have proven that you learned required material to be certified as a Black Belt at your academy. Now it is time to learn how to properly use it!;
,


Earning a Black Belt does not mean that you now know how to fight! There are plenty of so called Black Belts out there today who still cannot properly use what they have learned in a real fight.



As a Black Belt it is your duty to strive for a higher understanding on how techniques function and how they can be applied in real combative situations. Technical knowledge will help you feel more assured with what you are learning and should make you able to someday think "outside the box" regarding how to use the techniques.



Don't let the style you are learning consume your personality! Yes techniques are important but if you let yourself fight in the same way as you do in your training you will end up looking too structured in your movements (like a robot). Make sure to be natural while still using what you have learned.
 (MOST IMPORTANT STEP FOR ANY FIGHTER!)


Learning the techniques is the same as being given the tools. This, however, does not mean that you know how to use the tools... It is very important that you do a lot of sparring in order to gain experience.
Just sparring is not enough! You also need to figure out what techniques and strategies you are able to use in a fight by testing them out in sparring. The greatest mistake made by martial artists is thinking that it is enough to simply know the technique... Knowing the technique is not enough. You need to have ABSORBED the techniques through sparring or your techniques won't work.



The best way to understand already learned techniques is by teaching them to another person. This not only requires that you demonstrate the techniques properly but also know them in great detail.



There is nothing wrong with learning from only one source... But if you really want to exceed other martial artists it is important to expand the horizon and start studying other styles in order to learn other aspects of fighting that you might not know. Sometimes it is beneficial to start learning from a different instructor since not all instructors have the same experience and teaching methods.



When you have gained greater insight into which techniques you can apply in sparring, you should adapt these skills into your personal style. This is a good sign which shows that you are able to think for yourself and adapt your fighting method to make it more personalized.

