 One way to get over an insult in the moment is to laugh it off. That is, if someone tries to put you down, simply laugh at them. You may still feel hurt inside, but the act of laughing both turns the situation away from insulting you and makes you start to feel better about it. That is, it's harder to be upset when you're laughing.For example, if someone says, "That's a really ugly dress," you could say, "Yep, just the way I like all my dresses!";
, No, you don't have to be grateful for it. However, one anecdote about the Buddha helps clarify this statement. The Buddha was often insulted by one man, but he was not offended. Rather, the Buddha looked at the insult as a gift that could be refused, asking "Who does the gift belong to if it's refused?" In other words, it's a way of thinking about the insult. You don't have to accept it and in fact, can "return" it to the person just be refusing to take offense., If the person insulting you isn't someone you like or respect, just ignore it. They don't know you well enough to really judge you, plus if they don't have your respect, you have no reason to give credit to the insult.For example, if a random stranger or someone who you have just met insults you, then try not to let it bother you.
Also, keep in mind that people who insult other people at random are probably not very happy themselves. They might be trying to make themselves feel a bit better by making someone else feel bad.
 Just because you don't take offense doesn't mean that you don't need to stand up for yourself sometimes. That is, sometimes confronting a person is the only way you can get someone to stop insulting you. At the very least, it can help you deal with any resentment you're feeling.For example, if someone insults you every day, try telling them to stop. You could use a direct approach, such as "Your insults mean nothing to me, so you might as well stop. However, if you don't, I will report you." You can report someone to your teacher, to a boss, or even to the person's boss if you're dealing with someone who's being rude at a business. Of course, you can't report everyone, but you can use it as a way to reproach some people.
You could also use humor to deliver a return insult. For instance, if someone says, "That's a really ugly dress," you could say, "Not as ugly as your attitude!"