 Hermies eat almost anything. Dried shrimp, sardines, and seaweed are common hermit crab foods. Fruits, vegetables, and nuts are also favored. Some human foods like cereal, oatmeal, or popcorn are acceptable, as well.Feed your hermies a variety of foods and see what they like best.


Do not feed your crab anything labeled “hermit crab food.” These pet store mixes do not have the adequate nutritional profile a healthy hermie needs.Other foods to avoid include garlic, onions, citrus fruits and peels, and anything with added sugars, chemicals, iodized salt, and preservatives.
Fresh food should be removed every day. Dry food should be removed as needed, but don’t leave it in the tank longer than four days. Food that is still in the tank after four days is probably just not palatable for your crabs.
 Hermit crabs need both freshwater and saltwater.Both types of water must be free of chlorine and chloramines. The temperature of the water should be approximately the same temperature as the temperature of the tank. When mixing saltwater, do not use salt mixes labeled for hermit crabs. Instead, use a non-iodized fish salt, and mix it according to the instructions on the package. Place the saltwater and freshwater in two separate bowls with the rims parallel to the topmost layer of substrate.


Distilled or bottled water are the best options for providing your crab with freshwater.
If necessary, invest in a dechlorinator. These are usually available at pet stores or home and garden stores.
The amount of water you need depends on how many crabs you have. A five to six cup bowl of each type of water should be adequate for two to three small crabs in a 10 gallon tank.
 Hermit crabs are always looking to trade up their current shell for one that is smoother on the inside, or one that is of a lighter weight. There are a wide variety of both natural and synthetic shells available. You can buy shells online and at pet stores.


If you obtain a synthetic shell, be sure it is not painted or treated with any chemicals.

