 There are three different types of intellectual property that you and your business may have created. Each can be protected under the law, but there are different categories for each one. A shortcut to remember the differences between the three is that a patent protects the invention, the copyright protects the artistic expression of the invention, and the trademark protects the brand name.If you have invented an item or system that is new, useful, original, or ornamental, then you may be able to patent it. A patent protects your invention for 20 years from the date of filing. As the statute says, a patent grants "the right to exclude others from making, using, offering for sale, or selling" the invention in the stream of commerce.Copyright protects artistic manifestation of ideas. The most common copyrights are for books and other written works as well as art, music, photography, software, and dramatic performances. Copyright has common law strength. The minute you affix the idea into a tangible form, you have the benefit of copyright. However, registering your copyright with the United States Copyright Office of the Library of Congress gives you additional legal benefits.Trademark is a term of commerce. It protects your brand names, logos, packaging, and the other distinctive designs that identify your products to your customers. Like copyright, you get the legal benefit of a trademark as soon as you display it on your product. The United States Patent and Trademark Office (USPTO) has a trademark registration system that allows you to add even more protection to your intellectual property.;
, Look at your intellectual property and sort it into the three categories. Have you or your business invented a new product or process that has monetary potential? Then you may want to consider patenting it. The writing and art produced by your business, including manuals, how-to guides, software, game scripts, websites, computer code, music, films, art, or photography, can be protected under copyright. Finally, the brand names, labels, signs, logos, and slogans are going to be the trademarks that represent your business to your customers.
 Technically, every memo your company produces is intellectual property. However, you won't want to register it with the Copyright Office. Zero in on the products, artistic or intellectual renderings, and product branding that are important to the success of your company and would damage you if they were copied or stolen by others. Creating a catalog of your critical intellectual property can help you create a program to protect it., Your company manual is notice to your employees of your rules and your intent to enforce them. To comply with federal labor statutes, keep your policy short and to the point. For example, you could use a simple statement like "Employees will not disclose business secrets, confidential information, or share any designated intellectual property without authorization.", This is most important with inventions that could be eligible for patent protection and designs subject to copyright. This is very common in software, game, and app development. A well-crafted non-disclosure or confidentiality agreement both sets the tone of your business and gives you legal recourse against an employee that absconds with your intellectual property., Non-compete clauses, often called "covenants not to compete," can prevent a former employee and contractor from taking ideas he gained while working with you and using them for his own benefit.Non-compete clauses can be difficult to enforce if they are too broad or restrictive. It must be specific as to the business interests you want to protect. You can't stop a software engineer from working in the computer industry or a photographer from taking pictures. Instead, it must be specific, such as a software designer agreeing to not work for a competing game designer or a photographer agreeing not to use proprietary editing techniques.The clause must be reasonable in time and geographical scope. A typical period is six months to two years and limited to the immediate area. For example, "Employee agrees to not compete with Employer in the field of in for a period of " is more likely to be enforceable than "Employee will not compete in any way in the United States for five years." Non-compete clauses should be reviewed by an attorney skilled in employment practices. Most attorneys will consult with you for either a fixed fee or an hourly rate. Expect to pay around $150 per hour., It doesn't have to be intrusive on your packaging, but your trademarks and copyrights should be identified. Either on the packaging or information pages, you should include appropriate statements like "is a trademark of " or "(c) by ." If you have filed for a full patent or received a provisional patent, mark your products, "Patent Pending."


You do not lose legal rights by not having these statements, but you bolster your professionalism and stake your claim to your intellectual property by including them. They act as notice to the public that your creations are not open for copying.
 When you look at a professional photograph, there is often a mark, signature, or embossed symbol in one corner of the image. When an image is posted on a website, there may be transparent writing across the photo. This is watermarking. Sound files and videos that are posted online can be watermarked as well. There are software programs for watermarking digital files., Patent applications to the USPTO can be very complicated and you should consult with a patent attorney before attempting a full application. However, in 1995, the USPTO began offering provisional patents. This is a stream-lined lower cost filing method that protects your invention for 12 months while you pursue a full non-provisional patent. The term "Patent Pending" can be used on your invention during the period of a provisional patent., The Copyright Office has an electronic copyright registration system called eCO that is user-friendly and easy to complete. If you have basic computer skills and ability to create and upload digital files, you can file the registration without an attorney. You will complete the online application, pay the application fee, and submit your specimen. The processing time is up to eight months. The government website has a step-by-step tutorial for eCO copyright registration.The fee for copyright registration is $35 per application for simple single author/artist works.The benefit to copyright registration is if you have to go to court in an infringement case, registration is powerful evidence in your favor and can enhance the damages you can recover.
 USPTO also has an online registration system. It is more complicated than copyright, but still can be done without a lawyer. Trademark registration is more expensive, $200 to $300 per class, but can also be a valuable tool in protecting your intellectual property., If you find your copyrighted images or contents on a website, you can send a request to the website owner and Internet service provider and ask them to remove your content. This is authorized under the 1998 Digital Millennium Copyright Act.Large Internet-based companies such as eBay, Yahoo!, and Google have user-friendly DMCA procedures. They are often buried in the terms of service. The quickest way to find the procedure can be to do an online search for "copyright policy" or "DMCA procedure.", This letter serves to inform a person or company that they are using your intellectual property and that you want them to stop or you may seek legal recourse.The letter must identify you or your company and the intellectual property you are seeking to enforce. It should also contain a deadline and include your contact information.


Most infringement is harmless. For example, someone is using your logos or names on a blog or has incorporated your images into a website. The tone of your first letter should be firm, polite, and professional, rather than obnoxious and threatening. Don't try to sound like a lawyer. Instead of, "You must STOP this EGREGIOUS and ILLEGAL use of my TRADEMARKS or face DIRE consequences," consider "Your blog post of includes a design that is a trademark/copyright of Please remove it within 10 days or I may have to seek legal remedies. If you have any questions, please contact me at " You want to engender cooperation, not set up an adversarial and confrontational situation., If you believe your intellectual property has been stolen or mis-appropriated by a former employee, customer, competitor, or other party, and your self-help actions have not fixed the situation, then you may have to file a lawsuit for infringement. Intellectual property litigation is very complicated and should not be undertaken without legal assistance.