 Children are often very anxious and cautious. They like to know exactly what they will be doing or what will be happening.


Always give them the reassurance of stating the objective. Show a picture or sample of the completed task when working on a project with a child.;
, Never assume that the children will know what you are talking about. After all, they do not have the background or life experience you have.


Model the action you wish the child to complete.
Name one step at a time with great details. Make sure the step is accomplished and understood before moving to the next one.
 The best learning that takes place is from making your own mistakes.


Do not criticize children for the things they do wrong. Instead, help them learn how to do the things right.
Use a soft voice. Try not to yell at children it will only make them mad and disrespect you.



Never dismiss or condemn the child for being inquisitive.
 Children have short attention spans and can very easily become off task, which often leads to mischief and trouble.


Offer a more suitable activity for the child when a negative action is taking place. This is often more effective than punishment. In some cases, the children simply do not know what they should be doing so they create something.
 Children need excitement to stay motivated.


Use as much enthusiasm as possible when working with children. If you are excited about the chore, or appear excited, the children will be also.
Be creative and make a game out of learning and chores.
Use songs, poems, board games, books and other games to relay the message and make the work pass more quickly.



You must tell children exactly what to do and also let them know when they do it right. Children need positive encouragement even more than adults.
Use a positive word or touch to encourage the repetition of the behavior when you see an action you would like to have repeated by the child. A pat on the back or "good job" is often sufficient enough to make the child continue the action.
 Be patient. Kids hate when adults don't give them a chance to think.
