 Before you can start to use social media for your company, you need to ask yourself some fundamental questions about why you’re doing it. Answering these essential questions will help you accomplish your social media promotion goals.


"What am I attempting to achieve?"
"Do I want to boost sales?"
"Am I concerned with customer service?"
"Do I foresee expanded visibility for my business?";
, There are various social platforms. Twitter, Facebook, Instagram, LinkedIn, Pinterest – the list goes on. Starting out with social media for your business, you may want to start on all of the networks. But the truth is you can’t (and shouldn’t) try to build your online presence on each of these platforms hastily. Start small-scale, and boost your social networks once you have plenty of time and finances to commit to scaling up your social presence.


For businesses whose products are visual (think clothes, art, food), Instagram or Pinterest may be the way to go. Advertising on Instagram has the power to move people — inspiring them to see a business differently or take action. Pinterest and Instagram are great for companies that depend on appearance, and perception. Products that are colorful, branded or photogenic are superb for this type of social media.
Facebook should always be included in your social media accounts. Three quarters of Americans use Facebook, so many customers are familiar with the way Facebook works, and will be more willing to connect.
LinkedIn is great for business to business communication
YouTube, Vine and Snapchat are perfect for brands with access to high-level production equipment and a lot of banter.
  Not everyone who potentially sees your brand will be interested, particularly if you are marketing sports equipment to elderly people.


Adolescents and teenagers prefer networks like Vine, Snapchat, YouTube, Tumblr, and Instagram.
People who are engaged and expectant moms go for Pinterest.
Younger parents to grandparents alike can be found using on Facebook.
Business leaders are all about LinkedIn.
Influencers and bloggers use Twitter and Tumblr the most.

