 Is it a strong (especially sudden) "rotten eggs" smell? Heating and cooking gases such as propane and natural gas contain a noxious scent, in order to indicate a possible leak. This is a potentially dangerous situation. If this is a possibility:


Have all people exit the living quarters immediately.
Open windows and doors to ventilate.
Check for any obvious sources, such as a gas burner that is not but is not lit.
If possible, turn off propane or natural gas sources.
Call the gas company, your landlord, or repairman as soon as feasible.
Sewer gasses can smell similar, although not identical to natural gas. This may happen due to an issue with a toilet or other plumbing issues.;
, More typically, bad odors arise from simply not cleaning. Regular cleaning tends to keep these at low or undetectable levels. Clean, spotless houses usually smell pretty good, too -- although even good housekeepers can end up with unfortunate, smelly situations.
 Air fresheners are a "band-aid" rather than a cure for bad odors. However, that may still be desirable. This is best for temporary situations, such as someone leaving bad odors in your bathroom after using the toilet.


Covering up a stink with an air freshener may not eliminate the stink. You could end up with the smell of flowers and ripe dirty socks, which may not really be an improvement!
If possible, choose an odor neutralizing air freshener like Febreze rather than one that only perfumes the air.
Air fresheners (such as Lysol) that kill bacteria do not actually clean the air. They still essentially act as a cover-up odor.
Asthmatics and those with chemical sensitivities often react very strongly to air fresheners.
Natural air fresheners can help freshen without resorting to harsh chemicals. Try a bouquet of fragrant flowers, some essential oils, or a simmering pot of cinnamon sticks and orange peels on the stove.
 Rotting food is a huge source of nasty smells. These may arise from:


Refrigerator: spoiled food will cause bad odors.
Counter tops: especially if food or beverages are left out.
Sinks: If dirty dishes are left out, they tend to smell over time. Also, if in-sink disposals are not tended to, they tend to get bad smells.
 If your house smells like garbage, chances are good that it is your kitchen trashcan. Ideally, take out the garbage every day. In hot and humid weather, garbage will start to smell bad quicker than in cool and dry conditions.


You may have to clean or replace your garbage can. Over time, the receptacle may get rather filthy and smell as bad as the stuff in the bag.
Garbage bags have been developed with odor reducing material, and even scents. While these can be helpful, they do not eliminate odor.
 Pets are often a large source of odors. They do not tend to be distressed by their own odors--often the opposite!--but humans will usually readily pick up on animal odors. These sources tend to be:


Feces & urine: Whether from a young puppy or elderly dog, clean up any messes. Any messes on carpets or upholstery may call for a deep cleaning. Litter boxes should be cleaned daily, no matter how good the kitty litter.
Cages: Caged animals, such as hamsters, mice, or birds require regular cleaning. Just cleaning the litter may not be enough; the cage may need sanitizing weekly to cut down on animal smells.
Tanks: Fish, frogs, and other aquatic creatures require very clean environments. If your tank has a distinct odor, your filtration system or cleaning regimen may not be up to snuff. Also, consider the ventilation in your house. The humidity from your aquarium, for example, may be causing a mildew problem in your basement apartment.
Furry animals need grooming. Regular brushing, trimming, washing, and otherwise tending to your animal's cleanliness will help your home smell less like animals.
Vacuum carpet surfaces regularly. Your pet may not like the vacuum, but regularly cleaning carpets clean up fur, dander, and other pet odors. Using baking soda or carpet powders in moderation can also help.
Neuter your pet. Animals who do not experience heat cycles or elevated hormone levels also tend to smell less strongly.
 Fabrics tend to hold onto odors more than hard surfaces. Therefore, if your house is smelling bad, an easy step is to clean the washable fabrics in your house. A small scoop of baking soda in the detergent may be a good idea. Fabrics to be washed include:


Clothing: piles of unwashed socks, underwear, workout clothes, and so forth will smell especially bad. Athletic gear in particular needs to be washed promptly.
Bedding: Sheets, blankets, pillowcases and so forth will start to take on body odors after a while. You may well not notice them, but it is there.
Curtains: Smoke and mildew odors tend to linger in curtains.
Towels: Wet towels that are not dried promptly will start to reek in a few days. Wet towels should always be hung up to dry. Do not leave wet towels on the floor, or even worse, a bed. If a towel needs laundering, and it will not be done within a day or so, it should be dried and NOT put in a laundry basket.
Shoes: These are in the category of fabric, even though they are often made of leather or other non-fabric material. Whatever they are made of, shoes are often a major cause of stinky odors. Wash your shoes, if possible. Use odor-controlling insoles, powders, or devices. If your shoes become wet, be sure they dry completely...not left in your gym bag!

, Carpets and rugs are usually fabric, although most cannot be simply thrown in the washing machine.


Clean up messes promptly, with a carpet spot cleaner. If your puppy messes on the carpet, or you stepsister spills her juice on the carpet, do not let it sit there for any length of time.
Vacuum regularly. Vacuums clean up particles that lead to bad smells.
Use baking soda and vacuum powders with caution. These do an excellent job reducing odors. However, they work because they leave a portion behind. In time, your carpet may become filled with a white "dandruff" that while it smells good, is actually filthy.
Shampoo your carpets. Once or twice a year, or as necessary, shampoo your carpets. In many areas stores offer reasonable rates on rental units, if you do not want to buy your own. A deep cleaning of carpets is the best assurance that your carpets do not smell.
Replace carpets when it is time. A good quality carpet today can last 25 years or more. But if your carpet is old and hopelessly stained, it can become a source of odors as well as a health risk, especially for asthmatics.
 High moisture areas--especially with poor ventilation--run the risk of developing mold. Mold is usually black, and often has a musty smell. Although bathrooms and damp basements are the most common areas mold develops, it can happen anywhere that is damp.


A bleach solution is mildew's worst enemy. Most mold cleaners use bleach to attack mildew. You can make your own bleach solution, although sometimes a scouring cleaner or one bought at a store is preferable. Use as directed, with plenty of ventilation.
Ventilate the area as much as possible; mold requires a wet environment. Use the bathroom fan and open the window when possible.
Serious cases of "black mold" can be a bio-hazard that may require professional removal. Most larger home improvement stores offer test kits to determine if that stain is simply mildew or a potentially more serious issue.
 Clutter, by itself, does not cause odors. However, when homes are full of boxes, totes, piles of stuff, and so on, it becomes increasingly difficult to clean. When cleaning becomes unnecessarily frustrating, it tends to happen less and less often. But it is also not unusual for smells to occur because:


Cluttered rooms offer vermin places to hide and thrive. Mice, cockroaches, rats, and so on love having quiet areas with plenty of places to hide. Also, if the kitchen offers plenty of food to get into, it becomes the ideal situation for pests. Vermin defecate, and occasionally die in houses, causing horrible odors.
Clutter can also harbor mold. A humid summer may cause water to be trapped in your piles of stuff. That can cause mold to grow, and potentially smell.
 Fresh, clean air in your home is important in controlling odors. Look into:


Open the windows. If possible, get fresh air inside by opening the windows on fair weather days.
Use a dehumidifier. Dehumidifiers remove moisture from the air, reducing smells and help prevent mold growth.
Use air conditioning. Your home air conditioning unit also removes moisture from the air, and can help cut down on smells.
Check your ventilation. Inadequate or broken ventilation systems in your home can cause excess moisture, and therefore, smells.
Use dehumidifying crystals for small areas. These are basically giant-sized versions of desiccant packets. They often come in tubs or other containers. These items remove moisture from the area in small places with limited ventilation, such as a closet, under a sink, or in a RV. In America, Damp Rid is commonly available in home improvement stores.
 Whether you smoke, or you had a small fire, smoke is a pungent and hard to remove smell. In general, you will follow much as the same advice as above:


Wash and clean fabrics.
Vacuum carpets.
Air out the space as much as possible.
Try an air purifier to remove smoke particles from air.
Wash your walls. A multipurpose cleaner, used as directed, can greatly help smoke odors. A cleaner such as TSP does an even better job, and is available in most home improvement and hardware stores in America.
Repaint your walls. A fresh coat of latex paint will often remove a lot of smoke odor from home interiors.

