 It’s much easier to create this look if you start with tangle-free hair. Using your favorite brush or wide tooth comb, brush out your hair to make sure that it’s smooth and ready to work with. Once you’ve gotten rid of any knots, brush your hair backwards. Do not part your hair in this hairstyle., Half of your hair will be tied up in a ponytail, and the rest will be down, styled into soft curls. The first thing you need to do is split your hair into these two sections. Place your pointer fingers right above your ears. Run your hands backwards, so that they meet at the crown of your head.All of the hair above that line will go into your ponytail, and the rest will stay down.
 Use a clip or a hair tie to get this top section out of your way. You will be styling the bottom section first, so don’t worry about creating the perfect ponytail right away. Double check that you’re happy with the sectioning you created, and make sure it’s securely pinned or tied up., If there is one word to describe Ariana’s hair, it’s big. You want to create all the big, bouncy volume you can. Use a rattail comb or your hairbrush to tease the roots of all the hair in the bottom section.If you’re not familiar with teasing hair, learn all about it here.


Once you’ve teased the roots and smoothed the outside, spritz it with a bit of hairspray so it holds the volume.
 Ariana typically styles her hair into big, soft curls, which are luckily pretty easy to create. Heat up your curling iron or your curling wand, and grab a one-inch section of hair. Wrap the hair around the barrel, starting about half way down the strand.You only want to curl the ends of your hair, rather than the entire strand. Hold for about five seconds, and then release the hair.


The bigger the section of hair you use, the looser the curl will be. The same goes for the size of the curling wand or barrel.
If you do not have a curling iron or a curling wand, learn how to curl your hair with a straightener here.
 After you’ve created the curls with a hot tool, use your fingers to gently break up the curls and loosen them up. Ariana’s curls typically look loose and casual, so tousle yours a bit to achieve her style. Your curls will also fall a bit over the course of the day. Once you’re satisfied with your curls, clip or tie the bottom section into a low, loose ponytail to keep it out of the way while you work with the top section., Unclip the top section, and run a brush through it again. Use one hand to hold your hair into a ponytail, and use the other hand to smooth out the top section, making sure it’s sleek and smooth. Tie it with a hair tie, making sure it’s secure against the crown of your head., Grab a small piece from the back of the ponytail. Wrap it around the base of the ponytail so that it completely hides the hair tie. Ariana never has chunky hair ties showing, and this will make the entire hairstyle look more polished. Bobby pin the strand of hair into place., Once your ponytail is secured, you’ll need to add some curls to blend it with the rest of your hair. It’s easiest to do this after your ponytail is up because you can see exactly where you need to curl. Again, you’ll only want to curl the very ends of each strand, rather than the entire piece. Once you’ve created your curls, run your fingers through them to soften them up., Lift your ponytail straight up, and use a rattail comb or hairbrush to tease the base. This will a bit of lift and volume to the ponytail, so that it looks extra full and bouncy. Make sure to only backcomb the underside of the ponytail, so that the top still looks smooth and sleek.Spray your hairstyle with hairspray to ensure that it holds up all day.

