 Before you try thinning your blood on your own, you should consult a trained physician. There are many reasons for this. First, thinning your blood or preventing coagulation can cause excessive bleeding. Secondly, many of the products and foods that help thin your blood interact negatively with one another and other medications. Finally, any preexisting medical conditions can impact which blood thinning agents you can and cannot use.;
, Nattokinase is an enzyme which breaks down fibrin, part of a normal clot. Nattokinase comes from natto, a product of fermented soybeans. Nattokinase is known to be a good blood thinner, reducing fibrinogen, a natural substance within the coagulation system that helps the body make clots.Everyone needs some fibrinogen to prevent bleeding problems, but it can increase with age making the blood “stickier”.
Blood that is too sticky is prone to clotting.
Nattokinase should be taken on an empty stomach.
You should take 100 to 300 mg daily.Nattokinase should be avoided if you bleed very easily, or have recently had a bleeding ulcer, surgery, stroke or heart attack.You should not take nattokinase at least two weeks prior to having surgery.
 Bromelain helps to reduce platelet adhesiveness. Bromelain is an enzyme derived from pineapple that inhibits fibrinogen synthesis. Bromelain also directly degrades fibrin and fibrinogen, and acts as a blood-thinner by reducing excessive blood platelet adhesiveness.500 to 600 milligrams daily is the usual dose.Never take bromelain supplements with other blood thinners, as this can cause excessive bleeding.While bromelain is found in all parts of the pineapple, eating the fruit itself will not have any beneficial effects on blood health., Garlic is a well-known natural blood thinner, decreasing the risk of heart attack and reducing plaque and high blood pressure. Garlic contains allium, and substances believed to reduce blood cholesterol and triglyceride levels are thought to be the allicin compounds.Its antioxidant properties are helpful in preventing the harmful effects of free radicals.Dosage for garlic is one clove daily.
 Vitamin E is a strong blood thinner, preventing platelet aggregation (sticking together). It also prevents the formation of a protein that is essential to blood clot formation.Take 15 milligrams of vitamin E daily to promote blood thinning.
You can get vitamin E in foods like liver, wheat germ, eggs, dark leafy greens, peanuts, almonds, hazelnuts, avocados and spinach.Magnesium also promotes relaxation of blood vessels, which can increase blood oxygenation., Add more onions to your diet to help prevent platelet aggregation. Onions contain adenosine, which acts as an anticoagulant. Anticoagulants prevent your blood from clotting.Eating raw onions is the best way to receive the benefits of onions., Gingerol is a compound that thins blood by restricting the clotting and clumping of blood cells and platelets. It also minimizes the level of cholesterol absorbed in your body.Ginger also reduces your blood pressure by relaxing the muscle around blood vessels.
Consume ginger in the form of a raw root, powder, or capsule. It is most effective when the raw root is boiled.While some researchers have shown links between blood thinning and ginger consumption, more research on this relationship is necessary., The simple addition of turmeric to food helps to manage clotting. Turmeric is used as a cooking spice and as a natural home remedy for many health conditions. The main anticoagulant agent in turmeric is curcumin, which reduces the tendency of platelets to attach to one another and cause clotting.You should use between 500 milligrams and 11 grams per day. Curcumin effects are similar to the anticoagulant drug Warfarin. To avoid problems, don’t mix turmeric and anticoagulant drugs.
Turmeric is more readily found in Indian and Middle Eastern cuisine than in western dishes.
 Exercise and regular activity helps to reduce the levels of vitamin K in your body. Intense exercise is responsible for reduced levels of vitamin K in the blood, and also stimulates the plasminogen activator, a very strong anticoagulant that helps to reduce the clotting property of blood.Most athletes show a deficiency of vitamin K
Try swimming, aerobic or high-intensity strengthening exercises to reduce your cholesterol levels
Work out three to four days per week
Start with 5 to 10 minutes of warm up, before an aerobic session of 30 to 45 minutes

