 Start in bow stance by having one leg in front and one in back. You'll be kicking with the one in back. Place your hands on your hips in preparation for the move. Rock forward on to you front leg a bit to begin the move.As you move your weight to your front leg, your back leg should begin to lift off the ground. Keep it straight. Use the muscles in that leg to kick it forward, while pushing up with the other leg, keeping that knee slightly bent, not locked. Kick as high as you can and still keep your balance. Use your muscles to pull the leg back down to the starting position.
Try 20 kicks on one side, aiming for waist-high, then move to the other leg and repeat.
 Begin in a defensive bow stance, with one leg in front of the other. You can bring your arms up in front of you like you're getting ready to punch. Make fists and have your underarms facing your body with your elbows bent.Shift your weight to your front leg, lifting the back leg off the ground. Instead of going straight forward, lift it to the outside and bring it forward. As you bring it forward, move it from outside to inside.
Basically, you are lifting it and swiveling your foot so it comes up with the toe pointing to the other side of your body as the foot moves in front of you. Your knee should be bent until your leg gets in front of you, then you should kick out.
Your foot on the ground will turn, and your body will lean slightly way from the kick.
Do ten to fifteen reps and move to the other side.
 Start out in the bow position again. Bring your back leg forward, moving it a bit in front of your other leg as you bring it into the air. Now, your foot should go in an arch in front of your body. As you bring your leg in front of you back towards the other side, the knee should be facing your body and the sole of your foot should be pointing upwards. Bring it down the other side and back behind your body.Try ten reps, and then move to the other leg.
 Lay on your back. Your hands can be palms together on your chest, or you can use them under you to support your back/buttocks. Raise both legs into the air together, keeping the knees slightly bent. Lower them back towards the ground, but don't touch the ground.Do ten reps with your legs together, then try scissoring your legs back and forth.

