 Wear nice clothes and spend a few extra minutes to make sure that you look your best. Don’t look like you just rolled out of bed. Be confident. Confidence looks good on everyone.
 The advantage of getting back together with a former boyfriend is that you already know him. Make sure to remember and recognize the little things. Also, show him that you support him when it comes to his most important ambitions.For example, order him a coffee made exactly how he likes to drink it.
 Appearing needy and desperate may not be appealing to your ex-boyfriend. Show him that you find yourself important. Continue to do your best in school or work. Spend time and have fun with your friends and family. Don’t spend your time pining for your ex. This confidence will be attractive.Set healthy boundaries so that you have time for yourself and are able to be an independent person. Try to find models for healthy relationships by looking to family, role models, or in articles online. Sometimes it's hard to know how to respect yourself in a relationship without first seeing what a healthy relationship looks like.If he was abusive to you while you were together, it may not be the best idea for you to get back together with him.
Expect him to respect you as well. By respecting yourself you will naturally command respect from others.
 Distance makes the heart grow fonder. He cannot miss you if you are always around. After you have started talking to each other again, give him time to think about what he is missing., Making a guy want to be with you, and making him jealous are two different things. Making sure he sees you with other guys, or giving him the impression that you have totally moved on is likely to make him jealous. It will also send the signal that you aren’t interested anymore. This is a fine line, and you should tread carefully or you’ll just drive him further away.


Make sure your actions indicate your intention to get back together. For example, don't go on dates with other people or ignore him when he calls or texts.

