 It might be called a lip brush, but you can use it on more than just your lips. Retractable lip brushes are great because you can put something on the brush portion and retract the brush to protect it. If you’ve used concealer as part of your makeup routine, put some of that concealer on a retractable lip brush and bring it with you for the day or evening. When you need to do a touch-up, simply roll out the lip brush and apply., Makeup setting sprays can be great when you’re wearing a lot of makeup and need your look to last a long time. These sprays can also help keep your makeup in place if it’s hot, humid and sweaty. However, it can be quite difficult to remove your makeup after wearing a setting spray, so be careful when you choose to use it., It can be tempting to use your loose or pressed powder foundation to remove or cover up shiny parts of your face, but unfortunately this may result in your skin looking cakey with the more powder you add. Instead use blotting papers to absorb the excess oil and protect the makeup that’s already there.You can try wrapping a blotting paper around a powder puff to make it easier to use.
You can also alternate between using blotting paper and applying powder throughout the day or evening, rather than just one or the other.
 Mascara, unfortunately, tends to dry out really easily, making it harder and harder to apply as it comes out in clumps on the brush. Instead of replacing your mascara sooner than the recommended 3-4 months, add a couple of drops of eye moisturizing drops to loosen it up., When you’re ready to throw out a mascara, keep the brush. Wash it off to remove any leftover mascara and then use it for other makeup applications. Some can be used as an eyebrow brush. Others are great to comb your eyebrows., Foundation can be mixed with other products to subtly change how it will appear on your face, and add useful features. For example, you can combine your foundation with your facial moisturizer to help lighten the foundation and add hydration at the same time. If your foundation is too thin, add some loose powder (of the same shade) to it.