 Depending on your type of pink eye, your doctor may have prescribed or recommended special eye drops, suggested taking antihistamines, or advised you to watch and wait.


No matter what your doctor has advised, make sure that you follow the instructions, use the medication as directed, and avoid touching the infected eye as much as possible.
 Bacterial conjunctivitis can be treated with antibiotics in the form of eye drops or eye ointment.These drops require a prescription from your doctor and are not available over the counter.


There are many different types of eye drops to choose from. Your physician can recommend the eye drops that will work best for you based on your medical history, sensitivity to certain drugs, or resistance to previous antibiotics.
 Allergic conjunctivitis can be treated with allergy medications such as antihistamines. Your doctor may recommend that you take a daily antihistamine, like over-the-counter Benadryl, to help clear up your pink eye.In some cases, allergic infections will go away on their own if you avoid contact with the agent that you are allergic to., Viral conjunctivitis usually goes away on its own after 2-3 days and does not need antibiotics or any prescription medication.If you have viral conjunctivitis, then your doctor may just advise you to wait and see if your pink eye clears up on its own.


If your condition does not improve or if your symptoms worsen, call your doctor right away.
 If the type of pink eye that you have is contagious, your doctor will likely recommend that you take some time off from school or work. Depending on the type of pink eye that you have, your doctor may recommend between 1 and 5 days off from school.Viral conjunctivitis takes about 3-5 days to clear up.
Bacterial conjunctivitis takes about 24 hours to clear up with the help of an antibiotic.
 The best way to deal with pinkeye is to avoid getting it. You can reduce your chance of getting pink eye by using methods to avoid spreading the infection. Conjunctivitis can easily spread from one person to the other, so use the following strategies to help protect yourself:Avoid touching or rubbing your eye, and wash your hands right after if you do.
Avoid sharing eye makeup, sunglasses, or towels with other people.
Children are more susceptible to these kinds of infections, so avoid direct contact with children.

