 This will allow you to learn how to lift weights at a safe pace.  You will not feel the stress to make an improbable deadline (such as losing a certain amount of weight or lifting a certain amount of weight).


Give your body time to adjust to a weight-training regime methodically.
Examples of attainable fitness goals can include wanting to get stronger, becoming more flexible, or even being able to play longer with your kids/grand-kids.;
, Gyms are typically a safer lifting environment than your home because there are personal trainers who can guide you through weightlifting exercises, mirrors to receive instant feedback on your form, and qualified medical staff that can respond to injuries quickly.
 You will want to get a physical from your doctor before you begin lifting weights.  Make sure you let your doctor know what you are planning on doing by telling him your fitness goals.


Some gyms will offer a free fitness assessment where a personal trainer will work with you to determine how strong and flexible you are.  Take advantage of offerings like this.  It will greatly aid your start to lifting weights safely.
 Utilizing your gym's personal trainers will help you plan a workout regime that will help you attain your workout goals.


There are also many free online sources that you may utilize to create a workout regime.
bodybuilding.com
muscleandfitness.com

, Tracking your progress on the exercises contained in your regime will allow you to gradually increase the weight you lift so that you do not overextend yourself and make yourself more susceptible to injuries.


You can track your weightlifting progress by recording the day of the workout, the time, exercises you complete, repetitions and weight, and how tired you were.  You can use a notebook to record your workouts in or you can use one of the numerous phone applications to track your workouts.



Eating well will contribute to your overall health giving you the focus, energy, and confidence to lift weights safely as a part of a lifestyle decision rather than a fad workout.
 Start with some cardio and stretches:


Cardio - doing 2-3 minutes of light, low-impact cardio such as riding a stationary bike or getting on an elliptical increases your circulation which will help your muscles become easier to stretch and loosen up.
Ballistic Stretching - Before you workout you want to make sure that you are doing what is called “Ballistic Stretching.”  Ballistic stretching incorporates movement and is more effective as a pre-workout stretch than static stretching.  Static stretching can sometimes cause your muscles to overstretch and reduce your strength for a workout.
 No matter how much weight you are moving around it is an absolute must to squat to pick it up, keep your back straight, and then lift with your legs.


Many preventable gym injuries do not actually occur during an excursive but when weights are being lugged around improperly from a rack to the exercise area.
 Lifting with the correct form is the easiest way to be safe while weightlifting.


The greatest hindrance to lifting with proper form is lifting more weight than you can handle.
Start with a weight that you know that you can lift properly and over time you can increase that weight.
 Both beginner and experienced weight lifters will need a spotter from time-to-time.


For lifts where you are moving a heavy amount of weight ensure that you have a workout partner or you ask someone in the gym to come and give you a spot.
The last thing that you want to do is to drop heavy weight on your chest, back, feet, or hands.
 Wear a weight belt, braces, or wraps for lifts that put tremendous stress on your joints, knees, or back.


Some of the most severe knee and back injuries can be prevented just by wearing the proper support equipment.
 This is critical to safe weightlifting.


Your feedback sources should at least be looking at your form and your body language (i.e. are you energetic or exhausted?).
Feedback can be given by your workout partner or a personal trainer.  Don't be afraid to ask someone in the gym to give you feedback on a certain weightlifting exercise.
 When weightlifting you will most likely be in an area where other gym members are lifting, sometimes hundreds of pounds of weight.


Keep your eyes open and be aware of their location so that you might avoid dropped weights, running into someone, or running into a weight machine.
Gyms with mirrors will allow you to be more aware of your surroundings.
 Always keep a water bottle with you when you work out and drink plenty of fluids.


Dehydration will lead to cramping and sap your energy.
 A key to lifting safely is to know when your body has had enough activity for one day.


Push yourself to your limit, but do not overtrain.
Over training can lead to decreased strength, poor form, increased chances of injury, and a demoralization of confidence.
 The prime time for static stretching is at the end of your weight training session.


Stretching after lifting will increase your mobility and allow your muscles to recover faster all of which will decrease your chance at an injury.
 weightlifting is strenuous on your body.  You will be burning many calories.


Eating an easily digestible food such as a granola bar, whey protein shake, or even gummy bears will allow your body to recover its energy quickly.
 Sleep deprivation will hamper the recovery of your muscles which will increase your chances of injury or may lead to a lack of focus as you are lifting leading to improper form.
 Your muscles need time to recover.  In general, it is a good idea to give a muscle group at least 1 day off before working it out again.

