 Homestuck is a webcomic written, drawn, and animated by Andrew Hussie and is the fourth overall webcomic published on the website MS Paint Adventures. The comic started in April of 2009 and ended on April 13, 2016.;
, Homestuck is split into several "acts", with the first few acts often being the hardest to get through initially as they can seem rather boring. If you want to be a Homestuck fan, though, that'll be worth it. But be careful not to binge-read the entire thing, as you may miss on a lot of sleep!


It's best to read Homestuck on a computer, rather than a phone's internet browser. This may not seem important immediately, but a few acts into the story, you'll begin getting interactive flashes, some that need to be clicked on in order to go to the next page.
Don't skip over any pages, no matter how long or seemingly pointless it is - you may miss key parts of the story.
Make sure you don't skip over any logs, such as pesterlogs or dialogues. These contain the bulk of the story - you'll miss a lot if you ignore the text, and will cause later events to make very little sense.
Watch the flashes. Some of them can last quite a while, but they contain vital parts of the story. If the flash has mini-games, play them - they can be quite entertaining!
Read the intermissions. They show other characters not as included in the story as well, but play a role in the background. The intermissions, especially the first, may seem incredibly complex, but you don't fully need to understand everything that's happened in order to understand the later story.
 Quadrants are a complicated system of four types of troll romance. If you don't know the quadrants, you won't be able to understand the relationship between the trolls. Don't panic, though, as these don't appear for a while.



Matespritship, or the flushed quadrant, is known for being romantic love, and is the only quadrant that the humans know and consider to be romantic. It's the equivalent of dating or marriage, and involves two trolls. The symbol used to represent it is <3.

Moirallegiance, or the pale quadrant, is considered a best-friend type of relationship. It isn't romantic in nature, but the trolls are very close, with one sometimes serving the purpose of calming the other one down, and involves two trolls. The symbol used to represent it is <>.

Auspiticism, or the ashen quadrant, is similar to a "mediated" relationship - two trolls may severely dislike each other, but another one will step in and mediate the relationship. It involves three trolls, and the symbol used to represent it is c3<.

Kismessissitude, or the caliginous quadrant, is when two trolls hate each other, are constantly trying to best each other, and will do anything to infuriate each other. It involves two trolls, and the symbol used for it is <3<.
 Every character plays an important role in the story, even if they seem like very minor characters. There are many parts in Homestuck where someone thought to be quiet or unimportant turns around and practically becomes the star of the show!


Be aware that everyone has different typing styles - and the trolls in particular can be quite difficult to understand. However, most characters always type in the same way throughout the story, so it's easy enough to decipher what's meant to be what.
It can be easy to slip into hating a character because of their actions or due to them not appearing enough to get a good handle on their personality, but try to think of their redeeming qualities. No character is "all good" or "all bad", regardless of who they are.
 There are several words that may not make sense before reading Homestuck, and if you skip through parts of Homestuck, you won't understand a word when a troll is talking about their lusus or what it means when someone has gone "trickster". This is another reason not to skip through parts - you'll miss out on vocabulary. However, if you can't remember the vocabulary from Homestuck, you can search it or bookmark any relevant pages.
 The comic is incredibly long, so you've shown perseverance simply by reading it. Feel free to contribute to the fandom through cosplays, digital art, fanfiction, crafts, or anything else - and remember, you don't have to understand everything or to have read the whole comic to call yourself a Homestuck fan!

