;
, Be adequate in your choices. An example of inadequacy would be a plain T-shirt with simple designs. Those are good for when playing sports. Otherwise, read on. Adequacy would be a piece of clothing that has interesting styles and cuts (still in dress code).
 Those brands are okay to wear, however, are overly used. Designer brands such as BCBG, Escada, Juicy Couture, and other high class brands are good for a varied closet. However, don't spend all your parent's money on overly-priced jeans. Remember, not everyone is rich and you want to keep a mixed wardrobe. Some cheaper brands for you would be more obscure brands such as Wet Seal, Forever21, Roxy, and Charlotte Russe. Be careful about Wet Seal and Forever21, some of their clothing can be quite cheap and mediocre. If you shop at department stores such as TJ Maxx, Walmart, Target, Marshalls, or Ross, pay attention to what you buy. These stores come with an advantage though, as their clothing is extremely varied and rarely runs out.
 Try to avoid that style. Choose clothing that is interesting towards your fit, and makes you stand out if you were to stand in a group of preps.
 Charlotte Russe has good fit jeans ranging in short, regular, and long. Get a couple of Bermuda shorts, jean minis, normal jeans, crops, capris, and be minimal on the skinny jeans. For instance, you can wear normal jeans for some time, and then shock people by wearing a pair of skinny jeans.
 These are completely dress code, and also flirty. A pair of Converse All-Stars and slip-ons such as Vans are good, too. And in the winter, a pair of Uggs or furry boots pair great with tucked-in capris. Be careful on the peep-toe flats, for they might or might not be a part of the dress code. Heels/wedges shouldn't go past three inches.
 Tiffany and Co. is a good place to get a designer quality sterling silver necklace, but it can cost around three-hundred dollars. Pearls and diamond studs are good. If you can only afford fake jewelry, buy some that looks wooden. Keep the fashion diamonds small and unnoticeable. If your ear is pierced more than one time, avoid wearing more than one "huge" earring.
 Purses can be used to hold school supplies, but also make-up and other things you might need. Good brands would be Coach, Louis Vuitton, Gucci, Prada, Dolce and Gabbana, and other designer brands. Don't buy a fake purse. You can get cute, fashionable purses from the cheaper stores listed above, but make sure it comes in co-ordinable colors.
 Some good brands would be Revlon, Almay, L'Oréal, Covergirl, and Maybelline. If you want high class, Escada and Urban Decay is the way to go. Most in the crowd would line their eyes darkly in a rocker style. This is extremely unhealthy for the eyes. Instead, line the eye one time. Depending on your eye color, your liner color may vary (see "Tips"). Eyeshadow should be applied lightly so it won't clump up later in the day. A light blush is good for the cheeks, and gloss is ideal for younger women. Get fine quality mascara that won't clump up and is easy to apply.
 Instead, have your hair straight. This step is varied, depending on how you want your style. Make sure it compliments the shape of your face. People with long faces should go in a short style.
 Brush one more time before you head off to school. Make sure your hair is clean and not greasy looking, your nails are cut and painted reasonably, and that you shave regularly.
 If you have gentle skin, use a different acne treatment product. Goat-milk soap is a good alternative.
