 They're your kids. There are worse kids out there. You'll probably do more harm worrying about every little thing. Parenting is about using your instincts, experience and making good use of all the resources you have. Religion has little to do with physical difficulties you may have raising children.;
, Why are you an atheist? How strongly are you committed to atheism? Do you want to actively raise your children as atheists, or expose them to religion and allow them to make up their own minds? You should discuss these questions with the child's other parent if they will be involved in raising them.
 Religions offer their followers answers to 'big' life questions like "Why do we die?" and "Why do bad things happen to good people?" These questions are bound to arise and it is good to have thoughtful reasoned responses prepared before they do. In particular religion can offer a great deal of comfort during grief. If a Grandparent, pet, or loved one dies it can be difficult to comfort your child without falling back on "they are in a better place." If the person or pet was very sick try explaining that it is good they are no longer in pain. You may want to encourage your child to think of fond memories of the deceased and explain that they live on in those happy memories.
 As an atheist your morals are not based on the rules of a holy text or leader but you still need to instill them in your children just as you follow laws and the rules the apply to society in general. You probably don't need to over think this. It is not difficult to explain why sharing is good, or hurting others is bad. If you want stories to back up your lessons you can use non-religious stories like Aesop's Fables, folk or fairy tales to start discussion about moral questions and of course set a good example yourself. You may like to explain to your child that some people follow the laws of their religion because they fear their god's retribution or because they want to go to a heavenly place when they die. The atheists who obey the law, have good morals and respect the human rights of others do so because it's the right thing to do.
 Your children are bound to encounter religion through other children and adults. You should explain to them why other people believe in a god/s and why you do not. Religion has shaped the world as political events and history events have. Your children can have an understanding and appreciation of this without having to believe in anything.


When your children are young be sure to teach them not to mock other's beliefs. A child who is raised with a rational science-based view of the world may find it difficult to believe that other people (especially adults) believe in a god. This, combined with a child's tendency to speak their mind can lead to trouble.
When your children are older teach them how to defend their non-beliefs.
 Let them know that who they are is perfectly okay.
 Having diverse friends and family is good for children of all kinds to learn from.
