 Stairs are a great option for cats who find it uncomfortable to jump high but otherwise get around well. Cats like to hide illness, so you will need to watch attentively. If your cat suddenly starts to avoid high perches that it had once loved, then it might be time for stairs.Your cat might have a problem if it has begun to avoid its cat tree. Also consider stairs if it has begun to sleep on the ground. Most cats prefer to sleep in a high perch.;
, Stairs take up less space than ramps. They have a steeper incline and thus are not as long. If your cat can manage stairs, it might be the more convenient option than a ramp., Each individual step should be no more than 7 ½” or 19 cm tall. This should be a comfortable height for your cat to climb. A steeper incline could make it hard for your cat to use the stairs., Your cat likes to have space to maneuver on the step. Be sure that the steps are each at least 10” (25 cm) deep. Dogs are less interested in this space, so stairs designed for them might not have the depth required for cat stairs., Stairs are great for cats who can’t jump high but can otherwise get around well. When you suspect that your cat is beginning to have trouble even walking around, then it is time to move on to a ramp. It usually helps to get cats accustomed to ramps ahead of time, so consider buying them when your cat first experiences mobility problems.Cats like to hide their ailments, so it might be hard to tell when it begins to have mobility issues. By 15, you cat is likely to have some discomfort walking. Watch for changes in its gait. Look for signs that it is walking less or using less stairs less frequently.
 Some cats never take to stairs and will be especially unlikely to use stairs if you introduce them to your cat late in life. If you cat has traditionally avoided stairs or has never had a chance to use them before, a ramp might be a safer bet., A slope of 18 degrees might be necessary for cats with a very severe impairment. For those with only moderate difficulties, something as steep as 26 degrees might be appropriate., Carpet is optimal because it provides traction and prevents your cat from slipping off. However, your cat’s nails can get stuck in carpet that has small loops. Try a non-looping carpet like plush., There should be rails along the side of the stairs that will stop your cat if it begins to fall off. This is especially important if your cat is losing its sight; it might be the only way that it knows where it is going.If your cat loses its vision slowly, it will probably be hard for you to recognize the problem. Your cat will memorize the location of items in the household and act as if nothing has changed. However, it will bump into furniture more often than it used to, especially when you move furniture around. It might also seem more reticent to jump from high spots., The top step of stairs should be no less than 7 1/2” (25 cm) shorter than the surface it leads up to. A ramp should be high enough to be level with the surface.