 When you discuss AIDS, it is important to make sure that you have all of your facts straight. If you give a teen false information, they might form prejudices or unknowingly engage in risky behavior. Look for good sources so that you know your information is accurate.Head to your local library. Ask the reference librarian to point you towards the most recent scientific research.
Talk to your doctor. Ask if they have some information you could study. However, keep in mind that local, free healthcare clinics often have much more information on STDs, such as HIV/AIDS. They also usually staff HIV/AIDS Case Managers who are knowledgeable on the statistics and prevalence of HIV/AIDS in the community. Knowing information about the prevalence of HIV/AIDS in their community may have a greater effect on teens than national statistics.
Look for reputable sources such as aids.gov, aids.org, and unaids.org.;
, Once you find some good sources, it's time to start learning. Even if you think you're well-informed, new research on AIDS is published regularly. Take care to get caught up on the most current information.Read statistics about AIDS, and the spread of the disease. You can focus specifically on your geographic region, or take a global view.
Learn the facts about HIV, the virus that causes AIDS.
Know that a blood test is the only sure way to determine whether someone has AIDS.
 It's important that your teen know how AIDs is transferred from person to person. Make sure to include facts about the causes of AIDS in your discussion. For example, you can say, "Having unprotected sex just once with an infected person can transfer the disease."You should also tell the teen that the best way to avoid becoming infected with HIV is to practice abstinence and to not share needles with anyone.This includes needles used for intravenous drugs and tattoos.
Make it clear that you cannot tell by looking at someone whether or not they are infected.
 If you are unclear about any of the facts, don't be afraid to ask questions. Your doctor can be a great resource in this situation. You can say, "I'm going to discuss AIDS with Jenny. What are the most important facts for me to convey?"


You can also ask advice from a family member or close friend. Try asking, "I'm nervous about approaching Jenny to talk about AIDS. How do you think I should start the conversation?" Keep in mind that that it is totally normal to be nervous.
Try to prepare yourself for the talk beforehand, such as by thinking about what you want to say and why. You might even prepare some visual aids to help you go trough all of the information.
It is also important to be honest about the thoughts and questions you have on the subject. Try writing these down to anticipate some of the questions that teens might ask.
The school nurse might also be helpful. Ask if there is any literature on AIDS specifically geared towards teens.
 You want to feel comfortable for this talk, and you want your teen to feel at ease, too. Pick a place where you will both feel free to talk. The teen's room might be a good place. Or you could try the dinner table. Avoid picking a spot where you are likely to be interrupted.


Timing is also important. Choose a day and time where neither your or the teen are in a hurry. Maybe a Sunday evening would work well.
Avoid having this important talk when either you or your teen are particularly tired or stressed. For example, don't broach the subject the night before your teen has an important exam at school.
 Your first words will set the tone for the entire talk. Take some time to consider the best conversation opener. Do you want to get straight to the point or ease into the topic? That depends on you and your teen.You could try saying, "When do you have time to talk this week? I want to make sure you have all of the facts about AIDS."
Or you could be more spontaneous. Knock on your teen's door and ask simply, "Do you have a few minutes?"

, Once you begin the conversation, it is important that you make your points clear. Get to the point quickly. You can say, "I want to make sure you know the causes of HIV and AIDS. I'd like to share some information with you.Don't avoid subjects that are uncomfortable. Maybe you feel a bit strange talking about sex to teenagers. You need to stay calm and face the topic head on.
You can say, "I'd like to talk to you about condoms and make sure you know how to use them properly.
 Don't be afraid to share your thoughts and feelings with teens. You can say, "AIDS is a terrible disease, and I want to do everything I can to help you stay safe." You should also try to answer questions as honestly as you can.Clearly explain risks. You don't have to try to scare teens, but it is important that you are honest about dangers. You can say, "Do you understand everything I'm telling you about how people become infected? Does it make sense that needles can be very dangerous?", You want your teen to listen to you. Set a good example and offer them the same respect. Pay attention to what your teen says, and make sure to thoughtfully consider each question.Demonstrate active listening by maintaining eye contact and nodding your head occasionally while your teen speaks.
Illustrate your understanding by paraphrasing. For instance, you could say, "I hear you saying that still need more information about how to avoid contracting AIDS."

, The initial conversation is important, but it's also a good idea to make this an ongoing discussion. A good way to encourage your teen to keep talking is to ask questions every so often.For example, you could say, "I thought our talk last week about AIDS was really useful. Have you given the subject anymore thought over the past few days?"
You could also try, "Have you covered this topic in your health class?"

, It's possible that during your talk your teen asked you some questions. It's ok if you didn't know all of the answers. Just make sure to get back to the teen after you've had some time to carefully consider the question.Say something like, "Kelly, you asked me how long it takes for HIV to develop into AIDS. I wanted to make sure I had my facts straight before I answered you. Let's talk about it more now."

, Everyday instances are often great ways to naturally bring up a subject. A teachable moment is taking advantage of an opportunity to broach the subject. For example, maybe you and your teen are watching a movie together. After it's over, you could say, "It was sad when the character of Amy found out she had AIDS. How did that make you feel?"Other teachable moments can be found while reading the news, listening to the radio, or by observing people around you.
 One of the best ways to follow up with teens is to offer them additional information. If the teen does not feel comfortable talking to you, you can make sure that they know where to find accurate information.Make sure your teen is aware of resources like AIDSinfo and Project Inform.
If your teen seems reluctant to talk, you can send them an e-mail or text with links to good sites.

