 This air-freshener uses baking soda, which helps absorb odors. It also uses essentials oils, which give off a fragrant scent. Here's what you'll need to make this simple air freshener:Small jar
Scrapbook paper
Baking Soda
10 to 20 drops essential oil
Scissors
Pen or pencil
Needle;
, The lid needs to have a metal ring part and a flat disk part. You will need the ring part to hold the scrapbook paper to the jar and the disk part to trace a circle. You can use any size jar you want, but a small, squat jar would be ideal. This way, you won't need to use as much baking soda; you only need a little bit of baking soda to get the full effect.


You can spray paint the metal ring part to make it match your paper and room decor.You can find scrapbook paper at an arts and crafts store. If you cannot find any scrapbook paper, try using some leftover gift wrap. You can also take a sheet of printer paper, and draw pretty designs on it with markers.
 Take the lid apart and set aside the metal ring; you will be using it later. Place the metal disk onto the back/blank side of the scrapbook paper. Use a pen or pencil to trace around the metal disk. Once you are done tracing, you can discard or recycle the metal disk. You will not need it anymore after this.


You can choose any color or pattern you want for the paper, but consider choosing something that matches the decor of your room or the season.
If you cannot find a jar with a two part lid, then draw a circle onto a piece of loosely woven fabric (such as burlap) and cut it out. The circle needs to be a few inches wider than the moth of the jar., You will be using it in a moment. Discard or recycle the rest of the paper.
 How much baking soda you need will depend on the size of your jar., The more oil you add, the more fragrant your air freshener will be.You can use all one scent, or you can play around with mixing different scents such as lavender and vanilla, or mint and eucalyptus.


Lavender is great for bedrooms, because it is relaxing.
Citrus is great for family rooms and kitchens because it's refreshing and energizing.
Eucalyptus and mint are great for bathrooms because of how fresh they smell.
 Place the paper disk you just cut out on top of the jar. Make sure that the disk is centered and that the design is facing you. Place the metal ring on top of the paper. Twist the metal ring close. The paper disk will have replaced metal disk part. You are using a paper disk instead of a metal one for this air freshener because you will need to poke holes into it. It is easier to poke holes into paper than into metal.


If you are using fabric, place the fabric on top of the jar. Make sure that it is centered. Secure it to the neck of the jar with a piece of ribbon or a rubber band. Do not put the lid on it or you will trap the fragrance inside the jar.
 You may notice small clumps forming from the essential oil. Keep shaking the jar until those clumps disappear. If the clumps don't disappear, then take the lid off and crumble them up with a fork. Be sure to replace the lid when you are done.
 You can poke the holes randomly, or you can make a design, such as a heart, star, or spiral. The more holes you poke, the better the scent will be able to waft through.
 You can place it in any room you want. You will need to shake the jar every few days. Over time, the essential oil will get weaker, so you will need to add a few more drops when that happens.At some point, the baking soda will stop being effective because it will have absorbed all of the bad odors in the room. Plan on replacing it every one to three months.

