 DVT is often accompanied by pain and/or swelling in one or both legs. Pain usually starts at the calf. Your leg may feel sore or cramped. In addition to the symptoms tied directly to DVT, you should monitor for symptoms of pulmonary embolism, a serious complication resulting from DVT. These symptoms include:Coughing up blood.
Feeling dizzy or lightheaded.
Chest pain.
Shortness of breath.
A racing heartbeat.;
, Anyone can get a DVT, but some people are at a higher risk than others. People at a higher risk of DVT include those who are:Hospitalized or who have recently had surgery.
Immobile.
Elderly.
Overweight or obese.
Have a family history of blood clots.
Have had recent or recurring cancer.
Are pregnant or recently had a baby.
Taking hormonal birth control or hormone replacement medication.
Have recently been injured.
 An ultrasound (or ultrasonography) is an imaging technique that uses sound waves to examine how blood flows through your veins. Ultrasounds are the most common tests used to diagnose DVT. This non-invasive test can provide your doctor with real-time images of the inner workings of your veins and organs, which can help determine the severity of your DVT and provide a potential course of treatment.Your doctor might suggest a related technique, a duplex ultrasonography (or duplex ultrasounds). Duplex ultrasonography is similar to the regular ultrasound, but it monitors movement of blood and other internal objects and fluids. Duplex ultrasounds can provide more accurate information about the speed and flow of blood.Your doctor will help you schedule an appointment with a sonographer in a vascular laboratory if they believe you should get this test, usually at a large hospital with the necessary sonography equipment.
During the test, a technician will simply apply a thin layer of gel to your legs and/or feet, then wave an ultrasound wand over them. You might also need to wear a blood pressure cuff.
 The D-dimer test examines a blood sample for small pieces of clotted blood that may have broken off. If your physician detects a large number of these clot fragments, there’s a greater likelihood that you have DVT., Contrast venography involves getting a dye injected into a large vein in the foot or ankle, then taking an X-ray or series of X-rays over time. The X-rays will reveal how your veins are transmitting the blood throughout the body. If there are any clots, they will appear on the X-rays as areas where the dye is concentrated.