 If the bully is sending you nasty texts or is attempting to bash you on social media, don’t respond right away. You may be tempted to stoop to her level and throw back what she is giving you. Giving into this, however, is exactly what she wants.


If you have the opportunity to delay contact, give yourself a day or two to calm down before you respond. By waiting, you avoid saying or doing anything that could be used against you or that you may regret.;
, If you know that the person has done or said rude things to you or about you, ask her why she behaves the way she does. However, make sure you ask her in a civil manner. If you start the conversation off in a confrontational way, you’re sure to start a huge argument that may never get resolved.


For example, you could say, “I feel like there is tension between us and that you have an issue with some of the things I do. Can we talk about this?”
Some bullies back off as soon as they are confronted, while others get even more hostile. Prepare yourself for some backlash; however, hopefully the bullying will stop after this., If the bullying still occurs after you’ve talked to her, walk away from the bully and disengage from what is happening. Not dealing with the immaturity of the bully may cause her to let it go. Doing so may be difficult, as it usually requires more courage and self-control to walk away than to lash out, but it shows the bully you’re not going to give her any satisfaction by giving in to what she wants.


Just remember, you are not responsible for the way that other people act. You can only control how you react to them. You can protect yourself by not getting involved with the bully. Engaging will only cause more stress on you and likely end in you being emotionally drained. Instead, do what is best for you., Although it may be difficult, try not to take offense to what they bully does to you. You likely aren’t the first person she’s bullied, and you certainly won’t be the last. Be cool and refuse to allow this person to rattle you.


Remember that you aren’t the person with the problem; the bully is. She probably has huge insecurities and problems in her own life and is taking them out on you. Instead of getting angry at her, try to understand why she feels like she has to bully. Perhaps you can find compassion for her.In some cases other moms may pick with you because they disagree with your parenting style or lifestyle. Keep in mind that you don't need the approval of others to raise your kids and care for your family. Spend time with people who support you instead.

