 You will need to access the headlight from the back. In most vehicles, that requires opening the hood. Find the hood release switch near the door frame on the driver’s side of the vehicle. Pull the release backward to release the hood.You will have to release the safety latch on the front of the vehicle to open the hood the rest of the way.
If you are unsure where to find the safety latch, refer to the owner’s manual for your vehicle.;
, Before starting any work on the electrical system of your vehicle, you should always disconnect the battery. Locate the battery in your vehicle and use a hand or socket wrench to loosen the nut on the negative terminal. With the nut loose, pull the cable up and off the terminal and tuck it to the side of the battery to prevent it from coming back into contact with the terminal.Locate the negative terminal by looking for the letters “NEG” or the negative (-) symbol.
You will not need to disconnect the positive terminal.
 In many modern vehicles, you will need to remove engine covers or plastic trim components in order to access the back of the headlight. Be careful removing plastic clips that hold trim pieces in place, as they may be brittle and prone to cracking or breaking.You can usually purchase replacement clips at your local auto parts store if you break one.
Refer to the service manual for your vehicle for specific instructions on how to access your headlight.
 Press down on the plastic release clip on the wire pigtail going into the back of the headlight. Maintain pressure on the release as you pull the clip backward to disconnect it.Do not pull on the wiring itself or you may accidentally remove them from the pigtail.
Inspect the inside of the pigtail for damage. If there are signs of burning or melting, there may be an issue with your vehicle’s electrical system.
 Rotate the back of the headlight bulb counter clockwise to release it from the plastic headlight housing. Remove the bulb by sliding it back out of the plastic housing. In some applications, the bulb will be held in a plastic assembly and will need to be pulled out to be replaced.Refer to the service manual for your specific vehicle if it is not easy to assess how to remove the bulb.

