 Try to avoid joining a universe you've never heard about or don't like. Do some general research into it before joining. It is perfectly acceptable to create your own universe.;
, Try to avoid ripping off straight from the medium, but there's no profit being made in the game so it's generally acceptable.
 Many roleplayers hate seeing godmodders.


God Mod is basically creating a character that can't ever be defeated, and is more powerful than anything in the universe. This can also be referred to as autoing in fights where all your hits connect and you never allow your character to be hit.
Godmodding can also be controlling another player's character. Which should be avoided without explicit permission.
Remember if your character gets killed off in a storyline you don't have to remove the character completely, unless you were playing for permanent death of whoever lost.
 Don't make all of the layouts; ask others to make their own too.
 Unless your character is texting someone in the play spell out the words.
 Never pressure or force anyone into a sex scene.
 Most people prefer at least a single paragraph, but some others allow one-lining. Just make sure you check the other person's preference (usually in the form of Roleplaying Rules in blogs) before trying to roleplay with others.
 This includes layout designs, storyline ideas, pictures, display names, biographies, roleplaying rules, etc. Don't be afraid to ask someone if you can copy something, 9 times out of 10 they'll say "Yes," and they'll expect credit so whatever you borrowed from someone, make sure you write "Credit to: " under whatever you took.
 Accept constructive criticism, be nice, don't take things said in roleplay personally, make friends, chat up, etc. Be easy to get along with, and great roleplaying opportunities shall come your way.
 If you want to start a Chatzy, don't be extremely strict about it. Ban people if they're being rude to other members, not if you just simply don't like them. Also, if someone is being mean to another person, don't back them up because you think it's funny. Remember, not everyone in there is having as much fun as you, and don't act like you're entitled to do something and others that accidentally do the same thing you do are copycats. Be nice, and again, don't declare supreme power by giving certain people administrator rights and playing around with the rights with one or two other people. Be nice, courteous, don't single others out, and don't gang up on someone.
 If you want to assign moderators of the group, don't let them all be other accounts you have control over, especially if no one knows that those accounts are you (that's called sock puppeteering). It's not fun if you get people to join only to declare supreme power over them, because that'll make you look like a control freak and it'll cause people to leave. Let the members of the group be independent and if they don't want to participate sometimes then let them be. Only talk to them if they turn down opportunities consistently.

