 Smoking is one of the worst things you can do to introduce toxins into your body. Aside from nicotine, most commercial cigarette brands contain over 4000 other toxic chemicals. Even after you quit smoking, these toxins will linger in your body for some time. For this reason - smoking should be the first thing to go when trying to cleanse your body naturally.


Although your body will eventually flush out these toxins on its own, you can expedite the process by drinking plenty of water, eating healthy, fiber-rich foods and getting plenty of exercise.
 Here's one suggestion that should be welcome news! A good, intense massage can actually help to rid the body of excess toxins, when performed by a trained professional. The massage needs to focus on pressure points within the muscles, where toxins have a tendency to accumulate. The deep stimulation of this muscle tissue can actually release the toxins, allowing them to be flushed naturally from the system.Make sure you see a registered massage therapist who has experience with toxin-releasing massage techniques.
Remember to drink plenty of water after your massage session to speed up the flushing-out process.
 Acupuncture is a form of holistic treatment which works by inserting tiny needs into the skin at pressure points around the body. Acupuncture can help to cleanse the body by targeting pressure points where toxins tend to build up. The toxins are then released, so that they can be naturally flushed out of your system.Though it may not sound like it, acupuncture can be a very relaxing experience and many people have found it to be an extremely effective treatment for ailments as diverse as sinus blockages and fertility problems.Make sure you see a licensed acupuncturist for treatment, as it can be dangerous when practiced incorrectly.
 This one can be tricky, especially in modern times when air pollution and overuse of chemicals is so pervasive in Western society. Whenever possible you should try to surround yourself with clean fresh air and avoid breathing in city smog and factory smoke. Escape to the country or seaside for the weekend, if you can, to clear the city from your lungs.Also avoid breathing in second-hand smoke as far as possible, and try to use natural cleaning products to clean your home, to avoid unnecessary exposure to harsh chemicals.
Get outdoors and go for a walk in the park or along the lake. It helps you stay fit and enhances the functioning of your body and mind.
 Getting regular exercise is one of the healthiest, most natural ways to cleanse the body. This is because exercise gets the body moving and keeps it functioning at full capacity. It helps you to lose weight, thus releasing the toxins that have built up in fat cells over the years. Toxins are also expelled from the body through perspiration, cleansing the body in the most natural way possible.Exercise also improves both circulation and digestion, two bodily functions which are essential in the process of natural cleansing.Try to incorporate four or five 30-minutes sessions of moderate to intense exercise into your weekly routine - anything from running, swimming, dancing or climbing - you'll feel healthier and happier in no time., Although it's not responsible for cleansing the body in itself, sleep is nonetheless essential for maintaining normal body function and for living a healthy life. Your body needs sleep to recover and repair itself after the stresses and strains of daily life.


Getting 7-8 hours sleep a night - as doctors recommend - helps your body prepare for the next day, giving you more energy for exercise and other healthy lifestyle choices.
Sleep also essential for a healthy immune system, without which your body would be unable to deal with the harmful viruses, bacteria and toxins it is constantly bombarded with.People who are sleep deprived are at higher risk of developing heart disease, kidney disease, high blood pressure, diabetes and obesity., Stress can contribute to your overall ill health, as it impairs the release of good hormones and prevents your body from functioning at its optimal level. Without these good hormones, your body retains toxins which may cause you to feel tired and depressed, leading to further weight gain and unhealthy lifestyle choices. By successfully keeping your stress levels to a minimum, you can encourage the release of good hormones and minimize your body's retention of negative toxins, leading to a happier, healthier you.Yoga and meditation are great choices for people with busy lives who are trying to reduce their stress levels. By focusing only on your breathing, you are clearing and cleansing the mind which, in turn, has a positive impact on the body.
 Fasting is a popular, if a little extreme, way of cleansing the body by cutting out or severely limiting your body's intake of food, while simultaneously flushing out your system with high volumes of liquid. The idea is that your body can start afresh - cleansed and renewed - after everything bad has been expelled from the system.Some extreme fasters will go for over a week (or even two) without eating, but if you have never fasted before you should probably try it for just one or two days, to minimize the shock to your system.Although some fasting advocates hold that only water should be drunk over the course of the fast, others believe that juice is the way to go as the natural sugars help to wash out the system more quickly.You should be aware that the jury is still out on whether fasting has any significant impact on cleansing your system, and many doctors believe that such an extreme course of action may have more negative side effects than positive.