 If you want to keep your man happy emotionally and sexually, then you can't just settle into the same old routine, even if you've been together for years. You have to make an effort to keep things fresh or both of you will lose interest. Here are some ways to do it:


Do something that you've never done before together at least once a month. It could be rock climbing, biking, or playing beach volleyball.
Take a dance class together. Learning to salsa or ballroom dance will help you keep your bodies in sync as you explore new horizons.
Find a new way to compliment your man every week. You can always think of more things that you love about him.
Play hard to get once in a while. He shouldn't feel like he can have you whenever he wants.
Know that the chase is never over. He should be working as hard to pursue you as he did the day you met.
 The easiest way to blow a great relationship is to start to get consumed by jealousy for no reason at all. If you're jealous, that will only make your man annoyed and frustrated and will make him feel like you're not secure enough in the relationship to trust that he won't cheat on you. If you can't stand it when your man talks to or even mentions another girl, even if it's completely harmless, then you need to work on keeping your jealousy in check and on making your man feel secure.


If you always gossip or say negative things about other girls in your orbit, your man will not be impressed.
Part of being in a healthy relationship means knowing that there are a lot of other appealing members of the opposite sex out there and recognizing that you won't pursue them. If you think your man can't be around a pretty girl without hitting on her, then you have a problem.
 If you don't like your man the way he is -- to a degree -- then why bother with him? It's okay to want your man to step it up a bit, whether it's by not showing up late to your dates or by taking less than three hours to return one of your calls, but it's not okay to try to change the way your man looks, dresses, thinks, and talks to suit your idea of what the "perfect man" should be like. This will only make your man feel annoyed, like he can't be himself, and like you don't like him for who he really is.


If your man is exhibiting less-than-desirable behavior, then it's fine to point it out. But if you point out every little problem, from the way he chews his food to how he ties his shoes, then he'll feel like you're constantly nagging him.
Nobody's perfect. You should recognize that there are things about you that your man may not find ideal -- but that's okay.
 Even if your relationship has been going on for years, you should always remember to give your man some space -- even if you share the same home and bed. You and your man should be able to spend some time apart so that your relationship can grow even stronger when you return to each other, and so you can continue to gain an appreciation of how special your significant others are.


Being able to let your man do his own thing on the weekend sometimes, to go to happy hour with his coworkers without you by his side every time, or to take a weekend trip to see his family without you is a sign of maturity and trust.
If you feel like you constantly have to be by his side or you can't enjoy yourself, then you won't be able to keep your man happy for long.
 Though it's important for you to make your man happy emotionally and sexually, it's equally important that you're feeling emotionally and sexually fulfilled in the relationship. It's not the woman's job to tip-toe around the man, making sure that his needs are met -- a strong relationship is forged by mutual love, encouragement, and acceptance. If you feel like you spend all of your time thinking about what your man wants instead of being attentive to your own needs, then you have a problem.


Though it's impossible for you and your man to be happy emotionally and sexually 100% of the time, you should both be happy the majority of the time for the relationship to thrive.

