 The goal of the game is for players to use math in order to capture their opponent's dice - whoever captures all of their opponent's dice first is the winner of the game. In order to capture dice, there are two mathematical "attacks" that can be used:


Mind Attack: To use the Mind Attack, players must make a mathematical calculation using the numbers on the dice that have been rolled. For example, if they want to steal their opponent's die with an 8 on it, they must use their own dice to make a calculation that will add up to 8, such as 1 + 2 + 5. Depending on the math abilities of the players, subtraction, multiplication, and/or division can be used as well.

Strength Attack: No mathematical calculations are required to use Strength Attack; instead, players simply need to play a dice with the same or higher value as the one they want to capture. For example, if they want to steal their opponent's die with an 8 on it, they must play one of their own dice with either an 8 or a higher number.;
, Maths Warrior is played with 12 dice of different sides (6 dice per player), as well as a flat game board. A small red chip is also used. The dice that will be needed include:

Two 4-sided dice
Two 6-sided dice
Two 8-sided dice
Two 10-sided dice
Two 12-sided dice
Two 20-sided dice

, On the 6, 8, 10, 12, and 20-sided dice, there is only one number on each face, so when those dice are rolled, the number facing the top is the number used. However, on the 4-sided dice, there are 3 numbers on each face, and each number is facing a different direction. When this dice is rolled, the number that is on the bottom of the face is used (this will be the only number in the correct direction - the other numbers will be upside-down)., This chip is known as the "Penalty Chip", meaning that the owner of the chip can have their Strength Attack blocked by the other player. This chip is typically used in the last round of play when each player only has one die left (and therefore Strength Attacks are the only possible move to win). If the Penalty Chip is used, the dice are not re-rolled and the other player can immediately take their turn, use a Strength Attack, and win the game., Basic Maths Warrior strategy is to try to attack your opponent's dice with the most sides first (since these have bigger numbers and have a better chance of winning Strength Attacks against you), and to try and use a bunch of lower numbers to attack rather than using one big number (this way you can re-roll your lower numbers to try and get bigger numbers to use next time)., Have the two players sit across from each other at a table or a desk. Give six dice to each player (one 4, 6, 8, 10, 12, and 20-sided die each), and place the game board in the middle of the desk between the two players. Place the red chip in the middle of the game board for now., To begin the game, have both players roll all of their dice and arrange them on the game board in descending order (from biggest to smallest). Whichever player has the smallest die will make the first move, and also gets the Penalty Chip, which can now be moved from the game board to beside this player. If both players have the same smallest number, they now have to compare their second-smallest number to see who will start first and get the Penalty Chip., The player who had the smaller number can now capture one of their opponent's dice using a Mind or Strength attack. Once they have captured a dice, they remove that dice from the game board and keep it beside them (this die can no longer be used in game play). They then re-roll any of their own dice that they used to capture the opponent's die and place them back on the game board in order. Once this is done, the next player may take their turn. This process repeats itself until all of the dice have been captured.