

Assess if you have the time and talent to do them yourselves. This can be a tremendous cost-saver if you are confident that you can either do silks well in advance or that you think you will have time the day before to put real flowers together.



 


Consider asking a friend or family member to do them for you. Again, this will save you the cost of labor if you trust someone enough to do them for you.






Enlist the help of a professional florist if you have the budget to do it. Professional florists can also be a great source of information because they typically have books that you can look through to help you with your selection decision.





;
, Are you interested in a dome-shaped bouquet, do you want something cascading, or is your preference for a bouquet that will lay in the curve of your arm?

, Your choice may be influenced by color, flower shape, meaning of particular flowers and/or season in which they bloom.

Decide if you want to use silks or live flowers. Silks can be longer lasting, but live flowers will usually appear more realistic and often give a fragrance to the bouquet.






Think about traditional flowers that you can include in your bouquet. These can include roses, daisies, carnations, tulips and hydrangeas.


, Take a look at the article from The Knot, found at http://wedding.theknot.com/wedding-planning/wedding-flowers/articles/symbolic-wedding-flower-meanings.aspx?MsdVisit=1, to tell you about flower meaning as well as when each flower is in season.
 Use the tool at http://www.blissweddings.com/weddingfloral/ to help you determine what will work for your area and the time of year that you are getting married.
 Most brides choose ribbon, but you may think about using a different fabric and/or something that is sentimental to you.

Coordinate the color of what you use to bind the bouquet with the rest of your wedding.






Think about nontraditional binding options such as wrapping the bouquet in your father's tie or your grandmother's vintage handkerchief.

