 In most states, your child will need your permission to marry before the age of 18, so one way to stop your child from marrying is to not sign the paperwork.;
, The higher the education your child receives, the less likely they are to want to enter into a marriage as a minor.


Foster your child's potential by offering incentives for good grades and perfect behavior.
Set the standard high for your expectations of your child, and be up front about your expectations for that child's future.
 Also take the opportunity to instill in your child a sense of self-worth.


Grow your child's self-esteem by praising and complimenting them.
Teach your child to work hard to hit goals. By working hard, they can strive to attain hopes and dreams.
Speak about your own successes and short comings, and share with your children what you wish you would have known when you were their age.



Relationships that have minors performing in sexual acts are dangerous to the minors both in the sense that they risk STDs and also that they put themselves at risk for a pregnancy that neither probably wants at that age.
Check out the abstinence programming through Planned Parenthood.
If your minor child does choose to be sexually active, you can discuss various birth control methods with them using the visual aid found through Planned Parenthood. An educational trip to Planned Parenthood may help them learn about the responsibilities and realities of safe sex.
 Marriage works best once both parties know how to take care of themselves. They should know how to be independent before they try to become interdependent. They should be old enough to have figured out what they want in life (in terms of career, lifestyle, and partner).


Mention that many people wait until sometime in their twenties to get married, and this is a good idea because they usually have a good sense of what they want and how to care for themselves.
If your child is disabled and can't be independent, then they should know how to live on their own with whatever level of disability services they need. They'll also need to work out how much their spouse can and will help them.
 Make "I" statements about your worries. It may help to focus less on the relationship itself (which they might think is criticism of their love), and more on practical challenges of marriage: managing a household, planning a wedding, staying organized together. Tell them that you'd be more comfortable if they took things one step at a time, so they didn't get overwhelmed.
 Explain that you want the best for them, and don't want them to jump in before they're ready. Encourage them to try staying engaged for a while, or live together.


Suggest a trial marriage. They can move into a mutually agreeable place, like a guest room or an apartment over the garage. They can see how well it works.

