 To us, cats can appear baffling or unpredictable, whereas in reality we are just poor are reading their body language and understanding what they are trying to tell us. But what we do know is that there are a number of distinct patterns involved with cat aggression. These can be broken into a series of situation-oriented categories that are not mutually exclusive.Play aggression happens when cats take play too far.
Fear/Defense aggression comes from the cat feeling endangered, vulnerable, or trapped.
Territorial aggression is usually just among cats, but can be expressed toward humans and other animals.
Petting aggression is not well understood, and may come from over-stimulation.
Inter-Male aggression relies on the natural competitive nature between toms.
Maternal aggression is the queen cat's instinctual protective response.
Redirected aggression can come from frustration the cat cannot vent, which gets redirected toward another target, such as a nearby cat or person.
Predatory aggression derives from cats whose predatory instincts are triggered.
Pain aggression results from old or current sensations of pain.
Idiopathic aggression is spontaneous, and may be a threat to the physical safety of those who come into contact with the cat.;
, Knowing when your cat is about to go on the offensive or defensive by watching its body language can be key in managing the problem. Watch out for signs of oncoming aggression, as in:


Defensive postures

Crouching
Head tucked in
Tail curved around the body and tucked in
Eyes wide open with pupils partially or fully dilated
Ears flattened sideways or backward on the head
Piloerection (hackles up/hair stands on end)
Turning sideways to the opponent, not straight on
Open-mouthed hissing or spitting
Quick strikes with front paws, claws out


Offensive postures

A stiff, straight-legged upright stance
Stiffened rear legs, with the rear end raised and the back sloped downward toward the head
Stiff tail, lowered or held straight down to the ground
Direct stare
Upright ears, with the backs rotated slightly forward
Piloerection (hackles up), including fur on the tail
Constricted pupils
Directly facing opponent, possibly moving toward him
Might be growling, howling or yowling


Overt aggression

Swatting, striking with paws
Biting
Fighting
Growling, shrieking
Scratching
Preparing for an all-out attack by rolling onto side or back and exposing teeth and claws., Does the cat become aggressive in the presence of a certain animal or person? In many cases, aggression happens due to a specific trigger. Pay attention to the cat's environment during instances of aggression, so that you can work out what might be causing it, and improve the cat's behavior.
 Your cat may become aggressive after giving birth. Mothers have instincts to protect their offspring from potential danger. Maternal aggression can occur when a mother cat (called a “queen”) with her kittens is approached by people or other animals whom she perceives as a threat. It’s more often directed at other cats, but it can be directed toward people, as well. Queens can be quite aggressive when defending their young, especially in the first few days after birth.Avoid handling kittens during the first few days of their lives. Introduce yourself slowly.


Provide a low stress environment, keep visitors to a minimum, and avoid approaching or handling either the mother or her kittens if you are met with maternal aggression.
 This is very important any time you're dealing with animal aggression, in order to evaluate your options. As there are many different kinds of aggression, some more or less acceptable than others, you will want to make sure your behavior does not worsen the problem.

