 If you find discrepancies on your claim form, check with your health care provider to make sure they aren't the result of an innocent error.


Keep your own records of the health care services and supplies you receive, and make sure your Medicare forms have the same information listed as you have in your own records.Clerical errors can be corrected and the health care provider can submit a new claim form to Medicare with updated entries., Before you report suspected fraud, make sure you have enough information for the OIG to make a full investigation.


The OIG needs names and identifying information about your health care provider, the services you question and the date those services supposedly were provided, and the payment amount approved by Medicare.You also must be prepared to provide your name and Medicare number along with the reasons you believe the amount was in error and should not have been paid., Having a basic understanding of what constitutes fraud can help you avoid making false accusations.


Abuse includes acts such as over-charging for services, or unbundling services, which happens when a health care provider charges separately for individual components of one service rather than the single charge for the service as a whole.Bending the rules constitutes abuse, whereas intentional deception may be fraud. The difference between the two is largely a matter of intent.You can report both abuse and fraud to the OIG; however, if you have no evidence of intentional deception, you should refrain from saying the acts were fraudulent.For example, a physician may deliberately submit claims to Medicare for a higher level of service than he actually provided, in an attempt to get more money from Medicare. This act constitutes fraud under the federal False Claims Act. Civil penalties for such a violation include fines from $5,000 to $10,000 per false claim. He also could face criminal penalties.Another type of fraud involves health care providers receiving money in exchange for making referrals to another health care providers. This violates the federal Anti-Kickback Statute, which makes it a crime for health care providers to willfully pay or receive kickbacks for items or services reimbursable by Medicare., The OIG has the authority to exclude individuals and organizations who engage in Medicare fraud and abuse, as well as impose civil penalties for certain violations.You can call the national fraud hotline at 1-800-MEDICARE to report fraud to the OIG.The OIG also has an online form you can fill out to report Medicare fraud. This form is available at https://forms.oig.hhs.gov/hotlineoperations/report-fraud-form.aspx.
When you report to the OIG, any identifying information you provide about yourself will remain confidential. The OIG won't tell your health care providers that you reported them. However, you also may enter your complaint anonymously.You can report to the OIG regardless of who you are. You don't have to be a Medicare beneficiary or a health care provider to file a fraud complaint.You also can report fraud by sending a written account through the mail to the HHS Office of the Inspector General at HHS Tips Hotline, PO Box 23489, Washington, DC 20026-3489 or to the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services at Medicare Beneficiary Contact Center, PO Box 39, Lawrence, KS 66044., Provided you didn't file your report anonymously, investigators may contact you with additional questions about your report.


While you make the decision whether to file your report anonymously, keep in mind that not including contact information may keep the OIG from completing a more comprehensive investigation since investigators cannot contact you if they hit a dead-end while reviewing your report and require further information.Your contact information is only shared within the federal Department of Health and Human Services for the purpose of investigating your report. Public disclosure of your information is prohibited by federal law.Under certain conditions, you may be eligible for a reward of up to $1,000 if you make a specific report of Medicare fraud that leads to the recovery of $100 or more of Medicare money.