, If your horse has this but makes it past the first 14 days since infection he should be okay.
Chronic: Chronic EIA horses go through the same severity of acute EIA horses but seem to recover after a few weeks. The symptoms then go away for weeks or even months until the horse has a relapse of worsened intensity, usually as result of being worked hard. Chronic EIA horses also can have rough hair coats, lack stamina, and be anemic.
Carrier: Carriers of the EIA virus will seem to completely recover from the initial attack, yet still carry and can transmit the disease., A healthy adult horse's temperature while resting varies from to 99-101째F (37.2 - 38.3째C), while fever associated with EIA can range from 105-108째F (40.5 - 42.2째C).


The fever of an EIA-infected horse can either be highly intermittent or continuous. It may help to take your horse's temperature several times throughout the day.;
, This can be checked by placing the hand under the horse's left elbow. Count the beats for 10 seconds then multiply the beats by 6 to get the heartbeat number per minute. A normal heart rate is 35-40 beats per minute.


Irregularity may be a sign of infection with EIA.
 A healthy horse likes his food and while eat it nearly as soon as you offer it. A horse that refuses food or has a reduced appetite, however, may have EIA.
 Don't be concerned unless there has been no change of diet and your horse has had rapid or chronic weight loss.
 Tiredness and depression are also signs of EIA.
 Swelling is another sign of the horse having EIA.
 Similar diseases include Piroplasmosis, African Horse Sickness, Anthrax, Dourine, Equine Viral Arteritis, Japanese Encephalitis, Equine Influenza, Equine Herpes Virus, and Babesiosis.
 He should be able to give you advice and confirm your horse's symptoms.
 This test is fairly inexpensive and only requires a certified vet sending a sample of your horse's blood to a lab. Usually the process takes 3-5 days.


A negative Coggins/EIA test result means your horse is not a carrier of the disease. If your horse continues having symptoms, tell your vet; your horse may be sick with something else.
A positive Coggins/EIA test result means your horse is an EIA carrier. If you feel the test was a false positive you can ask your vet to retake the Coggins, though you will need to pay for the test again.
, This will reduce the potential of EIA spreading throughout the area.


Some areas say area of exposure is within proximity of 200 yards (180 meters) of the infected horse, other areas say within proximity of 3 miles (4.8 kilometers).
 Legally you only have three choices: Keeping your horse at a quarantine facility for the rest of its life, having the horse euthanized, or selling the horse for immediate slaughter.


There aren't many quarantine facilities, but one of the largest ones, Florida Research Institute for Equine Nurturing, Development and Safety, is located in Southern Florida.
 Large-mouthed flies such as deer-flies and horseflies will quickly spread the EIA virus by mechanically sharing an infected horse's blood with other horses.


Regularly clean and muck stalls/pens around the barn, depositing the manure a good distance away.
Eliminate any standing water; flies use these as breeding grounds.
Use fly-repelling sprays and fly traps around the barn.
 Infected mouth germs will share the EIA disease just like blood.
 This will prevent an infected horse's blood from getting into other horses.
 While this is a good practice anyway, the threat of EIA makes it an even better one.
 While diseases can definitely be fatal, a horse is much less prone to becoming sick if he's happy and well cared for.

