 As soon as you have reached level 15, talk to Lenphad You can find Lenphad at the Equipment Shop within the Elder Village.


Right after talking to Lenphad, he will give you a set of quests—mostly about killing mobs.;
, You can find Bomber Mongs in Wally's Castle; Bomber Mongs are monsters wearing junk parts from the roof; they carry a bag full of bombs.


There are no dungeon difficulty stated, so you can kill them in any dungeon level.
Hunting in a team is also allowed.
 These monsters can be found at the same location: Wally's Castle. Kid Phoru monsters are the ones who uses a torch to burn you while Jango uses melee attack.


This kill quest is only available in Hard or higher dungeon level, so make sure to do this with a party rather than hunting alone.
Both monsters appear in every floor, even summoned at the last floor of the castle.
 After you have completed the quest, go back to Elder Village and speak to the Accessory Shop Owner. She will reward you for your hard work and then give you the last quest for Knighthood.


Before jumping into the quest dungeon, make sure you have bought enough potions and repair all your equipment.
 The last part of the Knighthood quest requires you to complete Wally's Castle within 15 minutes under the Very Hard level. This quest can be done with a party or even with players with higher base level compared to the dungeon.


If you know anyone who is already level 30 or more, you can ask for their help to clear the dungeon before the given time runs out.
After the completion, head back to Luichel, and she will turn you into a Knight.
 Take the Magic Knight quest from the Bulletin Board and then you will given a new set of quests.


Don't forget to repair your equipment before you jump into a dungeon.
 8. found in Wally's Castle. Wally no. 8 is a mechanical-type boss. He can glide and hit hard if you don't have any proper equipment, so make sure you bought equipment in par with your level.


If you don't have enough money to purchase items, remember equipments are dropped by mobs, so make sure to clear your inventory before doing dungeon runs.
Even in Very Hard difficulty, Wally no. 8 can be taken down quick if you have DPS type in the party; this could be a Mage or an Archer.
You can also ask help from people with higher levels.
The quest can be completed in any difficulty.
 This can be obtained from Mickey in Underground Waterway.


This quest must be done under the Very Hard difficulty or else no Mickey's Tails will be dropped.
 You have to clear the Wally's Castle after gathering the Tails. However, in this quest, you are not given any time limit, but only to finish and obtain B rank or above.


Getting B rank is easy, as long as you kill a lot of monsters, used skills in defeating them, and obtain less damage from enemy attacks.
 This is found in Wally's Castle by killing the Wally's Guardians. This may or may not drop in your first dungeon run, so be ready to do multiple runs.


This is done in Very Hard dungeon level.
You can clear this quest with party members or with the help of higher-level players.
 After you have completed all the quest, return to the city and then click the Bulletin Board. You will be rewarded for our hard work, and your class is now changed to Magic Knight.


If for some reason you're unable to change to your next class regardless of finishing the quest, simply log off then log in again to have the game system register that you have, in fact, cleared the job quest.
After becoming a Magic Knight, your next advance class will be Rune Slayer. Reach at least level 35 to unlock the class change quest.
 This is a very useful skill you'll obtain after switching to Magic Knight class. Players in PvP mode often use this technique to stun their enemy, making them vulnerable to skill attacks or combo. This type of attack also works on monsters to canceling any skill cast or make them flinch to make them open for any combination.


Fireball Dash unleashes a huge fireball skill after running. To execute this skill, simply double tap the arrow button toward your enemy, and while running, press Z, Z, X. When you press Z, your character will slash the opponent after the dash, hitting them twice with 120%–160%. Pressing X will execute the fireball within the combo, unleashing 270% magic damage.
Aerial Fireball is another approach in releasing Fireball attack. This occurs when you jump to avoid any opponent then unleash Fireball while in mid-air. To execute this combo, run toward the enemy by tapping the arrow button and then jump by pressing up, followed by X and Z. By the time you jump and pressed X, your character will swing his sword, damaging any enemies who attempts to jump with you, causing 200% physical damage. At Z, you will release your Fireball, which will cause 200% magic damage. This is best done with fast combo execution.
 As Magic Knight are great with mid-range attacks with their Fireball skills, enemies will attempt on doing more close-range attacks to prevent you from doing more Fireball combo.


Most enemies will now dash toward at you then slash before you could swing your sword. To prevent this, use the Knockback Slash to knock them back, making them fall to the ground and vulnerable to your next combo. Simply tap on the arrows twice toward your enemy's direction to run and then press Z after the dash, followed by two more Z to attack. The first slash will inflict 120% damage if you manage to land a hit on your opponent. 160% for the second attack and 200% physical damage to the third.
This combo also works on some boss.
Use this skill to your advantage, for this increases your chance in surviving the game.

