 For people with GAD, the stress of everyday life never subsides. GAD makes worries that would otherwise be minor seem insurmountable, making it difficult to get through the day. GAD can develop slowly over time, and it sometimes runs in families.Symptoms can get better or worse over time, and it's important to learn healthy ways to manage them. Symptoms of GAD include the following:Your worrying is uncontrollable and you can't avoid thinking about things that make you anxious.
You are unable to relax or be by yourself.
You have trouble sleeping because you can't stop worrying.
You experience a constant feeling of dread.
Your worrying is affecting your job and social life.
You can't relax unless you have a plan; you need to know what will happen in the future.
You feel edgy, restless, or jumpy.;
, Studies that show heightened activity in the fear part of the brain for people with GAD. Going to a place that relaxes you can help you find relief. Getting outside into nature, for example, has many health benefits. including stress and anxiety reduction.Sometimes getting a change of scene can help ease the symptoms of GAD. For example, if you've spent the afternoon in your house feeling worried about unpaid bills, taking a walk around the neighborhood might help you get your mind on other things.
Try setting aside a room in your house where you can sit peacefully. Fill the room with things that comfort you, such as candles with calming scents or calming artwork.
 This can be effective if you need a moment's break from worrying. If you are listening to music or concentrating on singing, you will not be worrying or feeling anxious. It is very difficult to do both at the same time. While listening requires your brain to send messages to your ears, it distracts you from thinking too much about your worries. Singing lowers your stress and allows you to open your throat and release emotions that you might feel are struck and causing problems.If you are feeling worried in any situation, then hum a tune to yourself. Keep this tactic at the ready to help in all sorts of social situations. Avoid using it in extremely quiet situations that would not be conducive to humming or singing out loud.
 Your sense of smell is an important part of helping you remember. Use it to introduce a new memory of calm and lightness. Deep, cleansing breaths will lower your stress, blood pressure and provide other health benefits.If you are feeling anxious, take a moment and focus on breathing in for a few seconds; hold it for a few seconds and release it slowly. Tell yourself you are filling your body with healthy, stress-free air, and breathing out the anxiety and stress you are feeling.
 Taking the time to eat a great meal can be like conducting a peaceful ceremony. Slow down and enjoy each section of your meal: first appetizer, then main course, then dessert. Savor each bite and practice gratitude for the things that you have. Eating slowly will help reduce the stress you are feeling.Stay fully present when you eat and appreciate the fuel it provides. Focus more on the eating rather than worrying and overeating because you aren’t paying attention. Avoid getting lost in the process and consuming excessive amounts of food. It will lead to health struggles like obesity, and other weight-related health conditions., Use your sense of touch to manage your anxiety. Smooth, soft, cool, warm – whatever the textures and temperatures are they can help increase your sense of calm.


If it is cold, wrap yourself up in a soft, cozy blanket that comforts you. Run your hands along the blanket as if you are petting a dog or cat, which has been shown to help lower stress and anxiety.If it is warm, go to the beach and run your hands and feet through the warm sand. Feel the comfort it brings into your body.
 Expending physical energy is a great way to manage your anxiety.Sitting in one place allows your emotions to rise. It is important to express your feelings, and doing so by way of physical exercise is extremely beneficial to your health.


You can participate in activities like walking, hiking and running which release endorphins (produced in the brain) that have a positive, calming effect.Dancing is a great way of managing anxiety.If you take a dance class you will be required to pay attention to every move your body makes. This will free you from worrying about things, and will provide a great break from your thoughts.
Find other activities that require you to focus all your attention on the task in front of you. For example, participate in special projects at school, work or around the house that require your full attention. Don’t take on too much as it may increase your anxiety and stress. Follow your intuition. If it feels like too much, then back off until you find a healthy level of participation.
 Some people find it very difficult to relax. If you have difficulty it doesn’t mean that you cannot relax; it just means that you need to learn how. Like with any new skill, it takes acquiring information, implementing methods and following up on results.


Use techniques such as progressive muscle relaxation.Find a quiet place and get comfortable. Working from your feet upward or head downward tense the muscles in each body part for a few seconds, then release and relax. As you progress tensing and relaxing individual body parts you will feel the relaxation expand. Your muscles may be much more tense than you realize. You can use this technique in most any anxiety provoking situation. You can perform this technique without being in a quiet place.

Meditate by yourself or in a group. Meditation has been used for centuries by many cultures to overcome negative thoughts and cultivate positive ones., Close your eyes and imagine doing activities that challenge you, but you are able to successfully and peacefully complete them. These scenarios can include various social situations that cause you to feel anxious, or could be activities like surfing, racing horses, exploring your musical talents or something smaller like asking an athlete for an autograph.


The goal of guided imagery is to provide you with a glimpse of yourself doing something without being impacted by anxiety.You can see yourself doing anything you can imagine, which will help you believe you can do it in real life as well.
Scientists believe that our brains experience real-world and imaginary actions in a similar way. If you picture yourself walking into a party, smiling, and immediately approaching a group of people for conversation, you strengthen the neural pathways associated with those actions. The practice begins to feel familiar to your brain, so when you actually walk into that party, it feels natural to engage with others instead of stand off by yourself.