 For example, choose greens such as variegated pittosporum. Buy the blooms 3 days before your wedding.;
, Pull off damaged petals.
 Add 1 tablespoon of household bleach (to cut down on bacterial growth).
 Cut about two inches from the bottom and place the stems in the bucket to hydrate.


Fill another bucket in like manner and place the greens to hydrate as well.
 Using roses that are ruffling open will create a softer working surface and provide you with that soft petal on petal look that is desired.
 If you are left handed, your hands and direction will be the exact opposite. This forms the bouquet's ‘center stage’.
 Place the second rose crossing to the left, lying it down almost totally sideways and pulling it in so that it rests right underneath the center stage.
 Form the first circle of seats around the bouquet's ‘center stage’. You will be repeating the cross to the left, turn to the right motion until the first row of roses is placed.
 If done correctly, you should have a nice dome shape across the top of your bouquet.


If your bouquet looks like a flat pancake across the top, you are not tucking the rows of roses tightly enough under the last row.
 This creates a ‘collar’ of soft greens under the outer edge of the bouquet.


When placing the greens, make sure only a small amount of the leaves are peaking out past the last row of roses. Making the greens too ‘bushy’ will take away from the finished look of your bouquet.
, Turn the bouquet sideways so that you can see the bottom edge of the bouquet and the stem lengths.
 This ensures that the wire will be wrapped as high underneath the rose heads and greens as possible.
 Twist the ends together securely against the stems of the bouquet.


You will know the wire is tight enough when your bouquet holds firmly together and the materials do not shift from their placement.
 Spray it with "Crowning Glory" (Crowning Glory is a finishing spray that seals in the moisture of the flowers; you can purchase it online.) Leave it soaking until the morning of the wedding.
 Pat dry with some paper towels.
 This slims down the handle and makes it easier to hold.
 This is done to smooth out some of the bumps of stems, etc. To wrap the bouquet, gently pull the floral tape and guide it down the handle of the bouquet slightly overlapping each layer so that no stems are visible.


When holding your bouquet, you want to see approximately 1 ½-2 ½ inches above your hand to the chin of the bouquet and 1 ½ -2 ½ inches of tape below the bottom of your hand.
 Cover up the green floral tape.
 Fold the cut edge under and pin into place with a corsage pin.
 Gently insert the pin running up the length of the stems. Continue to insert corsage pins up the bouquet handle for an added touch of beauty.
 This will keep your bouquet fresh until the ceremony.

