 If you're just starting to leave your dog alone in his crate and he's eliminating in it, the problem is probably that he's not used to the crate. A dog should be introduced to his crate gradually before he can be left alone in the crate safely.


Allow your dog a few days to get used to the crate. Encourage him to enter the crate, but do not lock it. Make the crate a pleasant experience by providing your dog with treats and praise for entering the crate.Once your dog is used to the crate, you can begin closing him in it for small periods at time. Start small, only leaving him in the crate for about 10 minutes at a time, and then gradually increase the duration.Once your dog is able to spend 30 minutes in his crate without becoming anxious or afraid, you can begin leaving him for longer periods. Always be matter of fact when leaving. Dragging out a departure by saying a long goodbye to your canine can make his anxiety about being left alone worse.You can gradually increase the amount of time you leave your dog alone in the crate, eventually working up to leaving him in the crate overnight and while you're at work., If your dog is having problems with eliminating in his crate, his walk schedule might not be consistent enough. Make sure you walk your dog at regular intervals so he does not have to resort to going in his crate.


Simply leaving your dog outside will not necessarily teach him he's supposed to toilet outdoors. When potty training stay outside with him and praise him when he goes to the toilet spot. If you don't do this the risk is he may just regard outdoors as a playground, and not take the opportunity to relieve himself.
Depending on your dog's age, he'll need more or less time outside. If he's under 12 weeks, he should be let out once an hour during the day and every 3 to 4 hours during the night.As he gets older, you can gradually increase the increments of time between walks. By the time he's 6 to 7 months old, you should be letting him out about every 4 hours during the day and every 8 hours at night. An adult dog should be let out at least three times a day, and preferably get at least one longer walk during that time.Consistency is key. Try to let your dog out around the same time each day. Your dog's body will adapt to a regular schedule and that should result in less accidents., Feeding should also be done on a schedule. Limiting treats and snacks between meals can lead to less bathroom issues. Eating stimulates the bowel about 20 minutes later. Don't give the dog a meal and immediately crate him as he may then get caught short. Instead, give him a chance to toilet outside, around 20 to 30 minutes after eating.


How much food your dog needs depends on his breed, size, and any medical conditions he might have. You can talk to your vet about how much food is appropriate for your dog and then decide how to best divide up feeding times throughout the day.If you crate your dog overnight, do not give him food or water 3 hours before bed time. If you crate your dog during the day while you're at work, make sure to give him a longer walk in the morning so he has a chance to relieve himself after breakfast., The use of positive and negative reinforcement can help your dog learn not to poop in his crate.


When you take your dog outside, always praise him when he poops. You can use verbal praise, saying something like "Good boy!", and also carry small treats to provide a reward.If you see your dog getting ready to poop in his crate, clap your hands and say "No." Then, take him outside so he can do his business there.Remember, dogs live in the immediate. If you wake up in the morning and find he's gone in his crate, scolding him then is probably not helpful. He will not understand what he's being scolded over. You should also avoid overly aggressive or loud scolding, as this can lead to anxiety that could potentially make the problem worse. Never rub your dog's nose in his feces or urine, as this will only serve to upset and confuse your dog.