 If you are getting your whole body painted, you will want to find a professional who knows the ins and outs of the craft. Search the Internet for body painters in your area, and be sure to look at the portfolios of their work.


Call painters you are interested in and ask for a price quote before committing.
Consider meeting with the body painter beforehand. Since you have to be naked or in your underwear to be fully painted, you may find that you’d like to get comfortable with the painter beforehand. Consider hiring a painter of the same sex if you feel that would help you to feel more at ease.
You can also ask the painter if it’s okay to bring a friend with you if it makes you feel more comfortable.;
, Consider what kind of design you want for your body paint. Talk with the body painter beforehand and discuss your ideas. You want to be sure that you are both on the same page so that your design won’t be an unexpected surprise!


You can set up a time to meet with the body painter before the appointment, or you can just talk with them before you get painted.
Consider making a rough sketch of the overall design you want, along with the colors you’d like for your design.
Some people choose abstract designs for their body paint, while others draw inspiration from famous paintings, or get painted to look like specific characters from movies or comic books.
 Take a shower the morning of your appointment to clean your skin. Don’t use lotions, oils, moisturizers or tanning products the day of your painting; these products create a barrier on your skin which makes it more difficult for the paint to adhere and cover your skin. Also avoid using deodorant the day of the painting., Some varieties of body paint affix to body hair, making the application uneven and the removal of the paint more difficult. Ask your body painter if they would advise shaving or waxing your body hair before going in.If you already generally shave or wax your body hair, shave as usual. However, if you would rather avoid having to shave, ask your body painter what they would recommend before going in.
Airbrushing and latex paint in particular are difficult to apply with body hair.
 A full-body painting can take hours. Before you go in, make sure to have a full meal and to drink plenty of water. If you snack during the full-body painting, you may interrupt the painting process, and you could ingest some of the paint that hasn’t dried on or near the mouth.Also try to take a bathroom break directly before the full-body painting so you don't have to take a break in the middle of painting.
 You want to be as comfortable as possible in the hours it will take to apply your body paint. First, make sure that the room feels private enough for you to be in the nude. Ask the body painter to change the temperature if it feels too hot or cold. Also consider playing music or listening to a book on tape to occupy your mind during the painting., Do a spot test of the materials that your body painter will be using. This is especially important to do if they are using latex paint, which can cause allergic reactions.Place a small patch of paint on an area of skin like your arm and wait 15-20 minutes. If the skin under and around the paint is inflamed, test another variety of paint until you find one that works for you.
 Remove your clothes before beginning the painting process. If you feel more comfortable, you can wear nude underwear that can be painted over. Otherwise, take off all of your clothing.If you have long hair, tie your hair in a bun with a hair tie so that it doesn’t get in the way.
 Listen and communicate with your painter throughout the process. You will likely be standing upright and still for most of the painting, but they may ask you to extend your arms or to rotate as they are painting. Check in a mirror every so often so you can be sure that you are getting exactly what you want!


Don’t hesitate to ask for a short break if you start to get tired or if your arms or legs start to fall asleep.

