 To create blue roses through the dip-dyeing method, you will need some blue floral dip-dye, a bowl or bucket, white roses, water, and scissors. The dip-dye can be purchased at your local florist or online.The bowl or bucket needs to be deep enough for the flower blossom to be completely immersed in the dye.
The process can be messy so you might want to wear plastic gloves as well to protect your hands from staining.
 Before beginning, it is recommended that you remove the thorns from the stems. It is not necessary, but it will make it easier to handle the roses and arrange them later. You can use a thorn stripping tool, a knife, or even scissors to get rid of the thorns.Use caution as the thorns are very sharp and can cut you.
 Pour enough dye into the container so that you can easily immerse the flower blossom wholly into the dye. The dye should already be in liquid form, you just need to pour it directly into the container.


The dye will stain your clothes, so wear something old that you don’t mind getting dirty. Cover your workspace with old newspaper or plastic bags.If you want a lighter color, you can dilute the dye with water before you begin.
 Hold the end of the rose by the stem and dip the blossom into the dye.Completely submerge the blossom in the dye for about two seconds. This is plenty of time to get a nice even coat.


Shake excess dye off the flower back into the container. The dye is reusable.
 Gently rinse the rose blossom thoroughly with water. Rinse until the water runs clear. Shake the rose over the drain to get them as dry as possible.Allow flowers to dry completely before doing anything else with them.
Flowers with wet dye can stain your hands and clothes.
 Once the flower has completely dried, you can add another coat of dye if you’d like a darker coloring to your petals. Repeat the same process: submerge the rose in the dye for two seconds, gently rinse with water, and let flower dry.Remember the dye is reusable so you can dye as many flowers as you’d like in the same dye.
 When wet, the dye can stain your fingers and clothes. Once the dye has dried, the flowers can be handled and put together in beautiful floral arrangements. It will take at least an hour for blossoms to fully dry. Impress your friends and family with your wonderful hand-dyed blue roses.


This same process can be used to make the roses any color you’d like as long as you have the right color dye for it.

