 This will be your first stop in Outlands. You will Enter using the Dark Portal on the Eastern side of the zone. From here you should take the flight path from your faction. This flight path with take you to either Thrallmar (Horde) or Honor Hold (Alliance). After you do a few quests in this area you will go to spine breaker post (Horde) or Expedition Point (Alliance), which is on the southern half of the zone. Do quests here until you are asked to go to Falcon Watch (Horde) or Temple of Telhamat. Take quests from here until you are asked to go to Cenarion Post. You will be asked to do a few elite quests here. Do not skip these, try to get a group for these quests at all costs. The rewards from these quests are worth it. Ramparts and Blood furnace are two instances in this zone. You can do Ramparts around 60 when you get the quests for it and Blood Furnace around 62 when you are about to leave. Your next stop on the journey to 70 is in Zangarmarsh. You should be at about level 62 when you leave Hellfire.;
, Grab the quests here and you will want to go grab a some more quests at SwampRat Post (Horde) or Telredor (Alliance). You will be able to get a flight path here as well. You will be asked to perform quests on the eastern side of the zone. As Horde you will be asked to go to the western side of the zone, Zabra’jin is a Horde village on this side of the zone where you can pick up many quests on this side. Sporeaggar is a neutral faction near Zabra’jin. South of here is The Spawning Glen where you can do a few quests to get your reputation up with Sporeaggar. Once you reach a certain reputation with them you can enter their village and receive quests. Once you are 63 you should have a quest or two for Slave Pens. Before you leave you are going to want to do the Underbog around level 64. Throughout your questing in Zangarmarsh you will receive at least two travel quests. One will ask you to go to Blades Edge Mountains and the other to Terokkar Forest. I suggest that you do the Terokkar Forest one. Blades Edge Mountains is very mountainous and hard to get around so it would be a better idea to do it when you are 70 with a flying mount. You should be leaving this zone around level 64.
 The main Outland city Shattrath is in this Zone as well. It is worth heading up there after grabbing the quests from your factions town in this zone. You will be asked to go see a few people throughout the zone. In these places you will receive a few quests. Auchindoun is the waste land type area to the south it has a group of instances. Around 64 you will be able to do Mana Tombs. When you are 65 you will want to complete Auchenai Crypts. After all the questing and instances you do in this zone you should be almost level 66. From here you will want to go to Nagrand.
 Grab the quests in your town and head over to Nesingwary Safari. Here you can grab a few kill quests for the beasts in this zone. After a while up in the northern part you will want to go to Aeris Landing, which is off the road a little ways southeast of Halaa. You should be around 67 now and ready for a few instances. Caverns of Time: Old Hillsbrad is in Tanaris and is a fun instance to complete with a group. Another instance that you may want to engage in is Sethekk Halls. Remember to get some quests for it at the entrance. After finishing up Nagrand and completing these instances you should be around 68.
 Here it is important to have chosen a Shattrath city faction. Al’dor or Scryer are the two choices. It doesn’t really matter what you choose unless you are going to be end game raiding. Scryer seems to be the easiest to get reputation for but it is your choice. If you haven’t chosen a faction yet then go to the centre of Shattrath and talk to the quest guy there. In Shadowmoon there are two main towns. Shadowmoon village (Horde) which is in the northwestern part of the zone right when you enter. Wildhammer Stronghold (Alliance) is in the southwestern part, just follow the main road and you will see dwarves fighting infernals outside of the town. From here you will get a few demon kill quests and one to go find someone at Deathforge tower or The Slag Watch. Here you will get some kill quests that are worth your time. The Alter of Damnation is also a good place to grab a chain quest to kill elementals. You should be around 69 by now. Now you should head over to the Eastern side of the zone and go to the Al’dor town (Alter of Sha’ tar, North Eastern) or Scryer town (Sanctum of the Stars, South Eastern). You should do the quests here and you will most likely reach level 70.
,