 Choose the images you want and compile them in a word document. Make sure your images are small enough to fit on eggs.Darker colors, like blues, blacks, and dark greens, tend to work best. Strong outlines also help the images show up better.;
, You do not need special paper to transfer your images onto eggs. You can simply use regular copy paper. If you don't have a printer at home, run to a local print shop to print your images.In case you mess up while transferring your images, it's a good idea to print out a few extra pages.
 Do not simply cut squares or circles around your images. Instead, cut out an outline of the images. Cut around the images, getting as close as possible to the edges. This will help the images transfer to the eggs.Go slowly to avoid cutting into the images.
 You can buy modge-podge at any craft store. Take the brush that comes with the modge podge container. Coat one side of the egg in modge podge, creating a blob of modge podge roughly the same size and shape as the image you're transferring.The blob of modge podge does not have to be the exact shape of the image. Do not worry if your modge podge is a little off.
 Take the images you cut out. Plaster the paper, with the image side down, onto your egg. Use your modge podge brush to brush more modge podge onto the paper. Brush as much modge podge as you need to completely plaster the paper to the egg.Use slow, steady motions when plastering the image onto the egg. This will minimize wrinkles, which can blur the image.
Hold the paper in place with one finger while you plaster. If the paper moves around, the image will blur.
 Place your eggs back in the carton they came in. Set them in a safe place in your home where they will not be disturbed. Allow them to dry completely. This should take about 24 hours., After the eggs have dried completely, place them in a bowl of water. Let them soak for a few minutes. Remove the eggs when you see the paper loosening slightly., Use your fingers to gently peel the paper off the eggs. The image should have transferred onto the egg. Go slowly as you peel, to avoid moving the paper around too much. This can smear the image., Images will not transfer as well to eggs just removed from the refrigerator or eggs that have just been boiled. Set your eggs out for an hour or so before transferring images to let them cool or warm to room temperature., Sometimes, color will fade slightly when you remove the paper. You may notice things like outlines have broken lines or there are patches of white where color did not transfer. You can use fine-tipped permanent markers to fill in gaps.Wait until the eggs are completely dry before drawing on them with markers.
 It's not uncommon for some images not to turn out. Images may smear or blur, especially if you're new to the process. Keep some extra eggs on hand in case you have to redo an egg.