 There are two possibilities when painting your walls. One is definitely simpler than the other:


Paint your room a plain colour. Try to go for a neutral colour that looks good with everything, like beige, cream, white, etc. This will make your room look less crazy.






Paint a world travel mural! This is very complicated, but if done right will make your room one to remember! Pick some of your favourite places in the world and hire a painter to paint them on your wall for you. Try to meld the scenes together, or have one wall devoted to one certain place, such as having one wall as a New York skyline, one wall as a Paris scene, one wall with the Leaning Tower of Pisa, and another wall with the Sydney Opera house.





;
, Incorporate some Asian flair in your room by putting in some lanterns. Add some other lights too. These don't necessarily have to reflect your world travel theme.
 Buy some world travel-related cushions, such as Union Jack cushions. These would be relatively easy to find. Another easy thing to find would be Paris cushions with images such as Notre Dame and the Eiffel Tower on them.
 You could also buy a regular chair and throw a world travel-themed toss pillow on it.
 This will really tie the whole theme together, as well as provide a great storage space.
 Calendars are a great thing to have in your world travel themed bedroom, because it's easy to find New York calendars, Greek calendars, or calendars with pictures of different places in the world.
 If you want, personalize it by indicating all the places in the world that you've been (or would like to go) to.
 Make a collage of different places in the world. Have the Taj Mahal, St. Peter's Cathedral, the Great Wall of China, and other famous landmarks.
 It's pretty simple to find beautiful artwork of different places on earth, such as the Eiffel Tower, a double-decker bus in London, New York, etc. These will really make a statement on your wall.
 Put some postcards from different places in the world all over your room. Display them on your walls, or on your bedside table or desk.
 These can be from your own world travels, or you can buy some at stores on online. Add a kangaroo figurine from Australia, a mini Eiffel Tower, and/or the Statue of Liberty, for example.

