 States have different standards regarding how chronic ailments relate to employment for the purposes of awarding workers' compensation benefits.


Injuries that fall into this category tend to be diseases or conditions that develop over time, or as a result of prolonged exposure to certain pollutants or toxins.Examples of work-related or occupational diseases include silicosis and asbestosis, diseases that occur in people who have continued exposure to silica or asbestos particles.Injuries caused by repetitive motions or activities, such as carpal tunnel syndrome and many back injuries, also fall into this category.Since the injury doesn't result from a single incident, but rather from prolonged exposure or repetitive activities, the employee must show a causal relation to his or her job., If the employee has a previous history of exposure to similar risks, you may be able to argue that the injury is related to that exposure rather than the work the employee did for you.


Workers' compensation cases include a discovery period during which both sides exchange information relevant to the claim. At this time, you can ask the employee to provide records related to his or her work history.
You also can use the employee's history at your own company to defend against the claim. If the employee failed to use proper protective or safety devices that would limit his or her exposure to the toxic material or lessen the effects of repetitive motion, you may be able to argue that the employee's injury isn't causally related to his or her employment., Sometimes chronic injuries or conditions can be attributed to activities in which employees participate in their off hours.


For example, suppose an employee claims he is entitled to workers' compensation benefits for carpal tunnel syndrome. Although he has only worked for you for six months, he has played guitar regularly for 20 years. Thus, you may be able to argue that he developed carpal tunnel syndrome as a result of playing guitar rather than working for you.
You can interview friends, family, and co-workers of the employee to get additional information about what the employee does in his or her time away from work.
 Typically you must have a doctor's opinion that unequivocally supports your argument that the employee's injury isn't causally related to his or her employment.


The employee will have a doctor who claims work activities are directly responsible for his or her injury or illness.You also may get an occupational therapist or other specialist to tour your workplace and review the activities the employee performed as part of his or her job duties. The specialist will then issue a report stating whether, in his or her opinion, the activities were likely to cause the employee's injuries if conducted over the period of time the employee worked for you.
It is always better to have a specialist observe and examine the workplace personally rather than simply giving him or her a description of the job duties and asking for an opinion. This ensures the specialist is giving a relatively unbiased opinion of what employees actually do on the job.

