 Exercise is a great way to improve mood, bust stress, and feel good.There are lots of ways to exercise that can be fun and enjoyable. If you dread going to the gym, you can exercise in lots of other ways, such as walking the dog, going on a hike, or taking a bike ride. Think about what activities you enjoy (or used to enjoy) and add some movement to them. Listen to music while you clean and dance along, or play catch with your dog. Do an activity such as gardening or yoga.


Regular exercise is an effective antidepressant, and can be as effective as medication!, Nature and the outdoors can be very healing. Being in nature helps to reduce stress and increase positive thinking.Especially if you isolate yourself when you feel depressed, a change of scenery, fresh air, and being in nature can be healthy and enjoyable.


Go for a hike, start a garden, or sit by a tree and read. Or you can find some grass, take your shoes off, and relish in the feeling of your bare feet connecting with the Earth.
Invite a friend to join you at the park, or plan a picnic with family.
 You may struggle to talk about your feelings, and if so, try using a creative outlet to express your emotions. Sing, write poems or short stories, play an instrument, draw, color, paint, or sculpt. Find a creative outlet that you enjoy and go do it!Find an activity that is enjoyable and that allows you to have creative influence. This can also include designing and constructing a playhouse, or making objects out of wood or metal.
 Engaging in daily relaxation helps to reduce stress, cope with depression, and boosts feelings of well-being.Even if you feel like you are “lazy” all day due to your depression, set aside 10-20 minutes to do some relaxation. Choose an activity that you enjoy and that helps you feel relaxed.


Engage in yoga, meditation, deep breathing, qi gong, tai chi, or another relaxing activity.
For more information, check out How to Treat Depression With Meditation and How to Ease Depression with Relaxation Techniques.
 While you may feel like life is mundane or boring, try to see the joy, happiness, and excitement in each moment. While it may feel ordinary now, you may reflect upon certain moments with fondness in the future.This is especially true with relationships and cherishing moments with loved ones. Living in the present and not taking moments for granted can lead to higher satisfaction in life.As you go about your daily activities, think about how they benefit you. For example, you may dread your morning routine, but instead, give thanks for the ability you have to take care of your body by cleaning it, nourishing it, and maintaining it.
When doing chores or other undesired activities, be present as you complete the activity. Instead of thinking, “I hate mopping floors,” be conscious about the smell of the solution, the feelings in your body as you mop, the visual changes in the floor below you. Being present in this way can bring you to the now and remove negative feelings.

