 Place the egg in a small saucepan and cover it with 1 inch (2.5 cm) of cold water. Transfer the saucepan to the stove and heat the water to a boil. Immediately turn the heat off and cover the saucepan, cooking the egg in the warm water for another 12 to 15 minutes.


Consider adding a pinch of salt to the water before boiling it to make the peeling process easier.
You should turn the heat off immediately after the water begins to boil.
Cooking the egg in this manner prevents the egg from being overcooked.
 Remove the egg from the hot water using a slotted spoon and rinse it thoroughly under cold running water. Keep it there until it feels cool enough to handle, but not yet ice cold.


Chilling the egg makes it easier to handle, and chilling the egg quickly helps separate the shell from the cooked egg white. When using the egg for this process, though, you want to keep the egg a little warm, so you should avoid cooling it down too much.
 Roll the egg gently on a flat surface to crack the shell. Then, use your fingers to peel away the rest of the shell.


You'll want to preserve as much of the egg as possible, but don't worry if you lose a few chunks of egg white as you peel off the shell. The egg should still produce enough sulfur as it sits to give your brass a patina finish.
 Use a kitchen knife to cut the egg in half lengthwise. Note that both the egg white and egg yolk should be cut in two.


Keep the yolk and white together instead of separating them.
The egg yolk is an important part of this process, so it is important that you expose it in this step.
 Place both halves of your boiled egg into a resealable plastic bag, along with your brass piece. Seal the bag well.


Only use a bag with an airtight seal.
The brass does not need to directly touch the egg.
 Let the bag sit out at room temperature for several hours. After several hours pass, you should notice a subtle patina forming on the brass.


The egg yolk is giving off sulfuric gas, and that gas is responsible for giving the brass a patina finish.
Keep the egg and brass in the bag for as long as needed to achieve your desired shade of patina.
Note that this process can get very smelly, so you may want to set the bag aside in a garage or unused room for its duration.
 Remove the brass from the bag and discard the egg. It is recommended that you seal the brass piece with clear lacquer or soft wax to protect the patina finish.

