 The earliest sign that you have come in contact with sulfites will likely be itchy skin, a rash or hives. If you notice a red blotchy area on your skin, you are likely experiencing a mild reaction or the beginning of a more severe one. If you know that you have a sulfite allergy, seek immediate medical attention in case the reaction worsens.It may help to take antihistamine medicine for the itch; however, you should seek medical attention if you have a known sulfite allergy.
Most allergic reactions to sulfites occur within 15 – 30 minutes following oral exposure., You may also develop a number of stomach issues, such as cramps, diarrhea, and vomiting. If you have a known sulfite allergy and believe you are experiencing an allergic reaction, seek immediate medical attention. It is important that you get help in case the reaction worsens.If left untreated, diarrhea and vomiting can cause serious problems like dehydration. In general, seek medical help if you experience sustained and intense stomach problems.
 In more severe cases, a sulfite allergy can cause major respiratory issues, such as wheezing, cough, difficulty breathing, and tightness in the chest. In fact, respiratory issues are the most common symptom of a sulfite reaction. Asthmatics, in particular, are susceptible to having a severe respiratory reaction. It is therefore recommended that asthmatics try to avoid foods high in sulfites and always carry their inhalers., In some extremely rare and severe cases, asthmatics suffering from sulfite allergies experienced anaphylaxis. If this occurs, you will not be able to breathe and your blood pressure will drop dramatically. If you are experiencing anaphylactic shock, use an epinephrine pen to inject yourself with adrenaline. This will quickly relax your constricted airway and raise your blood pressure.If you experience anaphylaxis, you should seek immediate medical attention.
The epinephrine pen will help you stay stabilized long enough to get to a hospital and receive treatment.

