 You don’t want your host to think you are being rude when you do not eat or drink certain things. When you RSVP for a party, let them know that you are on a special diet. Ask them what the menu is to make sure that you have something to eat at the party.


If you don’t mind your host knowing that you are planning to conceive, you can say, “I am on a pre-pregnancy diet right now, and I was wondering what the menu would be like.”
If you do not want your host to know, you can say, “I’m on a restricted diet this year, and I was hoping I could look over the menu to see if I need to bring something for myself.”;
, If it is a potluck or if your host allows you, you might bring a dish to the party that aligns with your diet. There should be enough for everyone at the party, but you can choose a dish that fits into your special diet.You can ask the host, “Do you want me to bring anything? Since I’m on a diet anyways, I can bring a healthy option to the party.”
Some good pre-pregnancy dishes you might consider bringing include a spinach salad with nuts, a pan of roasted vegetables, a fruit plate, or whole-grain bread rolls.
 You should not skip meals on a pre-pregnancy diet, as your body should be adjusting to the regular three-meal diet that you should maintain while you are pregnant.Skipping meals can also cause you to eat more at parties, and it might tempt you to eat foods that you shouldn’t., If you stick to your pre-pregnancy diet before you go to the party, it will not matter as much if you slip a little bit. While you should be cutting down on bad fats and processed sugar, an occasional treat will not harm a future pregnancy.


You can designate, if choose, your party as your cheat meal. These meals can help you lose weight on your diet by reducing cravings and boosting your metabolism.If there is a chance you are already pregnant, you should avoid alcohol, soft cheeses, undercooked meat, cured meats, and raw dairy., A great way to avoid temptation at a party is to have a meal before you go. Leave a little room for treats during the party, but eat something healthy and light so that you are not starving. This can help prevent you from eating the wrong types of food at the party.