 To begin, you'll want to obtain a functioning, virus-free copy of San Andreas. Only download from "clean", reputable online sources or reliable torrents. Never download anything from sites that you're not familiar with, that look suspicious, or that contain pervasive advertisements.


If you're ever unsure whether a certain website is safe, try downloading and using any of the free or paid online security utilities available via a simple Google search.
 Usually, downloaded or torrented copies of games come in a "compressed" form that must be decompressed (or "unzipped") before they can be used. Locate the compressed file you downloaded, right click on it, and choose "Extract" or a related option (which may vary based on the zip utilities you have installed). Then, specify a location for the decompressed file as directed.


To unzip a compressed file, you'll need a special type of application made for this purpose. Luckily, there are a variety of free and paid solutions available for download. For example, 7zip, a free utility, should serve most unzipping needs.
 After you've unzipped the .exe install file, find it in the file location you specified and run it. You should be presented with an introductory screen offering options for beginning the installation process.
 Because "hacks" or "cracks" of games are, by their very nature, unofficial and non-uniform, the precise process for installing your downloaded game copy may differ from that of another. Usually, all you'll need to due is follow the prompts of the decompressed install file as you would for a normal copy of the game.


One thing you may need to do to get the installed game to work is to "mount" an ISO image of the game disc to a virtual drive. Essentially, this is a process by which the computer is tricked into thinking that the game disc is inserted when it is not. See wikiHow's guide on mounting ISO images for more information.
 The act of pirating computer games is considered illegal almost everywhere. Though anti-piracy measures are often not well-enforced (especially for decade-old games like San Andreas), piracy is still considered a crime. Additionally, there's virtually no way to determine the quality of a pirated copy of the game. Not only can pirating a game like San Andreas leave you open for criminal prosecution - it can also net you a buggy or non-functioning copy of the game. Finally, pirated copies of games are notorious for bearing viruses and other malware.If you choose to knowingly pirate computer games, you do so at your own risk.

