 Making mood nail polish is a simple process, but you do need some special materials to do it. A few of the materials for mood nail polish are available in stores, but you will need to special order the rest online. You will need:Stainless steel mixing balls (you will need to order this online)
White base (order online)
Syringe (no needle, just the syringe part for measuring)
Empty nail polish bottles
Thermal dust pigments (order online)
A teaspoon
Clear polish
A small funnel;
, It is important to make sure that you are working in a well ventilated area when you mix the nail polish.Make sure that you mix the polish in a room that is well-ventilated, such as a garage with the door open or in a room with lots of windows.


Try opening a window and turning on a fan to ventilate a room.
Avoid working in small enclosed places, such as in a bathroom with no window.
 When working with chemicals, it is also important to work safely. To avoid spilling the white base or pigments on your furniture and carpets, place some newspaper or paper towels down before you start working.


You may also want to wear an old t-shirt to avoid staining your clothes.
Wear gloves as well to avoid getting the pigments or polish base on your hands.
 Take two of the stainless steel mixing balls and place them in an empty nail polish bottle. These will help to mix the nail polish ingredients in the nail polish bottle.








If you prefer to mix the nail polish in a separate bottle and then transfer it later, then place the balls in an empty mixing bottle and place two in the empty nail polish bottle as well.
 Place the end of the syringe over the opening of the white base bottle so that it covers it. Then, tip the bottle of white base while keeping the syringe pressed against the bottle. Use the syringe plunger to pull 10 mL of white base into the syringe.








If you do not have a syringe, then you can also measure out the white base with a teaspoon. 10 mL is about the same as two teaspoons.
Transfer the 10 mL of white base to your empty nail polish bottle or mixing bottle. You may want to use the small funnel if you are using teaspoons to measure the white base. If you are using the syringe, then you can just place the opening of the syringe over the opening of the bottle and depress the syringe.
 Next, measure out the thermal pigment and add it to bottle. You will need to add about two teaspoons of the pigment, but you can add a little more or less to adjust the color to your liking.








Use the funnel to make adding the pigment a little easier. Rinse and dry it first if you have already poured white base through it.
 After the white base and pigment are both in the bottle, place the cap on and close it tightly. Then begin mixing the pigment and base together by gently turning the bottle from side to side.








Do not shake the bottle up and down or you may create air bubbles.
 You will need to add a small amount of clear nail polish to the bottle next. This will help to give the nail polish some extra shine. Pour about 2 mL of clear nail polish into the bottle with the white base and pigment. Then mix the ingredients together.








You can use the syringe to pull 2 mL of clear polish and add it to the bottle, or measure out about ½ of a teaspoon of clear nail polish and add it to the bottle.
 After you finish mixing in the clear nail polish, your mood nail polish will be ready to use! Apply two to three coats of the nail polish to your fingernails or toenails. This will help to ensure that the color will be even and the color changes will be the most dramatic.








You can also apply a clear topcoat for a little extra shine. Try using a quick dry topcoat to help set your nail polish and speed up the drying process., Before you try touching your nails or immersing them in water to see the changes, allow the polish to dry completely. This may take up to an hour if you have applied three coats.








Your nails will feel slightly tacky if you run a finger across one of them when they are still wet. The nail polish smell also fades as the nail polish dries, so you can sniff your nails to see if they are dry. If there is no polish smell, then they are probably dry.
Try dipping your nails in ice-cold water for a couple of minutes to help set the nail polish.This will help to prevent damage to the nail polish and you can also see how the polish changes in cold water if you are feeling impatient.
 When the nail polish is dry, you can experiment with the mood nail polish to see how it changes in different temperatures. An easy way to do this is to hold your nails under warm or cold running water. Then pull them out of the stream to see how the color has changed.








Your nails may also change when you are outside on a hot or cold day. Try heading outside to see how the temperature changes your nail color.
You can also touch your nails with your hands or press them to another warm part of your body to change the color. Just make sure that the polish is totally dry first!

