 Pineapples are harvested when they are already ripe. The quality of the pineapple will decline over time, so choose the freshest fruit available. When shopping for a pineapple, look for bright green leaves rather than dry, brown ones. The pineapple should feel hard and have clear skin. Avoid pineapples that have visible bruises or feel soft to the touch.;
, There are 2 ways you can go about this. One is to grab all of the leaves in your hand and twist them, using some force, to remove them. The other is to lay the pineapple down on a cutting board and use your knife to cut them off. Throw the crown away.
 Lay the pineapple down on it's side on a cutting board. Use a knife to cut the base of the pineapple off with one hand, while holding the fruit with the other. Toss the part you cut off in the trash.
 There are specialty tools called pineapple corers that can easily remove the core of the pineapple with little to no effort. Place the pineapple upright, put the corer even with the center of the pineapple and push down with force while turning the corer until you reach the bottom of the pineapple. Pull the corer up and out of the pineapple to remove the core. Throw the core away. If you do not have a pineapple corer, move onto removing the pineapple skin.
 With the pineapple still in an upright position, use a kitchen knife to cut the skin off the pineapple in thin slices. After you remove all of the skin, you might notice some brown 'eyes' still left on the pineapple. Take a paring knife and carefully remove these brown spots.
 You can choose to cut pieces or pineapple rings. If you prefer pineapple rings, lay the pineapple on it's side and slice the pineapple. How thick you cut the slices is up to you. If you have not already removed the core, take your paring knife and carefully cut the core out of each pineapple slice. If you want pineapple pieces, cut the pineapple into manageable wedges. If you have not already removed the core, slice the core away from the center of each wedge, and slice each wedge into the desired thickness and size.

