 While guys tend to be impressed by physical appearance, girls are attracted emotionally. This means you can impress a girl with a combination of personality and physical attributes., You may impress a girl if you are motivated and have a direction in life. Whether you’re trying to get into a good college, make the varsity sports team, or get elected to student council, be enthusiastic in your pursuits.Don’t become preachy or overwhelm her with your passion.
 Think about what’s impressive about you and write it down. Make sure that you’re the only one who sees it as some people might mistake it as gloating. Use this list to boost your confidence and give you a sense of what makes you stand out from others., Don’t be arrogant but let her know something interesting about yourself each time you have a conversation. You may also mention something just in passing. You want to build intrigue by sharing only a little bit about yourself.For example, say something like "those are nice runners, I use to wear ones like those when I use to run track." You not only complimented her shoes but you also let her know that you run track.
 Hygiene is important. Brush your teeth, use deodorant, shower every day, and make sure you look clean. Girls are seldom impressed by a slob or someone they think is gross.


Make sure you’re always clean, not just when you are around her. A rumour could start if someone sees you in a mall and thinks you smell. This could get back to her in school.
 While everyone has their own style, taking pride in your style will impress her. It doesn’t matter if you share the same style but showing that you dress as an individual conveys confidence.
 Don’t ask your friends to lie on your behalf or be fake. The way you treat your friends and interact with them will impress her.It also shows that you are generally a sociable person.
 High school girls tend to follow the most confident girl and form a clique around her. Follow the same cues to impress a girl by asking her to do small things for you, like picking up a book in the library for you. Subtly convey your confidence as time passes.Girls may easily get self-conscious so constantly taking control of a situation shows your confidence and will impress her.
 Don’t be shy. If the conversation is going on to a boring topic or into an area that you have little to contribute to, change topics so that you have a lot to say. Make sure not to be rude or constantly takeover.The “rule of association” states that you can take any word from the conversation and make a new conversation from it. For example, if she talks about how she met a cute guy over the summer, take the word summer and say something like, “That sounds great. What was your best summer vacation? Once I went Hawaii and caught a shark.”
You may also ask questions about her to control the conversation. She will be impressed that you want to know so much about her. Avoid getting her to talk about negative things like doing poorly on a test or a past relationship. You want her to associate you with positive conversations to keep her impressed. Ask something like "What's your favourite flavour of ice cream?", You don’t want this to be a one-way dynamic in which you always have to impress her. Make sure you aren’t constantly trying to get her attention. Have your own hobbies and interests., Respect her boundaries and generally respect her as a person. You will impress her by not becoming a creep or insulting her. Follow her lead and observe how she acts with her friends and in class. You will soon learn what she finds appropriate and what she doesn’t.