 We've all heard the saying, "The eyes are the gateway to the soul". The eyes have the power to non-verbally communicate many things, which is why so many sayings involve the eyes, such as "she gave me the death stare" or "he was giving me bedroom eyes". The eyes also have the ability to create and intimacy and passion.Lock eyes with your lover. Sustain your gaze and feel passion and love ignite. Realize that you are safe and can reveal yourself through your eyes with your lover.
 Any time you connect your body to someone else's body through touch, have consent to do so. Especially with more intimate touching such as touching an individual's leg, kissing, any contact without clothing, oral sex or penetration, obtain consent with your partner. Ask before touching. A simple "Is this okay?" will do. Touch should be enjoyable and wanted for both individuals, and if it is not, it's best to stop immediately.
 Physical touch and affection are associated with overall relationship and partner satisfaction. Daily touch is important to human health and relationship health with couples, and can build intimacy through various kinds of touch. Touch can vary from a gentle hand on the back, nuzzling your head in the crook of your partner's neck, and holding hands to more sexual touch. Learn what your partner likes. With your lover's consent, engage in all types of touch with your partner.
 Massage is known to reduce stress and muscle tension, which is the perfect way to please a lover.Grab some massage oil, warm it on your hands, and begin touching your lover's body. Start on the area that you feel the most tension, being careful to finish one area before moving to another. Use long movements all over your lover's body. Be sensual in your movements, enjoying the feeling of your lover's body.
 In long-term relationships, a kiss is an expression of closeness, and one way of enhancing feelings of intimacy.It's easy to disregard kissing as couples turn to long-term relationships, but don't forget the passion and closeness that kissing can provide between you and your partner.
 Don't neglect foreplay as a way to bond and become aroused with your lover. Foreplay can be playful, intimate, and engaging. Focus your attention into pleasing your partner, and you'll be sure to turn up the heat and have a grateful lover.


Learn how to Turn a Girl On, which can include touching, kissing all over the body, and leaving her wanting more.
Learn how to Turn On Your Boyfriend, which can include taking a shower together or wearing sexy clothing for him.
 Sensate focus aims to build trust and intimacy without rushing straight to sexual orgasm. Using your hands, take turns touching each other, making sure that each partner gets equal time touching and being touched. Make sure each partner mutually agrees to perform each exercise and when to move on.Begin with non-sexual touch around the body, avoiding the breasts or genital area. Enjoy your lover's body. Once both partners have agreed to move on, proceed to stage two.
Next comes genital touch. Start with breasts and nipples, then move to the genitals. When both lover's agree to move on, sexual intercourse can occur.
Penetration can start slowly and softly, with both lovers focused on each subtle feeling of the other. The person being penetrated is the one in control, controlling the depth and amount of time spent on each activity.

