 This is one of the first things to teach your new puppy. Until it is potty trained it is ideal to keep it where it can be watched at all times. You can use baby gates, keep it attached to a leash and with you, and you can also use a crate that is just large enough for it to stand up, lie down, and turn around in, when it can't be watched.
 Always using this area will help them learn where they should go and make the process much easier. It is important to always be consistent. Making trips outside as often as every 20 minutes can also help teach it where they should go.
 These include whining, circling, sniffing, barking, or any sudden behavior change. When you see these signs immediately take the puppy to their area.
 This will help your pup learn as fast as possible. A regular feeding schedule will help with a regular potty schedule. Take your pup out after every meal. Normally a puppy will need to go to the bathroom as soon as it wakes up in the morning and after any naps, after meals and drinking water, and on average about once every hour.
 This will help the designated area to smell familiar to the puppy and it will help show the puppy that this is an appropriate place to relieve itself.
 It is best to stay outside with your puppy until it goes potty so that it understands that this is what you want when you are both outside and so you will know it has gone. Always praise your puppy for going potty outside, you can tell it "good dog", and you can also give it a small treat to let it know it did a good job.
 If your puppy uses the restroom inside the house and you are there when it is happening, clap your hands and say the word "no" to distract the puppy from the action. Immediately pick it up and take it outside to finish its business.


Be sure to praise the puppy after it goes outside.
If the puppy has pooped in the house, pick up the poop and take it to the designated area outside to show the puppy that this is where it should go. The smell distinguishes the area to the puppy as well. If you are not present when the accident happens indoors, just clean up the mess and watch the puppy more closely to avoid this mistake again. It does no good to discipline your puppy after the fact because the puppy will not understand why you are upset.