 These are found in most action stages in a blue box.;
, If you have never been to the Chao Garden, it may take a second to load.
 There are gates to the Chao Garden and the Chao Kindergarten., There should be two eggs already there.


To hatch eggs, you can throw them, wait, or cradle them. To do this, tilt the control stick slightly and pick up the egg. Your character will then start to cradle it. Do this for a minute and then drop the Chao and whistle. It should hatch. Repeat.
Another way to hatch an egg is to keep throwing it at a wall until it cracks, but it is not recommended.
 It should begin to turn white and blue. Once it is white and blue, with big ears and angel wings, give it 5 Hero Fruit.

Dark: Get a Dark person (Shadow, Eggman, Rouge) and constantly pet the Chao. It should become black and red. Once it is black and red, with a pointy head and devil wings, give it about 5 dark fruit.
 Bring one of your Chao and give it a name.

If you want, make the hero Chao's name God and the dark Chao Devil, as these will be the Chaos Chao).
 S is best, then A, B, C, D, and finally E, which is the worst.
 You can find these animals in many of the levels. To give a Chao an animal, just pick up the animal and walk up to the Chao.

To do the animal glitch, drop the animal directly in front of the Chao. It should receive stats, but the animal would still be there, meaning it can be used again. Keep doing this until you get the desired stats.
Certain animals only give certain stats to a Chao.
,, This means that it is now evolving into an adult. If done right, you should have unlocked either a Hero Garden or a Dark Garden. #Put your Chao in its respective garden (e.g. Hero Chao in Hero Garden, and Dark Chao in Dark Garden). You should see another egg in those gardens., Note you can use a skeleton dog (found easily in pumpkin hill on the church mountain by the church) to have your chao wear hats or get rid of animal parts that you don't want., To do this, pet the Chao and put something like tape on the button.

Before you do this, whistle and make sure your Chao runs to you. That means your Chao is very happy.
 All of its stats will be one.

If done wrong, it will go into a gray cocoon and die. This means it wasn't happy. Repeat all the steps above until a second transformation happens.



Your Chao must have reincarnated at least twice. This means it must be on its third life or more.
Your Chao must have over 50 happiness. Happiness is a hidden value which runs from -100 to 100, and it is increased by caring for your Chao well. Your Chao must have had over 30 happiness to reincarnate, so you shouldn't have much trouble hitting this requirement.

Give your Chao at least one of every animal in its current life. Contrary to popular belief, you can give your Chao more than one of each animal. In other words, your Chao must have learned every animal behaviour. The animals that you have given to your Chao in its previous lives will have no effect on this.


Your Chao must be balanced, so that it would otherwise evolve into a Normal type. Your Chao must not be set to evolve into a Swim, Fly, Run, or Power type. This is how the false belief that you must give only one of each animal came about. Giving an equal amount of each animal is the easiest way to ensure this requirement, though.

If you want a Neutral Chaos Chao, otherwise known as the Light Chao, then your Chao must be of the Neutral alignment. Care for your Chao by using a mixture of Hero and Dark characters.
If you want a Hero Chaos Chao, otherwise known as the Angel Chao, then your Chao must be of the Hero alignment. Care for your Chao by using mostly Hero characters.
If you want a Dark Chaos Chao, otherwise known as the Devil Chao, then your Chao must be of the Dark alignment. Care for your Chao by using mostly Dark characters.
 You can get its stats maxed out and do what you want with it.

For the Hero Chao, beat all the Hero Races. For the Dark Chao, beat all the Dark races.
 Evolve both Chao using the steps above. Once both are evolved, give each one a Heart Fruit. Mate them twice so they have two eggs.

To make a Chao mate, find a Chao that is sitting on the ground with a circle of flowers surrounding it. Take the Chao that ate the Heart Fruit and place it next to the sitting Chao. They will go through a mating ceremony and then an egg will be created.
 Put one of the Chao into another garden for awhile. Make a chaos chao using the steps above.

A good name for this Chao might be Champ, Thunder, Light, etc.
, The normal Chao are special because they change color when they evolve.
 Give them all names and make each one unique. Give the Hero Chaos Chao a hero ribbon, the Dark Chaos Chao a dark ribbon, and the normal Chaos Chao a challenge ribbon. The three special ones can get a beginner ribbon. The rest can have jewels from the jewel race. See below for Chao ideas.,