

With ingredients in your house, you can create a pamper day for your friends. Play upbeat music and chat while you relax.

Make face masks from ingredients like yogurt and honey.Do each other’s make up, and style each other’s hair.
You can also paint each other’s nails.;
,


Think of creative ways to use every day items as props, or make your own props with craft supplies.
Dress up in funny outfits, and create poses together.
You can use a camera or simply a phone to take these pictures.
Keep the photos as a memory, or post them on Facebook or Instagram to share them with your other friends. Think of fun captions.
 You don’t need to have any special equipment or boxed games to have a lot of fun. There are plenty of games you can play simply with a pen and paper and your friends.


Play MASH.MASH is a fun, customizable game that will let you find out who you’re going to marry, where you’ll live, and how many kids you’ll have.

Play truth or dare. Truth or dare is a classic game to play with friends. Just make sure you set some ground rules for dares before you begin to play.
Enjoy two truths and a lie.This game is a great way to get to know more about your friends. Everyone writes down two things that are true about themselves and one thing that isn’t true. Then, you have to guess which was the lie.

Play charades with your friends. You can either decide on a category or write down a bunch of possibilities beforehand, and place them all in a bowl for players to choose from.
Come up with your own game. If you want to get creative, you can make up your own game with your friends. Then, you’ll have your very own private game to play each time you all get together.
 Be sure to choose games that work well for multi-person playing.


You can choose games with built in multi-person playing like Mario Kart.
You can also choose to play story-based games like The Walking Dead with your friends. Either take turns with the controller or just talk to each other about each decision.
 Doing a collaborative project together can be a great way to spend the time. You don’t need a fancy video camera to make a films; you can simply use someone’s phone.


Consider making a comedy sketch.Use all the fun inside jokes you have with your friends. Brain storm ideas, and write a script together.
If you don’t want to make something story-based, you can create a music video. Film all your friends dancing to a song. You can make up a coordinated dance routine, or let everyone improvise.
You can also try your hand at making something more artistic like a short stop motion video., You can even try to draw each other.


If you’re feeling ambitious, try learning a new skill like crocheting or knitting.
You can also make matching friendship bracelets to wear.