 Before jacking the car up, use your wrench or tire iron to break the lug nuts loose. Do not remove them completely, but turn them a quarter turn or so in the counter-clockwise direction each to make them loose enough to unscrew while the vehicle is in the air.You can purchase tire irons from your local auto parts stores that usually have an end that fits all vehicles.
You may also choose to simply use a deep socket of the appropriate size with a ratchet or breaker bar.;
, Because the lug nuts are already loose from before you lifted the car, they should be fairly easy to unscrew the rest of the way. Use a wrench if need be to turn the lug nuts counter-clockwise until they come off of the lug studs.The wheel may shift as you remove the lug nuts, so watch your fingers for pinches.
Remove the lug nuts across from one another in a star pattern, rather than each one in a row.
 If the lug nuts have rusted over, apply a generous amount of a thread loosener or rust remover to the nuts. Allow it to sit for a few minutes, then attempt to loosen the lug nut again.If the lug nut and stud break, you will need to have a new lug stud installed in order to repair the vehicle.
Be sure to use the correct sized socket. A socket that is slightly too large could round off the lug nut.
A stripped or rounded lug nut will have to be cut off by a professional.
 Place the lug nuts in a safe place to be sure you don’t lose them. If you lose a lug nut, you may be able to secure the wheel temporarily with the remaining nuts, but if you lose more than one, it will not be safe to drive the vehicle until they have been replaced.You can purchase replacement lug nuts at your local auto parts store.
Store the lug nuts in a small bowl or container so they can’t roll away as you work.
 Once the lug nuts have been removed, place your hands on either side of the tire. Grip the back of the tire and pull it toward you to remove the wheel from the lug studs. If the wheel has not been removed in a long time, it may require quite a bit of force to pull the wheel off.Be careful, if the tire is damaged there may be metal wire sticking out of it that can cut you.
Wear gloves to pull on a damaged tire.
 If the wheel is seized in place and won’t come off from you pulling on it, use a rubber mallet to bang it loose. Strike the tire where the rim and tire meet all along the circumference of the wheel until it breaks loose.Do not use a metal hammer to hit the rims or you may damage them.
It may take a good deal of force to remove the wheel if it is rusted in place.

