 Young children learn to speak through identifying objects. Start with objects that are easy to identify and your child enjoys, like a ball. Allow your child to touch it and feel it. Say the word as they feel it. Have them touch it and feel it as long as they are interested in the object.For example, say, ‘Do you want your ball? That’s a ball. You’re touching a ball.”;
, Reading can help your child learn new words and concepts. Listening to stories over and over again can help build vocabulary skills and can help your child learn to anticipate new words. It can also help them understand the structure of stories, which will help them with reading and writing in the future.Use tactile books that provide interesting textures and activities for your child to explore. This might include things to pull, put together, or move.
Find books and stories that interest your child and keep their attention. Don’t be afraid to re-read books again and again, as this can help them develop better language skills.
 Start to introduce feelings words when your child is frustrated, mad, happy, sad, etc. if your child is frustrated, label their feeling and let them know that you see that they’re upset. Let them know what they can do when they have these feelings, too.Say, “You feel angry. Yes, I can tell because you are yelling and shaking your fists.”
Teach your child words to get your attention when they need help. For example, they can say, “Help” or “Sad.”

, It can be difficult to teach a blind child about color. You don’t have to make color a taboo subject, yet don’t over-emphasize it either. It’s important to teach your child colors of objects, especially their own things. If your child loses their backpack, for example, the first question someone might ask is, “What color is it?”Teach color to your child by making comparisons to high and low tones in music. For example, say, “There are lots of colors, just like there are lots of notes on a piano. Some colors are soft while others are loud. Just like you can play the same note in a different octave, different colors can have different shades.”

