 Even though you are in class for much less than in high school, the work load is much greater. Be ready to be doing homework and studying for classes every day. In college, you learn more of the material outside of class than you do in class.Create a daily schedule for yourself with time to study every day.
Go to the library between classes instead of going home.
 Professors are not going to remind you to do homework or about approaching due dates the way teachers did in high school. On the first day of class you will receive a syllabus with an outlined guide of tests, assignments, and essays and when they are all due. Keep this on hand and refer to it often so you are prepared.


Use a planner to copy due dates and important information off of your classes syllabuses.
 You don’t have to drown in work alone. Make a study group to help you study. If you have a commitment and other people relying on you, it forces you to actually study. Having a study group will help large classes feel smaller, will help you retain the material better, and hopefully help you get a good grade.


Study groups are also a great way to make new friends. Just ask people who sit near you if they want to study with you., College classes go more in depth than in high school. Professors often teach in a way where they assume you have done the reading outside of class. Tests are often not just on information from the lectures, but also on details from the textbook. Force yourself to keep up with the readings. You don’t want to be a hundred pages behind with a midterm the next day.Annotate while you read to help retain more information.
 Some professors in college might have no assignments the whole term and have your grade entirely based on tests and essays. In other classes you might have assignments due every other day. Keep up with the assignments and actually do them, whether they are optional or not., In high school, you might have been able to get away with barely studying for tests, but not in college. Plan a chunk out of your day to study the material from your classes. Start making flashcards and review sheets early and you will be very thankful when the first midterm comes around., Now that you are in college, you have more freedom with everything from your social life to your assignments. Nobody is around to remind you to study instead of going to a party or to turn off the TV show and pick up your textbook. The trick to being successful in college is to manage your time well. Force yourself to take a chunk of time each day to take care of your responsibilities and to study.


Create a schedule with designated times to study and designated times for free time to help manage your time.