 Private investors are individuals or small firms who invest in companies which are not traded on a stock market.In order to entice them to invest in your company, you will need to show them a clear growth trajectory. Private investors are usually swamped with requests for funding. To stand out, you will need a tightly pulled-together business plan.


A solid business plan will describe your company and analyze your relevant market. You also will explain your marketing and sales strategy as well as describe in detail your financial history and projections.The Small Business Administration website includes information to help you write a business plan: https://www.sba.gov/writing-business-plan.
For more information, see Write a Business Plan for a Small Business.
 Private investors often want to see a history of demonstrable success before investing in your business. This means you need to gather information about your sales history.If possible, you should have your financial information audited. This will provide assurances to potential investors that your financial information is trustworthy.
 Some websites help walk entrepreneurs through the fundraising process. For example, CircleUp is a website which allows entrepreneurs to meet potential investors. Equitynet is another website which provides a similar service.There are many websites on the Internet which help connect entrepreneurs with investors. You should search “raise equity” and “crowdfunding.”
On these websites, you create an account by entering basic data about your company. Once approved, you then create a company profile. You can then revise your profile based on personalized feedback.Your profile then goes live. You can contact and be contacted by investors who also visit the website.
The web company should manage the closing process (escrow, funding, transfer, etc.).
 You can meet potential investors virtually on the web or in person. Your goal is to convince them to invest in your company. You can find potential investors in a couple ways.


For example, you could find companies in your industry of comparable size. Then you could Google the company and find out who invested in them.Send the investors a short email explaining that you are looking for investors. You can then attach a single page “executive summary,” which describes your company’s product and market.You can also ask people in your business network if they know of investors who are interested in your industry. If so, try to get their contact information and make a pitch over the phone or in an email.
If you use an online website, then you could receive dozens of emails a day from potential investors.You should respond in a timely manner and follow up if you don’t hear back.

