 You can discard the backing, but save the glass panel. You will be using it to trace the plastic canvas/mesh later.


You can use a plain frame, or an ornate one.
 You can use spray paint or acrylic paint. Be sure to get the back and sides of the frame as well. Depending on how dark your frame is, or how light the paint is, you may need two coats of paint. Let the first layer dry before adding the second one., You can leave your frame plain as it is, or you can decorate it further to make it more special. Here are some ideas to get you started:


Glue some plastic gems or rhinestones along the frame
Draw some designs on the frame using black, gold, or silver permanent marker
Paint some bold designs on the frame, such as stripes, stars, or hearts
Draw designs on the frame using glitter glue

, Plastic canvas looks like a plastic mesh or screen. It is stiff, and used to wave designs onto with yarn. Choose a color that matches your frame, or goes well with it.
 Be sure cut along the lines, or it may fall through your frame.
 Draw a line of glue all along the inside edges of the frame, where the glass panel used to rest. Quickly press the plastic canvas into the glue.


You can use hot glue or an industrial-strength (such as E6000) for this. Don't use regular school glue; it won't be strong enough.
 Choose a color that matches your frame, then cut it down so that it matches your frame's width.
 Tie the ends of the ribbon together to make a knot. Place some glue on the back of your frame, near the top, then press the knot into the glue.


If your frame has a metal bracket for hanging, you can thread the ribbon through this bracket. You can also hang the frame from the wall using just the bracket.
If you don't want to hang your earring holder, get a frame stand instead, and set the frame down onto it instead.
 You can now stick earrings into the mesh. This works well with hook and post earrings. When attaching post earrings, you will need to take the back off the earring first, push the earring through the mesh, then put the back on again.

