 One of the bare necessities in any green kitchen is a basic recycling station. Much of what we normally throw away can be recycled, but check with your local recycling center about any special guidelines or exclusions for organizing and delivering your recyclables.


Set up small receptacles in an accessible area in your kitchen, and make sure to label the receptacles accordingly: paper/cardboard, plastic, glass and aluminum/steel. Rinse glass, aluminum and plastic containers before putting them out for recycling, and discard any dirty napkins or wrappers.
The plastics used in making water bottles, salad dressing bottles, milk jugs, trash bags, disposable plates, and yogurt containers are among the most commonly recycled. However, not all plastics can be recycled, so try to forgo the purchase of any packaging that can't be reused.;
, Many people use items in there kitchen that could be replaced with reusable variations. Look around your kitchen and locate disposable items such as paper towels or plastic bags. Substituting dish towels (which can be cheaply found at yard sales often times) for paper towels and reusable bags may help minimize your impact on the environment.
 Even your everyday food scraps have a place in the big green picture. Whether you've got a full-on compost heap in your backyard or you've only heard of the process in passing, there's a way for your discarded eggshells to help save the planet, and fertilize your garden in the process.


Purchase a small kitchen compost bin, or use any small lidded container as long as it's emptied regularly to avoid odor problems. Place scraps such as coffee grounds, egg shells, fruits and vegetables in your compost container, but avoid dairy products and animal fats. The Environmental Protection Agency provides a comprehensive list of compost ingredient dos and don'ts.
 No matter how green you go, there are always items that can't be recycled or composted. But you can still keep your kitchen garbage eco-friendly.


Because plastic does not decompose in landfills, products such as BioBags offer a biodegradable alternative to standard garbage bags. Or try bags made from recycled plastic; while not biodegradable, you can feel good knowing they have at least gotten a second use. After all, the process of manufacturing new plastic emits more pollutants than recycling plastic to be used again.
Consider going with paper. Paper bags are naturally biodegradable and, though not quite as convenient as their plastic counterparts, still get the job done.
 Use appliances that have the Energy Star logo; this which means you're saving 10-50% more energy over non-approved appliances. Kick that efficiency up a notch by using any conservation settings on your existing appliances (e.g. the "water saver" option on your dishwasher).


Plug smaller appliances (coffee maker, toaster, etc.) into a single power strip and flip the switch to "off" whenever they're not in use. Or just get into the habit of unplugging an appliance right after using it. Anything that plugs in takes electricity even when the power isn't on. In fact, 40% of the energy that home electronics use is when they're not even on.
Replace standard light bulbs with compact fluorescent (or CFL) bulbs. These wonder bulbs use three-quarters less electricity than incandescent lights, last ten times as long, and you can get them in any style you'd like. If you miss the warm glow of your old bulbs, buy CFL bulbs with Kelvin temperatures of 2,600-3,000.
Add an inexpensive faucet aerator to your kitchen sink. According to the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development, water flows through the average faucet at a rate of five gallons per minute (or GPM), but an aerator can cut that number to around 2 GPM. Aerators combine water and air to create high pressure without high water flow. So you'll be able to rinse your dishes just as effectively without excess water going down the drain.
On that note, wash only full loads of dishes, and let them air dry when the cycle is done. Also, there's no need to preheat your oven; most recipes will turn out fine if you turn the oven on after inserting your dish, or if you preheat just a few minutes before cooking.
 This will not only green your kitchen, it will also help you support companies with environmentally-sound goals. Don't know which companies to start with? Try these: Seventh Generation, Mrs. Meyer's, Begley's Best, Method Cleaning, and Clorox GreenWorks.


Make your own cleaning products if you feel up to it. There are a lot of innovative ways to capture the cleaning power of vinegar, lemon juice, and baking soda. For example:
Scrub your toilet with vinegar and baking soda.
Cut through greasy countertops with the power of baking soda.
Use baking soda to get rid of grease and freshen laundry.
Vinegar can clean the bathroom, kitchen, and other rooms throughout your home.
 Just because you make healthy diet decisions for your family doesn't necessarily mean you're making healthy decisions for the environment. Buying fresh fruits and vegetables in the dead of winter may seem harmless enough, but where and how was your food grown, how did it get to the store, and how is it packaged?


Buy locally when possible. The distance your food travels before it lands in your cart ("food miles") is something to think about, especially when the average produce product travels nearly 1,500 miles (2,414 kilometers) to get to your table. Think of the energy required to travel that distance, and you'll start to see the environmental cost. Local Harvest provides a search tool for buying locally in your region.
Buy organically when you can. While the intentions behind the use of pesticides is all well and good (controlling and warding off damage to crops caused by pests), the environmental costs may outweigh their benefits. USDA Certified Organic products are, at a minimum, 95% pesticide-free. If you cannot afford the organic price tag, consider going organic on a few staples such as milk, peanut butter, and apples. Also consider buying sustainable foods because they are grown in ways that minimize their environmental impact.
Think "big." Ten cents of every dollar you spend at the store pays for product packaging. So take a load off your mind and your wallet by buying bigger quantities. Though those individually wrapped and boxed lunch snacks are cute, choosing bulk instead saves needless packaging and nearly $2,000 annually for a family of four. Also, make your own meals instead of buying pre-made dishes. You save on packaging, and get a tasty meal in the bargain!

, So you're kissing your old kitchen goodbye and starting with a clean slate? If you're ready to remodel, there are green options galore that make as a big an impact environmentally as they do visually.


If there's a salvaged building materials shop in your area that carries tile and stone slabs from previous projects, use them for your new counters. Or opt for countertops made from recycled materials; paper, hemp, glass, and aluminum are a few that meet the "reduce, reuse, recycle" standard.
Cupboards are a major focal point in any kitchen, but many you see today contain a harmful form of formaldehyde. Shop instead for cabinets made of solid wood or wheatboard, a material that's typically burned up as waste but can be a great alternative to particle board.
Before you leave the home-improvement store, check your paint can to see if its contents include VOC (volatile organic compounds), which can be harmful to your health. Visit Green Seal to learn which eco-friendly brands perform best. Many wallpaper retailers now carry environmentally sound coverings that don't use VOC or other toxic compounds in their glue.
Anytime you can use eco-friendlier sustainable wood, you're making an environmentally-friendly choice. Consider alternatives such as cork, which is made of re-growable bark peeled from a tree, or bamboo, one of the hottest eco-friendly trends around.
Friendly floors: Though not commonly considered a top-of-the-line renovation product, linoleum is made of natural materials, which has got some people saying it's making "a comeback."

