 You will need 9.4 grams (0.33 oz) of chocolate, which usually comes to about a bar and a half. It is imperative that you use chocolate with 70% cocoa solids, or the other ingredients in the chocolate will prevent it from attaining a mousse-like texture.


Don't use chocolate chips for this recipe. They often come with a waxy coating that will throw off the chemistry of the dish.
Since the chocolate flavor is so strong in this recipe, buy the best-tasting chocolate bar you can find.;
, Use a microplane or cheese grater to shave the chocolate until it becomes a fine pile of powdery chocolate shavings. Get it as fine as possible so that it will melt quickly when you mix it with warm water.
 Use plenty of ice, since you'll need to get the chocolate nice and cold. Place a smaller bowl inside the larger bowl, making sure the ice rises up the sides of the smaller bowl.
 Place the water in a small saucepan and heat it over medium heat on the stove.


If you want to flavor your chocolate with vanilla, remove a teaspoon of water from the saucepan and add a teaspoon of vanilla.
You can add cayenne pepper, orange extract,or other spices or extracts to the water to flavor the chocolate., Use a whisk to begin stirring the shavings immediately. They will melt and combine with the water to form a liquidy mixture. Continue whisking until the chocolate is entirely melted.
 Turn off the stove and carefully pour the chocolate into the bowl that's sitting inside the bowl of ice.
 The second you pour the chocolate into the bowl, start whisking it quickly. This will prevent the chocolate from clumping up. As you whisk, you'll see the texture of the chocolate change from liquid to a pudding-like texture. After about 3 minutes of whisking, it will become the texture of mousse.


Do not stop whisking the mousse. This will cause the chocolate to seize up, and it won't regain the proper texture.
 This rich, delicious mousse should be served in small quantities. Add a dollop of whipped cream to the top as a contrast to the deep chocolate flavor.
