 Try not to get ahead of yourself by looking at the entire picture.;
, This is the first step in accepting and coping with a diagnosis of stage 3 colon cancer.


It takes time to process this information and the new emotions you're feeling. You may become a little overwhelmed, frightened or anxious. These are normal feelings, so allow yourself a little time.
 It's normal to feel down or depressed following a diagnosis of stage 3 colon cancer, but it's important to keep a positive outlook.


When you find you can't fight the depression on your own, see a therapist or a counselor. Your physician can also prescribe medication that can reduce your feelings of depression.
 Finding the right words is never easy, but it's best to be candid and honest about your disease.
 Explain the extent of the disease, the treatment plan and how it will affect you.



Your medical team can conduct several tests before treatment begins. Doctors will gather information to determine the extent of your colon cancer. This group of tests will determine whether the cancer has spread within the colon or to other parts of your body.
 Often, patients require more than 1 type of treatment. In knowing the specifics, you can better deal with the treatment and recovery period.


Inquire about surgery, radiation, chemotherapy or other new treatment plans used for stage 3 colon cancer patients.
Ask questions when you don't understand something. This is your body, and it's important to feel comfortable with your team of doctors and your treatment plan.
, This will keep you connected to others who are dealing with stage 3 colon cancer.


Talk about your treatment with other cancer patients and ask about theirs. Knowing other people are successfully fighting this disease can keep your spirits up and keep you current on alternative or new cancer treatment programs.
 You may not have much of an appetite after surgery or chemotherapy, but it's important to eat right to keep your energy level up and to improve your mood and thinking.
 Your body will need rest, especially after surgery and as your treatment progresses.
 It's best to keep your life as normal as possible. By doing this, you can better deal with stage 3 colon cancer.


Exercise daily in order to maintain your strength. You need all the energy you can get to recover from surgery and other cancer treatments. Take a daily walk or join an exercise group for cancer treatment patients. This can boost your energy and immune system.
Continue working, attending classes and doing other activities as much as possible. Don't get discouraged if you have to cut back on the hours of activity for a while.

