 Take size, scope, color and glass type into consideration when choosing your jar.


Consider the size of your candle. Remember, the larger the jar the more wax, color and oil you will need.
Determine if you want to recycle a jar or purchase something new. Sometimes using an old jar that holds sentimental value is a nice way to preserve or feature its meaning. However, if you plan to use an old jar, make sure it is free of blemishes or scratches as the hot wax may leak or possibly destroy the jar.
Decide if you want to use a jar with a lid. If you plan to give the candle as a gift you may want to select one that has a lid, which makes for better packaging.
Take into consideration the jar design. Are you interested in matching homey, country décor or do you want something more modern? Jars can match your decorating style.;
, Carefully assemble your ingredients that you will use to create your candle which includes scent and color. You can select a scent that you love or one that a friend or family member will enjoy if you plan to give the candle as a gift.


Purchase quality, high grade soy wax chips. You can find soy wax chips at a local craft store.
Select candle coloring. In some cases a plain, white soy candle will look gorgeous. However, if you plan to add a scent like chocolate or lavender you may want a deep chocolate color or a pale purple to match the aroma.
Choose your scent. Essential oil or fragrance oil. Fragrance oil choice is a very personal decision so spend time sampling the aromas and ask an employee at the craft store whether certain scents exude a strong smell or if they are weak.
Purchase a wick long enough for approximately 2” to peak beyond the jar’s opening. Also, pick up a pre-waxed wick with a metal tab on the end as this will make working with it much easier.
 Jar preparation is key to creating a nice soy wax candle. Even if you purchase a brand new jar, make sure you go through the same steps as if you are using a recycled jar.


Make sure the jar is completely clean. Wash and clean the jar with warm water and a mild dish detergent. Peel any labels off by soaking the jar in warm soapy water. Remove any residual adhesive.
Place the wick in the center of the jar. The wick will need to be in the middle of the jar so stand it in the middle and hold in place using two butter knives.
Pre-heat the jar. Preheat your oven to 100 degrees and warm jar(s) for five to ten minutes (or until warm).
 How you melt the wax will determine the quality and integrity of the candle. Be sure you take care and follow the melting directions carefully so you don’t burn the wax.


Use a double boiler or fill a pan with an inch of water and heat to a low simmer.
Place wax chips in a metal pitcher and place in water. Fill the pitcher only ¾ of the way in order to provide enough room for the wax to melt and meld.
Stir wax constantly until totally melted or until it reaches 180F. Don’t leave melting wax alone on the stovetop as it could burn or could become a fire hazard.
Add candle dye if desired once the wax has melted. For richer, deeper tones, keep adding dye until you achieve desired color. Stir as you add the color to ensure uniform coverage.
Add essential or fragrance oil once the wax has cooled to approximately 140F. As with color, be sure you stir well to permeate the oil into the wax.
 Another important step, be sure you are methodical with how you pour the wax into the jar.


Pour wax slowly into the jars in order to reduce shrinkage and air pockets.
Keep your eye on the wick to ensure it doesn’t move or bend during the pour process. Keep butter knives in place until the candle has completely cooled.
 It may take from an hour to up to three hours for the candle to cool depending on the size.


Cut wick to 1/4” for optimal burning. You’ll want to have enough room for the wick to burn down without burning the candle or snuffing itself out.
Avoid cutting the wick too low because to close and it will cause the candle to smolder when lit.

