 You’ll not survive becoming poor if you take sick. Not only will you be sick, but you may have to take work off, further compounding your strained financial situation. Stave off illness and maintain a strong immune system by eating nutritious, balanced meals each day. A good diet consists mostly of grains, fruits, and vegetables. A modest amount of protein should also be included, though it’s not necessary to do so at every meal.


There are plenty of healthy meal options you can try on a budget. Check out the US Department of Agriculture’s menus and cookbooks online at http://www.choosemyplate.gov/budget-sample-two-week-menus.;
, Being with people who care for you will help you realize that even though you’re poor, you’re still a wonderful, rational person whose life has value. Make time for family and friends who affirm that you are important and make you feel good.


Strong social support systems will build psychic resilience. In the face of adversity, including poverty, you will be less likely to feel anxious, worried, or depressed when you know you have friends and family you can rely on., When you’re poor, it can be hard to see anything outside your immediate circumstances. You’re focused on paying the rent, the electric bill, the car insurance, and so on. The constant threat that one of these costs will push you further into financial ruin can distract you from planning for tomorrow.No matter how bad things seem, there’s always a new day tomorrow. Focusing on and planning for better days ahead can relieve stress and distract you from whatever problems you’re facing today.Don’t worry about what-ifs. Focusing on things you did wrong or dwelling on the past will not help you change your current predicament.
Envision yourself in 5, 10, and 15 years. Where do you imagine you’ll be living? What kind of work will you do? Share your thoughts with a friend and invite them to do the same.
Try to find something positive in each week or day that you can look forward to. Try to make it something different each day (don’t just think about how desperately you want to get out of work every day). Things like meeting a friend for a bike ride, or taking your child to the playground might be some of the things you look forward to after each day.



Accept the things that you cannot change. You’ve become poor, but hey, it’s not the end of the world! Recognize that your situation is temporary and you’ll come out of it better and stronger.
Challenge negative thoughts.When you feel a thought such as “I’m no good” or “I’ll always be poor,” do not dwell on it. Introduce a contrary thought such as “I am a good person and many people like being around me” or “Someday I will be financially independent.”
Forgive yourself. You’re a fallible person, just like everyone else. Your mistakes do not define you, they are only bumps in your personal life path. Use positive self-talk to forgive yourself. Say to yourself “I made a mistake but I am still a good person.”

, You’re often in situations where you need help -- financial and material -- immediately.


Think about occasions where you did not exercise proper self-control.You might have felt tempted to engage in habits like drinking or binge-eating which release endorphins and make you feel good. You might have lost your temper more than you did before you were struggling with poverty. Whatever the case, try to become conscious of occasions where you lose control and take positive steps to reign yourself in.
Try to find positive outlets for your energy. When you feel that you might blow up on someone or want to have a drink, go for a run or bike ride instead. Try painting a picture or playing a musical instrument.
Get enough rest. A full night’s sleep -- 6 to 8 hours -- is important for thinking clearly and deliberately. You’ll be more able to exercise self-control when you are well-rested. Set a regular bed time and stick to it each night.

