 Once you've selected a beach, consider the price, how far it is, and how much gas it'll take you to get there. Also, decide how long you plan to stay at the beach, and whether it'll be overnight or not.;
, Make sure you'll have enough time to get to the beach in order to arrive on the date you have planned. Also, know when you're planning to leave the beach and get home.
 This way, you know you'll have a room waiting for you when you get there, and you won't have to search for another place to stay if you find that there are no rooms left upon your arrival.
 Suggested items are:

Sunscreen






Beach towel(s)






Hat






Umbrella






Sunglasses






Extra change of clothes (including underwear)






Sandals or flip-flops






Swimsuit






A bucket and shovel for building sandcastles (perfect if you have kids)






Water






Food






If you're planning to stay overnight, you might want to pack items needed for washing up. Also, depending on how long you're planning to stay, you might need more than one change of clothes and other additional items.
 Check off each item to make sure they're all there before storing it all in your suitcase. Be sure you aren't packing too much or too little, and remove any unneeded items if you find that you have too much luggage.


If you have kids, it'd be a good idea to help them pack in case they forget something they need.
If you have a spouse, make sure he/she is packed up as well, but they won't need the supervision you might have to give your kids (if you have any).
 It's recommended that you bring a GPS and a map to help you find your way to the beach without getting lost, as trips can sometimes get stressful when you're lost! Don't forget to bring a cell phone in case you have car problems.
 If not, simply lay out your beach items and bask in the sun! Make sure to put on plenty of sunscreen to eliminate sunburn or too much tan.


It's not recommended you get a tan, as it will make your skin wrinkly and old as you age. If you like tans, it's best to get it done by a professional in the spa instead of doing it in the sun, as the rays can be harmful.
 On the day you are planning to leave, check out of the hotel or motel room if you stayed in one and make sure you haven't left anything behind before packing everything in the car again. Drive home, using the GPS and/or map for guidance, and unload everything once you've arrived home.
