 One way to streamline the dispute process is to include an arbitration clause in an employment contract. With the clause, both you and the employee agree to settle disputes outside of court, using arbitration.A properly drafted arbitration clause could require that the parties participate in mediation before arbitration.


You should talk to your lawyer about how to draft a valid arbitration clause. An arbitration clause is a great resource because arbitration can be much faster than a lawsuit. Arbitration is also private.
 You can pre-empt a lawsuit by training supervisors in your organization to pay attention to complaints about labor law violations and respond appropriately. The supervisor can then notify management of the possible violation so that you can address the violation quickly.
 You should publish handbooks or manuals and give them to employees. The manuals should lay out the company’s grievance process. Tell the employees who they should contact and explain the steps for grievance. For example, you might want them to immediately contact an immediate supervisor. You should create a sample grievance form for the employees to fill out and include it in the manual.


With respect to compensation, you should clearly state that you will make required deductions for state and federal taxes as well as voluntary deductions (for benefits). Also clearly explain your company’s policies with respect to work schedules, overtime, breaks, and time keeping.An adequate manual should discuss other issues besides compensation (e.g., antidiscrimination policies). See the Small Business Administration’s website for what information you should include in the manual.Make sure to review your manuals at least once a year and make sure that they are up to date with current law.
 There are many wrinkles to labor law. In order to receive the most accurate advice possible, you should start a relationship with an attorney who you can call up and ask questions. By paying a “retainer,” you can make sure that the lawyer is always available to answer your questions. A retainer is a small fee you pay regularly to the attorney in order to secure his or her services.Get referrals. Ask other business owners if they would recommend their lawyer for labor law issues. You can then call up the attorney and ask if they are taking on any new clients.
You may also want to contact your state’s bar association for a referral for a business or labor law attorney.
Talk with the lawyer about questions you have. A lawyer can help you avoid violating labor laws by making sure you have properly classified employees and have paid them for all the work that they have performed. If you are ever sued, the attorney can help defend you as well.

