 Preheat your oven to 400 degrees Fahrenheit (or 204 degrees Celsius). Gather your leftover ingredients: 2 cups, or a half liter, of stuffing and 1 cup, or 240 mL, of diced turkey or ham. Look around your kitchen for the other ingredients:1 cup or 240 mL of cheddar cheese, shredded
8 large eggs
3/4 cup or 190 mL of milk
1/4 teaspoon ground nutmeg
2 tablespoons grated Parmesan cheese
A pinch of red pepper flakes
Salt and pepper (optional);
, Mix the leftover ingredients in a bowl. Coat an ovenproof skillet with cooking spray and place it on the stove over medium heat. Then, transfer the leftovers to the skillet and warm.
 Don’t mix the leftovers any further once they’re in the pan. Give them a minute or two to warm. When warm, sprinkle the shredded cheddar cheese over the top., Crack the eggs into a separate medium bowl. Add the milk, red pepper flakes, nutmeg, and, if desired, some fresh chopped parsley. Whisk together until well blended.Add salt and pepper if desired, but remember the stuffing is already seasoned, so you won’t want your frittata to turn out too salty.
 Slowly pour the whisked egg mixture over the stuffing that’s warming in the skillet. Sprinkle the Parmesan cheese on top. Then, turn off the heat and prepare to put the skillet into the oven., Grab an oven mit and carefully transfer the skillet to the oven. Bake until the the eggs have set, the sides of the frittata have puffed up a bit, and the cheese is golden. It should take about 15 to 20 minutes., Remove the pan from the oven, and let it cool on the stovetop or over a heat-resistant cloth on the countertop for about 5 minutes. Consider garnishing it with a tablespoon of fresh chopped parsley or other mild herb. Cut into slices as you would a pie, serve, and enjoy!, If you’re short on some of the ingredients or lack a few ingredients, you can also make a simple stuffing omelet. Spray a medium nonstick pan with cooking spray and heat about a cup of leftover stuffing and chopped meat over medium heat. Whisk 2 or 3 eggs, and a splash of milk if desired, in bowl as the leftovers warm.When they’ve warmed, remove the leftovers and set aside. Lower heat, add more cooking spray, and pour the eggs into the pan. When the eggs begin to set, gently add the leftovers to the pan. Sprinkle cheese on top if you have any on hand.
After a few minutes, use a spatula to gently flip one side of the omelet over to meet the other edge, then slide it onto a plate. If you mess up, mix up all the ingredients in the pan and call it a scramble! Garnish with parsley or another mild herb if desired.  

