 Think about what’s holding you back from being a social butterfly. Are you shy? New at school? Afraid others might reject you? Not good at small talk? Whatever it is, once you identify it, you can eliminate it by facing it dead on. Stop focusing on what people will say about when you walk away, and start focusing on what you want to say when you walk up to them.


When you are contemplating making a major life change, you are going to feel a little vulnerable and experience some self-doubt at first.This is normal!
Make a list of all the reasons why you want to expand your social circle and revisit it when you are feeling less than confident.
Put “what if” scenarios out of your mind. No one knows the future, so you’re just wasting time when you fret over negative “what if” thought patterns.
 In order to expand your social circle, you’ll need to start putting yourself in social situations that you aren’t used to. Start expanding your horizons in small ways and work your way up to bigger things. Pick a few events that you wouldn’t normally go to but are interested in, and make it a point to check them out.


You don’t have to be the life of the party at this stage! You are adjusting. Focus on that triumphant feeling you get when you go out and do something new.
Bring along a friend if that makes it easier for you to go to new places, especially at first. It will make it a little easier for you to transition into a different frame of mind, and you’ll have someone to talk to during those inevitable awkward moments when you are first starting out.
 Becoming a social butterfly is a process that takes time. If you go in expecting to change overnight, you may set yourself up for failure. Set small goals along the way that you can achieve and feel good about. Keep your goals simple and strive for things like introducing yourself to two new people every week and going to one place you’ve never been to before.


Write down your goals for the week and cross them off your list as you accomplish them. This will help you focus on what you need to do and give you a sense of progress and achievement.
Don’t be hard on yourself if you don’t meet all of your goals in any particular week. No one is keeping score.
If you set a goal that you can’t seem to accomplish at first, try breaking it down into smaller parts that are easier to achieve.
For example, if your goal is to get invited to a particular party or event and it doesn’t happen right away, try simplifying. Make it your new goal to chat with the host of the party at lunch that week and start saying hello in the hallways between your classes.
 Look in the mirror in the morning and tell yourself that you’re awesome, because you are! Put a sticky note on your alarm clock with a positive message on it, so that it’s the very first thing you see when you wake up. It doesn’t have to be complicated – something as simple as “Today will be a good day!” can make all the difference in the world.


Do other things that make you feel good, like blasting your favorite song on the way to school.
Eat a good breakfast so that you’re ready to face the day.
 To really change things up, you have to shed your old perceptions about yourself and embrace a new you. Don’t let your past define you, especially not in a bad way. Turn your negative perceptions around and make them work for you.


Maybe you are quiet and you like to read. Instead of letting that hold you back from socializing, use it to put yourself in situations where you can socialize about books!
For instance, you could join (or even start) a book club at school. If you’re reading something cool in English class, take notice of who’s participating in class, sit by them and start chatting about the book.
It’s much easier to talk to people and make new friends when you are talking about something that really interests you.
 Don’t get discouraged if you aren’t seeing results right away. It takes time to build new friendships and explore new places. One action won’t suffice – instead, it takes many small actions to make a big life change.Focus on ways to reach out to new people and broadening your horizons and you’ll find that the rest will start to naturally unfold.

