 If you are enrolled in an organized program of study for the actuarial exams, you will have textbooks that are required. In addition, you should find supplemental study materials for each course. These may range from study guides, to practice tests, to outlines. You can search online for study materials for each test, or contact a bookstore recommended by the actuarial society. The SOA recommends the following sources:


The Actuarial Bookstore. At this online site, you can find textbooks, flash cards, and access to online seminars and workshops to supplement your studying.Mad River Books. This site organizes its available study materials by exam, including references to actuarial societies outside of the U.S., Cramming at the last minute is not a good substitute for allowing yourself adequate time to study, practice, restudy, and completely learn the material. The SOA recommends allowing yourself at least eight weeks for the first exam., Try to plan study periods of at least an hour. Longer study times of two to three hours would be better, if you can manage that. The following good study habits can help you get the most out of your study time:Set a goal or objective for each study session. This may be to finish a particular chapter, or take a practice test. Allow yourself to go beyond the goal, but don’t cut yourself short.
Limit interruptions.
Have all the materials you need at hand -- textbooks, flash cards, study guides. You don’t want to be getting up and down to go get materials once you get started.
Take occasional short breaks, especially if you find yourself getting tired.
 Highlight key topics. If you have questions or do not fully understand something, underline or mark it in some way so you can return to it. Do not just accept what you read. Study fully and understand each concept., Depending on the topic you are learning, you will want to learn and practice the early concepts before moving ahead. If you try to advance too quickly, you will not have the base of knowledge that you will need later on. Study each topic, practice it with sample problems and practice tests, and then move on to the next topic.