 If you approach a dog you wish to interact with before adopting it directly, it might interpret the approach as threatening. Instead, approach the dog by sidling along the dog’s cage or housing unit so that only your side is exposed. In other words, the dog should see you in profile, rather than seeing you coming at it head-on.Approaching the dog you want to interact with before adopting it in this way will make it more disposed to approaching you in a friendly way.
 Once you’ve come close to the dog you want to interact with before adopting it, you should interact with the dog’s foster owner or handler only. Talk to the caretaker briefly about the dog’s personality and temperament, and ask any remaining questions you might have. You could request that the dog be let out of its cage to get a closer look at you.This will give the dog time to assess your personality and mannerisms., Once you’re near the dog you wish to interact with before adopting it, bend down on one knee. Do not look the dog in the eye.Instead, focus your gaze at a point to one side of the dog you want to adopt. This is especially important for smaller dogs who are more likely to feel threatened by a large new human.At this point, the dog will decide if it wants to approach you or not. If it does not, don’t take it personally. You could choose to meet another dog you want to interact with before adopting it, or schedule a follow-up meeting with the same dog. Perhaps the dog will be more friendly upon a second meeting.
 Some people think that they need to extend their hand to a dog they are interacting with so the dog can learn their scent. However, the dog can detect any human’s scent way before they approach close enough to extend their hand. In fact, extending your hand to a dog you’re interacting with before adopting it could result in the dog being scared and biting you. If the dog you interact with is comfortable, it will approach you. This indicates that it will allow you to pet it. Gently rub behind the dog's ears or on the back of its neck. Do not roughly slap it on its side.
 Do not use a high-pitched and excited voice when interacting with a dog before adopting it.Dogs perceive people who do this as weak and will be more likely to jump on you. They might also become agitated and scared, which could cause them to bite or growl out of fear.