 Once you have received permission from the school and school board, you will need to finalize the reservation with the site. You will also need to be in touch with them again once you have final numbers after receiving all student permission forms.
 Schools usually have different systems for organizing buses and transportation for field trips. You will either use an outside contractor or the regular school board buses. If you are using buses through the school board you will need to make sure that the field trip does not interfere with the bus driver’s regular scheduled route.Regardless of the type of bus you use, you will need to clearly communicate to the driver the proper addresses and times for pickup and drop off.
You should also introduce yourself as the class leader on the day of the trip and thank the bus driver for their work.
 Most field trip venues will allow teachers to visit the site in advance free of charge. This will allow you to familiarize yourself with the site and scheduled activities, meet the staff, and learn where the washrooms are located. You may also want to take pictures of some of the exhibits to show to your students prior the field trip.Explore some of the exhibits and activities that your class will be visiting in order to come up with ideas for pre-trip class room activities.
 Depending on the size of your class and the requirements of the venue you may need to ask for volunteer chaperones. Parents or family members of your students make great chaperones. You may also be able to ask a colleague or administrator at the school to help out with chaperoning duties.Once you have acquired enough adult chaperones, you should provide them with any behavioural guidelines and a detailed schedule for the trip.
Do not assume that adults will intuitively know what is expected of them.
 Throughout the planning process you have likely accumulated a large amount of paperwork that you may need to access on the day of the trip. Compile the following forms and information into a single binder or store it electronically on your tablet or cellphone:Signed permission forms.
Student medical and insurance information.
Parent/guardian emergency contact information for that day.
Extra money in case of an emergency.
Checklist of all students and chaperones in attendance.
List of students who must take medication during the trip.
 You will need to have a clear idea of exactly who is attending the field trip and you will also need to communicate this information to the following people:


The school office: Provide a list all of the children attending the trip, the children absent that day, the children who will remain at the school and their location, and a cell phone number where you can be reached.
Chaperones: Provide a comprehensive class list, a list of each subgroup, and the name of the supervisor for each group.
Teachers: Provide a master list of all the groups, all the buddy partnerships, the parent contact information, the student health and insurance information, and the school phone number.
 Ideally, all children in the class will attend the trip because it is part of the instructional day. However, some students will not be able to attend, for various reasons. Make sure that you provide these students with fun activities to engage in while they remain at school. If possible try and provide them with a similar experience.


For example, you could have them complete an online scavenger hunt by researching a similar topic to that being covered on the class trip.
Be creative and try and come up with a fun activity for these students.

