 Many people recovering from anorexia have an unhealthy mentality about food and weight that is reinforced during the recovery process. People recovering from anorexia often feel discouraged to continue on the path to weight gain when they hit certain setbacks. Being aware of these potential physical consequence and their temporary nature can help you cope.


Abdominal weight gain is common in those recovering from anorexia. While the reasons for this are still debated, the vast majority of studies indicate any abnormal weight distribution normalizes after one year of recovery. In other words, this side effect is temporary. Many people recovering from anorexia find it helpful to look at stomach fat as a positive sign of recovery and health.Rapid weight gain, especially in the first days and weeks, is also common. Fluid between the tissues in the body's cells and glycogen stores in the liver and muscle are replenished, which leads to quick weight gain. Do not weigh yourself too often during the early period of recovery as you may become disturbed by how quickly the number on the scale moves up. This is a healthy, normal part of recovery and weight gain slows as you reach a normal, healthy weight for your body.Be aware there may be some unpleasant physical side effects. When the body has been deprived of food for so long, reintroducing normal eating habits are a shock to the system. Side effects include diarrhea, nausea, weakness, sleep disturbances, a heightened sensitivity to cold, a weak bladder, and constipation. Be aware going in such side effects may occur, but view them as signs you're on the path to a healthier, happier you., Many people recovering from anorexia see diet as a means of continual deprivation, an attitude that leads to the development of anorexia. Challenging yourself to view food as an important part of a healthy lifestyle rather than a necessary evil is a vital step to weight gain and overall recovery.


Have a good support system. Surround yourself with friends and loved ones who eat well and have a healthy body image and relationship with food and eating. It's hard to recover from anorexia if you're in the presence of a perpetual dieter or someone who binge eats and drinks. You need models for a healthy relationship with food, weight gain, and eating.
Keep a food journal. Keeping track of food intake can lead to healthier eating habits, but it can also lead to a healthier attitude overall. Track how you're feeling before and after you eat, and what kind of thoughts you're having that may affect eating habits and lead to unnecessary food restriction.Learn from others. Seek out success stories from other people recovering from anorexia, whether from local support groups or online resources, and figure out what they did to change their relationship with food and eating for the better.
 Anorexia is a particularly dangerous disorder, and if you suffer from anorexia you are unlikely to simply put weight back on without psychiatric intervention. A variety of psychotherapy approaches demonstrate effectiveness when dealing with eating disorders, and seeking out a counselor in your area can keep you on the path to gaining weight.


Select a therapist who is up to date on all the science of eating disorders. When contacting a potential therapist, ask about their training, their experience treating patients with eating disorders, what their treatment options and goals are, what certifications they hold, and whether they're part of any professional eating disorder organizations.In particular, look into cognitive behavioral therapy (CBT). The objective of CBT is to change faulty thought processes about food such as all-or-nothing thinking, judgmental thinking, and catastrophizing. A CB therapist will help to break the patterns of disordered eating through the use of food monitoring, thought monitoring, meal regularity and nutritional monitoring.
Family counseling is also important, especially for adolescents.
To locate a therapist in your area, you can try calling the psychiatric department at a university and asking for a list of recommendations of people trained in their program, calling a large clinic and asking for a referral, and talking to friends and family members who are receiving counseling or therapy.Do not limit your search to providers listed by your insurance company. Even providers who claim they don't accept your program may be able to make an exception or offer you a discount of some kind., Once again, anorexia is serious and you can't expect to gain weight in a healthy fashion going at it alone. Seeking professional help from a nutritional specialist is vital to gaining weight. Weight gain is important, but some side effects can be dangerous to your health. A physician should be supervising the recovery process and meeting with you in a medical office on a regular basis.
 Weekly weigh-ins, vital signs measurement, and periodic laboratory testing including CBC, serum electrolytes and serum amylase levels are important. Make follow-up appointments with your doctor and don't skip them.