 There are several options for selling clothes. You could open a retail store with storefront or sell clothing in a booth at a flea market. Once you've decided on the type of shop, start looking for a booth or a retail storefront that meets your needs.;
, Start a consignment shop, or buy them yourself. With a consignment shop, people bring you their used clothes. You should have policies about the type of clothing you accept and the condition of material. When the clothing sells, the owner gets most of the profit, and you keep a percentage. If you choose to buy clothing yourself, find it at yard and estate sales, eBay, online overstock stores and thrift shops. Advertise to have people bring you clothing that you will buy.
 You can sell all types of clothing or specialize. Clothes for children, designer clothing for women and vintage clothing are all ideas for specialty items. Decide whether to sell related housewares and accessories to match your specialty.
 Your local officials can tell you how to get licenses for your state and municipality.
 Find out what kind of insurance and liability coverage you need.
 You will need racks and hangers for hanging clothing, shelving, display stands, mannequins and changing rooms. You will need tags for clothing. At the checkout area you'll need shopping bags and a way to collect cash. A cash register and terminals to take credit cards are optimal to make shopping convenient.
 Make your store visually appealing, with displays at eye level. Create an attractive window display to draw shoppers in. Mannequins or live models are some ideas. Study window designs at popular department stores to get ideas.
 Choose the best advertising for your target market: flyers, radio ads and display ads in the local newspaper are some examples depending on your budget. Hold fashion shows, charity events and a grand opening celebration. Network with other businesses in the area.
 By offering a layaway program, you will draw more business; but make sure your policies are clearly defined, and that the information is provided to the customer.

