 This is the proper width for your feet when doing this dance move. It will help you engage your core muscles. You'll also want your knees to be slightly bent. You want to let your abs do the work when you shake your hips, not your legs or back., It should go forward and to the right. Swing your hips to the right with your foot.Make a big swooping motion with your hips to the front then to the right.
Finish the move by completing a circle with your hips to the back then to the front.
Keep your abdominal muscles tight and engaged as you do this.
Women will want to make this move very large and more dramatic, following the natural way their hips curve.
 You only want your hips to move, not your entire upper body. At the most, you might want to complement the move of your hips by sliding your upper torso slightly to the left.


If you aren't doing it correctly, your hip movements might be too small or your upper torso might be moving with you.
 Now, you'll repeat the motions on the opposite side. Swing your hips to the left with your foot. Make a large swooping motion with your hips to the front then to the left.
Make sure your upper torso and chest are still when you shake your hips. You only want your hips to swing out, not the rest of your upper body.
If your upper torso is moving along with you, you aren't doing the move correctly.
Complete the move by swinging your hips to the back, then to the front.
Remember to use your abs rather than your legs or back muscles to help you do this dance move.
Make your motions big. These will feel exaggerated at first, but will look good during dancing.
 You can now combine the moves from the right and left. Remember to keep your knees slightly bent and your movements loose and flowing.Swing your hips out to the front, then to the right, along with your right foot.
Rotate them towards the back and to the left. Then repeat the same thing on the other side.
At the sides, pop your hips out for a bit more exaggeration.
Keep your motions big and energetic. Think about how Beyonce dances. Her moves are full of fun and energy

