 Leopard geckos rarely need to be bathed. In fact, over-bathing your gecko can dry out its skin and cause disease. You should only bathe your gecko if it is having difficulties shedding or a veterinarian instructs you to wash it.


You can also wash your gecko if it is noticeably dirty. However, you should avoid doing to more than once a month.
This method for washing your leopard gecko can be used to clean other large lizards.;
, Before you take your gecko out of it vivarium, you need to wash your hands with hot water and soap. This will help prevent you from transferring microorganisms to your gecko that could potentially make it ill or kill it. Be sure to thoroughly rinse the soap off of your hands as well. Soap can make your gecko very ill.You should also wash your hands after handling the gecko to prevent spreading any diseases from it to others.
 Once you have determined that your gecko needs a bath, fill a small container with warm water up to the bottom of its belly, generally less than a half-inch (13mm). Because geckos are cold-blooded and unable to regulate their body temperature, make sure that the water is between 80 and 90 degrees Fahrenheit (27 to 32 degrees Celsius).Avoid using any soaps. This may make your gecko extremely ill. Just use warm water unless instructed otherwise.
If your leopard gecko is having difficulty shedding, let it soak for a few minutes and gently pour water over its back. This will help moisten and soften the dead skin. Be sure to avoid getting water in the gecko’s eyes, which can easily dry out.
Your veterinarian might also suggest adding a drop of mineral oil to the water. This will help soften the shedding skin and make it come off easier.If your leopard gecko has a fungal infection on its skin, your veterinarian make recommend that you add a little Betadine solution to the water.
 After the gecko is comfortably in the warm water, dampen a washcloth, paper towel or a Q-tip and gently massage its skin. This will clean your gecko and remove any dead skin. Do not pull on any shedding skin. This could hurt your gecko, leading to skin damage and possibly an infection.Do not scrub too hard and rip the skin off your gecko. In places, the shedding skin will still be attached to the new skin underneath it. There will likely still be pieces of dead skin attached to your gecko when you finish.
You can also rub your gecko with your fingertips. However, be sure to resist the temptation to pluck any flakes of dead skin.
If you brush gently, a toothbrush may also help remove dead skin.
 After you have properly bathed your leopard gecko, you should dry it with a cloth or paper towel. Gently wrap the gecko in the cloth, keeping its head exposed. Softly rub the animal’s body in slow circular motions with your cloth, and then gently wipe the top of its head and its vent area.Throw away any paper towels immediately, and be sure to wash and disinfect any washcloths you use.
Be sure to dry your gecko quickly to keep it from getting too cold.

