 This is the very first thing that you should investigate if you're planning to work on it. If you don't have time to learn this, such as during an emergency, then it is recommended that you don't walk on it but that you use scaffolding, boards or planks, or other crossing over supports to walk on that sit above the glass and rest on the edges supporting the glass rather than on the glass itself.


Load bearing glass will be used anywhere where it is expected that people will walk on the glass, such as scenic glass where people are able to stand and look down through the glass, roof terraces with pedestrian access, and glass roof lights that are placed where walking usually occurs. Be aware that not all fixed flat roof lights can be walked on though; only some have this ability and come with very thick laminated glass if they're to be walked on.Less certain are roofs made of glass, such as conservatories and greenhouses. However, in most cases these should have areas where you can lay a plank or board across if needed. Obviously, if you're working over such a roof, such as doing painting or guttering work, you're best off using scaffolding rather than attempting to stand on such a roof.
For modern buildings and retrofitted buildings, check the building code applicable to your area. It should determine what glass was required for the roof you're wanting to walk on.;
, The thicker the glass, the more likely it is that it should be able to take your weight.


You want to measure the edge of the glass if possible. The glass thickness might be safe to walk on if it is 1/2 an inch to 3⁄4 inch (1.9 cm) in thickness.However, glass that is meant to be walked on usually needs to be laminated, or layered with other items, in order to strengthen it properly. Ordinary glass is not meant to withstand a heavy human weight.
Call a structural engineer or a glass roof installer for more advice. Except in an emergency, it is better to know than to make an avoidable error.
 Be aware of anywhere that might need to be avoided if you plan on crossing a glass roof where you're not sure about its load-bearing capacity.


Stand under the roof an look as well as peering over it.
Mark any areas with cracks so that you are aware to avoid them and others are too.
Use something to magnify your sight to see hairline cracks, etc.
 You should never walk on a glass roof that has ice on it. And glass roofs can be slippery when wet from rain or hosing down. Also beware of wind whenever you're on a roof of any kind.


If the reason you want to walk on a glass roof is because it has iced over, use a tool to remove the ice, not you. Find a safe place to stand, such as through a window or from a ladder and use a hot water jet to cut into sections of the ice. Keep watering to flood the ice so that it will unhook and slide off (be sure nobody is underneath or likely to walk underneath before starting this).
 Wear a safety harness as a back up in case anything fails when you cannot verify the load-bearing capacity and the walkable nature of the glass roof. Rely on ladders, a spotter or two, and scaffolding as additional safety mechanisms. Even if the glass is load-bearing, it is still a slippery surface and care must always be taken when walking on it, especially where it is sloped or angled.


Have your cell phone with you in case you get into trouble and cannot be heard clearly from the roof. With wind, height, and angles, your shouts or voice may not be easily heard from below.
Wear non-slip shoes with covered toes and wear socks and long pants just in case there is a break; this adds more protection for your skin.
 Avoid jumping or running on the glass unless you're absolutely certain it is load-bearing glass. Walk with care, take your time, and note where your feet are placed.
 Anything heavy in your arms will clearly increase your overall weight and might cause you to fall through where you might have crossed easily without the added weight. Have others hand you tools or equipment needed from a ladder if you're performing a rescue operation.

