 Use a sharp knife to cut away the peel in strips.


The peel of the cassava is very thick and covered in a wax-like coating, so you won't be able to use a vegetable peeler to remove it.
When using fresh cassava, make sure that you use the sweet variety usually sold in a market, not the bitter variety. Cassava contains toxic substances. In sweet cassava, those substances are concentrated in the peel. In bitter cassava, those substances are evenly spread throughout the flesh, as well.
After handling the cassava peel, make sure that you wash your hands with soap and water. Rinse the peeled cassava under running water, as well.;
, Scrape the cut end of each cassava chunk against a box grater to shred it into thin strips.
 Place the grated cassava in a clean dish towel. Close the towel up, then wring out as much juice as possible using your hands.


Removing most of the juice will also further reduce the amount of toxins in the cassava. The amount of juice you'll be left with after thoroughly wringing it out should not pose a threat.
Discard the juice down the drain of your sink. Thoroughly rinse the sink out afterward.
 Open up the towel and sprinkle the cassava with salt. Toss the shreds gently to help spread the salt evenly over the pieces.
 Separate the mixture into 1-cup (250-ml) portions. Use your hands to form each portion into a tight, compact ball.


Usually, this amount of cassava will create four to six portions.
 Place each ball on the counter and lightly press down on it until you create a thick disc.


Each disc should be about 4 inches (10 cm) in diameter and 1/2 inch (1.25 cm) thick.
If the cassava seems to be sticking, you may need to dust the counter with a little flour before flattening out the discs.
 Place the cassava flour in a large bowl and sprinkle the salt on top of it. Use a wooden mixing spoon to stir the two ingredients together thoroughly.


Cassava flour has been been professionally processed, so it should not contain the same toxins that raw cassava has. As such, this option might be safer, especially if you've never worked with cassava before.



You will probably need at least 1.25 cups (310 ml) of water, but you might need an additional 1 cup (250 ml) after that.
Add the water in 1/4 cup (60 ml) portions until the dough holds together.
Stir well after each addition.
 Cover the bowl of cassava dough and set it aside. Let it rest at room temperature for at least 30 minutes.


If the bowl does not have a lid, you can cover it with a clean, damp dish towel or loose sheet of plastic wrap.
 Separate the dough into 1 cup (250 ml) portions. Use your hands to mold each portion into a ball.


You may need to dust your hands with additional cassava flour to prevent the dough from sticking.
This amount of cassava should give you four to six portions.
 Lightly dust the counter with cassava flour. Place each portion of the dough on the counter and roll it out into a 1/2-inch (1.25-cm) thick disc.


You may need to dust the rolling pin with cassava flour, as well.
Each disc will also be about 4 inches (10 cm) in diameter.
 Combine the broth and coconut milk in a large skillet. Heat the two ingredients together over high heat until they reach a boil, then reduce the heat to low.


Make sure that the heat drops to a slow simmer before continuing.
The liquid should only be about 3/8 inch (1 cm) high, if not lower. If it's too high, you could accidentally boil the bammy. You only need enough liquid to create a good, steady amount of steam.
 Cover the pan, then cook the bammy for 3 to 4 minutes per side.


You must cover the pan to trap the steam inside.
Only uncover the skillet when flipping the bammy discs over. Opening the lid too often will prevent the steam from building up, which could result in undercooked bammy.
When finished, the bammy will look like pale bread instead of dough. Remove it from the skillet at that point.
 If you want to brown the bammy, you will need to preheat the broiler while the bammy cooks.


If your broiler has separate "low" and "high" settings, preheat it to "low."
Steaming alone will not brown this flatbread. If you want to brown it, you will need to do so using a broiler.
Browning is not strictly necessary, but it is recommended.
 Place the broiler pan in the preheated broiler for a few minutes, or until both sides are lightly toasted.


You will need to turn the bammy halfway through the broiling process.
Each side will need about 2 minutes to brown.
 Remove the bammy from the skillet or the broiler pan, and enjoy it while it is still fresh and hot.
 Pour the oil in a large skillet and heat it on medium-high for a minute or two.


The oil should become glossy and thin. Turn the pan gently to make sure that the entire bottom is coated in oil.
 Fry the patties in the oil, turning once halfway through.


Both sides should be lightly toasted.
The edges of the bammy patties should also begin to shrink inward.
 Remove each bammy from the hot oil and transfer them to a shallow baking pan. Pour the coconut milk over the bammy patties, and let them soak for 5 to 10 minutes.


Each bammy should be thoroughly saturated with coconut milk from top to bottom.
The coconut milk adds flavor to the bammy. It also adds a little extra moisture, and this moisture is what will produce the steam needed to finish cooking the bammy.
 Cook for another 3 to 5 minutes.


Keep the lid on the skillet to trap the steam inside.
The bammy will be a little deeper in color after this step. They should still be a light shade of brown, though. Keep an eye on them to make sure that they do not burn or turn deep brown in color.
 Remove the bammy from the skillet and enjoy it while it is still fresh and hot.

