 If you are unsure about what PIN to use, ask the bank to create one for you. This will ensure that the number is completely random and, therefore, less likely to be stolen. However, this will make the PIN more difficult to remember.


Most banks will work with you to create a safe and secure PIN.
 The easiest way to create a secure PIN is to use random numbers. Although this PIN might be the most difficult to remember, it will be more difficult for an identity thief to steal it. If you are having a hard time picking a random number, try rolling a pair of dice and using the numbers that come up.


Avoid using numbers like the last four digits of your social security number or your birthday.
Do not use sequential numbers like 1234 or 5678. These are some of the most common and, therefore, likely to be the first combinations a thief tries to use.
Do not use the same number for multiple PINs.
 Although writing down your PIN will ensure that you always have it, it also increases the likelihood that it will be stolen. This is particularly dangerous if you are carrying your PIN in your purse or wallet with your card. If your things are stolen, a thief will have all of your information. The only way to securely retain a PIN is to memorize it.
If you have to write down your PIN, try to disguise it using encryption, math or other technique.
 Services like LastPass or 1Password offer to store and remember your passwords and PINs for you, which are then hidden behind a master password that only you know. Once you have entered your primary password, these services will autofill forms and keep your information secure. As long as you do not lose your main account password, your information will be safely protected. Many of these services are free and offer further security with pay upgrades.
Since your main password is the key to all of your other information, you will want to avoid writing it down or keeping it in a document that might be stolen.
For PINs, if you are likely to forget them while you are out, these services offer mobile apps where you can access your information. However, these are typically premium services.

