 Kids are most likely to both enjoy and benefit from participating in a sport if they have the freedom to choose to do so themselves. As a parent or guardian, look to support the interests they share with you.Organized physical competition can be intimidating for some children. If your kid is seemingly uninterested in team sports, ask them why. For instance, say “Jenny, I heard lots of your friends are signing up for soccer. Have you thought about signing up too?”
Kids that claim to be disinterested in team sports may wind up enjoying them as their skills improve or they try a new sport or join a new team. Focus on the fun they could have by joining in on an activity with a bunch of their friends.;
, You want them to develop into a happy, healthy, and confident adult. You may also hope that they excel in sports and earn a scholarship to help pay for college. Realistically, team sports are much more likely to offer the former than the latter - and it’s important to remember that the former is much more important. Don’t think about what a kid will be the best at, think about what they are most likely to enjoy and benefit from.Social, emotional, and physical development are best facilitated by activities a child actually wants to be involved in. Even if they’re a wrestling star, it won’t do them much good to wrestle every day if they don’t enjoy it.
To help your child find the sport they will benefit from the most, think about more than just their abilities. The other kids (and parents) involved in a particular sport, the opportunities in your area, and your child’s physical condition are all important to consider.
 Many, many parents push their children too hard. This can happen by either pushing a kid to play one sport too aggressively, or by pushing a kid to play too many sports in general. Prevent doing either by listening to your child and encouraging them to participate, but primarily in the capacity that they want to do so.Pressuring a kid to participate in a single sport year round can make them feel like it’s a job. Not only will they lose interest, they will likely receive less enjoyment from participating, even if they continue to do so.
On the other hand, playing four different sports can simply be too much. Two or three seasonal sports for year is ideal.
Worry less about the particular sport, and more about finding the sport that will keep your kid interested. You can help most simply by encouraging them to participate in something - and leaving the specifics up to them.
 There are a few important criteria to consider from a guardian’s perspective. You’re likely already considering things like a potential coach’s qualifications, and your child’s ability to contribute. You can easily get insight that can fill you in by attending a practice, either with your kid or on your own.Pay attention to how a coach interacts with their players. Children's coaches should always focus on allowing and encouraging every kid to put forth their best effort. Signs to watch out for are coaches that give too much attention to talented participants, or disparage any of their players.
Look for positive signs too. Talk to other parents that may be there, and ask how they feel about the league and the coach. Most importantly, pay attention to the kids themselves.
If all of the kids are enjoying themselves, share this information by saying something like. “You know, it really seemed like all of the kids were enjoying themselves out there. Have you thought about giving it a try?”

, While physical size doesn’t have to keep your kid out of sports, they may be hesitant to participate because they are bigger or smaller than the other kids. If, for instance, a kid resists participating in a certain sport for physical reasons, encourage them to consider a different sport.Heavier kids may lack the endurance or willingness to run, but may find out that they’re excellent swimmers. A shorter kid may not be keeping up in the sports they want to play, but might really take to something new.
 If your child is interested in a sport that you have reservations about, share your concerns with them directly. It's important to convey that you have a serious reason for opposing something they want to do. Avoid simply disallowing them from participating without giving them a reason.


For instance, say something like "There's a lot of evidence that kids who play football are more likely to hurt their brains. Brain injuries can even affect your thoughts and emotions later in life. I'm not comfortable with you playing a sport that increases that risk."
Similarly, if expenses or time are a concern, you may be able to talk to a coach and find out about borrowing equipment, or ask other parents and coaches to drive your kids to out-of-town events. Of course, you may not have these options.
Point out the advantages of another option by saying something like, "Boxing does seem like a lot of fun, but it's too dangerous. Have you thought about judo?" or "I don't think I'd be able to come to many of your ice hockey games since they're all out of town, but have you thought about playing roller hockey?"

