 If you want to be a well-rounded fighter, you'll want to develop solid punching and kicking skills. The most common stand up disciplines in MMA are Muay Thai kickboxing, boxing, Tae Kwon Do, and Karate. Watch fighters that practice the fighting disciplines that you're interested in to help you decide on what styles you want to pursue.Muay Thai concentrates on punches, ring movement, and kicks.
American boxing focuses heavily on punches.
Tae Kwon Do and Karate focuses on punches and kicks.;
, Striking skills must be combined with grappling and wrestling skills if you want to be a well-rounded fighter. Common grappling styles include Brazillian jiu-jitsu, Judo, Greco-Roman wrestling, and American wrestling.Brazillian jiu-jitsu practitioners specialize in gaining a superior grappling position as well as choking and submitting their opponent.
Judo concentrates on locks and throws.
 Do a search online and look for gyms, dojos, and clubs that offer fighting or martial arts classes in your area. See if you can find general MMA classes that have both striking and grappling included in their curriculum. If a hybrid gym doesn't exist, you may have to go to more than one gym to build both your grappling and striking skills.If you don't live in a major city there may not be classes for the particular styles that you want to learn. Stay flexible.
Sites like FindMMAGyms and Fight Resource have an archive of MMA gyms across the U.S.A.
For instance, if there are no MMA gyms near you, you can sign up for both kickboxing and jiu-jitsu classes separately.
 If you don't have a stand-up or grappling gym in your area, you can supplement some of your training with online instructional videos. Search online and find instructional videos made by professionals and watch them to fill the gaps in your training.Nothing can beat in-person training.
 Once you find the gyms in your area, you should call them and schedule your first class. Some gyms offer a trial class that's free of charge if it's your first time training.

When you call you can say something like "Hello, I've never trained before but I wanted to register for my first class. When is the next introductory class and how much does it cost?"

, Typically you'll be expected to get your own mouth guard and cup. Other gyms will require you to buy a gi or other fighting gear. You should wear a regular t-shirt and gym shorts to most first classes, but make sure to ask the trainer to see if there's anything specific you need to wear.

Other fighting gear includes gloves, hand wraps, shin guards and headgear.If you don't have any gear, ask if they have equipment that you can borrow.

