 Positive rewards work best when there is a clear and consistent system in place. With very young children, many parents use stickers as a reward for good behavior. For older children, some parents use tokens or check-marks. Whatever system you select, remember to use it consistently. Carefully explain the system to your child, and allow them to ask questions about it, or even offer suggestions.The more your child understands and becomes invested in the reward system, the better it will work.
Make sure that the chart identifies specific behaviors that you want your child to perform.For example, if you want your child to be more patient, then include a row for patience on the chart.
List the rewards on the chart as well. For example, earning five stickers might come with the reward of getting to rent a new movie, while 10 stickers might come with the reward of a new doll or other toy. Ask your child what would motivate him or her and try t keep the rewards somewhat small so that they are achievable., Each time that your child behaves well, make sure that you acknowledge the behavior and award your child with a sticker or check mark. Make sure that you place stickers or checks on the chart as soon as possible to help keep your child motivated and interested in the system.Don’t take away stickers or checks for bad behavior. Remember that the goal of the sticker chart is to use positive motivation to change your child’s behavior, not to punish your child., Consider erecting a poster for stickers or check-marks in the living room or kitchen. If using tokens, try placing them in a large jar on the mantle or countertop. This way a child can watch the number of stickers, check-marks, or tokens increase. Make sure to foster a sense of excitement about these increases. Over time, many children will become proud of their achievements.


You may also want to remind your child about the reward system when you are away from the house. A little reminder may be enough to get your child to engage in the desired behavior.For example, you might ask something like, “I noticed that you are only one sticker away from that new doll! Good job! Maybe you will earn it today if you practice patience while we are at grandma’s house.”

, Children will be resentful and may misbehave if they don’t get what they were promised. Make sure that you follow through with the reward when your child earns the required number of stickers or checks. Remember that treats and rewards don’t have to be lavish or expensive. For example, they could be as simple as:


Watching a favorite movie or TV show
Visiting a playground
Inviting a friend to sleep over
Having a favorite meal for dinner

