 Since an endoscopic procedure is less invasive than an open surgery, the recovery time is shorter as well. Your surgeon will bandage your foot after the surgery, and she will then wrap it in a walking cast or postoperative boot. You can expect to wear this for three to seven days after the surgery.Your doctor may end up recommending you wear the boot or cast for longer. Always wear it according to your surgeon’s postoperative directions.;
, While you are not forbidden from walking, your surgeon will recommend that you stay off the foot as much as possible for the first week after the surgery.This will limit your pain, recovery period, and potential for complications such as soft tissue damage around the site.Your surgeon will likely tell you to stay off your feet for everything but getting up to use the restroom and eat.You should also keep the foot and bandage completely dry to reduce the risk of infection., At your first follow-up appointment, your surgeon will decide whether or not to remove your cast/boot yet. If your surgeon removes it, then he will recommend that you wear shoes with plenty of arch support for the next several weeks while still minimizing the amount of weight you place on your foot.Podiatrists and surgeons will typically prescribe custom orthotic shoe inserts before ever performing plantar fasciitis surgery. Return to using your orthotics as directed to provide the additional support as your foot heals., Your surgeon will remove any sutures from the procedure at your next appointment, which will likely be anywhere from 10 to 14 days after your initial procedure.Once the sutures are out, you are free to resume bathing your foot. You can also resume placing your full weight on the foot., Even with your sutures out and using your orthotics, you are likely to experience some discomfort from walking for around three weeks.If your job requires you to spend long hours on your feet, then you may have to take this time off work.You should arrange this with your employer before scheduling your plantar fasciitis surgery.
When you do have to be on your feet, you may find relief from discomfort in icing and elevating your foot afterward. By placing a frozen water bottle on the floor and using your foot to roll across it, you can perform a good stretch on the area as well as icing it., You will have additional follow-up appointments with your doctor at her discretion. You can also expect to meet with a physical therapist who will teach you how to stretch the muscles and tendons in your foot safely for the best outcome after your surgery. Always schedule these appointments based on the suggestions of these professional providers and attend each appointment.


Stretches include massaging your plantar fascia by using a small, hard object such as a golf ball to roll under your foot.Another easy way to exercise the corresponding muscles and tendons is to flex your toes down and in to grasp a towel or even the carpet beneath your feet., Even after you’re walking normally without any discomfort, your doctor or physical therapist may recommend easing yourself back into high-impact exercise routines. Consult them about the best exercises and schedule for resuming your workout regimen.


Don’t be surprised if they suggest switching to lower impact exercises, such as swimming and cycling, for several months after your procedure.

