 To set your respondent at ease, make the interview seem as casual as possible. Beforehand, refer to the interview as an opportunity for you to talk with them (as opposed to interviewing them), which will put less pressure on them as the designated subject. Be friendly and kind, and allow them to see any nervousness you may be feeling as well.Before starting the actual interview, engage your interview subject in casual small talk to break the ice.
Say something like, "I'm happy that I have the chance to chat with you. I find your work so interesting!";
, To build the interview subject’s confidence in you, demonstrate that you are listening to them. In between questions, restate the subject’s last response briefly but accurately. Do not reinterpret the answer to summarize it, which will give your interviewee the clear impression that you don't understand them.For instance, if the subject states that their neighbour’s dog startled them, do not summarize by presuming they are scared of dogs in general.
 It is important to give your interview subject the opportunity to speak freely after you ask them a question. If you attempt to control the conversation too much, you run the risk of missing important points or surprising developments. Let your respondent address the question to their satisfaction before talking again., If your interview subject goes off topic, let them finish without interrupting. Gently guide them back to the context of your original question. Be polite and respectful to avoid seeming critical or uninterested. For example, if you are interviewing a city councillor about the safety of local playground equipment and they end up talking about other city developments, guide them back by saying something like, “It’s wonderful to hear about these new developments, but I am eager to hear what you have to say about the issue of playground safety in the city.”

, Avoid writing questions that are too detailed or lengthy, as they may overwhelm your interview subject. Break longer questions up into smaller, simpler questions that are more conducive to a dialogue. Similarly, avoid two part questions, as the answers to the two parts may be different and result in a confusing response.For instance, instead of writing the question, “Have your health and family life been good recently?”, write, “How is your health?” and then, “How are things with your family?” as a separate question.

