 For your first triathlon, you may want to stick with a sprint distance. It's still hard! When you go to sign up, know what you're going in for; the distance varies greatly.Sprint Triathlons: The shortest (though still arduous) varies in specific length, but many of them have around a 0.5-mile (0.8-kilometer) swim, 15-mile (24-kilometer) bike ride and 3-mile (5-kilometer) run.The distances are not as concrete as longer triathlons that have set parameters.

The Olympic Triathlon: This is the most common triathlon out there. It's a 0.93 miles (1.5 kilometers) swim, a 24.8 miles (40 kilometers) bicycle route and a 6.2 miles (10 kilometers) run.

The Half Ironman: This one is a 1.2 miles (1.93 kilometers) swim, a 56 miles (90 kilometers) bike ride and a 13 mile (21 kilometers) run.

The Ironman Triathlon: This 2.4 mile (3.9 kilometer) swim, 112 mile (180 kilometer) bike ride and 26.2 mile (42.2 kilometer) marathon is probably the most famous.
 There are several websites and magazines that can use to search for and register for triathlons, including TriFind.com, Active.com, RaceTwitch.com, LAVA Magazine, and Triathlete Magazine (the magazines are great resources for finding out all sorts of interesting things about triathlons in general).


Before you sign up for a race, you should look into the race details, which you can usually find on the triathlon’s website. For example, is the race extremely hilly or flat? Is the swim in a choppy ocean or flat lake? If you’re a new swimmer, you might want to choose a body of water that is easier to swim in. Some triathlons are off-road, which may appeal to you if you prefer to mountain bike rather than ride on a paved road

, You could go running, biking and swimming in an old Peter Frampton t-shirt and gym shorts, but 10 minutes in and even your skin is going to start putting up a fight. Do yourself a favor and get the right equipment. You'll need:


Swim suit, goggles, and cap. If you will be swimming in cold water, consider a wetsuit. A wetsuit will help keep you warm in cold water temperatures.Be aware that the tradeoff of wearing a wetsuit is that it may hinder your range of motion or swimming stroke. If you’re going to wear a wetsuit in a race, be sure you practice in it ahead of time.
A helmet that fits you and bicycle that is reliable. Road bikes, mountain bikes, and hybrids all work swell. A special triathlon bike or time trial bike isn't necessary, though if you have one, by all means, use it.
Cycling shorts for training. Worn without undies, these will keep your woes from piling up (your legs hurt enough as it is -- why add your butt and skin into the mix?)

Cycling shoes and clip-less pedals have their purposes, but you can make do without them just fine.


A water bottle. This will be your best friend.
A nice pair of running shoes. Don't spend your entire paycheck on them, but do go to your local running store and get a pair that fit your feet properly. The folks will insist on helping you and let them. They know what they're doing.