 People will start judging you as soon as soon as they see you, so look your best. You don’t have to wear a suit, but dress pants and a dress shirt would be ideal. Wear dress shoes if you have them.


If you only have jeans, make sure they are neat and clean.
 Your lawyer can do this if you have one. If you don’t, then you should write up a list of questions to ask. The questions will depend on your situation, but consider asking the following:


“What color car was I driving?” or “What color jacket was I wearing?” You want to cast doubt on the officer’s ability to see clearly.If the officer doesn’t know the answers to these questions, it shows they weren’t paying close attention.
“How fast was I going?” This is a good defense if you claim you weren’t moving. Follow up and ask how the officer knew your speed.
 You can ask your witnesses questions. Remember that they can only testify as to what they observed. After you ask questions, the judge might ask follow-up questions.


Avoid asking leading questions, which can be answered with a “yes” or “no.”For example, don’t ask, “You never saw me make a phone call, did you?”
Instead, as a series of questions to get the same information. “Where were you sitting in the car?” “What were you looking at?” After that, you can ask, “Did anyone make a phone call?”

, You aren’t required to testify in court.However, you might have to testify if you didn’t have a passenger you can testify as to what you were doing. You want to be a credible witness, so do the following:


Sit up straight. Slouching signals you’re afraid of the truth. Push your shoulders back and look everyone in the eye.
Avoid guessing. If you don’t know an answer, say, “I don’t know.” That’s better than guessing and being wrong.Speak in whole words and sentences. Don’t say “uh huh” or make other non-word sounds.
Leave humor at home. Your friends might think you’re the life of the party, but everyone’s humor is different.
 The judge might let you make a closing argument. The best arguments are based on the evidence, not theatrics. Tell the judge why you didn’t break the law and remember to mention specific pieces of evidence.


For example, your defense might be that a passenger was using the phone, not you. In that case, your argument might sound something like this: “Your Honor, the evidence shows I didn’t use the phone while driving. My two witnesses, Mrs. Kim and Ms. White, testified that Mrs. Kim was using the phone as she sat in the passenger’s seat. There’s no reason to credit Officer Kendrick’s testimony. He didn’t even know the color of my car or the color of the sweater I was wearing. He simply testified that he saw someone on the phone.”

, After all evidence has been presented, the judge will issue a verdict. If you lose, then you’ll need to pay your fines and penalties. However, if you already paid bail money before trial, your fine will be deducted from it. If the bail money is insufficient, you’ll have to pay the extra.If you win, then any bail money you paid should be refunded to you.
 An appeal is not a new trial. Instead, the appellate court will review the record to see if the judge made an error or if no substantial evidence supports the verdict. Those are the only ways you can win, so think carefully if bringing an appeal is worth it.


File your notice of appeal within 30 days of the verdict. Ask the clerk for a Notice of Appeal form and fill it out.