 You’ve probably discussed your allergies with your regular doctor. If not, now’s the time. Make an appointment to see your primary doctor to discuss your allergies, and tell them you would like to see a specialist. They can write a referral for you to visit an allergist, and probably recommend someone to see.;
, Call the phone number for your health insurance company and request a list of providers they will cover. Providers “in-network” are usually covered. Based on your type of insurance and where you live, they can offer options. This is also a good way to ensure that your visit will be paid for by insurance.You can also search for an allergist directly through your health insurance website. This often narrows your search down to only providers who are covered by your insurance plan.
If you locate an allergist another way, call your insurance company before your visit to ensure that your chosen provider will be covered.
 Several professional organizations offer easy-to-use online tools for finding an allergist near you. Use your personal computer or visit a public library to use the internet. Simply input your city or postal code for a list of professionals in your area. You can then narrow your search by specialty (food allergies, Board Certified, etc.) or other categories.Try visiting these sites:


The American College of Allergy, Asthma & Immunology (ACAAI) at http://acaai.org/locate-an-allergist

The American Academy of Allergy, Asthma & Immunology (AAAAI) at http://allergist.aaaai.org/find/


, Using the internet or Yellow Pages, get a contact phone number for the hospital or clinic near you. Ask for their Allergy Department. This is sometimes also called the Immunology Department. When you’re connected to the right department, ask the front desk assistant to set up an initial appointment for you with an allergist. They will check who is available, probably ask you some questions, and match you with the right professional.


Some hospitals and clinics provide online services for setting up appointments. If you’re tech-savvy and have internet access, do a computer search for your local providers and navigate to their Department of Allergy or Immunology. Look for an option such as “Request an Appointment” or “Patient Online Services.”