 If your pet is sick or injured, they may not be acting normally. They may be disoriented, anxious, fearful, or upset. This means that even a friendly pet can snap, bite, or scratch their owner. It is important to restrain your pet properly to make sure that they do not cause harm to you or themselves.Dogs should be muzzled to prevent biting. If you do not have a muzzle, you can use medical gauze or nylon stockings instead. Do not muzzle the dog if they are vomiting or if they are struggling to breathe.
Cats should be wrapped in a towel and securely but gently held. Do not tie the towel too tightly or squeeze the cat. Make sure their face is not covered.Try to comfort the cat as you hold them.
While your pet cat or dog may be calm normally, sick animals can act unpredictably. Just because you know an animal does not mean that you can’t be bitten or scratched.
 You can do a quick examination if your pet is restrained. Mark what symptoms they are suffering from. If you know the cause of their sickness or injury, you should make note of that as well. This information will help the vet make a proper diagnosis.


Count how many breaths they take per minute. Typically animals have between 18 and 24 breaths per minute. If they are breathing more than 40 or 50 breaths per minute, they may have a respiratory issue.
Check their gums. If the gums are white, lavender, grey or blue instead of pink, there may be a problem.
You can check their pulse by putting your hand in their inner thigh. Count how many heartbeats there are per minute. Dogs typically have between 80 and 120 beats per minute while cats have between 180 and 200.
You can take their temperature with a rectal thermometer. A normal temperature should be between 100.5 °F (38.1 °C) and 102 °F (39 °C). Anything above or below that is a sign of sickness.
Note any twitching, shaking, stumbling, or any other signs of disorientation.
Check their eyes. Your pet’s pupils should be the same size. If the whites of their eyes have turned yellow, red, or any other color, call the vet.
 Once your pet has been restrained, call your vet. If it is off hours, find the number of an emergency vet. Describe the symptoms over the phone, and follow their instructions for care. In some cases, you may have to transport the animal to an animal hospital immediately while in others, you may be able to treat the animal on your own.

