 Also, don't invite someone if they cause drama. At a sleepover you don't want to have a person who is always bragging and causing situations especially if it's a good friend.;
, That way, you don't need to be embarrassed by how untidy your house is. Clean houses make a better environment for sleepovers, and will make your guests more comfortable. Get your house ready for your guests. Make sure the bathrooms are clean, as your guest will be using them. You can ask your parents or siblings to help you out with this step.If you want maybe list the names of rooms the guests have to stay out of (Ex. Parents room, Sibling Room, Basement).Prepare your room for the sleepover too.
 Make sure you have everything you need for activities. Recommended items include nail polish, makeup, an iPod, a TV with a DVD player, teenage movies, and phone chargers. Be sure to have lots of food and drinks that fit into your meal plans for dinner and breakfast. Also note any allergies or diets your guests may have,some foods may also be against their religious beliefs.
 If your slumber party is themed, consider decorating the space you'll be sleeping in. It's always fun when decorated. Make sure to play music teens like, or your friends. Most are in the new music. Make sure the music is appropriate if your parents won't allow certain songs.


Cover the windows with black butcher paper. Hang twinkling light strands all around the party area. Scatter inflated balloons that are your favorite colors all over the floor. Its also good when its dark because that means party time!
If available, color changing LED lights would also make for a good mood in the room. Use playful colors such as blue, green, and pink. Dancing water speakers also can create this effect and will keep the party exciting.
 Show her/them where to hang coats (if she/they has one), and stash her/their belongings. If you have a rule about shoes, now is the time to tell her/them. Also inform them about any pets you have. Make them feel welcome, and offer her/them a drink. Find something she can do until the other guests arrive. Most girls talk with guests that are already there. Wait until everybody expected to come shows up before moving on.
 There are countless things you can do at a sleepover. Here are some things you can do. Be flexible when choosing what to do, and try to choose something everybody wants to do.


Manicures. Play some of your favorite music, get out the nail polish, and paint each others nails.
Make up a special day. If you want to maximize the fun, and you want a theme for your party, just make up a special day. Ex. Music Video Day! You can dress up and have a fun time on maybe Youtube, Instagram, or even Facebook.

Makeovers. Get out all your makeup, and see who wants a makeover. Take pictures of all the different makeup styles you use. At the end, choose the one that looks the best. Or even do blind makeovers. A good game to do that with is " Blind Fold Makeovers
Play Master Chef. Get some food items and make a mini mystery box challenge with your friends. Judge them and then enjoy a yummy meal. You can even film it to see all the fun memories.
Talk about boys. A sleepover is one of the only times girls can talk about the boys they like. Remember to keep secrets. Nobody wants one of their secrets out!
Do a prank competition. After 10pm. Tell everyone to stop eating food which will keep you up like caffeinated drinks and sugary food. The first person who sleeps, gets a prank from the other guests. Make sure your guests are even like, two light sleepers and two heavy sleepers. Also make sure everyone is fine with this competition.
Stock up on junk food, and goodies. Caffeinated drinks and sugary foods are good for staying up all night. Good snack foods include popcorn, pretzels, cookies, crisps, gummy bears, chocolate, etc. Ask your friends beforehand if they have any food allergies. If your parents are having difficulties (money wise), ask your friends to bring a little something such as a few chocolate bars or cookies so that your parents don't have to spend all their money on junk food. if this is something around two months away do extra chores around the house or (if old enough) get a job.
Watch movies. You can rent them or you can pick some from your home collection. What's a sleepover without a movie or two? "Easy A", "Mean Girls", or "Bridesmaids" are always good. Just make sure that everyone there is comfortable watching whatever movie you pick and no one gets too scared! If you want, ask around before the sleepover to see if anyone wants to watch a certain movie. Try to stick with PG-13 movies, as most parents don't like it when their kids watch R rated movies due to inappropriate content. You could also ask your guest to bring movies; that way, everyone will have at least one movie that they want to watch.
Plan some fun slumber party games and activities:

"Pick a Question": Everyone writes down a few questions, such as "Who will be the first to get married?". Then everyone answers them on a note pad.
Play "Would You Rather": Ask questions to each other, like, "" So childish but funny at the same time because you have to answer.

Play truth or dare.

Play Charades or Sardines or Play Man Hunt, which are great group games.
Play Murder in the Dark or Ghost in the Graveyard.
Board games and card games are another option. Ask people to bring their favorites.
Game console games. This includes Wii, PlayStation, and Xbox games. If you don't have enough remotes, take turns. Remember, nobody should feel left out.


Tell secrets. Make up ghost stories or read them from a book.
Buy a plain pillowcase and some permanent markers and have you and your friends sign it and doodle on it.
Have your computer ready! You obviously have a computer if you're reading this article, so be sure that your friends are going to want to go on it to update their Facebook status, look at pictures of hot celebrities, or anything else.
Dance to music, provided your guests want to. If you have an iPod or MP3 player, make a slumber party play-list with all of your favorite songs. If you have a stereo, ask everyone to bring in their favorite music so you can play them during the sleepover. Another option is to simply turn on a radio station that you all love.

Prank calls. Prank calls are fun, just make sure you don't prank call people after 10pm. Don't prank call strangers or businesses. Friends are usually okay to prank call. Never prank call someone who can't take a joke. Also make the prank calls Funny NOT Threatening.
Read the latest teen magazines. For teen girls, this usually means gossip magazines. Go buy some or have the ones you already have out and ready to be read by your friends. Don't bring out ones that are more than a year old, because then the news in them will be old.
Take Selfies. If you girls have social networking sites like Facebook or Instagram, you can post and share the pictures afterwards.You can also have fun with snapchat filters.
Have a fashion show in all your cutest trends. If someone isn't very trendy/doesn't have nice clothes, have some on hand.
Chopped is always fun to do at a sleepover. Have a parent buy 2-4 ingredients that you and your friends have to use while cooking. It's best to play this with four friends, and break into teams of two. If you have an odd number of people, have someone be the judge. If you have an even number, have a family member judge (make sure no one plays favorites!). You can play with one team as well. After you make the food, serve food too the judge/s then eat the other teams recipe. After you eat, find out who won. Making the good will be a blast. Ask whoever bought the ingredients to get something with a theme, or make sure it's disgusting! But make sure the host doesn't have any advantages. Make sure everyone knows where things are, and the host doesn't know ingredients beforehand.
 Pizza is a popular dinner for teen sleepovers, but any food will do.


Make sure you have a proper dinner so no-one gets the grumps later, this could really be a shame if it took a lot of time to organize it.
 Generally, girls will stay up until around 3- 4 A.M. Make sure all your guests have a place to sleep. Avoid keeping sleepy girls awake. Don't prank them in their sleep, unless they have approved you can do so.
 Pancakes are popular, but if you don't know how to make them or your parent isn't there to do it, stick with cereal.
 Watching movies in the morning isn't recommended, but you still can. Watch movies mainly in the afternoon, evening and night.
 Order or prepare with your parents.
,,