 This should be a short video showcasing the breadth and depth of your skills as an artist. Some choose to follow a storyline format while others cycle through a series of clips. Most college programs will give you time to create this work in your junior or senior years using professional grade equipment and software.Your reel is also a chance for you to showcase any unique skills that you possess, such as drawing or sculpting.Don’t be afraid to work with other artists to create your reel. Showing that you can collaborate well with others is something that studios often look for when hiring.
 If you are enrolled in a VFX program, talk to your career counselors to see what opportunities might be available. If you are developing your skills on your own, reach out to studios to see if they have any spots for paid or unpaid interns. This will give a potential employer a chance to get to know you and might make it easier for them to hire you in the future., Over half of VFX artists are their own bosses. Being a freelance designer gives you more control over your schedule and project selection. But, it also means that you will need to handle administrative tasks and could struggle with bringing in a consistent income.If this path interests you, it would be wise to take a few classes in marketing and accounting. Getting established is a hard struggle that many self-employed artists face.Choosing your own projects can mean that you’ll establish a specialty more quickly than you might in a large studio. However, affording the most recent design equipment may be tough, depending on how successful you are.
 This is a more traditional option where you agree to full or part-time employment with an established company. Your work schedule and salary will very much depend on the prominence of the company and the types of projects that come in. However, you may get the opportunity to work on some big Hollywood blockbusters or top-rated television shows!Get your foot in the door of larger companies by serving as a junior 2D artist or runner. A junior artist will assist those with seniority by creating basic outlines for scenery and the like. A runner literally runs sketches and communications between the VFX team and a director, for example., With enough time, effort, and luck, you may get the chance to take on a leadership position for a project. As a supervisor, the final product that audiences see is your responsibility. You’ll take all of the raw images and make them fit together while working alongside the production team.