 When you are sick, walking is a great way to get some exercise without overdoing it. You can decide exactly how long you walk, how far, and at what speed without too much effort. The fresh air may also help relieve your congestion if it is severe.Avoid going outside if your sinuses are made worse by allergies, especially if you are sick.
 If you are a runner, you can still jog some while you are sick. Your body is used to running if you are a runner, so it will not take as much out of you if you are sick; however, if you are still learning or training to become a runner, lay off of jogging until you feel better.


Make sure you jog at a slower speed and for shorter periods of time when you are sick., Qigong is a traditional Chinese exercise that focuses on movement. It blends low-impact martial arts and meditation. This kind of exercise is great for you when you are sick because it doesn't take too much out of you physically while still working your muscles.It also helps reduce stress, lower anxiety, increase your energy, and improve your blood flow.There is even some early evidence that Qigong can help improve immunity if done at least three times a week., Yoga is a great low-impact exercise that you can do while you are sick. When you are sick, your body releases stress hormones, such as cortisol. Yoga can help relieve this stress and also may help boost immunity.However, you should avoid high-intensity versions of yoga, such as hot yoga, especially since these intense forms can make your sickness worse.
Stick to low-intensity versions of yoga or low-intensity moves. These include Supported Bridge Pose and Reclining Twist., Dancing is a great exercise when you have a bit of a head cold. Typically, dance classes get your heart rate up but are relatively low-impact, which will keep you from causing too much strain on your body. It also helps with stress relief and the production of antibodies that help fight colds, both of which help boost your immune system.


Try classes such as Zumba or cardio dance., Swimming is a low-impact exercise that can be moderated easily. You can swim for short periods of time or leisurely if you are feeling fatigued. For some people, swimming can also help with their cold and open up their sinuses.


However, this may not work for all people, especially if lying sideways bothers your sinuses.
Avoid swimming if you have a hard time breathing or if the chlorine in the water bothers your sinuses.