 In this technique, calmly restate your feelings or need each time someone tries to argue or distract you. (For example, "Please stop making sexist jokes." "I don't find sexist jokes funny.") This is a way to stick to your principles without disrespecting the other person.For example, you might try to return a damaged item to a store to get a refund. If the clerk tries to offer you other alternatives (fixing the item or telling you it’s not damaged), keep repeating that you'd like a refund.
This technique is assertive rather than rude as it lets you make your point by stating clearly what you want in a non-offensive way. Body language and tone are important here. You don’t want to yell or treat the other person badly. Your simple statement is power enough.
 Use the phrase, “You might be right,” when someone tries to draw you into an argument. In this way, you acknowledge that the other person’s views may have merit, but you remain confident in your position. Agreeing does not mean that you back down and change your mind.For example, if someone says, “Your haircut looks stupid,” you can respond with, “You might be right.” They might continue: “Didn’t you hear me? You look like a loser.” Respond by saying, “You might be right, but it will grow back.”
This technique is assertive rather than rude. Because you agree with the antagonizer, you take the wind out of their argument and keep the conversation from escalating. It’s difficult for the other person to argue with you when you might agree with them. Additionally, saying “you ‘might’ be right” doesn’t confirm that the bully is right, only that they might be. Everyone has a right to their own opinion.
 This is a common technique taught in almost every assertiveness training course. An I statement is when you begin a sentence with “I…” It is successful because it focuses on what you need without putting the other person in a corner. You allow the other person to think, feel and do what is best for them.


Using an I statement is an assertive technique rather than a rude one because you are taking responsibility for your feelings. You are not blaming the other person. “I” statements are a good way to open up communication so that the problem can be solved.
Sample I statements are: “I feel angry when you use sarcasm,” “I feel insulted when you put your desires ahead of mine,” or “I feel hurt when you talk to me like that.”

, Stay within the bounds of politeness while also expressing yourself. After saying what you need to say, listen to the other side. There’s no need to raise your voice to be heard. There’s more power (and politeness) in being calm and collected.


That said, avoid being too smiley or giggling after you say your piece. You can be polite without undermining yourself. Only lighten the mood in this way if it's appropriate for what you're talking about.

