 The best way to choose a bow is by visiting a music shop, so that you can inspect the bows first-hand. Especially for an advanced player, you do not want to buy a bow online.Bring your own violin when you go the shop. You will want to determine how any bow you are considering buying feels with your violin.
 The violin bow should be straight from end to end when examined on a flat surface.


Another approach is to hold the bow away from you and look down the length of the shaft. If there is a slight curve to the left, this may be acceptable, but any curve to the right is not. A curve to the right increases the chances of the shaft hitting the strings., For each bow you are considering, test it's strength by pulling it across the strings of your violin once, with normal playing pressure. Tightened to normal tension, the shaft should not touch the strings when you do this.Likewise, the bow should not bend to the left or right when played with normal force.
 Once you've narrowed the bows down to a few that are strong, straight, and in your price range, test each bow by playing a piece of music you are familiar with. This way, you will know if the bow feels right playing music you would normally play.Specifically, take note of the following:


Responsiveness/bounce. A bow should have little bit of bounce when it strikes the strings. This is part of what allow for quick bow strokes.Start each bow off playing slowly, and then gradually increase your speed to see how it performs.
Balance. Hold the bow at a 45 degree angle. It should feel balanced an comfortable from end to end.Sound. Even with the best violin, a bow which is too flexible may not have a clear sound, while one that is not flexible enough may have a rough or "edgy" sound. Find a bow that sounds good to you.
Natural feel. The true test of a bow is whether or not it feels right. This is a somewhat subjective criterion, but the right bow for you will feel natural to play with. You shouldn't have to think about the bow while you are playing.

