 A big smile always makes the customers at ease. Always be polite and friendly; a bit of cheek goes along way now and then. Even if you're busy, the customer you are serving needs to feel like they have your complete attention. Answer their questions, and if you can't, then find someone who can. If they are unsure of what to order, ask what they like and make suggestions based on that. You know more about what's behind the bar than they do, so help them out! You might just introduce them to their new favourite drink.


It will make them come back for more and they may defend you against rude customers.;
, This will keep you from making mistakes at a real event or slowing down other people working with you.
 Customers at bars hate to wait.
 This will help you get the order to the right customer. If people are regulars, remember their names and usual orders. Visitors will pop in now and again, and of course you want to make a good impression on them, or they'll never come back. But your regulars are the ones who are in night after night, the ones paying your wages. Chat to them, take the time to get to know them and what they like to drink. If a regular can walk in to find their drink waiting for them on the bar because you saw them walking across the street to come in, they will feel valued and appreciate that you took the time to observe what they like.
 That way you may get more drinks in the future and appear disciplined.
 Don't appear bored or distracted.
 Don't let people trip you up with rude comments. You are doing a stressful job.If they have a problem, refer them to the manager instead of having them pick on you. That will just slow things down and break your concentration.
 If you're new to bar work, ask what needs doing. People hate new staff members that stand around waiting to be told what to do. Ask. And if you see someone doing something you don't know how to do, ask them to show you. The quicker you learn what's expected of you, and how to change a barrel, the more likely you will be offered more shifts, and the more useful you will be behind the bar.
 Clear away plates from tables and clean the tables, collect glasses and get them washed and put away. Keep the bar clean and wipe up spillages. Keep the floor mopped and dry so you don't slip over. Keep the fridges stocked up. The last thing the customers want to see is a dirty bar, tables filled with used plates as they have nowhere to sit, and they don't want to get wet sleeves when they come to the bar. The staff don't want to have to run to the stockroom/ cellar every 5 minutes because the fridges are empty. Stay on top of these things.
 Customers will often ask if you have drinks/ food, or where they can go to see live bands etc. If you are being asked for the same thing on a regular basis that you don't have, then suggest it to your boss. Customers are the best way to find out what the market wants as they ARE your market, and if customers know you will get something in for them if they ask for it, they are more likely to come back again and again.
 Underage drinking and drug use is illegal. Let it slide once and that's what your bar will become known for. It will get you a bad reputation and potentially get your bar closed down. Don't do it!

, You will generally get a feel for the type of activities your customers like, and what better way to get new customers in the door than to hold events? Whether it's live music, comedy, special offers like happy hour or a cider festival, it keeps your bar alive and vibrant.
 Everyone has their own sense of fashion and style, but just make sure you're presentable. Wear clean clothes, make sure you don't smell and your hair is tidy. Brush your teeth, don't wear chipped nail polish. If people have a bad impression of you, or can smell you from afar, they probably won't want to drink in your bar!

