 As noted above, Capricorns tend to be traditional, business-minded, somewhat conservative people. This can lead them to seem standoffish or even cold at first. Understand that, at the heart of every Capricorn, there's a person who's capable of deep emotion and compassion. While the average Capricorn may not be as open about her emotions as, for instance, the average Leo, she is still plenty capable of forming strong emotional bonds, given enough time.
 Capricorns pride themselves on not relying very heavily on others to achieve their goals. Since your Capricorn partner is likely to be an independent, driven soul, don't drag her down by constantly bombarding her with pleas for attention and affection. Instead, cherish the tender moments you do share, as these are sure to be genuine and unforced. In addition, be ready and willing to periodically entertain yourself — Capricorns won't die if they don't get to see you for a single day, so you shouldn't either.



Behaviors you'll want to avoid: Calling or texting many times per day, frequently asking for confirmations of her affection, acting jealously, attempting to alter her schedule.
 Few things are less attractive to a Capricorn than someone who refuses to at least try to solve their own problems. Don't let your Capricorn lover ever start to see you as a bum. Try to maintain ambitious professional goals, even if you can't achieve all of them. Similarly, don't take your relationship for granted — always show your partner that she's important to you. Make a sincere effort to put in hard work in your professional and personal life and she will value you for your efforts.


Sometimes, life deals difficult hands that force us to become less active than we previously were. For instance, illnesses, family problems, and unexpected layoffs may temporarily force you to take a less active role in achieving your goals. In these cases, don't give in to feelings of inadequacy — a smart Capricorn woman will be able to tell the difference between someone who won't work hard for their goals and someone who is temporarily prevented from doing so.
 With their independent-minded personalities, Capricorns do not like being controlled by their significant other or having this sort of one-sided relationship implied in any way. Take a hands-off approach to your partner's life — she should be free to make her own decisions and form her own opinions. Above all, she is not someone to be possessed, controlled, or otherwise trifled with. Be prepared to respect your Capricorn lover's independence or risk losing her.



Behaviors you'll want to avoid: Speaking for your partner at social events, apologizing for her opinions when they differ from yours, violating her privacy or personal space, trying to control her behaviors, etc.
 For better or for worse, Capricorns focus most of all on their own problems — not their partner's. While a good Capricorn woman will always be willing to offer compassionate words of support and a loving shoulder to cry on during difficult times, they generally won't be satisfied in a relationship where they're expected to spend all of their excess energies helping you. Capricorns expect their partners to be self-reliant and to get the help they need when they are truly in trouble so that it doesn't begin to affect the relationship.



Problems you won't want to unload on your partner: Depression, substance abuse issues, stress from family conflicts, workplace stress, mental health issues, risky behaviors, poor self control, difficulties from previous relationships, etc.

