 Entire dogs (dogs that have not been spayed or neutered) are at the mercy of their hormones. Entire male dogs have high levels of testosterone and this makes them keen to find a female dog in heat and mate with her. Male dogs can detect this scent from miles away and may escape to seek out the scent.Female dogs may also be more likely to wander when they are in heat.


Talk to your dog’s veterinarian about spaying or neutering your dog.
Spay or neuter your dog at a young age to prevent behaviors from becoming too ingrained in your dog., Healthy dogs that do not get enough exercise may put their energy into things like escaping from the yard.Try to take your dog out for two 30 minute walks per day.


If you get tired before your dog does, then consider teaching her to fetch a ball or play frisbee. That way she will get plenty of exercise and you can just sit and throw the ball or frisbee to her.
 Being shut in a yard for long periods of time can cause your dog to become bored and make him want to escape. To keep your dog mentally stimulated, vary his toys and give him toys that will challenge his mind.


Change out his toys every day so that he doesn't become too familiar with his toys and become bored with them.
You can also try giving your dog toys that have treats inside, such as a stuffed Kong toy. This will give him a mental challenge and he will be rewarded with a treat when he figures it out.
 If your dog is an escape artist, then you will need to keep a close watch on her at all times. When you cannot watch her, keep her inside the house.


If you are often gone for long periods of time, such as while you are at work or out shopping, consider hiring a dog walker to come by and check on your dog or take her for a walk.
 Regular training sessions can also help you to keep your dog mentally stimulated and make it more likely that she will respond to your commands if you catch her in the act of escaping.


Keep training session short and regular. Two five to 10 minute sessions per day is a good place to start.
Use positive reinforcement. Give your dog treats and praise when she responds to a command. Do not punish your dog if she disobeys you.
Start with basic commands. After your dog has a good grasp of sit, stay, and recall, then you can start teaching her more complex commands such as “come away.”

, Some dogs will try to escape if they become fearful. For example, if your dog hears a sound that makes him anxious, then he might flee from the yard in fear. If this happens often, then give your dog a safe place to hide when he feels scared.


Try providing your dog with an outdoor crate or kennel, or give your dog access to the indoors via a doggy door.