 These should be a good indicator of what and how much you can drink without having a bad time.


Most people have at least one kind of booze that doesn’t sit well with them. It is good to know what specific cocktails contain this type of spirit so that you can be more successful in avoiding it.
If this is your first time drinking, start slowly with a couple of beers or glasses of wine so that you can get an idea of how alcohol affects you.
Be extra careful when you are experimenting with something new. It can take years to become truly aware of how all the different types of alcohol affect you.
 Some people react better to different combinations than others, but it is generally less stressful to your system if you decide on one drink and stick to it for the whole night.


Tequila is notoriously incompatible with other kinds of booze.
Crème liqueur such as Irish Crème can mix well in certain cocktails, but is known to cause a curdling effect that may upset your stomach faster than usual. This should never be consumed in excess.
Many people also experience problems when combining beer with liquor. Unfortunately, the best way to know what works and what doesn’t in this case is through your own trial and error.
Some drinks have many different kinds of booze in them. Keep in mind that cocktails like Long Island Iced Teas contain several varieties of booze and may be more intoxicating than other drinks. Be very careful with these types of cocktails, and limit your consumption accordingly.
Always know what you are drinking. Any good bartender should be able to tell you exactly what is in the cocktails they serve. It helps to watch your drinks being prepared so that you can be sure you know what to expect. If you are mixing your own drinks, always stick to a recipe and use a shot glass for measuring.
 Beginners are especially likely to try to mask the alarming taste of alcohol with sweet mixers as a way to get the stuff down their throats. As discussed before, sugar increases the dehydrating effects of alcohol and is often associated with blackouts and hangover symptoms.


Some liquors such as rum, brandy, bourbon, and cordials have a pretty high sugar content on their own. Be especially careful when combining these with sugary mixers.
Keep in mind that when you order a drink like whiskey and cola, there is only one shot of whiskey in your glass. The rest of the drink is mostly high fructose corn syrup. By the time you have consumed enough of these to feel tipsy, you have also consumed two or three times more cola than alcohol.
Also know that most bars do not serve 100% juice, so any fruit juice that is mixed into your cocktails is going to have extra sweeteners.
Popular shots like Sex on the Beach have even less liquor in them than mixed drinks. They are served in shot glasses, but amount to less than a full shot of alcohol since they also contain mixers.
Diet mixers may not contain sugar, but some sugar substitutes are known to be more dehydrating than sugar itself.
If you want to avoid the dehydrating effects of sugar, the best mixers to use are soda and tonic. Soda is essentially just carbonated water. Tonic contains quinine, which has light pain killing and anti-inflammatory properties. It also contains sugar, but not as much as other carbonated mixers. Some brands of diet tonic do not contain any sweeteners at all, so this is especially good to mix with alcohol. These may not do as much to mask the alcoholic flavor of liquor, but they are less likely to contribute to vomiting, headaches, and other hangover symptoms.
 Cheap liquor has more impurities and often leads to a rougher hangover. You may not be able to afford as many top shelf drinks per night, but they will taste better. This means you can enjoy the flavor without a bunch of mixers.
 It may be tempting to guzzle your booze, but then it becomes harder to keep up with how it is affecting you. It is much easier to overdrink when you drink too fast because you are not allowing the effects of the alcohol to set in before you decide whether or not to have another drink. A good starting pace for drinking alcohol is about one drink per hour.


Be sure your drinks are measured properly so that you can accurately limit yourself. If you are drinking at a bar, you can rest assured that this is already under control. If you are mixing your own drinks or drinking at a party, always measure the amount of alcohol in each drink by the shot.
Listen to your body. After you finish each drink, check yourself for signs of dehydration before getting another one. As discussed before, these are headaches, nausea, and dizziness. Stop drinking alcohol and switch to water as soon as you feel any of these things. Also note the condition of your basic motor skills. If you find yourself stumbling around or struggling to speak clearly, you probably shouldn’t have another drink.
Listen to your friends. If someone who cares about you suggests you should slow down or stop for the night, they are probably quite right.
 There are a number of ways to do this, but it all comes down to awareness and self-control. These things often come with maturity and experience, so this is the hard part for people who are just learning to drink.


Set a limit for yourself at the beginning of the night. Three drinks is a good limit for inexperienced drinkers. That should be just enough for you to experience the euphoria and social lubrication of light drunkenness without the throwing up, blacking out or otherwise getting out of hand.
If you think you might have trouble limiting yourself, tell a friend or designated driver about your limit before you start drinking and ask them to hold you accountable.

