 Wash the leaves thoroughly before using them. Take the leaves in your hands and roll them between your palms to crush them and release the natural oils, and them place them in the recipe.


If you are creating a "bouquet garni," wash the oregano plant with the leaves on the stems. Tie the oregano to thyme, basil, parsley, rosemary, tarragon and/or bay leaves with a string. Drop it in a stock mixture and allow it to simmer until all the flavors are imparted into the mixture.
The term "bouquet garni" means garnished bouquet. It is sometimes sold in a dried mixture in western supermarkets.;
, Oregano pairs very well with tomatoes and other Mediterranean herbs, such as basil. Add the oregano toward the end of the cooking process to help maximize its natural flavor.


Experiment by adding 1 tsp. (0.6 g) of fresh oregano or 1 tsp. (0.5 g) of dried oregano to your pasta or pizza sauces. Raise or lower the dose based on your preference.
 (0.25 g) of dried oregano or 1/2 tsp. (0.3 g) of fresh oregano to a vinaigrette to create an Italian or Greek-style vinaigrette. Serve it on a bed of fresh greens with tomatoes, cucumbers, Kalamata olives and feta cheese.
 These include olive oil, vinegar, garlic, basil, onion, parsley and thyme. They make an excellent marinade for lamb, beef or chicken.
 Marjoram is a type of oregano and thyme has a similar flavor, so they can be used to almost the same culinary effect.


Marjoram is a type of the genus oregano, called origanum majorana. There are more than 50 types of oregano, and all of these plants are part of the mint family. Marjoram tends to have a more subtle flavor, so feel free to use it to replace the stronger taste, if you prefer it.
 You may also want to add it earlier in stewed dishes with these strong-flavored vegetables. Both the vegetable and the herb pair well with olive oil.
 Mexican oregano has a milder, less bitter, flavor than Greek oregano. Also add oregano with chile when you are creating stewed beans.
 Sprinkle fresh, diced oregano leaves on top of the cheese and place in the grill or broiler for 5 minutes. Serve immediately.
 It also can be used to marinade and flavor seafood, but you should use it in low amounts because of its somewhat bitter taste.

