 That includes milk, eggs, cheese, and in some cases, honey.


Be sure gifts such as chocolate or pastry haven't been made using milk or eggs. Cakes and breads are included in this category as they are typically made with one or both of these products.;
, A soy milk maker is another appliance you might choose., Herbs can be picked fresh and used in cooking and also add fragrance to the home.
 There are many cookbooks to choose from all giving recipes and tips for vegetarian cooking.


For example, if the person for whom you are buying the cookbook does not use animal by-products, be sure the recipes exclude using eggs or butter.
 This applies to lotions, perfumes, and all cosmetic items.


Some products will indicate that fact on the label. Be sure a hair or make-up brush hasn't been made from animal hair.



Avoid anything made of leather. Non-vegans may forget that the wallet or handbag they are buying has been made from the skin of an animal. Belts, jackets, headbands, or even jewelry that has been strung on a piece of leather are not acceptable for a vegan.
True vegans will not accept products made of wool or silk. Be sure to stop and consider whether the object has been derived from an animal including insects. Be certain the scarf or necktie you choose is made of cotton or another plant or synthetic material. Of course, anything made of real fur should be avoided.
Jewelry and other clothing items made from shells might also not make an appropriate gift to give to a vegan.
 Many candles are derived from beeswax or stearic acid, which are animal by-products. Soy candles are environmentally friendly, unlike paraffin wax which is made from petroleum.,, The vegan for whom you are buying a gift will appreciate your respect for his commitment to animal welfare.
 You will be able to find books, clothing, foods and other items here which are especially geared for vegans.



Many vegetarian cooks think olive oil adds flavor to sauteed or grilled vegetables. Olive oil is also a healthy addition to your diet as it is heart-healthy.

