 The bottle you use for your ciga bomb should be should be a fairly small size. Something like a 2 liter bottle will be cumbersome to handle, but something too small will not light properly. A bottle around 16 ounces is usually in the right range., Once you've found the right bottle, make sure it's free of any residue. Soda bottles especially may be sticky on the bottom. Rinse the bottle out several times before you begin to build your ciga bomb.It's best to use a water bottle, as they're usually easy to simply empty out. It may be hard to clean out a soda bottle.
 You will need some aluminum foil to make your ciga bong. You need to prepare the foil to make sure it's strong enough for the ciga bong.Fold the foil over once. This will make it stronger.
Cut the folded foil into a square that's 2.5 by 2.5 inches. This will make it the right size to fill the top of your bottle. Later, you will smoke out of the foil.
 If the bottle has a cap on, make sure to remove it before applying the foil. Place your square over the top of the bottle. You will be creating a small bowl, where you will place marijuana or tobacco when you use your bowl.Slowly, push the foil down slightly into the bottle. Use your thumbs to form a small, round bowl. Be gentle. You don't want to end up tearing the foil.
Make sure your bowl is deep enough that tobacco or marijuana will not spill out and make a mess. Wrap the foil sticking out of the top of the bowl around the sides of the bottle's opening. This will secure the bowl in place.
 Once the bowl is securely in place, you need to make a series of small holes in it. This allows the tobacco or marijuana to light up when you smoke. Use a needle or a pin to make holes.You do not want large holes. You just need a series of holes the size of a pin prick. Avoid making the holes too far apart, as this could cause the foil to rip.
Work slowly and be gentle. You do not want to tear your foil.
 You can use a pair of scissors or an x-acto knife. If you choose to use an x-acto knife, be careful. The blade will be very sharp. Make the hole on the opposite side of hand you'll use to hold the bottle. For example, if you hold the bottle with your right hand, make the hole on the left side.Use your needle or pin to get the hole started. If you use the scissors or x-acto knife right away, you may accidentally rip the bottle. Make a very small hole using a pin or needle.
Use your scissors to gently twist the hole to make it a bit wider. The hole's diameter should be about once inch.
 Now, you can use your bong. Pack the tobacco or the marijuana in the tinfoil bowl on top of the bottle. Place your mouth over the hole. Light the tobacco or marijuana and inhale.The smoke will be drawn though the bottle and then pass through the hole. You will inhale the smoke trapped in the bottle.
If you have trouble inhaling the smoke, make the mouth hole slightly bigger.
 You want to make sure you know how you respond to tobacco or marijuana. If you've never smoked before, avoid doing so alone. Only smoke a little at first. Never operate machinery or drive a car when smoking marijuana.Marijuana is illegal in most US states. You should only smoke marijuana if you do so for medical purposes or if it's legal in your state.
 As marijuana can impair your sense of judgment and memory, avoid smoking in situations where you have to pay attention. You should not smoke before you have to go to work or school.If you are a medical patient, you may not always smoke with the intent of creating an altered state of consciousness. In these cases, it may be safe to smoke before work or school if you know how you respond to marijuana.
 For both tobacco and marijuana, there is always a fire risk. You should make sure to reduce the risk of a fire if you choose to smoke.Never smoke in bed.
Be very careful when smoking while also drinking alcohol. You may be more likely to drop a lighter or your ciga bomb if you're under the influence of alcohol.
If you empty your bowl, make sure it is not still burning. You should also pour water in the garbage can as an extra precaution.

