 Check with your local government or visit a community recycling day. They may accept pure antifreeze or direct you where to go. Other good places to check are machine shops and oil change shops. Many of them accept antifreeze for recycling. Wastewater management places may also accept small amounts of antifreeze.Search for facilities by searching your city’s website, searching online for mechanics in your area, or calling disposal companies in the area.
There may be a small facility usage fee when recycling antifreeze. These fees will be greater at hazardous waste disposal facilities.;
, Even a drop of oil or gas in antifreeze taints it. This tainted antifreeze is considered hazardous and must be shipped to a different facility than normal used antifreeze. Look at it for signs of muddiness. Normal antifreeze is brightly-colored and smells sweet.Damage to a vehicle can cause fluids to mix. If you aren’t sure, consider the antifreeze polluted.
 Store the antifreeze in containers such as old antifreeze bottles. Make sure these containers are well-sealed. Both types of antifreeze must be shipped to different places, so label them to remember which one is which.

When flushing antifreeze out of a vehicle, use a different drain pan and funnel than you use for oil and other fluids., This antifreeze can’t be recycled. Since it is considered hazardous, only a hazardous waste disposal facility will accept it. Ask your local government. Mechanics at repair shops may also be able to tell you where they dispose of their antifreeze., You can’t ship antifreeze in the mail. You have to bring the container to the facility. A commercial hauler or waste oil service may also do it for you. Once you reach the facility, get a receipt that shows where you delivered the antifreeze.Hiring a commercial hauler for hazardous antifreeze makes the process easier. This is only necessary for shipping large amounts of antifreeze. If you transport it yourself, you will need to provide your own documentation about using the truck.
Always consult your government for disposal regulations.

