 Avoid eating conventional produce that contains herbicides and pesticides that may negatively impact fertility.
 Conventional dairy sources may contain hormones and antibiotics that can increase estrogen levels in the body and harm fertility. If dairy does not agree with your stomach or diet plans, you can avoid dairy altogether and opt for a nut-based milk. Do not drink soy milk.
 In addition to being rich in protein and vitamin A, fish also contain healthy fatty acids that help increase hormone production, reduce inflammation, and ensure a regular menstrual cycle.


Aim to eat wild salmon, cod, and halibut, but avoid farmed fish whenever possible, as farmed fish may contain antibiotics and food coloring.
Do not eat large deep sea fish like ahi tuna, swordfish, and sea bass, as these fish may be high in mercury which can be harmful to the body.
 Avoid consuming hormones and antibiotics that may increase estrogen levels by choosing to eat only grass-fed, organic meat. Protein is essential during your pregnancy, but be sure to avoid conventional meats.


Additionally, if you are concerned about endometriosis, limit your consumption of red meat, as the two have been linked by scientific study.
Make sure you only consume poultry that is marked as free range, cage free, or organic as well.
 Whole grains are high in fiber and essential vitamins. Fiber is particularly important for your diet as it helps the body remove excess hormones and helps keep your blood sugar at a healthy level. Processed grains lack the nutrients necessary for a healthy pregnancy.
 In addition to regulating hormone levels and blood sugar levels, fiber also promotes healthy digestion. Try to eat fibrous fruits, vegetables, dark greens, beans, and whole grains with each meal.
 Soy contains a compound that acts like a hormone in your body and thus it can disrupt your hormone balance. Try to avoid all soy products while pregnant or trying to become pregnant.
 Processed sugar found in bottled juices, popsicles, candy, packaged desserts, etc. can disrupt your blood sugar levels and weaken your immune system.
 Women require about 2.2 liters (0.6 US gal) of water per day. If possible, avoid tap water that may contain traces of pesticides or unwanted minerals from agricultural runoff.