 Though you may find it difficult to pay attention to what your friend has to say about her boyfriend on a constant basis, you should still strive to be a good friend and be a good listener. Being a good listener does not mean sitting there passively and nodding at everything she says. Instead, you should try to be an active listener who asks questions and engages with your friend. This will allow you to feel part of the conversation and make it feel less one-sided.For example, your friend may start discussing her latest date with her boyfriend. You may then respond by asking questions like, “Where did he take you?” or “What did you do?” Asking a few questions will show your friend that you are trying to engage in the conversation with her and listen to what she has to say.;
, Once you have felt you and your friend had talked enough about her boyfriend, you should attempt to change the subject. Try to bring up something that happened during your day or what you did the night before. You may share this by saying, “Let me tell you what I did last night,” or “I had a really good day today.” Your friend should then take the cue that it’s time to change the subject and focus on something else besides her boyfriend.


You may also try to change the subject subtly by piggybacking off something your friend has said about her boyfriend. For example, perhaps your friend mentions that her and her boyfriend went to a great restaurant the other night. You may then say, “Oh, I went there last week. I was hanging out with Molly and…”. This could then allow you to shift the conversation to another topic in a subtle way.
 If your friend is really deep into her new relationship, she may not take the hint and continue to go on about her boyfriend, despite your attempts to change the subject. If this is the case, you may have to politely cut off the conversation so you do not become frustrated or upset. Doing this will save you from having to hear about her boyfriend and also really make it clear you want to talk about something else.For example, you may say, “You know, I have to get going. Thanks for the coffee, let’s get together next week!” Or you may politely say, “I’m late for class. Let’s catch up tomorrow?”
Cutting off the conversation politely will give you a way out of the conversation and perhaps signal to your friend that you are getting tired of listening to all the details of her relationship.
 For the sake of your sanity and your friendship, you may decide to set a limit on how long you will listen to your friend talk about her boyfriend. This may be 20 minutes, 30 minutes, or 10 minutes per a conversation. You may keep this limit to yourself and then enforce it once you have reached it. Setting limits will allow you to still be a good friend and support your friend’s new relationship without sacrificing too much of your time or energy.You may also set limits on how often you listen to your friend talk about her boyfriend on a weekly basis. You may decide to spend time on that particular conversation twice a week or only once a week. This may mean you spend less time with friend for at least the first few weeks of her new relationship until she settles into it and talks about it less.
There are many different ways you can enforce the limit you set on your friend's talking about her boyfriend. You can try changing the subject to another topic. You can also move the conversation to something about your surroundings, like the food you're eating or the bird you see in a tree. You can also take a break from talking for a little bit. You can also just say that you want to talk about something else or that you don't want to talk about her boyfriend anymore. You can also leave the situation entirely. You should decide which of these options to take based on your relationship with your friend and the situation you're in at the time.
 You can also set boundaries by giving your friendship some space and breathing room. This may mean not calling or texting your friend back right away. Or, you may set her call aside and make a plan to call her back when you are ready to talk about her boyfriend. Doing this can help you control how often you hear about her new relationship.For example, you may notice your friend has called you in the morning. You may then put off calling her back until the evening when you have set aside an hour of time to talk. You may then call her back and say, “Okay, I have an hour to chat before bed. What’s up?”

, If your friend continues to talk too much about her boyfriend, you may need to sit her down and have a discussion with her about how you are feeling. You may have the chat in person and in a private location, like your home or in a park outside. Bring up the topic with her and be honest about how you are feeling. Communication is key to a good friendship.For example, you may start the conversation by saying, “I value you as a friend and I want us to stay friends. But I am having trouble with how often you talk about your boyfriend. I am interested in hearing about your relationship but I also think we should talk about other things and share other things happening in our lives. How do you feel about this?”
Try to keep the conversation open and honest. Listen to your friend’s response and work together to come up with a solution to the issue. As friends, you should be able to share constructive feedback about how you are acting and be honest with each other.
 You can also deal with your friend’s intense interest in her relationship by trying to still make time for the two of you to hang out, one on one. Spending time together can allow you to build memories that do not have anything to do with her relationship. It will also give you a way to shift the focus from her relationship to your friendship.When you are making plans with her, you should make sure you choose a specific date and time for the hangout. Avoid making vague plans, as these could then change due to plans she might have with her boyfriend.
For example, you may say, “How about we get together on Friday night at 7 pm for dinner?” or you may say, “What about hanging out after school tomorrow?” Put the hangout in your calendar and commit to it so you get time together, just the two of you.
 Another way you can focus on your friendship is to plan a girl’s night out. This could be with other girlfriends you have and exclude any boys, including your friend’s boyfriend. Having a girl’s night can allow you all to hang out and make memories together, separate of your other relationships.You may try to collaborate with your friend on the girl’s night so she is involved and invested. You may ask her advice on what to do or where to go as a ground. You may plan the night together so you can also spend time together one on one.
 Though you want to make sure there is enough time for your friendship, you should not disregard your friend’s relationship when you are planning social outings. If the social outing is not a girl’s only night, you should make an effort to include your friend’s boyfriend. Inviting him will show your friend that you do not have a problem with him and are supportive their relationship.She also probably won't talk about him a lot during the time you're all together, because he will be right there.

