 Grunge is defined by a messy, I-don’t-care look that combines punk styles with working-class clothing. If you want to dress grunge, you will have to give up any value you might put into matching or looking too clean.Search the internet for pictures of some of the most famous grungers and grunge band members--Kurt Cobain, Courtney Love, Eddie Vedder, Chris Cornell, William DuVall (of Alice in Chains) etc.;
, Grunge style is all about cheap clothing worn in a careless way. Thrift stores like Goodwill, Salvation Army, and Crossroads are great places to get second-hand clothes that are comfortable and just the right amount of faded. Look for clothes that are a little big on you. Also H&M has some great stuff, just look for clothing from the Divided brand. Avoid brightly colored items of clothing--stick with muted colors and black clothing.


Thrift stores are especially good places to find jeans that can be ripped easily (see Step 4 for more on denim.) Jeans found at a thrift store are generally a little more worn and faded in color--both characteristics of a grungy vibe.
 One of the key pieces in any grunge wardrobe is a flannel shirt. Flannel, which is generally pretty cheap, was incorporated into the grunge look in the 90’s and continues to be reigning king of the grunge style. Look for flannels in muted, slightly faded colors. Both girls and guys can wear an over-sized flannel over a t-shirt or long-sleeved undershirt.A girl-grunge classic look is large, baggy flannel worn over a black t-shirt and a baby doll skirt with big, chunky Doc Marten boots.
 Better yet, make your own ripped denim and wear that. Rip jeans are another staple of the grunge style. Keep in mind that store-bought distressed jeans look different than jeans you are ripped yourself. For a more authentic grunge look, rip your own jeans. Other good grunge-jean qualities to look for are jeans that are faded, a little loose, and acid-washed denim.


In the summer, look for (or make your own) ripped up denim shorts.
 Grunge was born out of a marriage between punk style and working class clothing. Because of this pairing, another grunge staple is the favorite-band-t-shirt. Think grunge groups like Nirvana, Pearl Jam, Alice in Chains, Mudhoney, Sound Garden, PAW, Hole, as well as bands who influenced them (Sonic Youth, Pixies, etc.).One key thing to keep in mind--if you are going to rep grunge bands (and dress like a grunger) you’re going to need to actually listen to the grunge music you are representing. Listen to the classic grunge bands of the late 80’s and early 90’s--but also look into the grunge scene in your area. Start following a local grunge band, or start your own.
 As stated above, grunge is mostly about being comfortable and not caring how you look. A good way to get into the grunge look is by layering your clothing. Wear a big flannel or sweater over a grunge band t-shirt over a long-sleeved thermal (and so on and so forth.) Another good tip to keep in mind--your clothes don’t particularly need to match.

