 Create a list of everything that is good about you. These can include things about your appearance or your personality. Try to come up with at least ten items but include as many as you think of.


What are your talents?
What are positive things people say about you?
Who do you love in your life?
What are you passionate about?;
, Ask yourself why you are struggling to accept your reflection. Do you dislike the way you look? Are you struggling to confront yourself and who you’ve become? Are you stressed or uncertain about other areas of your life? By identifying your insecurities, you can better handle and eliminate them.


Writing in a journal can help you process your emotions, and it might identify your insecurities and negative thoughts.Reflect daily on your activities, emotions, and struggles.
 When you are at home, take off all of your clothing in front of the bathroom mirror. Force yourself to look at your body. Inspect it carefully, and get used to your different features. Note any negative or positive emotions that run through your head. By identifying these thoughts, you can refocus your attention towards the beautiful and positive aspects of your body.Are you criticizing yourself?
Is there a certain feature, such as your belly or nose, that you are fixating on?
If you had to describe your appearance, what would you say?
End on a positive note. When you are done, ask yourself what you like about your body. Come up with at least five things.
 If you constantly check yourself for imperfections in the mirror, it may be time to stop. You should only look in the mirror when you are getting ready in the morning, washing your face at night, or going to the bathroom. Fixating on any blemishes or marks on that might have appeared during the day will only make it harder for you to accept yourself.Alternatively, if you find it difficult to look at yourself in the mirror, you may try increasing how often you look. This will help you come to terms with your reflection.

