 Put the cantaloupe under cool tap water, turning it around in your hands. Use a produce brush to brush dirt out of the cantaloupe’s rough skin. Finish by drying the fruit with a paper towel or a dry cloth.

You don’t need to use soap to clean the cantaloupe: water and a brush are sufficient.;
, Use a serrated knife to cut the cantaloupe lengthwise. Make sure to keep your fingers away from the knife to prevent injury. Then, use a spoon to scoop out the seeds and liquid sitting at the center of each half., Always cut lengthwise through each piece’s center. You’ll effectively be cutting each half two more times, into smaller halves, until you have eight total pieces., Holding one end of the slice between your fingers, bring a serrated knife to the opposite end, where the peel meets the rest of the fruit. Carefully slice back and forth, following the curve of the fruit and slowly cutting off the peel. As the knife gets closer to your hand, bring your fingers lower on the piece of fruit, grasping the peel. This will allow the knife to pass over your fingers safely as you finish peeling the fruit., Using a similar movement as when you peeled the fruit, slice from one end of the cantaloupe to the other, following its curve. Cut slices at half inch intervals to create long, thin cantaloupe strips. Do this with each eighth of the cantaloupe.

If you’re unsure about where to start cutting, you can use measuring tape to guide your blade., Lay a cheesecloth directly on the oven rack and place the fruit slices on top of it. Make sure to scatter them well enough that they don’t touch. Set the oven to 145 degrees Fahrenheit (63 Celsius). Leave the oven door slightly ajar to allow steam to escape.

You’ll need to check on the fruit pieces periodically to determine when they’re ready. Your definition of “ready” might vary; some like their cantaloupe completely dry and crispy, whereas others prefer them a bit more pliable.
It may take up to eight hours for the cantaloupe slices to be dried.
If you have pets or small children, you should avoid using this method., Scatter your cantaloupe slices on the dehydrator tray. Set the dehydrator to 135 degrees Fahrenheit (57 Celsius) and let it sit for about 16 hours. Depending on the texture you prefer, you might want to leave the slices in the dehydrator for up to 18 hours.

Note that trays will vary in shape and size depending on the dehydrator you’re using, which might limit the amount of slices you can dry at one time.
Instructions might vary depending on your specific dehydrator; when in doubt check the owner’s manual., This isn’t achievable in every climate. If you live in an area where the temperatures easily reach or exceed 100 degrees Farenheit (38 Celsius) and it’s not too humid, you’ll be able to dry your cantaloupe slices in the sun. Cover a cookie sheet in cheesecloth and place the cantaloupe slices atop it. Then leave the whole thing outside in direct sunlight.

Turn the fruit slices over once a day so they’ll dry evenly.
Bring the tray in at night to avoid dew forming on the fruit.
It should take two to four days for the cantaloupe slices to dry completely. You may want to check the forecast to guarantee a sunny period of four days before attempting this method.You can protect drying fruit slices from insects and birds by covering them with a bug screen or cheesecloth., This can be anything from a sandwich bag to a mason jar. You need to make sure the seal on the container you choose is airtight; this will prevent moisture from mingling with your fruit slices and keep them dry., This will keep the fruit slices out of direct sunlight, which can cause discoloration. Your fruit slices will stay edible for longer if they’re protected from sunlight., Excess heat or humidity will be absorbed by the fruit slices; keeping them dry will keep them edible longer. If stored properly, you can eat your cantaloupe slices up to a year after you packaged them.