 Not every little girl loves pink. If you do not already know, ask the girl in question what her favorite color is before deciding how to paint her room. Either paint the walls with that hue or choose a paint color that could coordinate well with accessories in that color.;
, If the girl in question has a particular interest, you may want to consider filling her room with furniture and decorations that pay homage to that interest. Paint color can be used to tie a theme together.


Use pink or purple to complete a ballerina or princess room.
Stick with blues and sandy beiges for a beach theme.
Opt for greens and yellows to complete a garden theme.
 Choosing a paint scheme that specifically appeals to a little girl may mean that you have to repaint again in another few years, once her interests or tastes change. A neutral paint color may seem dull on its own, but you can jazz the room up with bright color accents in the form of comforters, pillows, lampshades, paintings, and other decorations.
 Pink and purple are the quintessential girl colors and create a classically girly room. Use soft pinks and lavenders for a delicate appearance or bolder shades for a more vibrant option.
 A light buttercup yellow reflects light and creates a more luminous area, a bolder yellow fills the room with energy and life, and a golden shade creates a warm, mature ambiance. Nearly any shade will add a hint of sunshine to a girl’s room, however.


Accent yellow with blues or greens commonly found in nature to invite the outside in.
 For instance, try painting one wall dark brown while painting the other three light pink. Doing this may extend the life and appeal of the color scheme. The boost of maturity provided by a sophisticated hue will allow an otherwise childish paint scheme to grow with her.
 Girlhood is often associated with innocence and delicacy. To draw out this mood, choose pastel hues of nearly any color, from powder blue to blush pink to peach.
 Sherbet hues like lemon, lime, and orange are cheery and playful, but with the right accessories, they can transform from a child's playground into a teen's paradise. As a result, you may not need to repaint when the girl in question gets older.
 Childhood is a time filled with energy and excitement. Bright colors can match this energy, and bright, contrasting colors are especially effective at doing so. Try high-contrast combinations like green and pink or yellow and purple.
 Use whites, creams, and blush pinks. The softness of this style appeals to traditionally girly girls, but the sophistication of this style may also make it desirable for older girls, as well.
 A standard white ceiling keeps the focus on the walls and furnishings, but a color grabs the eye and makes the ceiling a part of the décor.


In general, light shades work best because they keep the room looking open. Dark shades can seem overwhelming, if not threatening.
Blue can mimic the sky, giving the room a very natural ambiance.
 Patterns on the wall are an easy way to make a room look more playful and visually interested. Stripes are probably the easiest, but dots are also fairly doable.


Choose varying shades of the same hue for a subtle hint of contrast.
Use contrasting colors to give the room a funky, energetic twist.
 If you have a steady enough hand and enough artistic talent, you can paint pictures on the wall. Flowers, swirling vines, butterflies, and stars can transform even the plainest of walls into a magical scene, transporting the room’s occupant to a world of imagination.
 You can use stencils to paint letters on the wall, or you can try free-handing it if you feel confident about the steadiness and gracefulness of your strokes.


Including her name personalizes her room, making it feel as though it truly belongs to her and her alone.
Painting an encouraging quote, verse, proverb, or saying on a wall can act as a source of inspiration for the girl as she grows and goes about her days.

