 Since this will completely depend on your horse, you'll need to submit a feces sample to your vet. The vet will run a fecal egg count test to find out if your horse has worms and what kind they are. This allows your vet to choose the most effective dewormer for that particular infestation and how often your horse needs to be dewormed.For example, a horse with a heavy worm burden may need monthly deworming, but one with few worms could be done quarterly or even twice a year.;
, Deworming your horse unnecessarily can lead to an increased resistance to the worms. For this reason, your vet may recommend rotating deworming drugs (giving four to six different dewormers) before starting back at the beginning treatment. Since some horses can develop a natural resistance to worms, they may not need deworming at all which is why a fecal analysis is important.If your horse has a heavy worm burden, a daily dewormer might be help prevent heavy worm infestation between regular deworming. But, daily dewormers shouldn't be considered a complete deworming strategy on their own since their effectiveness is limited against certain parasites and total deworming treatment is required before starting them., Your veterinarian will talk with you about deworming medications. These include fenbendazole, ivermectin, moxidectin, pyrantel, and praziquantel. Since each drug has a subtly different spectrum of activity, your vet will decide what medication will work best for your horse.The following are drug classes to consider:Benzimidazoles (such as fenbendazole) can kill nematode eggs, unlike other drug classes, and are available as granules, pastes, and suspension formulas. These medications are usually given several days in a row.
Macrocyclic lactones (such as ivermectin and moxidectin) are some of the most effective medications and can, in addition, kill external parasites like lice and mites. They do take 3 to 4 days before treatment is effective.
Isoquinoline-pyrazines (such as praziquantel) are only effective against cestodes (in horses, Anoplocephala spp., also known as tapeworms.) In the United States, this drug is only available in combination with macrocyclic lactones.
 You'll need to know your horse's weight since the medication is dosed by body weight and prescribed by your vet. Treatment will be ineffective if not enough medication is given, which can also encourage drug resistance. The majority of dewormers are very safe, so it is better to overestimate the amount rather than underestimate, especially if your horse dislikes dewormers and is inclined to spit them out. Plan to give extra in anticipation of the horse spitting part of the dose out.Be aware that many dosing syringes of horse dewormer contain enough for a 1,200 lb horse. If you have a large horse, you may need two syringes. Some veterinarians suggest adding on the amount required for another 250lbs (one mark on the dosing syringe) regardless of your horse's size.To find out your horse's weight, buy a measuring tape from a feed merchant or tack store. Measure around the horse's chest and see how the weight corresponds on a scale that gives an estimate of the horse's weight.

