 Position yourself somewhere where you are near him, and look approachable. If you can get him to come over to you, all the better. Look for a seat where he can see you or a spot where you can stand or sit that is a little bit out of the way but still in his line of sight. Then if he is looking at you, you can tell that is what he is doing. Play with your hair, glance his direction, or talk to someone near him to get his attention.


Don’t go overboard with the hair touching or eye contact- that could make you seem desperate for his attention.
 Then find something that keeps you a little bit busy. You can look at your phone once in awhile, flip through a menu, or chat casually with someone near you, but don’t appear as though you are unavailable. And then make a point of returning his gaze when he looks over at you. Hold eye contact for a second or two longer than usual, blink softly, and then flash him a little smile and look away.This might prompt him to come over and say hello to you first.
 If he doesn’t approach you, that is fine. Don’t be afraid to take a chance- guys like girls who are willing to make the first move. You should walk up to him, initiate eye contact, and say a friendly "Hello." Then ask him a question, or give him a compliment. Don't be afraid to smile -- chances are, he is probably nervous too. Then, go ahead and introduce yourself.


You can keep the question simple and let the conversation go from there. For example, you could ask him, “What drink would you recommend here?”
Try complimenting him on his hair, facial features (e.g. eyes), or sense of style. For example, you could say something like, “Nice watch, I like your sense of style.” Keep it casual and understated, but make it clear that you are interested in him.
 Some guys like girls who are more subtle and aloof while others like the complete opposite. You are your own person on top of all of this, and you have strengths that you may be able to employ better using your own theories. If you have any impulses for how you should make your moves, go with your gut. Every environment is different and you will be the best judge of the situation. Once you have done it a couple of times, think about what has worked and hasn’t worked, and keep trying with your improved techniques.

