 Make sure your camera is in great working order. If your a film fan, have plenty in stock and if you do digital photography, have memory cards ready. Get your lenses clean and have all the ones you need on hand. Take tests shots to check the best settings on your equipment.;
, Have a plan for bad weather if the holiday occasion is outdoor. Have your camera ready to use outdoors if the weather means the action goes outside.


Make it so that you have as much natural light as possible. If you are inside, utilize windows, you can control the light from them with drapes and/or blinds. Take some shots using your camera flash and some without.
If you want to take a holiday family portrait, you can improve it by making sure people are dressed for a portrait it. Give your gathering a chance to change into their portrait outfits. Most people are usually 'dressed up' when at a family event already though.
 Of course, you want to include the tree, candles, the church (for Easter), and other inanimate objects as part of it, and maybe a few shots of them alone, but the value in holidays is the family, whether it's just you and your partner, you and your pets, a standard nuclear family, a great big club gathering or something else.
 You don't want to find out later that your pet photobombed your grandmother or the newborn in the picture has a tree growing out of her head.
 Get the 'standard' group photo, you know the one, the matriarch surrounded by her family in front of the tree, or the house. Capture the whole occasion, take shots in the early morning light and the evening, or even after dark.


Take some candid shots when people aren't expecting you to photograph them if you wish. Even though they are candid, if you have prepared ahead, you will improve the general look of all shots, including snapshots.
Take some photographs of the holiday food. Take a photo of the dining table set for dinner if appropriate. Capture the preparation of food, the barbecue in action, the Christmas pudding alight, even just the potatoes being peeled! If the image is essentially 'holiday' to you, or in any way special, take a picture.
 If you are using it all the time, it will become second nature. This will help your images look more aesthetically appealing.
 That doesn't mean just have their face in the shot all the time. Of course, it's the holidays. You want to include some of the background. What you don't want is to have a big picture of the living room (unless that's what you want) with a couple of people in it.


Know how much background is too much.
This doesn't apply when you have a bunch of kids unwrapping their gifts on Christmas morning in the living room or any similarly active shot. That is when you want, if not the whole setting, a good part of it in the shot.

