 Power chords are one of the reasons punk rock is even possible. They are easy to finger and sound great at high volumes, which makes them easily played at top speed as well. Power chords are only three notes. First, you place your index finger on the E or A string, which tells you which chord you're playing (start on a "B," and the chord is a B). You then hold the next two strings two frets down -- and that's it. For a few examples, see an A, G, and D below, but know that this form can move anywhere on the top two strings:



A-Chord | G-Chord | D-Chord |
|e|----x-----|------x------|-----x------|
|B|----x----|------x------|-----x------|
|G|----x----|------x------|-----7------|
|D|----7----|------5------|-----7------|
|A|----7----|------5------|-----5------|
|E|----5----|------3------|-----x------|

, Punk songs are quick and guitar-driven, usually made up of little more than 3-4 power chords. Find these few notes or power chords that you enjoy and combine them into a short little phrase you can repeat quickly. More often than not, this is all you need to write your verse or chorus. In many cases, especially with shorter songs (check The Minuteman or early Bad Religion and NOFX), this riff may be enough for an entire song.


Start learning songs you love to get an idea for different chord progressions. Tweak, chop, and screw these patterns to start making your own songs.
 To be fair, a lot of punk bands play the same chords in every section, often in a different order or at a new tempo (as The Ramones so generously illustrate). Frequently, the chorus is the faster, more high-energy of the two, but there is nothing binding you from the opposite. Just as many bands, of course, write entirely new choruses -- just remember to use the same key (usually the first chord in the song) for both sections. When writing a chorus instrumental:


Change up the mood or feel from the verse somehow -- get more intense, more melodic, faster/slower -- anything to differentiate the section from the verse.
Try adding a 1-2 bar "bridge" into the chorus -- often a few different chords or a small solo line that signals the transition.
 A single note line is when you play individual guitar notes, like you were soloing. If you have two guitarists, this will be the place the lead guitarist can shine. These lines are often the defining melody of the songs, and frequently mimic the melody or voice of the singer (or vice-versa).


Listen to any punk band with two guitarists or more for examples of lead lines -- there are very few bands that stick to nothing but power chords for every single song., Palm muting is the chunky, heavy sounding chords in many slower punk songs, like the beginning of Pennywise's "Society." It works exactly like the name implies -- the fleshy part of your palm rests lightly on the end of the strings, preventing them from ringing out but still allowing the guitar to make a sound. Punk guitarists create tension by picking up and putting down palm muted to build volume or get a totally new tone.


One of the most common palm muting tricks is to slowly raise your palm as you strum a chord, slowly peeling off the palm mute to bring the guitar to full volume., Guitar solos have their place in punk rock, but they usually don't last for more than a few bars -- 15 seconds or less. Soloing in punk is often about speed, frequently playing only 2-3 notes but playing them repeatedly. These notes, however, are run together quickly to give them staying power and drive. Other solo ideas include playing the theme or vocal line briefly, then diving off into other notes in the same scale. You can also go the opposite direction, playing only 2-3 slow notes that ring out loudly before dropping back into the high-tempo chorus.


If you know a bit about guitar, you can usually use the pentatonic scales (both major and minor) for most punk solos.
Whatever your soloing strategy, try to make every note count. Short and sweet is the name of the game

, Straight up punk rock is not so straight up -- in a genre of non-conformists and DIY lovers, punk has taken on hundreds of unique or quirky influences. While hardcore and metal influences are perhaps the most obvious (check out The Misfits, Rise Against or F--ked Up), there are many other spins and variations that open up new songwriting avenues:



Reggae / Ska: Most punk bands have at least a few ska-tinged tunes, but check out RX Bandits, Operation Ivy, and No Doubt.

Pop: Pop-punk is the most common subgenre of pop, with everyone from Blink-182 to Green Day showing that slightly more catchy tunes with punk instruments are big sellers.

Alt-Country: It sounds completely anti-punk, but Social Distortion, Lucero, and Uncle Tupelo all bring some deep south sound to their songs

Swing/Rockabilly: The Dead Kennedys might have kicked it off with "Viva Las Vegas," but The Misfits and Cobra Skulls are keeping it alive.

