 One benefit of bulk shopping is minimizing the amount of packaging used. To further this practice, bring your smaller containers along when you go grocery shopping. Fill them directly from the store’s bulk containers to eliminate the need for unnecessary bags.Fill them all the way up each time. Weigh them once you are done. Record the weight so you know exactly how many pounds or grams it weighs. This can help you budget for future trips.
 With opaque containers, label the outside with its contents and purchase date. With clear containers, you can probably identify most items by sight, but still make a point of labeling long-term containers with the purchase date. Ensure a steady rotation so you don’t end up eating the dried chickpeas you bought last week while the ones you bought three months ago sit unlabeled behind everything else.Do the same with frozen-food packages to minimize the loss of quality caused by prolonged freezer burn.
Use permanent marker to prevent the writing from wearing off.
For containers that are reused (as opposed to frozen-food packaging), secure a piece of paper to the side or top with strong tape along all four sides to create each new label.
 Even if you have designated another area for long-term storage, consider placing dried good products in the freezer for a day, week, or even longer.Kill any insects that may have found their way into the store’s bulk bin. At the same time, extend the food’s shelf life by slowing down the natural breakdown that occurs in all foods.Climate (especially one with high humidity) can reduce the shelf life of many foods, even when safely stored in airtight containers and cool, dark places.
If you live in such an area, research each food item to decide which may benefit the most from long-term storage in a freezer or refrigerator.
If adding an extra fridge or freezer to your home isn’t possible, readjust the amount you buy at a time to ensure that you use all of one purchase in a timely manner.
 Be aware that it can be easy to forget what you have in long-term storage. Keep an up-to-date list of everything that’s in there, including their purchase dates. Go the extra mile and record each time you refill short-term containers from long-term ones so you can keep track of how full or how empty the long-term containers are.Doing so will help prevent you from needlessly buying more basmati rice when you have a full bucket shoved all the way in the back and out of view.
Including the purchase date will also help alert you to what should be used soon while it’s still relatively fresh.
Additionally, this is a great way to double-check if you are buying more of one item than you really need.

