 Write down two to three valid reasons for wanting a bra. And try to make your reasons personal. If you do this, your mom will be more likely to sympathize and agree with you. Also, by identifying your reasons, you will have more confidence communicating your needs to your mom. Just remember that your mom was a girl who needed a bra once, too.For example, perhaps you play sports and you realize that a bra will provide you with the support you need.
If you are developing and it's becoming noticeable, say "I need support and coverage so that I don't show more than I want. People keep staring at me and I think it's because they can see I'm not wearing a bra."
Try to avoid using the "everyone else is doing it" reason; parents don't usually see this as a valid reason.;
, It is natural to feel nervous or embarrassed about discussing sensitive topics, like wearing a bra, with your mom. Perhaps you are afraid your mom will misunderstand you, reject your request, or punish you for asking. But don’t let these feelings prevent you from talking with your mom. Instead, translate your feelings into words when you approach your mom about the topic.For example, “I feel a little embarrassed talking about this, but I need to ask you something mom,” or "Mom, can I ask you something personal? I wanted to know at what age you started wearing a bra because I think it is time for me to get one. I hope you understand."

, Write down three or four different ways of asking your mom for a bra. Say them out loud and see which one feels the most natural. Once you have nailed down what you would like to say, rehearse it out loud or in front of the mirror until the words come out naturally.For example, you could say, “Mom, I need to ask you something. It is not anything bad, but it is a little embarrassing. I don’t know if you have noticed, but my body has been going through some changes lately. I think it is time for me to wear a bra. I think a bra would help me feel more comfortable and secure about my body.”

