 If you believe you have tonsillitis, it is important to see either your family doctor or an emergency doctor (if you cannot get in to see your family doctor on the same day) to get a throat swab to determine the diagnosis.The biggest concern with tonsillitis is when it is caused by Group A Strep bacteria. This will require medical treatment with antibiotics, as failure to treat it can lead to potentially dangerous complications down the road.


The good news is that seeking medical treatment promptly usually resolves the infection without complications.
Tonsillitis may also be caused by other things, such as a viral infection. It is not always caused by strep bacteria; however, it is always best to be seen by a healthcare professional to rule this out and stay on the safe side.
 The main thing that would prevent you from achieving these goals is tonsils that are so swollen or painful that it hurts to eat or drink.


Doctors recommend controlling your pain via medication so you can continue to eat and drink.
In extreme cases of tonsillar swelling, doctors can administer corticosteroid medication that diminishes the swelling.If you are unable to eat or drink, your doctor will likely prescribe IV fluids and calories to tide you by, until the corticosteroid and pain medications can take effect and decrease the pain and swelling in your tonsillar area enough for you to consume food and drinks orally., In almost all cases of tonsillitis, your doctor will recommend acetaminophen (Tylenol) or ibuprofen (Advil) as needed for pain control.Both of these medications are available over-the-counter at your local pharmacy; follow the recommended dosing on the bottle.


Acetaminophen (Tylenol) tends to be the better choice as it combats fever as well as pain.Most cases of tonsillitis are the result of an infection, so acetaminophen can help to bring your fever down too.
However, you must be careful with acetaminophen, as it is added to so many medications, which makes it easy to overdose. Make sure to keep track of the total dosage and avoid taking more than three grams per day. Do not drink while taking acetaminophen.



Request an alternative antibiotic if you are allergic to penicillin.
Finish the antibiotics even if you feel better. Neglecting the remainder of your treatment may result in tonsillitis symptoms returning or worsening, or you may develop complications down the road if you do not finish your prescribed treatment.
Ask your doctor about what to do if you forget or miss a dose of the antibiotic.
 If antibiotics do not help, or if you experience chronic or frequent tonsillitis, then a tonsillectomy may be the last resort. Frequent tonsillitis happens when a person experiences infection multiple times over the course of one to three years.


Doctors perform a tonsillectomy to remove the two tonsils from the back of the throat. Besides being the final treatment option for tonsillitis, a tonsillectomy also alleviates sleep apnea or other breathing problems related to enlarged tonsils.
Doctors generally finish the surgery in one day, but patients fully recover in approximately 7 to 10 days.In the United States, criteria for a tonsillectomy are normally 6 or more tonsillar infections over the course of 1 year, 5 infections over 2 consecutive years, or over 3 infections per year over 3 consecutive years.