 This set of rules should be written with consideration of your child’s age. Younger children will need simple, straightforward rules, while older children can begin to understand more complex rules, that may be flexible depending on the situation. The list should prioritize those rules that are based on the naughty behaviors your children is demonstrating.For example, if your child behaves aggressively when they don’t get what they want by hitting you or someone else, then you should draft a rule that makes this behavior strictly forbidden.
The list of rules should include each of the things you expect your child to do each day, which will also depend on their age. This might include brushing their teeth, washing their face, and combing their hair when they get up in the morning, making their bed, putting away their toys, etc.
Sit down and discuss this list of rules with your child so that they know what is expected of them.;
, Not only do you need to have a clear set of rules that your child can understand and follow, you should also make clear what will happen when one of the rules is broken. If a higher priority rule is broken (e.g. if your child hits you), then the consequence should be more severe than if the child breaks a less high priority rule (e.g. doesn’t make up the bed in the morning).


You should never use physical violence as a means of punishing your child. Not only does hitting or spanking your child damage your relationship with your child, it shows them that they can get smaller, weaker people to give them what they want by hitting them.Make sure to discuss each rule together with the consequence that will occur if they break the rule. This way, they understand what to expect.
 Children who are bored will find ways to entertain themselves. While it is not necessarily a bad thing for children to use their own imaginations when it comes to entertaining themselves, it can also cause them to act out and behave in ways they know they shouldn’t.For example, if your child will be home all day long, try to schedule different activities. Let them color with a coloring book and crayons for an hour while you do what you need to do. Spend some time playing together with them, ask them to help you make lunch, or do some finger painting outside together. It’s good to give them some time to play by themselves, but it is also important to spend time playing together and nurturing your relationship.
 In addition to giving your child plenty of tasks, you should have a routine that you stick to each day, especially if your child is not yet of school age. This will help them understand what to expect and when to expect it, reducing the likelihood of boredom or frustration.


For example, have them take their nap at the same time each day. Make sure to be consistent, too. Have them take their bath each day at the same time. For example, before bed, which will also signal to them that it’s time to wind down.
 Obviously, as the child grows, you will have to re-think the rules and the consequences attached to them. Therefore, it is important to remember that younger children won’t be able to process complex rules with contingencies, while older children can be given a bit more control and independence.Children between 0 and 2 will not be able to understand a set of rules. Instead, if there are certain things in the home you want them to avoid, it is best to keep those things up and out of reach of the children. If they get into something you want them to stay away from, gently but firmly tell them, “No,” and distract them with another activity. You can use timeouts of a few minutes to help them associate certain actions (such as biting or hitting) with a negative consequence. Timeouts of longer than a few minutes will not be effective for children at this young age.
Children between the ages of 3 and 5 will be able to understand connections between what they are doing and the consequence that follows. If the child misbehaves, be sure to explain to them why they should not do what they did before you give them the consequence. Explain what they did wrong, and explain what will happen if they do it again. The next time it happens, remind them of what you told them, and apply the consequence.
From ages 6 until 8, timeouts are a good way of enacting discipline. Make a designated timeout spot that will be free from any distractions (such as TV, computer, etc.) so that the child will need to think about what they did. Again, remember not to take it to the extreme. A timeout of 6 to 8 minutes should be sufficient. If the child is throwing a tantrum, tell them they will remain in the timeout until they are able to calm themselves.
Beginning at the age of 9 up until 12, you can begin to use natural punishments, in addition to enacted discipline, such as grounding them for a week if they break a rule. For example, if your child failed to do his homework for bed, you should let him learn what happens when he returns to school without doing his homework before intervening. Beginning at this age, children should begin to learn for themselves what happens when they don’t do what is asked of them.
If your child is a teenager, you will need to re-establish the rules so that they can exercise their own control and independence, within reason. If a rule is broken, there should still be consequences, but as before, it is important to explain to them why they should stick to the rules. For example, if they come home past curfew without calling, explain why that is very worrisome for you.
 If your child is throwing a big tantrum (e.g. yelling, screaming, crying, banging fists, etc.) the best thing you can do is remove the audience that they are performing for. This may only be you, but it may also be your other children, friends of your child, grandparents, etc. If you are at home, and your child is not in danger of hurting themselves, then suggest that everyone go do something else in a different room for awhile.If you are not at home, then remove your child from the public place as quickly as possible. For example, if you are at the grocery store, take the child to the car.
 If your child is under four years old, you can let them have their tantrum alone, in a safe place. Check on them every few minutes, and tell them that you are aware that they are upset, and that you can talk with them about why they are upset when they are finished with the tantrum.If the child younger than four reacts violently to you, either by hitting, kicking, scratching, or biting you, you should immediately put them in a time out. Tell them very clearly, that such behavior will absolutely not be tolerated.
Once the child has calmed down, and you are able to talk with them, listen to what they have to say, and tell them that throwing a tantrum is not the best way to deal with their problem. However, don’t fixate on this point. Explain a better way to deal with it, and move on.
 If the child is over four, and they are throwing a tantrum, gently remind them of the rules. Explain to them that they have two options: they can either choose to stop the behavior, and do something that is within the rules, and that they would like to do, or they can continue with their behavior, and not have enough time to do something they would enjoy.Once they have calmed down, discuss better ways that they can express their feelings in the future. Ask them to make suggestions about how they think they could have reacted better.
 Sometimes tantrums can be so severe that no amount of reasoning seems to do any good. In this case, you can try to distract them with a favorite book, or pacifier, if they use one.However, when the tantrum is over, it is still important to discuss better ways of dealing with problems in the future.
 Especially when a child throws a tantrum in a public place, such as the grocery store, it may seem that the best thing to do is to simply give them what they want so they will stop embarrassing you. However, this is a bad idea, and will only reinforce that throwing a tantrum will get them what they want. It may seem like a good idea at the time, but you will be sorry you did it the next time they throw a tantrum in the exact same situation., When a child is having a tantrum, and you are getting frustrated with them, it can be very tempting to yell at them to knock it off. However, at this point, yelling is unlikely to help the situation, and will likely only increase the stress levels of the child, and of yourself.Instead, keep the tone of your voice calm and even. If you feel like you are going to yell if you open your mouth, then don’t say anything at all. If you are losing your temper, it may be best to walk away from the situation for a few minutes, provided your child is not in danger of harming themselves.
 When the child has calmed down, you should remove the item that caused the tantrum, and replace it with something quiet and relaxing for the child to focus on.For example, if your child was upset because they wanted a candy bar, move the child away from the candy section, and let them look through a magazine while you finish the shopping.
 Tell the child that while you didn’t love their behavior, you do love them, and that you always will. It is important for a child to understand that your love for them is not reliant upon their good behavior.For example, you should say, “That tantrum back there was pretty bad, I hope you understand that I don't enjoy it when you yell and scream like that, but I do love you very much, even when you throw tantrums.” Don’t say, “You were a very bad kid back there. Sometimes, it’s hard to love you when you act like that.”

, If your child is behaving badly or has done something you don’t want them to do, don’t simply say, “Stop that!” Instead, tell them what you would like them to do, and what the reward will be for engaging in this different behavior.For example, if they have yelled at their younger sibling, say, “Remember that we have a rule about yelling. If you’re feeling upset by your sister, I would like to see you walk away from her instead of yelling. When I see you do this, I will take you to see that movie you’ve been asking to see.”
You can also give the child a chance to tell you what is going on in their minds. For example, you could say, “What is your sister doing that is making you feel like you want to yell at her?” This will give them a chance to feel understood instead of just redirecting their behavior without acknowledging that they are upset.
 If your child is doing something that is against the rules, remind them of that rule, and the consequence for breaking it. Explain to them that if they continue with the rule-breaking behavior, that you will be forced to enact the consequence.At this point, you can give them a choice. Explain to them that they can either stop the behavior, not receive the consequence of that behavior, and do something else, or they can continue with the behavior and deal with consequence of that behavior.
 Sometimes enforcing the consequences of rule-breaking can be a hassle. However, if the child has broken a rule it is important that you follow through with what you said, and that you do so in a timely manner. If you don’t, the child may learn that you don’t stick to the rules yourself, so why should they?If for some reason, you can’t immediately enact the consequence, explain to the child that you will still follow through, but that it will have to be at a later time. Explain the reason for the delay so that they understand that they aren’t getting away with their bad behavior.
 This can be very frustrating, especially because it may mean dealing with the same behavior several times before it stops, but it is important that your child understand that there will be consequences every time a rule is broken. Make sure to follow through by explaining what the rule is, how the child broke it, and what the consequence now is.


For example, if the child hits another child, immediately place them in time out where they will not be able to play for 5 minutes. If the behavior is repeated, repeat the consequence. Do this as often as necessary so that your child understands that bad behavior always has a consequence., You can sit down with them, and write down several different things they’d like to do, meals they’d like to eat, and places they’d like to visit. Have them tell you which things they really, really would like, and rank them from highest priority to lowest priority.When your child does something really great, you can reward them with their top reward. For example, if their teacher reports that they have behaved very well all month at school, you could take them to the zoo, if that was the thing they most wanted. You can use the other rewards to reward them for other good behavior, such as making up the bed each day for a week without being asked.
 If you notice your child behaving particularly well, tell them so. Thank them for behaving so nicely, and give them a hug. Reward them with something from the list, too.


If you never reward them for their good behavior unless they remind you of your agreements, it may demonstrate to them that you aren’t really paying any attention.
 Most children really enjoy doing things with parents and caregivers. If your child is behaving well, show them that you appreciate it by doing things together with them. Allow them to take more responsibility with tasks. This will show them that you notice their good behavior, and are rewarding it.


For example, if your child is behaving very well, ask them to come plant some flowers in the garden with you. Then, let them take charge (within reason). Let them choose where to plant the flowers, let them place the seeds into the hole, and cover it up.
 It is important that you discuss how the child should be disciplined if the rules are broken with the parents of the child. Ask them how they discipline the child, and what their expectations are when it comes to you taking care of the child and applying discipline if the rules are not followed.It is important to discuss this with the parents so that there are not any misunderstandings. If you don’t discuss this, you may use different discipline techniques than the parents. Not only will this cause confusion and stress for the child, but it may also cause tension in your relationship with the parents.
 In all likelihood, the rules you use with the child will be the same as the ones the parents use. However, you might ask the parents to include one or two new rules to the list that relate specifically to how the child is expected to behave when you are the caretaker.For example, you might include a rule that explicitly states that when you are taking care of the child, you are in charge, and the child is expected to do as you say.
It is probably also a good idea to sit down with the child (if they are old enough to understand), with the parents, in order to go over all of the rules (including any new rules). This will help the child understand that the rules apply in your presence, and will let them know that you are well aware of the rules, too.
 This is perhaps the most important thing to remember. Sometimes it will be easier to just let the child do what they want. However, it is important that you also follow all the rules, and apply consequences for the rule if it is broken.This is important because if the child knows you don’t follow the rules rigidly, then they are more likely to misbehave in your presence. Additionally, it is also likely that they will begin to question the authority of their parents.
 If you find that there are certain rules that aren’t working, or if you have suggestions for new rules that you think could help a naughty child learn to behave, then talk with the parents about it. When doing so, be respectful. Don’t tell them, “You’re doing this, and it’s dumb. It’s not working, you should do this.” Instead, if you find a rule isn’t working and want to suggest a new idea, say, “I’ve been working with about not breaking this rule, but he seems to be having trouble with it. What would you think about trying out this approach…?”You don’t want to make the parent feel as though you are insulting their parenting. Rather, you want to show that you are interested in helping improve, if their is a way to do so, but without treading on their authority.
 When you are finished with your caregiving duties, you should briefly chat with the parent about how the child behaved, and if any disciplinary action was needed.


This will help the parents understand what is working and what isn’t, and will also allow you a chance to suggest any ideas you may have.
 Just as you should never hit your own children as a means of discipline, you should certainly never use physical violence to discipline children you are taking care of.If the parents suggest using violence as a means of discipline, politely explain to them the problem with this type of discipline. Respectfully explain that you will not engage in this type of discipline, and suggest an alternative. If they insist, you should probably consider backing out of the agreement.
If you are worried for the safety of the child, contact the authorities. Unfortunately, it is legal to hit children in all US states, but the law varies from state to state about what is legal and what isn't.If you are concerned, it is better to contact the authorities than to stand aside and let a child endure abuse.

