 Some people who get migraines experience an “aura,” which often appear as flashes of light or altered vision before a migraine begins. You may also experience blind spots, tingling on one side of your face, arm, or leg, weakness, or difficulty speaking.If you recognize a migraine early, you can try to prevent it from worsening or alleviate symptoms.


Some people even experience what’s called a “prodrome” phase up to a day or two before the headache. This might be a change in mood (sadder or happier than usual), food cravings, constipation, yawning a lot, stiff neck, or more frequent urination and increased thirst., Bright lights, strong scents, and loud noises often worsen migraine symptoms.When you first recognize signs that you may have a migraine approaching, shut off as much sensory stimuli as possible. Lie down in a quiet, dark room and rest.
 Stress and muscle tension can worsen migraines, and being stressed a lot is a possible trigger for migraines.Use relaxation techniques on a regular basis to reduce your stress level and during your migraine to ease discomfort. Try meditation or deep breathing exercises during your headache, while resting in a dark place. Regularly practice mindfulness, go for walks in nature, listen to music – whatever helps you relax.
 Put an ice pack or cold compress on your neck or head to help numb the pain. If you don’t own an ice pack, fill a plastic baggie with ice and wrap it in a thin towel; this helps prevent damage to your skin from having ice directly on it. You can also try a heating pad, which can relax tense muscles and possibly alleviate migraine pain., The effect massage has on muscle tension and stress may help reduce the frequency you get migraines.More studies are needed to prove its efficacy, but some people have found relief through massage therapy. If you can't get a professional massage, try some self-massage. Use light pressure with your fingertips to massage in gentle circles or a back-and-forth motion on your temples and scalp; don't let your fingers slide over your skin, try to rub the muscles underneath., Biofeedback may be effective in decreasing the pain of migraines. A professional uses specialized equipment during this relaxation exercise to teach you to recognize and control some physiological responses your body has to stress.Learning to recognize stressors that trigger migraines can be help you avoid or change these situations. If your migraine has a slow onset, you may be able to use biofeedback to avoid a full attack., Cognitive behavioral therapy, or CBT, is a psychiatric tool that teaches you how to change your patterns of thinking and behavior.A professional therapist can work with you to learn CBT. It works similarly to biofeedback, except using mental processes rather than physical. CBT may help alleviate or prevent migraine symptoms., Studies have shown that acupuncture may be a helpful therapy in treating migraines.A professional will insert small needles into your skin at special points with the goal of minimizing pain. Consider trying a session if you hope to treat your migraines naturally.
 Some studies show that feverfew might reduce the severity of migraines or help prevent them, though this isn’t scientifically proven.Feverfew may be available as capsules containing dried leaves of the herb at a pharmacy or health food store.Ask your doctor before using herbal remedies. Do not take feverfew if you are pregnant or breastfeeding, and do not give it to children under 2 years old.