 Sleep for nine to eleven hours every night. If you get enough sleep and have a regular bedtime, you will have an easier time falling asleep., Nobody is too old to be put to bed. Going to bed alone can make you feel lonely, and feeling lonely can make you feel afraid. Ask for a parent or guardian to sit with you and say goodnight. Ask them to read to you, sing to you, or just talk a little.Ask for a hug goodnight.
 Having a bedtime routine helps your body relax. Try to get ready for bed and do something you like in the same order every night. You might want to brush your teeth, take a bath, and read a chapter of a book before you fall asleep., Scary movies, violent video games, and creepy stories can make you scared at night. That's what they're supposed to do! If you are getting scared at night, cut out the scary stuff. Never watch a scary movie or a violent video game at night., When you go to bed, close your eyes and picture a beautiful place. This could be your favorite real place, like a treehouse or a beach. It could be an imaginary place, like a castle or a magical forest. Imagine as many details of it as you can., If your fears come up, remind yourself that they are fears. Say, "That's not a ghost, that's my fear." Say, "I'm scared, but nothing is going to hurt me." Tell yourself to think about your beautiful scene instead.


If you are thinking about real life things that are scary, like people you love dying, say, "I get worried at night, but that doesn't mean the night is dangerous."

, Have a cozy bed with soft clean sheets and warm blankets. Keep your favorite stuffed animal or special blanket in your bed for comfort. You can put a night light in the hall or in your bedroom if you want. Ask for a special night light that turns off after a while, so it doesn't disturb your sleep.Stay in bed when you're scared. If you need help, call for help. Staying in bed will help you learn that your bed is safe.
 You don't have to feel bad about being scared at night. Fear happens to everyone. Even grown ups need comfort to fall asleep. You can tell your family and friends when you are scared. If you wake up from a nightmare, you can ask for a hug before you go back to bed.


If you wake up from a nightmare, you might feel okay afterwards and just fall back asleep. Tell your parents about it in the morning.

