 Airports, especially big ones (Schiphol Amsterdam, Charles de Gaulle Paris, etc.) are prime territory for thieves looking to nick unsuspecting travelers. Pick-pocketers, for instance, look for places most people keep their belongings. Rear pant pockets and small compartments on backpacks are some examples of where pick-pocketers aim for. They can either very quickly steal things without you noticing, or they distract you in some way while they reach into your backpack or pant pocket and get what they need. To prevent your valuables from getting stolen, there are a few helpful tips everyone should know.


Avoid keeping your valuable documents like passports and boarding tickets near the outside of your bag. Thieves can easily reach them there. If you need to have them on you, try putting a TSA lock on your zipper. Another option is putting them into your jacket's INSIDE pocket and then zipping up your jacket.
Never leave your bags unattended. Not only will airport security dispose of any unattended luggage, but thieves will often grab them as their own.
Be careful not to leave passports and other documents around the airport or train/bus station. As you leave passport control or a duty free store or a lounge, quickly run through what you pulled out while you were there, and double check that you have it on you.;
, Don't run the risk of having some cash stolen, or worse, being a victim of fraud if your credit cards get stolen. Here are some more tips to make sure you stay safe.


If you are traveling internationally, exchange your money for some of the local currency before you go. This will help you avoid using international ATM machines. Although it happens very rarely, ATM machines sometimes swallow cards when you try to obtain some cash from your account. Getting them back takes ages, so it would be better not to run the risk.
Once again, keep your wallet and credit cards out of reach. If you use your card to buy something, put it back immediately to avoid unpleasant incidents.
Watch for suspicious activity. For example, if the cashier is swiping your card over and over and over, you may want to cancel your purchase. Cashiers sometimes do this to extract three or four times the money you are spending on the item off of your account. They also may hold your card and act like something is wrong with it for a long time to try to memorize your card number.
 Many people miss their flights or trains every day while traveling because of simply getting distracted with other things and forgetting to check the time and departure info. There are a few ways to prevent this.


Make sure to regularly check the Arrivals/Departures screen at the airport or train station. This may seem a bit unnecessary, but if your flight/trip information changes (delayed, cancelled, gate change, etc.), and you don't hear it over the intercom, the information will be updated on the departure screens.
Apart from checking the trip information, make sure to plan your day out. This depends on how long you have to stay before your next bout of travel. It would help to make a mental list of the things you need to do (eat, shop, etc.) while at the airport or station. Then just dedicate a certain amount of time to each task, and once you're finished, head to your departure gate/platform. Planning can be a very important tool. Once you've got the safety part of your travels down, you can get started on comfort.
 This is probably one of the most crucial steps in making sure your trip is enjoyable.


Understand the difference between the classes on airplanes and trains. On most airlines, there are usually three classes: First, Business/Premium economy, and Economy. Choosing between them usually depends on your budget. Economy is usually where most people choose there seats. Premium Economy is basically economy but with a few tweaks, but still not as comfy as First Class. Depending on the airline, the classes have varying levels of comfort. For instance, Alaska Airlines first class is completely different that Emirates first class. Same goes for economy and premium economy. If you are on a tight budget, then economy is your prime choice. If you are willing to spend a little more for more seat recline and slightly more legroom, then go for premium economy. And finally, if you want to travel in complete comfort, choose the pricy first class. Keep in mind, however, that on many airlines, a big percent of the passengers sitting in first class usually do not have to pay a fortune for it. They are just very very frequent flyers and the airline gives them a big discount on their ticket.
Choose the correct seat. This one partly has to do with personal preference. In economy for instance, try to avoid seats close to the bathrooms or onboard kitchen. Also, on a plane, sitting towards the rear can be noisy, and if you are in the last row on the plane, the seats can have limited or no recline due to the wall behind you. The seat you choose in your row depends on your personal preference (for example, aisle, window, or middle). One thing you cannot control, however, is the people sitting next to you. If you do happen to get stuck next to a person you do not wish to sit by, check if the plane/train/bus has any empty seats, or even better, an empty row.
 The way you pack for will mostly depend on the duration of your travel, so be sure to consider how long your flight or train/bus trip is. First of all, decide if you need to check in a bag. If you are planning to leave for a while, you may need to check in an extra bag. But no matter how long your trip is, you will almost always need a carry-on.


Carry-ons are one of your main priorities on a trip. When packing your carry-on, think light and compact, especially if your carry-on is a backpack. The amount of things you will have to bring depends, once again, on the duration of your flight or train/bus trip. It may not be necessary to bring every electronic gadget you own with you on a 2 or 3 hour trip. Also, you don't want to make the mistake of bringing too little, or you will be bored out of your mind, especially on long-haul trips. Once again, make sure the things you bring are light and compact, but are still enough to keep you entertained. Download some of the latest books, games and movies, as well as some music and games. You may not need a lot of material for short sections of travel, but for longer ones, getting a few movies and books can help a lot. Some airlines, trains, or buses have personal screens in each seat with their own wide selection of movies, TV shows and music. Make sure to check online or with a representative if your travel provider has this feature.
 This is another crucial step if you want to be as comfortable as possible on a trip. This may not be as crucial on short flights/trips, but this will help a lot on long ones. Avoid tight and uncomfortable clothing. You can always walk around the terminal in a pair of jeans and a sweater, but change into sweatpants on the plane if you're on a long flight. Also, find shoes that are comfortable, but ones that you can take off and put on quickly. This will help when going through security, particular at airports. And when going through security, please try to keep your jewelry down to a minimum. Not only will it hold up everyone in line, but when you remove it, you run the risk of getting it stolen from the bins.
 Lots of people forget things either in the terminal or on the plane/train/bus. Avoid leaving your things around the terminal and keep track of everything on you. Same rules apply in the plane or on a train/bus. If you want to put something away, put it somewhere where you won't forget it. And before you arrive at your destination, put everything away into whatever bag you have in your seat with you. Check the floor and seat pocket for any of your things. It only takes half a minute to check around you, and it will save you a lot of misery.

