 There are many ways that you can keep your dog from getting to the garbage can. For example, you can keep the kitchen garbage can in a closed cupboard. However, if your dog has figured out a way to open cupboards, you may need to put childproof latches on the handles.In other rooms of the house, you could try putting small wastebaskets at a height where your dog could not reach them,such as the top of a dresser.
You could also restrict his access to entire rooms that have garbage can or wastebaskets by closing doors or using baby gates.Consider using a garbage can with a lid that your dog cannot open.garbage cans with a step mechanism to open the lid would not be good, since your dog could figure out how to use the step. Look at garbage cans from your dog’s perspective to determine which types would be easy or difficult for him to get into.;
, A common way to correct bad behavior is to make that behavior undesirable. Environmental punishment is a way to discourage bad behavior. There are commercially available deterrent devices that you can set up near the garbage can to keep your dog away from it. One device is a mousetrap-like device that will loudly pop up into the air when your dog steps on it.You can also place a motion-activated device near your garbage can that will blow a shot of compressed air when your dog approaches the garbage can.There is also a type of mat that delivers a small shock when your dog steps on it.Environmental punishment is most effective for dogs who have learned to sneak into the trash when their owners are not around.Although environmental punishment does not cause physical injury, it should not be used with dogs who are naturally skittish or anxious. If your dog is skittish, the sudden shock, blast of air, or loud popping noise may make him even more fearful., Your dog may want to sift through the trash because he is hungry. Feeding him several small meals a day can help keep him full to the point where he won’t feel the need to scavenge for extra food. If your dog is on a diet to lose weight, consider talking with your veterinarian to come up with a feeding schedule that will keep him full but will not cause him to gain weight.If you are away for most of the day and cannot be there to feed him, restricting his access to the garbage can may be easier for you.
Be aware that some dogs are not good at knowing when they are full and never stop eating. Don't attempt to feed these dogs until they stop eating or they will become obese.
 Even if your dog feels full, he may be tempted to get into the garbage can because he is bored.From your dog’s perspective, the different scents in your garbage can could keep him happily occupied. To keep him from getting bored, make sure that you give him plenty of exercise by taking him on walks and playing with him. If he is well trained, you could also take him to a dog park to let him run around and interact with other dogs.


Giving him toys to play with can keep him busy when you are not home.