 Before you think about what kind of apartment you want, you need to realistically consider how much you can spend. Take your usual income, then subtract your cost of living including food, socializing, shopping, and anything else you typically spend your money on. When you see how much money you can realistically spend on rent, you can more effectively start searching for an apartment within your means.Most renters spend about 25-30% of their income on housing expenses, so keep this in mind when drawing up your financial plan. Remember that this includes not just the rent, but utilities and renters' insurance as well.Also consider the cost of your daily commute. Will you take public transit? If you drive to work, will you have to pay extra for a parking spot?
There are also starting costs to renting an apartment. Usually you'll have to put down a security deposit. You'll also be charged more if you own a pet.
If you'll have a problem affording rent, splitting the costs with a roommate is an option. Make sure, however, you sign a roommate agreement spelling out what each occupant is responsible for, like share of the rent, chores, guest policies, etc.For more tips on drawing up a budget and saving money, read Budget Your Money.;
, Having a clear idea of what you want out of your apartment will help narrow your choices down when you start searching. Ask yourself what is most important to you. A washer and dryer? A view? More than one bedroom? The things that you consider important will help determine which apartment you eventually choose., Location directly affects you whenever you're considering where to live. It determines price, safety, the convenience of your commute, and so on. Always investigate a neighborhood before moving in.Look at Google Maps and see what conveniences are nearby. Are there stores, restaurants, gyms, etc.? If these things are important to you, you'd want to find out what's in the area.
Some real estate websites offer safety assessments of neighborhoods. Try something like the Trulia neighborhood map.
Local police precincts also usually have reports on their websites about local crimes. Try following precincts on social media to see if there are regular crimes reported in the area.
Visit the area if you can. See how it is at different times of day to get a feel for the neighborhood and see if you could live there.
 Before randomly searching around sites, you could see if someone in your social network knows of an apartment up for rent. A personal reference is always a good way to go when looking for an apartment. While in the past your potential network of people to ask was limited, the internet allows your request to reach hundreds or thousands of people. You never know who has a friend or family member looking to rent out a room in their house.Make a post that you're currently searching for an apartment and looking for any personal references. Make sure to say in the post that any leads should message you privately.
 While most real estate sites list apartment rentals as well, there are websites that specialize in apartment rentals. Before moving on to more general websites, try a specifically apartment-oriented site. These will allow you to refine your search to find exactly what you're looking for.


Some good sites to start off are Apartments.com, Padmapper, ForRent, and Hotpads.Plug in all of the necessary information when you conduct searches on these sites: your budget, the location, square footage, and any amenities you are looking for like a washer/dryer.
 You can find a huge amount of goods and services on Craigslist, including apartment rentals. Go to the Housing section on the home website to see what you find. The downside is that you may not be able to tailor your searches as much as if you searched on a real estate or apartment site.Be cautious when renting apartments off sites like Craigslist. While other sites might investigate the postings that landlords advertise on their site, Craigslist is not regulated like that. Consequently, there are sometimes scammers on the site. The Federal Trade Commission cautions that if a landlord tells you to wire money, provide a security deposit before meeting, or says that they are unavailable to meet, this could be a scam and you should skip over the posting., Just like you can use Craigslist to find apartment postings, you can also post an ad that you are looking for an apartment. There are also real estate sites that will allow you to post a wanted ad, like rent.net.When you make a posting, be sure to mention what area you're looking to live in, how much you're willing to spend, whether or not you have pets -- any information that will help a potential landlord find you and offer what you want.
 If you have no luck finding an apartment other ways you can check local periodicals where you want to live. Most local newspapers have real estate sections, which they probably post on their websites. You can also use this method to find an apartment.
 There may be other websites or postings that you were unable to find using previous methods. To locate these opportunities, try just doing an internet searching using the keywords "apartments for rent" and the area you want to live in. You might uncover some postings that you would have missed otherwise., Don't only rely on a website or even email. Speak with the landlord on the phone when investigating apartments. This will ensure that you know who you're dealing with and make it easier to see if everything is legitimate., You shouldn't rent an apartment without seeing it in person. Photos on websites can leave out signs of damage, or they might even be from a completely different room. Go and investigate the apartment yourself to make sure there is no damage and it offers what you want.If there is any damage, ask about it and when it will be fixed.
 Moving into an apartment is a big commitment, and you shouldn't be shy about asking any questions. In addition to any specific questions you have, here are a few suggestions.What is your renewal rate? If tenants rarely renew their leases, it could be a sign that they were dissatisfied with the apartment. If, however, the renewal rate is high, it shows that tenants are generally happy with the establishment.
When were the most recent renovations on the building, and your apartment specifically?
How does maintenance work? If someone available 24 hours a day for emergencies?
How often and by how much does rent go up?
What exactly will you be paying in rent and utilities? Ask to have all of your expenses laid out.
 Landlords usually take pictures of apartments before you move in and after you leave, so you should do the same. Take pictures when you visit, and also as you're moving in. That way if the landlord says that you caused damage when you didn't, you'll have evidence against the accusation.
 Don't just look at the apartment when you visit, but make sure everything works. Turn on the faucets, flush the toilet, open and close doors, and turn on lights. Do all of this to make sure everything in the apartment works right from the start.Be sure to politely ask before poking around like this.

