 The circular board is composed of 'pie slices' with one 'slice' for each number 1 through 20. There is an outer double ring that runs around the edge of the entire dartboard as well as an inner triple ring, which is located between the double ring and the center bullseye. The bullseye itself has two parts: the outer bullseye and the inner bullseye.
Check out How to Throw Darts if this is your first time throwing a dart.;
, If you are playing with more than one person on each team, decide the order that your players will throw in. If possible, create the teams evenly with the same number of players and relatively similar skill levels.
 Dartboards in public places generally have a chalkboard or whiteboard near the dartboard. If not, grab a pen and paper. Write the names the people/teams at the top of your scoreboard. In a vertical column down the middle of the scoreboard, write out the numbers 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, and bullseye (or B for short).

A number is considered 'closed out' once it has been hit three times during the game. If the dart lands in the outer double ring of a number, it counts as two hits; the inner triple ring counts as three. For the bullseye, the outer bullseye is worth one hit and the inner bullseye is worth two. Sadly there is no triple bullseye.
If a player closes out a number before their opponent, they gain points every time they hit that same number until their opponent also closes it out. Once both players close out a number, neither can gain any more points from it.
Points are equal to the value of the closed out number, including any doubling or tripling. For example, if you close out the 20 and then hit a triple 20, you get 60 points. The outer bullseye is worth 25 points, and the inner bullseye is worth 50 points.
 Each player throws three darts per turn. A common strategy is to start the game by aiming at the 20—specifically the triple 20—since it is worth the most points, while saving the bullseye for last since it is hardest to hit. However, there is no required sequence, especially for beginners.
 The first time you hit a number, put a diagonal mark next to the number on the scoreboard. When you hit the same number again, create an X by adding an intersecting diagonal mark in the opposite direction. The third time you hit a number it is considered 'closed out,' which you indicate by putting a circle around the X like this: Ⓧ.
 Remember, if you close out a number before the other player, you can continue to hit that number and rack up points until the other player closes it out.
 If they have fewer points than their opponent, the game continues. In the picture above, Team Dog won because they closed out all of the numbers and had the most points.

