 Detoxification is often undertaken because people know their environment is filled with toxins and they want to help along the natural process. One common approach is to make detox juice. These juices use only natural, organic ingredients and are designed to help support the normal detoxification processes.


People often feel more focused and energetic after using detox juices. This is due to the ingredients in the juices as well as the removal of processed foods, fats, and sugars.;
, Fasting and detox should not be undertaken by anyone who has a fever, anyone with a life-threatening condition, or those with cancer, TB, or AIDS. Anyone with either Type I or Type II diabetes should only undertake supervised detox, though it is not recommended. Pregnant women, nursing mothers, infants, young children, and those with kidney failure or liver disease should never detox.


Individuals taking any prescription medication should be supervised while detoxing. There may be unpredictable reactions., Before you begin, make sure you speak to your doctor to be sure that you don’t have a specific medical problem that may cause difficulty. In addition, if you plan to only drink these juices as part of a detoxification plan, make certain it is medically safe for you by talking to your physician. Follow any recommendations for which juice to use and for how long to use it. Your physician knows your medical history and can best advise you regarding potential negative effects.For many people, spending ½ to one day a week ingesting only a detox juice is safe, but be safe and check first.
Fasting for 12 to 24 hours is a very common practice that has been done for centuries in various cultures and religions, but it is not universally agreed that it is a safe practice. Most physicians would not recommend fasting for children or for pregnant or nursing women., None of the detox juice recipes have been tested for effectiveness or safety. Most of these recipes are passed around from person to person or through various books and articles.


Detoxing can cause muscle loss due to a lack of protein. Try adding a scoop of unflavored protein powder to your juice to prevent this.
There are no specific side effects because any side effects depend to a large extent on your overall state of health, how long you use the juices, and which juices you use. Each juice is different with varying levels of nutrients., When detoxing, don’t overdo it. Detoxing sounds like a great idea that everyone should be doing, but no one really knows how much of a toxic load each individual is carrying. Toxins are often stored in fat tissue and, as you fast, the body turns to stored fat for energy, thereby releasing the toxins. This can result in a sudden spike of toxins in the blood, which should resolve itself on it's own and should not be a long lasting effect.The potential effects of this can vary, but can include:


Fatigue
Confusion
Dizziness
Lightheadedness
Fainting
Nausea
Vomiting
Diarrhea
Headaches
Low blood pressure
Abnormal heart rhythms

, Instead of detoxing alone, find a friend who fasts and detoxes on different days. This is so you will have someone to keep an eye on you. Given that the potential effects include confusion, dizziness, lightheadedness, and fainting, it makes sense to have someone to check in on you from time to time.

