 If your parents don't like your friends, you've probably tried talking to them already, but it's important to keep a line of dialogue open about important issues.Don't use sarcasm. Being sarcastic or otherwise mean to your parents will quickly derail the conversation.Remain calm, and don't get mad. Not only will this help you have a longer, more in-depth conversation, it will show your parents that you are capable of maturity, which can go a long way in trying to earn more independence.Let your parents finish what they have to say, and don't interrupt them. When it's your turn to talk, ask them to be respectful and allow you to speak without being interrupted.;
, If you've tried talking and your parents still don't approve of a friend or group of friends, try letting them all meet. Your parents might have an unrealistic impression of what kind of person your friend is, and letting them all talk and get to know one another can help your parents see why you value that person's friendship.Ask your parents if you can invite your friend over to your house for dinner with the family. Let them know that you're not trying to disrespect them or their wishes, but that you feel like meeting your friend might relieve some of their fears or concerns.Encourage your friend to be on his or her best behavior. Ask your friend to use pleasantries that your parents will appreciate, like asking, "Hello, how are you?" or saying, "You have a beautiful home."Facilitate a conversation between your parents and your friend to help your family see why that friendship is important to you. If your friend is creative/artistic or has some other talents, bring it up during dinner, and ask your friend to tell your parents about any projects or creative endeavors.Offer to let your parents meet your friend's parents. They might be able to talk as one adult to another, and may find some understanding that wouldn't come from a parent/child conversation.
 If you haven't had any luck talking with your parents about an issue like your choice in friends, it may be helpful to bring in an outside party. Someone outside your immediate family may be able to help moderate the conversation and facilitate a more open dialogue between you and your parents.Ask a relative outside your immediate family to help you talk to your parents. If no one in your family would be a good fit for this role, consider asking a guidance counselor or social worker at school., If your parents simply don't like your friend and forbid you from seeing her, don't sneak around behind your parents' backs. Your parents will eventually find out, and they will likely revoke whatever freedom they had previously been giving you.If your parents forbid you to see a friend, try talking to them about their concerns. You've probably had some kind of conversation about it before, but ask them to address what specifically they are worried about. Try to calm those fears or concerns as best you can.Don't sneak around behind your parents' backs if they've forbidden you from seeing a friend. It's frustrating and it may not seem fair, but going against your parents' demands will further strain your relationship with them, and they may end up revoking certain liberties or independence that they were previously giving you.