 You may find yourself feeling sluggish and sleepy during the day. Caffeine withdrawals can leave you feeling physically and mentally tired. Your concentration may be off and you might not be thinking clearly. Making sure that you get plenty of quality sleep as you get off caffeine can help fight the fatigue you may be feeling.Try getting at least seven to nine hours of sleep each night.;
, Making sure you get enough water during this time is important. Dehydration can occur when you are going through caffeine withdrawal. To help with symptoms and make sure that you get enough fluids, increase the amount of water you drink. Try drinking eight 8-ounce glasses each day., Without your morning caffeine, you may not feel like you have any energy. Physical activity can help boost your energy in the morning without a caffeinated beverage. Moving around and getting physical activity can get your blood moving and your body warmed up. Since caffeine withdrawal causes fatigue, try adding some light exercise into your morning routine.You can try going for a quick jog or doing a short workout at the gym.
 Herbal tea is a tasty way you can combat symptoms, plus it's caffeine-free. It can also help you stay hydrated. Dehydration sometimes occurs with caffeine withdrawal and can make your symptoms worse. Herbal tea also generally has health benefits, such as antioxidants.Try replacing your usual caffeine coffee or tea beverages with herbal teas.
You can drink herbal teas hot or cold.
 Getting off caffeine may not be easy. Going through the withdrawals may be difficult, especially during the first week. However, the uncomfortable symptoms are temporary. Remember that you are doing something good for your body, so stay positive that you can do this and you have a good goal in mind., You are making a big decision for your health, and you don't have to do this alone. Some symptoms, like mood changes, fatigue, and mental cloudiness, may be difficult to deal with alone. Talk to family members or friends about your choice to reduce caffeine. Ask them to help you through the difficult days when you feel the worst withdrawal symptoms.Letting them know what you are doing also helps them understand why you may not be your usual self for awhile.

