 The more tickets purchased will increase your odds of winning.


Consider that an average state lottery has jackpot odds of about 100,000,000 to 1 -- it's often even worse: The multi-state "Powerball" lottery has jackpot odds of about 185,000,000 to 1. Holding fifty tickets only would improve your odds to 100,000,000 to 50.;
, Get a group together at your office, school, church, activity center or any place where others are willing to share a winning ticket.


The payout that you receive will be less because you will be sharing it, but your chances of winning are slightly increased.



Many people erroneously think that they have better chances of winning when fewer people play, but this is not true unless you are entering a raffle wherein a winning ticket is pulled from all the entries.
The odds of the lottery's random numbers matching your ticket's numbers are not affected by the number of people who have tickets. Think of it this way: If only one person bought just one ticket for the lottery is that person guaranteed to win? No.
However, the fewer people who play, the lower the odds of multiple winners are.
 This increases your chances for that specific play.


This strategy does not affect your odds of winning in your lifetime but can affect what jackpot you win, if you win.
Instead of buying a ticket every week save up the money you would spend and use it to buy tickets when the jackpot reaches large amounts. This maximizes the return without increasing your financial risk.
You don't need to use the same numbers every time - it does not increase your odds of winning. Previous draws have no effect on future draws - each draw is a clean slate - so feel free to change your numbers each time.
People who play the same numbers every week can become 'addicted' to the lottery over fears that their usual numbers will come up if they do not buy a ticket. Using different numbers each week can help you stay in control of your gambling, and does not affect your odds of winning.
In lotteries where a winner is drawn from a raffle, you increase your odds of winning by playing the week after a huge jackpot - as typically fewer people play the lottery after a big cash prize has been won.
 Sometimes, there are several ways to win. Make sure not to assume you lost and thoroughly look over your tickets.
 Getting a series of winners will only add up if you cease buying.


Set a budget and stick with it. If possible, use the lottery money you've won to purchase future tickets. That way, you dip less frequently into your main income.

