 Measure the “reveal” or top of the door and the head jamb. It should be between one-eighth and three-sixteenth inches (0.3cm to 0.5cm) wide all the way across.;
, If any of them are more than one-quarter inch (0.6cm) out of plumb, or not exactly vertical, you will need to adjust the trim.
,, The door may be uneven because the floor is uneven. This is a common problem with doors and requires some adjustment in the door installation process.You can adjust the floor level by placing shims below the jambs and across the entryway to square it up. You may need to tear up flooring in order to place the shims underneath.Check with a level again once you install the shims to be sure it is no longer the cause of the problem.
 If the bottom of the door is catching at the carpet, you may need to remove it or hang a slightly smaller door. Remove trim underneath the door or raise the doorjamb by setting it atop scraps of three-eighths to one-half inch trim can put the door at the correct height.
 Use a framing square to see if the trim may be the problem., One possible problem could be that the hinge locations are not parallel.


If you need to adjust the hinge locations, remove the hinges and measure new hinge locations from scratch.
Install shims into the place where the hinge will be. Use wood screws to install the shim. Screw directly into the place where the hinge will go, so that the hinge will hide the screws.
Cut the shims to ensure that they don’t extend past the drywall.
 Fix the jamb by removing it and reinstalling it over shims. When it is level, you will be able to install your hinges.
 Install your hinges.
 Ask a friend to help you lift the door into place to get it onto the hinges. Thread the pins through the door and jamb portions of the hinge.


If your latch hardware is not installed, install the doorknob so that you can test the door.
, Remove the pins from the door and set your door aside. Place the pin on a hard floor and hit it several times with a hammer.


Rehang the door. The pins will be slightly curved and have more resistance against the hinges., If the door is rattling, bend the prong on the strike plate toward the doorstop. It the door is not catching, bend the prong away from the doorstop.


Then, tighten all the screws.

