 Toys should be appropriate for your dog’s size. Small dogs might require somewhat smaller toys than their larger counterparts. But toys should never be so small that they can easily be swallowed or become lodged in your dog’s throat.Similarly, keep out of reach household products that are thin and easily consumed. These include ribbon, rubber bands, and string.
Because dogs vary so much in size, it is difficult to say what a safe size is. It is important, however, that the dog not be able to swallow it. Thus, it should be large enough that you couldn't imagine your dog getting it down its throat.;
, Plastic toys can be safe. Some toys, however, include dangerous chemicals. Often labels will not include a comprehensive list of ingredients, but they will advertise if they are free of dangerous chemicals.


Look for labels that indicate toys are “phthalate free” and “BPA free.”You can also use your senses to assess the risk associated with plastic toys. Be careful if the toy has a strong chemical smell. Bright colors are also sometimes created with dangerous dyes.
To follow up, research the product online. Good manufactures ought to include information on their website about the manufacturing process and toy safety., Squeak toys are a favorite of dogs and are not necessarily dangerous. However, your dog may feel that he must find and destroy the source of the squeaking. In the process, he could ingest the toy or the squeaker.


Squeak toys are not dangerous on their own, your dog might just be unusually aggressive with them. Just watch them carefully to ensure that your dog does not seem to be tearing out the insides or trying to eat parts of the toy.
 Any soft toy can be torn up. However, you should try to purchase toys that are durable to prevent your dog from getting to the dangerous innards of the toy. Look for toys that are labeled as machine washable., Rawhide might seem like the natural choice, but it is often treated with dangerous chemicals. When chewed up, it can also become small and easy to swallow. This poses a particularly significant risk to your dog.Many rawhides also come from an international fur trade that is morally questionable.If you do give your dogs rawhide watch carefully when your dog is chewing on rawhide. Make sure that the piece has not gotten so small that your dog could swallow it. Be careful if your dog is pulling off small pits that could be swallowed. Take away any small bits of rawhide that could be swallowed.Give your dog rawhide only if it is not around other dogs. Around other dogs, they can get competitive and will begin eating the rawhide more quickly. If they are calmly consuming the rawhide, there is less risk of injury.
 Dogs can break their teeth on rib bones, cow hooves, and pig bones. Pig ears and bone marrow are less dangerous but can cause issues with digestion. Dental bones are a safer alternative.Bones from cooked foods are particularly dangerous. They can break teeth, scratch tongues, and cause damage throughout the digestive system.
Raw, uncooked bones can be safe.
Leg bones and bones that have been cut are also likely to break, causing damage.
If you do feed your dog bones, watch it carefully to make sure that it has not broken off any small pieces that could be swallowed.
Do not give bones to dogs that have had dental work.
Do not give bones to dogs when there are other dogs in the vicinity. They will compete for the bone and can hurt themselves when playing with it., Tennis balls are a great active toy for your dog. Your dog should not be at any risk of swallowing a tennis ball, unless he has been able to chew much of it up. Be mindful of any damage to the ball and replace frequently., Rope toys are also a good active toy. You can play a good game of tug of war with a rope. Your dog might particularly appreciate a bone shaped piece of rope., They are toys that are filled with treats or a combination of broken treats and peanut butter. They are less active toys, but they will occupy your dog for a long time. Your dog will have to work, possibly for hours, to get the treats out from inside the toy. This makes for a good, lazy day activity., Soft toys are comforting to dogs. Some dogs like to carry them around, so make sure that the toy is small enough for that purpose. Other dogs like to try to kill soft toys, so make sure the toy is large enough that it can not be ingested by your dog.Buy stuffed toys that are labeled safe for children. These should not contain especially dangerous fillings. Some fillings like nutshells and polystyrene beads are particularly unsafe, but no filling is truly safe to eat.You should monitor your dog with soft toys to make sure that they have not penetrated the exterior and reached the innards. These are unsafe to eat.
If a soft toy has serious scratches and tears, throw it away before your dog reaches the innards.
Your dog will be particularly comforted by soft, personal items. Shirts, pillow cases, and towels can carry your smell and thus will make your dog feel at home. Be prepared, however, to have these items torn up by your dog.
 To make sure that your dog doesn’t get tired of its toys, try to rotate them in and out of circulation once a week. Keep a few toys out and put the rest away somewhere your dog can’t reach them.


If, however, your dog has one favorite toy, you can consider leaving it out all the time. This is particularly the case with a soft toy that your dog has become emotionally attached to., When you put new toys out, don’t just leave them in the middle of the room. Put them behind couches and under tables. Your dog will appreciate toys that it needed to work to find. Your dog will also expend a lot of energy running around trying to find its toys., Keep out toys that serve different functions. For example, keep one that is used for fetching, one that is carried, one that is babied, one that is rolled, and one that is killed. Periodically put out a toy with treats inside., You can make your toys more attractive to your dog by introducing edible treats. To make a toy smell better, marinate it in bouillon. You can also spread peanut butter on toys, or put frozen Kool-Aid inside., Toys shouldn’t just be a way for dogs to occupy themselves, they should be an opportunity for you to bond with them. Playing with your dogs is a good way to socialize them. Playing fetch in a confined environment can make your home feel bigger than it is, because your dog will be able to run back and forth for great distances in a small space. This will make your wild friend feel comfortable inside.