 You shouldn’t be ashamed of your diabetes. It’s part of who you are. Talk to your friends about diabetes and help them understand that though you have this condition, you are just like them in other ways.Sometimes your friends might not understand or even be afraid of your diabetes. That’s okay. Be patient with them and help them understand what your condition means for you. Also help them understand that you can do things just like they can.
Focus on what you and your friends have in common. Don’t focus on your diabetes. While you shouldn’t hide it, you also shouldn’t dwell on it.
 Sometimes, you may feel uncomfortable in a situation where you need to do something because of your diabetes. Maybe you need to get an insulin shot, take your medication, or eat a snack. These needs may come in the middle of awkward situations, like taking a test or a field trip. Make sure to speak up if you need something. Not saying something because you want to avoid an awkward situation may make you sick and put your health at risk.If possible, talk to your teacher before a test or field trip to let them know you may have to stop and eat a snack or leave to check your blood.
 Your school nurse is one of the most important people in your diabetes management at school. She will be the person you go see if you need an insulin shot, to check your blood sugar levels, or to take your medication. Don’t be shy to talk to her or get to know her. She’s there to help you and be there for you.You will probably have to leave your needles, testing devices, and meds with the school nurse. She will keep them for you and help you remember to take your meds or check your blood if you forget.
 Some kids might pick on you for having diabetes. This might be because they are scared of the condition or they don’t understand. If you get bullied for having diabetes, knowing how to cope with them can help.Tell the bully to stop bullying you and then walk away. Act brave and ignore anyone who bullies you.
Get your friends to help you. It’s easier to stand up to bullies if you have friends around.
Tell your teacher if someone is bullying you because of your diabetes.
 While you’re at school, you should know who you can go to for help if something happens with your diabetes. Make sure your parents let you know who is aware of your situation, who administers insulin, or who knows how to treat any complications.Your teacher is the first person you should talk to in class. He will then probably send you to the school nurse, who will be able to help you with any diabetes-related problems. If he can't help, he will have your emergency contacts, like your parents and your doctor.
You may consider going to the meetings your parents set up with school officials to go over your diabetes management plan. This helps you understand what your school knows and who you can go to for support and help.
 Your parents are your advocates. They’re on your side and make sure the people at school do what they need to for your diabetes.Tell your parents if there are any issues with your diabetes management at school.
Make sure to tell your parents if you have any problems with anything at school.
 Your doctor can help you prepare for going to school and dealing with your diabetes. Your doctor may be able to help you figure out how to deal with certain situations related to your diabetes at school.Ask your doctor what things you should be concerned about at school. You may also ask him what things you should bring to your teacher’s attention and what things can wait until you get home to your parents.

