 Aloe vera can help to reduce inflammation and help to neutralize the acid in your stomach.


You can also sip aloe vera throughout the day. Limit yourself to one to two cups a day total, as aloe vera can act as a laxative.
 This method uses your body’s own acid sensors to signal it is time to shut down acid production in your stomach. Have 1 tablespoon of organic apple cider vinegar in six ounces of water.


You can also make your own lemonade or limeade and consume it before bed. Mix a few teaspoons of pure lemon or lime juice and add water to taste. You can also add honey to the drink. Consume the lemonade or limeade during and after meals. The acid in the lemon or lime will tell your body it’s time to shut down acid production through a process called “feedback inhibition”., The pectin in the skin of the apple is a natural antacid that can help to keep acid production in your stomach down., Ginger tea is a natural anti-inflammatory that can help to soothe your stomach and can also relieve any nausea. Use ginger tea bags or slice up one teaspoon of fresh ginger. Add the fresh ginger to boiling water and steep it for five minutes.Fennel tea can also be good for settling your stomach and decreasing the acid levels in your stomach. Crush one teaspoon of fennel and add it to a cup of boiled water.Chamomile tea can also help to soothe your stomach and acts as an anti-inflammatory agent., Mustard can be a good anti-inflammatory and acid neutralizer. Drink mustard in water one hour before bed or have a teaspoon on its own., You can drink slippery elm (about three to four ounces) or take two tablets of slippery elm before bed. Slippery elm can help to soothe irritated tissues.


Slippery elm is considered safe for pregnant women., You can get licorice root (DGL) in chewable tablets. It may take some getting used to the taste of licorice root but it can work well to heal your stomach and control acid in your stomach. Have two to three tablets before bedtime., Baking soda can be effective for neutralizing the acid in your stomach and relieving the symptoms of acid reflux. Make sure you use baking soda, not baking powder, as baking powder can be less effective. Dissolve a teaspoon of baking soda in six ounces of water and drink it one hour before bed.

