 One of the fastest, and most common, ways to lose your right to your green card is to commit a crime. You can have your green card revoked and be deported even for the commission of a misdemeanor. Following is a list of some of the crimes that can lead to deportation:drug possession of any amount
domestic violence
fraud
theft
immigration related crimes, such as helping someone else enter the U.S. Illegally.;
, If you move within the United States, you are required by law to notify USCIS (United States Citizenship and Immigration Services) of your new address within ten days.


You can use the USCIS website, https://egov.uscis.gov/coa/displayCOAForm.do, to provide notice of an address change.
 All U.S. residents, whether or not they are formally citizens, are required to file tax returns each year.You can visit www.irs.gov for detailed information about filing status, minimum tax payments, and anything else you may need to know about tax filing., All male residents of the U.S., whether or not citizens, must register for selective service. This requirement applies to men who are between the ages of 18 and 25. If you enter the country after your 26th birthday, you are not required to register.Individuals who are in this country on visas, such as a student visa or diplomats and their families, are not required to register for selective service.
Seasonal agricultural workers on H-2A visas are not required to register.
 If you encounter any problems while in the U.S. on a green card, you should consult with an experienced immigration attorney right away. It would be a good idea to seek out and meet with an attorney before any problem arises. That way, you will have a name and contact information available immediately, in case a problem arises someday.
 A green card means that you are a permanent U.S. resident. In order to keep your green card, you must actually reside in the U.S. permanently. This sounds self-explanatory, but it means that you must have a residence in the U.S., and stay there for a majority of the year. If you leave for a considerable length of time (six months or more), you may have difficulty. Upon reentering the U.S., your passport will be examined closely. If your travel shows a pattern of spending more time outside the U.S. than in, you may run the risk of losing your green card., If you wish to retain your green card status as a permanent resident, you may be allowed to work in the U.S. but live in Canada or Mexico. Notify USCIS that you live outside the U.S. but commute regularly, and you will be granted commuter status., If you intend to maintain U.S. residence with your green card, but you plan to leave the country for a period of one year or longer, you need to file the Application to Preserve Residence. This is designated Form N-470.You can get the form on the website for the USCIS, at https://www.uscis.gov/n-470.
Print and complete the form.
Mail the completed form to USCIS, P.O. Box 650809, Dallas, TX 75265.
Include a check for the filing fee of $330, payable to U.S. Department of Homeland Security.
 Your green card is valid for ten years. You need to renew it within six months of its expiration date. You can renew it online by going to www.uscis.gov and follow the links to “Green Card” and then “How do I Renew or Replace my Green Card?”, Before you can file online to renew your green card, you need to create an account.


From the home page, www.uscis.gov, select “Green Card.”
Then select “Renew or Replace my Green Card” from the drop down menu.
Under the heading, “Renewing your 10-year Green Card,” select “Filing Online Form I-90.”
On the next screen, click the large green button, “File I-90.”
Follow the directions to “Create a New Account.” You will need your email address and will create a password.
After you give your email address, you will receive instructions to complete the process to create your account.
 You will use the account you created to submit a new Form I-90. Follow the online prompts to complete the application process:Follow the instructions to complete the form.
You will need up upload evidence, including images of your passport, visa and permanent resident card (green card).
Provide an electronic signature. You will be prompted for your signature as part of the application. You will type your name in the space provided, and that will serve as your electronic signature.
Pay the application fee. The fee for renewing your green card is $450. You will need a credit card to pay this with your online application., You will receive a date to appear at a USCIS service center for certain biometric information. You will need to appear for that appointment to provide the following:Passport style photograph
Signature
Fingerprints

, You can check on the ongoing status of your application through the online account that you created. You can also use the USCIS website to monitor the length of time that you can expect for processing your application. The time will vary depending on the number of applications that are received., If you choose not to apply online, you can renew your green card with a paper application. Along with the form itself, you should print a copy of the instructions for completing the form.Access the www.uscis.gov home page.
Select “Green Card” and then “Renew or Replace My Green Card.”
Select “Filing Paper Form I-90 by Mail.”
Print a copy of the form. It should consist of eight pages.
 Fill in your responses to the form as completely and correctly as possible. Your answers must be printed (neatly) in black ink or typed.In the section for “Reason for Application,” select response 2f, which is “My existing card has already expired or will expire in six months.”
If you use an interpreter to help you complete the form, you will need to provide information about the identification of the interpreter.
 The filing fee for renewing a green card via Form I-90 is $450. You will need to include a check, made payable to “U.S. Department of Homeland Security.”Payment must be in U.S. dollars, paid with a check or money order from a bank within the United States.
 Send the completed application to USCIS, P.O. Box 21262, Phoenix, AZ 85036. Make sure that you include a check for your payment. Be sure that you have signed your application., You will receive a date to appear at a USCIS service center for certain biometric information. You will need to appear for that appointment to provide the following:Passport style photograph
Signature
Fingerprints

, The time for processing your application will vary depending on the number of applications that are received. Even if you apply by paper, you will receive a notice in the mail of an account that you can use on the www.USCIS.gov website to monitor your application.