 Inspired Sims earn more Simoleons when they complete tasks. You can inspire Sims by fulfilling their needs. To see a Sims' needs, select him or her and look at the bars. If the Sim is hungry, use the fridge to eat. If the Sim is low on Fun, rest by watching TV or playing on the computer. If your Sims' social needs are low, try petting your dog, talking to other Sims on the phone, or meeting them in person.


You can quickly and easily raise your Sim's Energy by drinking espresso. You don't actually need to sleep if you use this constantly!
When interacting with other Sims, "Be Funny" will usually raise the bar to the maximum.
You can purchase Cupcakes for LP that will make your Sims inspired, or you can buy a Cocktail at the Nightclub for Simoleons.;
, Buy a stove, and sell some baked goodies. Start off by baking cookies or pancakes and when you've made your baking skill really high, you can bake chocolate cake! It takes a lot of time and patience to earn a lot of money this way, but it can still be worth it and it also earns you lifestyle points.
 After the dog digs up Lifestyle Points, praise him so he knows that he will get praised if he digs up Lifestyle Points. This will mean more rewards for you later. You can also buy the bone for 2LP for your dog. It will get you Simoleons and LPs faster.


The more expensive your cat or dog is, the faster it will gather Simoleons and LP.
If your dog doesn't have the dig/pounce sign on it, get a toddler to play with it or an adult to praise it. Do this twice and it should run or slowly walk away. Usually this will lead it to find something, and repeating the process can get you even more stuff.
 When your Sims go to work, they earn money, which they keep. Also, when you go to work regularly, you get promoted, which will earn more Simoleons and XP after a work day.


Working regularly will help you achieve a large number of the goals in the game as well.
 When they are completed, you will earn more money depending on what you grew. Overnight, while you're asleep, have your Sims gardening (all the ones who aren't at work or busy). If you garden 7 or 8 hour crops at night, you'll wake up to lots of Simoleons and XP. Make sure they are inspired because they'll earn 1.5X the Simoleons.


Try planting bell pepper seeds, as bell pepper seeds are free and it only takes 30 seconds for them to grow and be ready to sell! After they are ready you can sell them for a few Simoleons.
You can dedicate one lot in your town to gardening. Place at least one garden on the lot per Sim in your town. Get all or most of your Sims inspired at once, and take them all to the lot to garden.
 Buy the Community Center at the top left of your town map. Do hobbies like fashion designing, ghost hunting, and figure skating. All of these are the hobbies that will get you rewards and one big reward when you complete their collections.
 Earn some extra Lifestyle Points or XP by competing at the Competition Center (added with the Supernatural update). You can compete between all the active hobbies: ballet, karate or ghost hunting. You can choose a specific Sim that's going to compete for the next 12 hours. You need to level up your skills to win a higher place, which in turn leads to bigger rewards.
 If you are in the middle of baking something that takes a long time, and you need money fast, getting two ovens will help. Don't buy the expensive ones if you are not too rich though, because it doesn't let you bake any faster.
 When you go for a drive, it can earn you money and lifestyle points. Quickly tapping on the music notes will earn you bonus money. Sometimes you'll even be lucky enough to get LP.
 If you don't let the Sims go to the bathroom, they will wet their pants. Cleaning it up will earn you points. Similarly, if you shake your device, your Sims will get sick and throw up. If you clean up the vomit, you can earn points. Doing this too often might make your device freeze up, so use it sparingly.
 Be smart about what you buy. Don't waste your money on anything you won't use. Like in real life, this habit is key to a successful budget.


Save items you can reuse. Put a cradle in the inventory once a baby's born. Other couples can use it and it saves money so you don't have to buy a new one.
Be ready for a rainy day. Save up your LP because some of your tasks require them. Once you complete the task, you'll get some back. You don't want to be stuck because you spent all your LP on something you didn't really need!
Be careful of spending real money. Don't waste your real money for Simoleons and LPs. You can earn plenty if you're patient, and spending real money on this can become a habit.
 Go to the purple trolley and press "Free" on the top left. It will bring up short programs or videos and if you watch them, you will earn one LP. These won't earn you much, but the videos change regularly, giving you a constant stream of LP.
 The Sims FreePlay Facebook page will often have special offers and giveaways. If you Like the Facebook page, you will be updated every time there is a new event. You can earn Simoleans, LP, and a variety of other items this way.
 If you click on your stove, you can select cooking or baking. If you select cooking, you can start this hobby and cook food for your sims. It is like a regular hobby, but you will get a plate of food for your sims to eat.

Make sure that you have the right appliances (3 star stove, 2 star toaster,ect,) for the food you are trying to cook, or else you won't be able to cook it.
Each food item costs Simoleons and takes time. The longer it takes to make the food item, the more Simoleons it will probably take to cook that item.
Some food items have a chance to catch your stove on fire when you're finished making them. Be careful when making these items.

