 Areas of your backyard or porch may have spots where rainwater can pool. Barrels and trash cans tend to collect rainwater extremely well. Old tires, empty bottles, buckets, and other small containers can condense water vapor into tiny pools. Empty and drain all pools of water and cover them up to prevent more water from gathering.;
, When you water your plants, the excess water will run through the soil and collect in a pan. If you have any outdoor plants, these collection pans are a prime location for mosquitoes to breed. Empty and clean the pans at least once a week, preferably more frequently.
 If you have a bird bath outside your house, the stagnant water is a perfect place for mosquitoes to lay eggs. Minimize mosquitoes breeding there by changing the water and scrubbing down the bath at least once a week, preferably more frequently.
 Plumbing that runs outside can be affected by exposure to the weather, resulting in minor leaks. Window air conditioners often drip condensation, which can pool on the ground. Dripping outdoor faucets also pool on the ground. Repair these problems to minimize water collection as much as possible.
 If you have a small plastic pool meant to be used temporarily, make sure you drain all of the water and store it indoors when it's not in use. If you have a backyard swimming pool, monitor the chlorine levels regularly and keep the pool clean.
 If they are filled with debris, they will trap water during the next rainfall instead of letting it drain. Mosquitoes will then breed in this standing water., Standing water is the number one breeding spot for mosquitoes. Sometimes, it is nearly impossible to find all bodies of standing water and draining them. However, there are a few precautions you can take to prevent water from building up. Here are some tips to get you started:Get rid of any unused pots or bins or turn them upside down, so they don't collect water.
Keep trash and recycling bins covered. If you can't, try drilling drain holes into the bottom of them.
Keep a fine-mesh screen over rain barrels, water tanks, and cisterns.
Take a look at your plants. Are any of them collecting water in between the leaves and the stems? If so, consider poking a tiny hole with a pin into those areas to allow for proper drainage.