 Coffee, tea, apple cider, and flavored steamers are all good choices. Drinking something hot will warm you up from the inside out!;
,,, Fleece or flannel pajamas will be warmer than regular cotton. For an extra dose of warmth, toss them in the dryer for 10-15 minutes before bedtime.
 This could mean Christmas or Hanukkah, but it isn't limited to them.
 You could do a Winter Wonderland theme, Snowman theme, or whatever suits your fancy. You could even do a colour them with wintery colours such as white, grey, or blue. Decorate your house in winter splendor and invite all you friends and neighbors over.
 If you're wishing it would just be over already this can be hard, but it will be worth it. Maybe you love the snow, or that it gets dark earlier. Maybe you love skiing, building snowmen, or something else you can't do in the summer. Whenever you get the winter blues take your list out and read it over.
 Do you have a trip or vacation planned? Is your birthday during the summer? Plan for it! Making packing lists, guest lists, and travel schedules.
, Some people use winter as an excuse not to exercise, but it's important all year round. It will help you from feeling depressed and warm you up! You don't have to exercise outside or go to a gym, there are plenty of exercises you can do in the comfort of your own home.
 You don't have to be a great cook to get a hot meal once in a while, many dishes are actually very simple. Soup and bread, toast, or a grilled cheese sandwich makes a delicious lunch or dinner, and oatmeal, waffles, or pancakes are all good options for breakfast.
 Don't fall into the habit of limiting your wardrobe to white, black, grey, and navy blue for the winter! Colour and the colours we wear have a big effect on our moods. It may be dark and dreary outside, but that doesn't mean your wardrobe and mood have to match!

, Take a bath, apply lotion, shave. Guys, this goes for you too! Your winter will be much better if you treat your body the way you would in the summer, when you're showing off more skin.

