 Rest assured that you don’t need to surround yourself with a lot of friends to come across as cool to other people. But remember: it would look kind of suspicious if the few friends you do have all started to bail on you. Don’t take them for granted. Prove to them (as well as to others outside your circle) that you are definitely worth their time, respect, and loyalty.
 Shun the idea of being the center of attention. When your friends need to unload or vent or even just BS, put yourself on the back burner and really listen to what they have to say. Prove to them that you really do desire to know exactly what they think and feel about this, that, and the other thing.Ask follow-up questions once they finish telling you something to show them that you want to understand them fully.
Respond directly to their comments rather than switching the subject or simply stating your own opinions.
If you feel like a personal story or opinion of your own would benefit them, frame it in a way that clearly shows that this is a response to what they have said, and not just an opportunity for you to talk about yourself.
 Being cool and confident is a matter of seeking approval from yourself first and foremost, but that doesn’t mean you should disregard what the people who are most important to you have to say. When they point out a flaw of yours, take it as constructive feedback rather than an insult.Accept the fact that you are not perfect. Embrace your closest friends as people with whom you can be yourself, flaws and all, without having to strike a constant “cool” pose.


Keep an ear out for repeated hints about your flaws in case your friends are reluctant to address them directly.
Admit to your mistakes to show that you are more concerned with improving yourself and your friendship rather than just “looking good.”Laugh at yourself to diffuse tension and prove that you are empathetic enough to see yourself through your friends’ eyes.
 But making smaller gestures more often is much more feasible (and consistent). Make your friends feel important to you on a daily basis. Show them that you think about them all the time. Make a point of giving them a small sign that they are on your mind each day.

Forward them links to videos, stories, memes, etc. that you think they would appreciate.
Call them just to say “what’s up” and find out how they are, even when (or especially if) you have nothing particularly interesting to say.
Offer to do them favors and make their lives easier when they are busy, sick, or bummed out for some reason, or just do those favors anyway without asking if they need them.
 Pump some new life into your shared routines. Make your friendship exciting.If your friend mentions how it would be nice to do this or that, don’t let them only ever daydream about it–make a concrete plan to actually do it. Make your plans together or surprise them with a readymade adventure.


Go on a road trip, even if a day-trip is all you can manage.
Learn new skills together by taking art classes, guitar lessons, etc.
Get out of your comfort zone and take part in a poetry reading, open mic night, karaoke, or something more death-defying, like skydiving or rock climbing!

