 When you feel yourself becoming too possessive of your partner, taking a time out to evaluate yourself is a good idea.A little break gives you the chance to think about what you are doing, why you are doing it, and what effect it might have on your relationship.


For example, if you are at a restaurant with your partner and notice that you are beginning to feel possessive because the server is smiling at you all, excuse yourself for a moment.
Take a mental timeout if you can’t leave the immediate area. Take three slow, deep breaths and during that time focus only on your breathing.
Use the time to ask yourself why this situation is making you feel possessive. For instance, ask yourself, “Am I feeling jealous? Insecure? Why am I feeling so possessive?”;
, It’s okay to feel a little jealous or insecure some times. It’s also okay to express to your partner that you’re feeling this way as long as you do so in the right way.You can be less possessive of your partner if talk to them and express any feelings of jealousy or insecurity you may be feeling in a calm, mature way.


Tell your partner how you are feeling and what you think is making you feel that way.
Let your partner know what they can do to help you overcome your feelings.
Try saying something like, “I’m feeling kind of possessive right now. It’s silly, but I think I’m jealous of the attention you’re getting.”

, There may be times that you do something that shows how possessive you are before you can stop yourself. If this happens then you need to apologize to your partner and anyone else involved in the situation.


For example, if you are rude to a salesclerk because you felt possessive when they greeted your partner, then you should apologize to the salesclerk and our partner.
When you are apologizing to someone else, you might say, “I’m sorry for the way I just behaved. It was uncalled for and won’t happen again.”
When you need to apologize to your partner you can start with, “I need to apologize for the way I acted. I was feeling too possessive. It’s no excuse, but it’s what happened.”

