 Being a national delegate to the UN can be the culmination of a long career in public service. Often delegates are chosen based on their experience working in foreign affairs and international relations. An experienced civil servant who has worked in the foreign affairs department of her government for a number of years, gaining experience and developing diplomacy skills, may be able to apply to become a UN delegate for her country.
 UN delegates represent their countries at all sorts of meetings and discussions at the UN.Delegates are required to be excellent diplomats who can deal with a lot of information and make convincing arguments in debates. There are a large number of meetings that take place at UN every day, which cover everything from climate change, to social development, and peacekeeping operations.


You can access a daily newsletter that lists all the meetings and events held at the UN online: http://www.un.org/Docs/journal/En/lateste.pdf.
 Becoming a delegate at UN requires a lot of knowledge, commitment, and skills. Delegates will have to prepare reports, meet with various officials, and communicate between your government and the international community. Typically you will need a college degree to get onto a scheme for young diplomats with ambitions to become UN delegates later in their careers. A number of college majors can prepare you for this career, including:


Economics.
Languages.
History.
Politics.
International Relations.
International Development., The best way into the UN is to establish yourself in your government’s foreign office, or equivalent department for foreign affairs. It is from here that people will be assigned to represent their country at the UN. Look for any trainee and graduate schemes to work in the Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO) if you are in the UK, the US Department of State, or whatever the equivalent is in your country.


The US State Department has a scheme for recent graduates and veterans.The UK FCO has a Fast Stream program that anyone eligible with a degree can apply for, no matter how long ago they completed their studies.