 I would recommend that parents bring a rucksack to take out onto the slopes. After you have collected all these put them all to one side.;
, Collect eight pairs of underwear. It is eight,just in case anything happens. Also collect four vests/bras/crop tops. Fold these neatly in a pile.
 Socks are very important when you go skiing as you need thick ones for your skiing and longish ones for exploring the towns. So you need to pack three pairs of thick socks ( you can wear them again) and seven pairs of long socks by long socks I mean not trainer socks. Make sure they are all paired up and put them in a pile.
 You will need two thermal tops and two thermal bottoms. You will also need pyjamas/nightie make sure your nightie is long sleeved and has long bottoms you can also bring a cuddly toy that you sleep with or something between those lines. Fold all these and put them in a pile.
 You will need about five long sleeved tops, you can wear some again. Check if they fit you and then iron them and put them into piles.
 Check these all fit you and then iron and put in a pile.
 Put all these in a toiletry bag. Io I shall give a list:


A toothbrush
A tube of toothpaste
A brush
Face cream
Lip balm x2
Face wash
Shampoo
Conditioner
Body wash
Hairbands/ headbands/clips
Deodorant

, As well as needing all this you will also need some simple winter things. One pair of cotton gloves and a hat or earmuffs.


It is always good to have a hat for under your ski helmet. You will also need skiing goggles. You can hire helmets along with your ski equipment.
 You can hire ski boots when you are on holiday but you do need other shoes. One pair of trainers and one pair of snow boots/Welles you might want crocs/flip flops for walking around your house/villa/apartment.
, You don't want hoodies, just fleeces or jumpers. You will need about two or three.
 Except the shoes. Put these in a carrier bag.
 Also bring some soap for bathrooms in your villa/apartment/house because they don't always supply it.
, Bring a piece of fruit for everyone in the car, something sweet and a bottle of water. Maybe bring some C.D.'s or audio tapes to listen to in the car.

A reading book
Headphones

,