 It's tempting to try different scrubs to get rid of discoloration, but they can tear into the skin, giving your skin a hard time to heal. Instead, use gentle facial products like a Hydralight gel face cleanser.Apply a small amount of the cleanser to a slightly wet face and eye area.
Use vigorous, yet gentle, circular motions to apply to the skin.
Rinse well.
To remove heavy makeup, repeat or use with a clean, wet washcloth.
 AHA (alpha hydroxy acids) comes from fruits, nuts, milk or sugars. They break down the bonds between cells, allowing for easier exfoliation. BHA or salicylic acid is found in willow tree bark, wintergreen oil, or sweet birch. Salicylic acid is able to penetrate the oils in the skin and clear out follicles of excess debris and skin cells. It is also a potent anti-inflammatory agent that reduces redness.Apply a dime-sized amount over the entire face but avoid direct contact with the eyes and lips.
Do not rinse.Use once or twice daily after cleansing and toning.
For daytime use apply a sunscreen rated SPF 25 or higher

, Unprotected exposure to UV light hurts your skin's ability to heal. This means the red marks from acne can last longer or even worsen. UV exposure damages skin cells, slowing down the healing process. Protecting your skin from UV exposure every day is critical to fading discolorations.Use sunscreen as the last step in your morning skincare routine.
Reapply at least every 2 hours if skin is exposed to sun., These two ingredients help defend skin from further damage, while also speeding up the ability for cells to repair damage. These help reduce inflammation and give discolorations a shorter time to heal. Use a toner, serum, and/or moisturizer formulated with a variety of these ingredients.Apply after cleansing, toning and exfoliating.
Avoid using around the lips and eyes.
May be applied at the same time as your AHA or BHA.
Some people may experience a delayed sensitized reaction to retinol. Do not assume that if no reaction is seen after a few applications that you can apply this treatment more frequently. Pay close attention to how your skin responds and adjust, use accordingly.If sensitization occurs (redness, flaking, tenderness, or drying of skin), reduce frequency of use or mix one pump of the retinol treatment with your favorite serum or PM moisturizer.
 You may also want to use skin lighteners, such as tumeric, licorice, or lemon juice, to reduce the appearance of red spots. However, always use home remedies with the understanding that there is little scientific evidence to support their effectiveness.Turmeric contains a substance called curcumin that lowers the rate of melanin production. Mix turmeric powder with lemon and cucumber juice and apply to the skin. Leave in for 15 minutes and rinse off.Mix a small amount of licorice extract powder, which contains a compound called Glabridin that has skin-lightening effects, in distilled water. Soak a cloth into the mixture and apply it to the red spots.Apply freshly-squeezed lemon juice on the skin with a cotton ball. You can also mix lemon, lime and grapefruit juice.
 Research shows that red or brown discolorations respond well to a series of Intense Pulsed Light (IPL) treatments. Your dermatologist would perform this method.Another option is a monthly BHA or AHA peel performed by a cosmetic dermatologist.
Lastly, microdermabrasion is another option performed by a dermatologist., Your dermatologist might suggest you use a prescription medication, such as one that contains azelaic acid that inhibits melanin synthesis and helps reduce hyperpigmentation.Always use prescription medications according to the product label.
If irritation occurs, stop using the product and consult your doctor.

