 If you have real property in one state and you're a resident of another, a transfer-on-death deed can help you avoid ancillary probate. When you die, the real property that is the subject of the deed would automatically be transferred to the person named.This deed looks like any other deed you would use to transfer property, but it doesn't take effect until your death.
You typically can find forms or templates online to create a transfer-on-death deed, or hire a real estate attorney to draft one for you.
Once you have it completed, you need to sign it using the procedures set forth in your state's law. This typically means signing it in front of witnesses or a notary.
You can file your transfer-on-death deed at the recorder's office in the same county where the property is located.
Even after it's filed, you have the power to revoke it at any time before you die, in case you change your mind.
 Creating a living trust is one way to avoid probate. You can use that living trust to transfer assets to your beneficiaries regardless of the location of those assets. Even if you don't want to transfer all of your assets into a trust, using a trust for out-of-state assets will avoid ancillary probate.A simple revocable living trust can be used to transfer the real property you own out of state. Contact an attorney or search for forms online.
Once your trust is completed and signed, you'll need to complete a deed to transfer your out-of-state property from your name into the name of the trust.
Record that deed in the recorder's office of the county where your property is located. After death, the party will transfer to those you've listed as the beneficiaries of your trust.
Since the property already is held in trust for your beneficiaries, no probate proceeding – ancillary or otherwise – is necessary to transfer the property.
 If you own your out-of-state property together with someone else, your interest in that property automatically passes to the other owner when you die, provided they have the right of survivorship.On the deed to the property, all owners must be listed as owners by joint tenancy with the right of survivorship.
When one owner dies, the remaining owner simply has to fill out a form and provide a copy of the death certificate to get the deceased person's name removed from the deed.
However, you should think carefully before you decide to add a joint owner to your out-of-state property just to avoid ancillary probate.
When you add another owner, you are technically giving away part of your ownership interest in the property.
That person is free to sell their share or take out a mortgage on it, and they don't need your consent or even your knowledge to do it.

