 Do you see yourself as boy-wanted material? If not, no need to worry, these tips will have the guy you like looking at you constantly, and if you are, you still might want to look at the tips below. Remember, guys are visual creatures and you've got to fine tune that great look you have to grab their attention. Of course, you may end up with lots of other attention from all the other boys while you're at it.;
, You could be the most over weight or super skinny girl in the world, but as long as you know you are beautiful, others will know you are beautiful too. Here's the trick! Look at yourself everyday before going to school and tell yourself you are gorgeous. Actually believe it.


Style - you don't have to be skinny to look good in your clothes. Wear clothing that brings out your best features. If you like your butt wear tight pants with a pocket design to draw attention to that area. Also black clothes make you look slimmer. Love your body and flaunt it. Don't hide beneath baggy potato sacks. Show off your beauty and make that boy look at what he's missing. But don't forget to be yourself, don't wear things for the sake of him, wear them for you.
 If your hair is short, you may want to consider cutting more off for a more refined look, or growing it out and/or straightening it. Invest in high quality shampoos and conditioner.


Whether your hair is long or short it should look stylish. Long straight hair is in but it depends on your look. Some forms of short hair can be cute, sexy, and sporty, but it's up to you.
Pay a little extra and go to the best stylist you can afford in town. This is about making changes for the best and your old standby hairdresser may not cut it. Go to someone great. They know hair and they can find a great look for your face shape.
Go wild with colors! Do something a little different with your hair everyday - guys like that. Sometimes the best way to get their attention is visually.
 If you have acne, then try to invest in good products as much as you can. Wash your face regularly and wash after a workout or if you get sweaty. Take care of your skin.


Drink lots of water! This will flush impurities out of your pores and lessen your chance of blemishes and dry skin.
Visit a dermatologist for skin problem.
If you're clueless about makeup ask your parents to take you to a makeup counter for a consultation. Take notes. If you can't afford to buy all the makeup there, get the foundations and look for the colors elsewhere. Or buy a little at a time.
 Start wearing more if you haven't before. It's not about wearing a lot or wearing trends, it's about wearing what makes you look better. You should never wear too much makeup and always wear colors that complement your skin tone and eye color. Mascara is almost always a safe bet, as long as you know how to apply it properly. If not, ask a friend who does.
 You may want to look at girls who the popular guy seems to like, see how they dress. Even if you are already close friends with him, you should still try to do this. If you ever hear him say "Hey, she's hot", scan the girl immediately to see what is she wearing and how she wears it. At the same time, make sure to stay true to your own style instead of just turning into a clone.


Beware: guys may think someone is hot and have no interest in dating them. Risque' may get their attention but being a lady is more likely to win their heart. Keep a mental note of what attracts him. Just maybe integrate some of that type of style into your own personal style. Like art, they might think they are pretty like a painting or sculpture.
If you don't get new clothes very often, then try to at least get a few stylish staples (jeans, skirts, shoes, bag) and mix and match it with other things you have. Make sure they're great fitting and you can wear it with multiple outfits. (You'll have more things to wear a great black bag with than a hot pink one.) Shop stores like New look,Topshop or River Island!

, Never ever do something you aren't comfortable with, you will look awkward. Even if it's just swearing, you will look uncomfortable if you don't normally swear.


Try to have a fun-loving, confident personality, with a soft heart but lots of character and humor. Everyone is more fun when they have a sense of humor, and guys also like when girls are soft-hearted because they can comfort them and it makes them feel like a man which they love.
 Don't totally change yourself for this guy. It's just not worth it. Just incorporate some new things into your style, but make sure you're comfortable with them. It's more likely that he will like you more when you're genuine. People can sense fakers.
 Get involved in activities that interest you. Be an independent, motivated and friendly person. Guys really are attracted to smart and successful more than dumb and fake. Truly get people to like you, and like them. If he knows a lot of people like you, maybe he will try to get to know you.
 Don't make an approach until you're absolutely sure that you've succeeded all the steps above. You want your first impression to be a big one, so you want to look attractive. When your sure you have done these steps, which, of course, may take a bit of time, then you might want to try to talk to him.


Keep it simple but not to simple. Say hi and ask how his day is going, but don't make it boring with the same old 'Hi! How are you?' Ask him questions about his weekend, but don't invade his privacy.
 He may already be interested but afraid to ask you out. Being nice may make you less intimidating. Even if he isn't interested now he will remember you for being nice when he is available.
 Don't go crying and begging at your knees for him to take you. The guy will get annoyed. Give him a space for a couple of weeks. Then try again. Don't do this every so often, the guy will start to ignore you. Maybe try to find someone new! You never know if another cute guy out there is attracted to you!

