 The most important thing is to always know and be aware of how you are feeling. In simple terms, if you are feeling badly (sad, mad, angry, stressed), that will attract bad things (more sadness, more madness, more anger and so on). In the same aspect, if you are feeling happy and good, it will bring more happiness and good things or situations. While it is definitely not easy to always be feeling good, you just have to remind yourself that whatever you're feeling will become your reality.;
, This enables your to connect to what you are creating. On the exhale, expand to create more room for the connection. Surrender to what you are currently creating. Let go.
 Own it. Use the phrase "I want to experience (place here what you are experiencing)" because on some level you do want to experience it or you wouldn’t be experiencing it.
 You need to truly visualize and picture yourself having what you want already. Feel what it is to have what you want. The most important thing to remember about visualizing is you do not need to understand or think about how these good things will come. You only need to think about already having them, the rest will fall into place; just wait and see!

, Drop judgment of what you are creating to realize it is simply a creation. Discharge the energy or judgment typically associated with things that you don’t want. These unwanted things have been called negative, wrong or bad.
 Go through the first four steps with each unconscious thought that is hidden and in conflict with your conscious desires.
 Bring both sides of your thinking together. Harmonize your conscious and unconscious thinking. Let them both speak and feel. Indeed two parts of you can be in disagreement with each other. Come to a place of being okay with each of them and feel the resulting peace.
 With awareness, acceptance and peace brought to all parts of you regarding a situation, you have the power to recreate the circumstance and with a higher probability of long-lasting success.
 Find whatever bright side there is to your situation. Even little things, for example: You are late for an appointment and there is no parking, but suddenly someone pulls out of the first spot and it's yours! While many will overlook that, it's a great example of something to be thankful for beyond the obvious things of being healthy, having family around you, being able to keep a roof over your head, etc. What you are grateful for will vary from person to person.


If you can continuously be grateful day after day and truly feel good even amid the negative things around you, you will prevail.







