 Whether your geek is a gaming fanatic or has his or her own geeky affection for sci-fi films, home in on what makes your geek quiver with excitement. Ways to learn what makes him or her tick include:


How does your geek spend his or her day? In front of the computer playing World of Warcraft or trolling the local comic book stores? Maybe your geek has a special dress up fetish that he or she only reveals on Comic Con days.
What brings a smile to your geek’s face? You want a gift that will light up the room, so study his or her habits to determine what is considered to be a happy place (namely, going to the movies, playing cards or games at home, etc.).
Study his or her friends. Geeks often travel in packs, so glean some information off a pal of your geek recipient. Witnessing what your geek’s friends are doing during the week and weekend may help you to determine his or her tastes.
Pay attention to the differences between various geek franchises. If your geek is really into Star Wars, that's no indication he or she also likes Star Trek; in fact, sometimes quite the opposite. Non-geeks may make the assumption that "something different seemed nice for a change," but that's not the way geeks' minds work (see Collections, below).;
, Even a middle-aged geek will maintain a list––it’s in their biological make-up. Rather than just ask your friend for the list, go directly to the mom-in-charge so you can maintain some element of surprise. Also, asking mom will help you determine which gifts she has already purchased and allow you to share what you intend to buy.
 Games cover a wide range of possibilities, so there is a lot to choose from.


You could choose electronic games such as a game for an Xbox, Wii, PSP, etc., or a PC game. Or, offer to pay their ongoing subscription to an online game like World of Warcraft or something similar that they're already playing. Perhaps give them some iTunes cards to download games apps.
Or, if your geek is more interested in non-electronic games, go for board games that focus on logic, physics, math or fantasy themes. Card games and dice games can also be a hit, and never forget the place of role playing games, either in their book/board or electronic forms. Just like with movies and comics, however, geeks can be quite picky, so a game that's not their preferred style or genre may miss the mark. But, if you find out they like a specific collectable card game, or strategy board games about space, for example, then you've hit gift gold.
 For some reason, geeks love full collections of films, comic books, action figures––you name it, they strive to obtain the entire collection. For example, if your geek has an affinity for Star Trek (an obvious choice) find out which season he or she does not currently own and the purchase the entire season. It may be considerably more expensive than purchasing just one DVD, but it will position you as the “Mack Daddy” friend with the good gift.


Collections aren't just about movies. For sci-fi fans, there are books, comics, magazines, toys, figurines, outfits, posters, movie placards, calendars, desk gadgets and much, much more. Don't get into a tizzy though––a lot of online retailers stock these items, especially those linked to selling books. Items spawned from Dr. Who, Star Trek, Star Wars and the like are usually always available through online retailers.
 No self-respecting geek likes a lame-o, humdrum gift, so pull out all the stops and take a walk on the wild side. When it comes to outrageous gifts think “experience” and “fantasy:”


Choose a full Comic Con-ready costume as a gift. If you’ve noticed that your pal has been slapping together tin foil and taping old batteries to his head in an attempt at creating a Tron costume for Comic Con, plunk down a wad of cash and go for the real thing. It will not only be safer for your friend, but it will restore his or her dignity on convention day. If you'd rather not buy the actual costume (due to size and style preferences, etc.), consider finding out which costume store is their favorite and buy a voucher to that store.
Explore “experience” type gifts such as a helicopter flight lesson or an air combat dogfight. Several companies offer full, head-on, in your face experience gifts. Before selecting one of these gifts, be completely sure your friend will enjoy the experience. If your geeky friend white knuckles a quick flight from Orlando to Miami, scrap a hot air balloon ride experience and perhaps opt for something on the ground. On the other hand, an afternoon in a flight simulator might just make their coming year.
Choose the hottest electronic gadget this year. If you have money to burn, go for the newest, most innovative electronic “toy” on the market. Be sure you purchase the best of the best––a computer or gadget nerd will only settle for top-notch quality. Just be warned––if you don't give the best or the right model, you'll get a whole lot of reasons as to why it's inferior. Don't take that personally, it's just that geeks are so keyed into the specs that they can't help themselves discuss the innards of a gadget's pros and cons. You might want to give the exchange receipt to them if they really seem peeved.
 If peering into your geeky friend’s world makes you feel like Forrest Gump (confused), ask someone on his or her wavelength for gift ideas. Questions to ask include:


What does everyone in your group want for Christmas (and more importantly, doesn’t have)? Even if it’s a talking hamster, find out what it is and figure out how to get it.
If you could have anything for Christmas, what would you want? Getting an idea of what the friend wants may give you a better idea of what your buddy would like.
What store is best for buying a geek presents? With millions of online and in-store retailers, procuring a specific list of merchants will help you save time in your search.
What are the "best" ones? Quality matters, especially when it comes to games. Many geeks own stacks of unplayed video and board games that were the result of poor research. The good news is that it's an easy mistake to avoid: asking another geek or a knowledgeable shopkeeper which ones are really good will make your gift that much better. Honestly, most geeks will be more impressed by a duplicate of something they already owns but is really good (and they'll have fun trading it for something else) than something that's quite bad and they may be stuck with.
 If you're good at making things with your hands, this might be the ideal solution for a geek gift. A handmade gift not only says that you've noticed their preference but that you've cared enough to take the time to make something supportive of their fandom. There are lots of possibilities for the avid crafts person:


Crochet a yip yip alien
A painting of Yoda from Star Wars
Twitter Fail Whale cookies
Yoshi egg cakes

A jigsaw puzzle - given the ease of taking photos and turning them into jigsaw puzzles, this one has hundreds of possibilities including something really complex like the inner workings of an iPhone through to sci-fi characters and the store front of a favorite tech shop
A book of difficult mathematical puzzles, quizzes and know-how all put together by you
A Pi pie


Bacon chocolate chip cookies and chocolate bacon

A homemade board game based on logic, their favorite fantasy or anything else you know they'd like. This is the ultimate––your intelligence and thoughtfulness put to good use making a board game that will give them hours of pleasure playing!

, If you're in charge of the stocking filling, find some suitably geek fillers, such as:


Floppy disk notepads and coasters
App magnets or magnets that allow poems or math equations to be made
Book lights
Dalek flashlight or a Yoda figurine (or insert any character they like for such items)
A laptop or iPad rest, a wrist rest in the shape of something cute
Notebooks or diary
Japanese stationery, candies
Desk gadgets that move or light up or even vacuum the desk
Cord tidies in interesting colors or styles
Grow-a-Geek (just add water and the figure expands)
Anything small from their favorite fantasy, science, sci-fi, gaming, etc. likes.

