 When looking around for investors and financial institutions to offer you a loan, you need to know your business credit score, which indicates the status of your business' credit. This will indicate how large a loan you can ask for and for what interest rates you might qualify. Many of the same credit reporting agencies like Experian offer credit reports, but you do need to pay a nominal fee for them.Business credit scores are on a scale of 0 to 100. You want to be above 75.
Though it costs a bit more than the basic report, businesses which have never seen their credit score should consider paying for a credit history package with the actual score enclosed. This will, firstly, tell you explicitly what your credit score is (at least for the credit scoring agency you choose). Second, it will give you a way to give yourself a rough estimate of your credit based only on comparison with a future credit report (without a score included).A small business owner is certainly able to offer up their personal credit history to counterbalance a poor business credit score. However, it is very risky to hitch your personal well-being to success of your business. Many lenders will require the assumption of personal liability for a portion or all of a loan to a small business.;
, There are a variety of institutions from which you can ask for loans. They have different advantages and disadvantages, and not all may approve your loan. Local credit unions and banks may be the safest bet on the smaller scale, because the US Small Business Administration (SBA) guarantees up to 85% of loans made to small businesses.


Be aware that the process of applying for SBA loans is mired in time-consuming paperwork, and it can be very difficult to prove you have the cash flow required for the loan.Another option is the SBA express program, which is offer through some banks and has a 36-hour turnaround, but only guarantees half of the loan's value.Banks, credit unions, lending institutions, and investment institutions are typical institutions to apply for loans.
 You will want to check out your options before you decide to which lender you will write a proposal. The best way to determine who may offer you the best interest rate is to contact a few and ask for an estimate. If you have applied for any loans in the past, check back with those companies. If you successfully paid back the loan, they may be more likely to approve a smaller interest rate for you.
 You have to come up with a plan for what your business will do if it can’t repay the loan. Selling holdings, property, making budget cutbacks, and even staff layoffs should be considered. A loan shouldn’t be taken lightly.


If your business is a sole proprietorship or partnership, you will be personally responsible for the money. If it is incorporated, losses will be shared by owners and/or stockholders.In the case of small businesses, most lenders require the guarantees of majority shareholders. The SBA requires such liability for their guarantee. The personal credit of the shareholders may suffer in the event of a default.
 Are you unsure of the interest rates of the loans for which you have gotten estimates? If the loan is for a non-essential expenditure, you don’t want to dig a hole you may not be able to get out of. High interest rates may make it difficult for you to pay the loan back, and further damage your credit history. Consider waiting until you build better business practices before taking out a loan.


Look into a credit counseling service to help you establish better business practices., Each lender will have slightly different expectations of your loan proposal. Though there are some basic elements you can begin preparing now, you won’t have a final draft until it is in the preferred format. You don’t want to seem unprepared by walking into your loan presentation meeting without having paid close attention to their instructions., This is a short description of your business. It is ok to emphasize your strengths over your weaknesses, but this should be a factual and objective-sounding paragraph. Say who you are, what you do, a brief company history, and how you will use the loan.


Since this is essentially a cover letter, the banks will see your executive summary before anything else. Name how much capital you are applying for up front, as not to leave them wondering what you want. As the saying goes, "Get down to business.", After your cover letter, go into more detail. Talk about the specific business sectors in which you operate, your customers, and maybe a vague description of your marketing strategy. Also talk about any unique skills or training your executives or employees possess.


If you are new to writing a marketing strategy to present to banks for a loan, it is best to be honest. Mention the realities of what your new venture. For example, mention if you are getting in on an expanding sector of the economy, or competing in a price war with another company, etc. This makes you seem like you have done your homework, and are still convinced you can turn a profit — and pay back the loan on time., Precise numbers indicate you have planned out a way to use the money rather than "ball-parked" it. List line items for which you have estimates. Equipment rentals, construction estimates, new hire costs, and more are necessary to show them you have a fully formulated plan.


Keep in mind that they want to see not only how much money you will be spending on whatever you need the loan for, but normal expenses as well. For example, you may not be able to make a $2,000 loan payment this month if your quarterly bill for a certain vendor is due. Demonstrate that your cash flow can cover your monthly loan repayments every month., It is expected, in most cases, that you will name an expected interest rate to begin negotiations. If you are unsure of what interest rates you might qualify for, ask a consultant or talk to similar businesses in your area. If you have applied for any loans in the past, see what interest rates you paid then and consider whether your credit history has improved or gotten worse.
 You will need to put up something you own for collateral. If you own a sole proprietorship or partnership, this may mean personal items. Often, the assets purchased with the funds will serve as collateral. You can also offer valuable items that your company owns, especially for corporations.


Personal items may be houses, property, or cars.
Items owned by your business include heavy equipment, office supplies, and furnishings.
Business holdings include perishable items, inventory, receivables, stocks, bonds, and mutual funds., If you are personally at risk for your business, in sole proprietorships and partnerships, you need to give your personal financial statements, such as a balance sheet, income statement, and cash flow statement. All businesses will need to include financial statements. These list all money spent and earned by your company: profits, revenue, expenditures, budget, etc.


Each bank will have a different set of documents you need to present, and some may only ask you to fill out the numbers in one of their forms. However, it is common for you to numerate your cash, accounts and notes receivable, real estate, equipment, mortgage, and other liabilities.
 Small business owners are required to have personal money invested in their business. This could be money you directly paid into the company or revenue you reinvest directly.Each lender will have its own underwriting and loan requirements.
 In addition to being sure you can pay back the loan if your plan fails, a lender will want to see that you are making profits. Even though they have a safeguard with your collateral, defaulting on loans can be a costly and tedious process for all involved. Have contingency plans to present to show them you can adjust to setbacks to your plan.
 Each lender will have different expectations for your loan proposal. Make sure you carefully read their instructions and include all relevant information. This is part of establishing a friendly and trusting business relationship.

