 A local gym is a great way to meet new friends. You will start to see the same people working out and can strike up a conversation. Most gyms also offer exercise classes like weight lifting, cycling or yoga. If these interest you, you'll meet like minded people and forge new relationships.If your gym doesn't offer classes, look online or in a local newspaper for online where classes may be. There are studios that offer dance, yoga and more to meet new people.
 Whether you're looking for friends or a relationship, online sites and services have become a huge source of relationships. You can even stick to message boards and websites if meeting in person is not your thing.


Always be careful about who you meet on the Internet and practice caution before meeting anyone in person. Meet them in a public place where there'll be other people around.
 If you work around other people, or are attending college, there are plenty of opportunities to interact with others and find friends.


At work try to make plans with co-workers after work. If you click, this may become a regular occurrence.
Be social in class. Ask questions about the homework or maybe notice you have similar interests. College campuses are great places to meet people.
 Whether it's a community you've lived in a while or one you are new to, there are lots of social events you can become involved in. If you attend them regularly you should start to see familiar faces and maybe strike up a friendship. Go to art gallery openings, lectures, book readings, music recitals or other community events. You'll get to do something you're interested in but also meet like minded people with similar interests.
 You may take up jogging, regularly walk your dog, or just hi to your neighbor when you get home. These are great ways to meet the people who live near you and these are great potential friends.


Be social when you're out. Say hello to people, introduce yourself and you'll soon find yourself striking up friendships.

