 One way to figure out if anything is triggering your migraines is to keep a headache diary. In this diary, whenever you get a headache, you will write down activities you do, foods you eat, and feelings you have. Track everything for the previous 24 hours. Write down the time and date that you have migraines and try to make connections between reoccurring migraines and common activities, foods, or feelings.While you should monitor trigger foods in your headache diary, do not eliminate all trigger foods at once. The stress of avoiding all foods might cause migraines. Instead, use your headache diary to try to piece together individual things that may affect your migraine frequency.
Common things that might cause migraines include your hormone cycles, stress, disrupted sleep patterns, and skipping meals. Look for patterns with these common causes.
 Some foods are believed to trigger migraines in people who suffer from migraines often. Monitor your migraines after you eat these foods to see if they may trigger your migraines. They may a trigger if you get a headache within 12 to 24 hours after eating that food. Foods to monitor are:Alcohol, like red wine
Aspartame
Beans
Nuts, including peanut butter
Caffeine
Aged cheeses
Foods containing MSG
Chocolate
Processed meats containing nitrates and sulfites
Banana, citrus, avocado, or onions

, Getting enough sleep can help manage migraines during menopause. Try to get seven to nine hours of sleep every night, roughly at the same time every night., Eating a healthy diet may also help manage your migraines. Obesity can lead to chronic headaches, so a healthy diet can help you maintain a healthy weight and eliminate that cause of migraines.Make sure to eat three meals each day. Try to eat the meals at roughly the same time every day.Include plenty of fruits and vegetables into your daily diet. You should eat 5 or more servings of fruits and vegetables every day.
Choose whole grains over refined carbs. Eat breads and pastas made from whole grains instead of white bread or pasta. Try quinoa as a side dish, or a sweet potato instead of white potatoes. Choose snacks that include whole grains instead of refined carbs.
Reduce the amount of sugar and fried food you eat.
 If you are suffering from migraines, you should never skip meals, especially breakfast. Periods of fasting may trigger migraines., Exercise can help reduce the severity of your migraines. Exercise also relieves stress, which can lead to migraines. Talk to your physician about the appropriate exercises to do to help manage your migraines.If you feel a migraine coming on, sometimes taking a short walk can help manage it.
Any light exercise is good for managing migraines. This includes walking, jogging, cycling, swimming, or dancing.
 Since stress can lead to migraines, you should learn to manage your time. Keep a to-do list where you prioritize and divide tasks into chunks. Figure out ways to reduce your daily to-do list so you are not overwhelming yourself.Take breaks throughout the day if you need to. Slow down and focus on what you can do.

