 Dementia can affect how a person sees and interacts with their environment, and so good lighting can help them to judge distances better. Adding more light can decrease shadows and make the room clearer, which can help a person see better. Make sure there's bright enough lights in the whole home, preferably easy-to-access ones.It can help to add nightlights as well, especially if the person is used to not turning on the lights when they get up at night.
In addition, make sure all spaces in the home have light, including closets.
Make sure to open the curtains during the day to help increase natural lighting, but shut them at night, while turning on more lights inside.;
, Inside, it's important to make sure the person has a clear place to walk. Pick up any clutter of the floor, and ensure the floor is even to walk on. If the carpet is rumpled, for instance, it's time to replace it.You should also glue or tape any rugs to the floor (or take them out).
Remove any exposed cords.
Avoid making floors slippery. Make sure to remove any spills. Skip waxing the floors if possible.
 People with dementia can have difficulty seeing distinct edges on objects. For instance, they may not be able to see where the staircase ends or where a step up into the kitchen is. Even if they've lived in the house for years, dementia can make them forget where these hazards are. Adding visual cues, such as bright duct tape on a stair, can help reduce the risk., Use contrasting colors to help define things like bathmats and welcome mats from their background. Also, stick to solid colors, as patterns can lead to confusion. It's best to avoid black, especially on the ground, as a person with dementia may see it as a hole.You can also paint the doorsill a different color, separate the wall from the baseboards by using different colors (such as a lighter color for the walls and darker for the baseboards), and use a contrasting color toilet.
It can also help to mark things like the edge of the bathtub with a contrasting color (using tape or a towel).
 For someone who may have trouble with falling, it's important to have furniture that's not too low to the ground. In addition, try to get away with as few pieces as possible, as that will mean fewer items to run into. Finally, try not to move the furniture very often, as that can be confusing, causing a person with dementia to trip., Stairs increase a person's risk of falling. Move the person's bedroom downstairs, if possible, so they don't have to go up and down the stairs as often. Of course, the person will also need a full bathroom on the bottom floor., The bathroom is one of the places people fall most often. Add things like a raised toilet seat, grab bars by the toilet and tub, and non-slip mats to make it safer and reduce the person's chance of falling. Adding more light can also help., A person with dementia is more likely to be confused when they wake up in the middle of the night then at other times. Add to that fact that they can't see as well and that they may have balance issues because of grogginess, and it's easy to see how night can be a problem. The best solution is to keep as many things as they need by the bed, such as a glass of water, tissues, and their phone. Also add a lamp or flashlight and eyeglasses, if they need them., Make sure to keep items like keys, shoes, and wallets always in the same place. Doing so helps the person find the item more easily, meaning they don't have to wander around the house looking for it. The more they wander, the more likely they are to fall, particularly if they are agitated., Solid shoes are best, particularly ones that don't slip around on the person's feet. Shoelaces are not a good idea, either, as they can come untied and trip the person. Stick to slip-ons with backs or shoes with velcro straps.Make sure the person is wearing shoes even in the house, as most slippers don't provide enough support.
 If the person you're caring for is unstable, a walker or a cane may help them keep their balance. You can find these at the drug store or medical supply store. In fact, some insurances will cover these devices if a doctor deems them medically necessary.
 Noise can make a person with dementia irritable, as it can increase their confusion. It's best to keep the noise down, as with increased irritability and confusion comes an increased risk of falling., When a person's dementia worsens, they may fall back into old routines that are no longer relevant, such as trying to get up and go to work in the morning. This extra wandering increases the likelihood of a fall. However, just telling the person "no" will only make them frustrated. Instead, try to distract them with something else they like, such as making them a cup of coffee or playing a game together., An ongoing medical evaluation of the patient is very important. A doctor can examine the person in question. The doctor will look at things like balance and muscle strength to help determine the person's risk. Knowing how much the person is at risk can help you decide how vigilant you need to be., There is a common saying that goes, “If you don’t use it, you lose it.” This means that someone who is not active will become less capable of being active. Make sure that person with dementia has an opportunity to be active on a daily basis to decrease the progression of the disease and balance any dysfunction.

Simple activities such as walking together, doing household tasks, working in the garden, playing music and dancing can benefit the patient both cognitively and physically.
 Vitamin D is vital to health, as it increases calcium absorption, helps with bone health, and assists with mental health. Older people are more at risk for a vitamin D deficiency than younger adults, partially because their body doesn't produce it as well and partially because they don't get as much sun exposure. Talk to the person's doctor to check for a vitamin D deficiency and a supplement if needed., It is also important for a patient with dementia to have an ongoing medication evaluation by their doctor. Some medications can increase the likelihood that a person will fall. Mostly, the drugs that worsen the effects are ones that make the person drowsy or a bit loopy, such as anticholinergics (like Benadryl), sedatives, and tranquilizers. However, blood pressure medicine can also do the same thing, if it lowers the person's blood pressure too much.