 As your partner, colleagues, and children are potentially a part of your everyday life, escaping reality means leaving them behind temporarily and refocusing on yourself. Because the society that we live in is perceived by most to be hectic and filled with stressors, spending some dedicated time alone can help you to refresh your mind and be more ready to handle reality when you return.Solitude allows your brain to “reboot.”Turn off your phone and sign out of your social media. When you are no longer “connected” to everyone and everything, you will find yourself much more able to mentally escape reality.
Wake up 30 minutes before anyone else and enjoy the peace and quiet of the morning. Use that time to reflect, meditate, and daydream.Make alone time a priority. Many of us spend the majority of our day catering to others, whether colleagues, family, or friends. Make it a point to set aside a block of time each day to allow yourself some time to escape your otherwise hectic reality., Instead of passively allowing your mind to wander, some people may find it helpful to actively engage in an activity that they can associate with a mental escape from reality. There are a wide range of activities that can facilitate an escape from reality.


Try painting or knitting. The repetitive motion may help you find peace and solace and allow your mind to wander away from reality.
If you’re looking to get exercise at the same time, go for a walk. Walking for 7,000-8,000 steps each day is great for your physical health and if you use your walking time to also meditate, daydream, or otherwise escape reality, you will be benefitting your mind as well as your body.If you want to enjoy the outdoors, try hiking, fishing, or gardening. Being in nature can be another avenue for your mental escape of reality.
There is no “best” activity to help you mentally escape reality; however, you should always do something that you enjoy. Some people may find the best way to mentally escape reality is to go skydiving or snorkeling, while others may enjoy playing a computer game or putting together a puzzle.
 Books are a fantastic avenue for escapism because they allow you to escape your reality and enter another world without ever leaving your sofa.Choose a book from your favorite author, a time-honored classic, or a best-seller.


Find a book that takes you into a make-believe world. This could be a fictional world, such as that of Harry Potter or Lord of the Rings, or a book that takes place in another time or location, such as a work of historical fiction.
Choose a series (something available in a trilogy or more) for an even longer escape from reality!

