 Put this mixture into a saucepan and warm it over low heat. If you don’t have capability of measuring in grams, use tablespoons. This would be 3 tablespoons of potassium nitrate and 2 tablespoons (29.6 ml) of sugar.Be careful when mixing chemicals. Always take proper precautions.;
, Continuously stir the mixture over low heat. Let it cook until it caramelizes and browns. This will take less than 15 minutes so keep a constant watch over your mixture.


Once again, take proper precautions when cooking the mixture. Do not walk away from it.
 When the mixture starts to look like peanut butter, take it off of the heat. It should have a thick, creamy consistency.
 After you remove the mixture from the heat, stir a rounded teaspoon of baking soda into the saucepan. This measurement doesn’t have to be exact.


Baking soda can cause a chemical reaction, be careful when mixing it into your mixture.
 Take three large tablespoons of dye any color dye that you’d like and mix it into your saucepan. Mix it thoroughly. It helps to have your dye previously measured and sitting in a separate bowl ready for this step.
 While your mixture is still hot and pliable, fill your tube, paper, etc. with the mixture. It should pour like hot caramel or be in powder form. Pack it evenly to the top.









Because your mixture is hot, be careful when pouring it. Wear heat resistant gloves if you have them available. Keep your filled tube away from any possible ignition sources., Take a pen and push it straight down into the center of your mixture. It doesn’t have to be pushed down to the bottom of your tube; but, it needs to be far enough down so that you it stands on its own. Leave it for at least an hour to harden.
 Use duct tape to cover the top, bottom, and sides of the tube. You can use any color duct tape that you have available. Leave a small hole for the around the fuse.
 Remove the pen and replace it with a firework fuse. Use a piece of a cotton ball to help secure the fuse in the smoke bomb. Be sure there is at least ½” of fuse left so that you can light the smoke bomb.


The fuse itself isn’t dangerous until lit. However, make sure to do this away from any open flame.
 Use a lighter to light the fuse of your smoke bomb. Do so outside because the smoke will billow out of your bomb quickly as soon as the fuse burns down enough.









If you feel that the flame is growing at any point, throw the smoke bomb into an empty space where it can safely burn out.

