 Is work or family more important? Both are necessary, so you’ll need to make conscious choices as to how you balance your time and commitments.


It’s all about perspective.Sometimes just a small change in the way you view things can make a difference. Set your priorities in order. Aim for contentment rather than overfilling the bank. Plan holidays. Surprise your significant other. Go to a football game with the kids and at the same time put your heart and soul into your work during office hours.;
, You don’t want to feel smothered by a dead-end job, do you? Think of realistic goals for yourself to achieve at work. When you succeed at work, the rewards will spill over into your family life. Work goals range from short-term to long-term.Have short-term goals. What do you hope to accomplish in the next month? Do you want to increase efficiency in your department? Try to approach old problems in novel ways. No problem is too small for reconsideration when it comes to efficiency. Do you want to make some slight change in the work environment? Make your goals known no matter how small. Upper management loves to see people take charge.
Have long-term goals. Most of these will take years to accomplish, but having a long-term goal or several will help motivate you to make the most of your time at work. Do you want to advance up the professional ladder? Do you want a raise? Think about where you’d like to be in 5 years. If your answer is: “not in this job.” Then you probably need to start thinking of strategies to help realize your goals.
 If you have goals at home too, they can positively affect your work life. Strive for personal growth. Learn something new, whether or not it relates to your job. When you learn, your brain constantly applies new knowledge to old tasks. Most likely, you’ll begin to think of better ways of doing your job too.Think about long-term personal goals too. Do you want to have children, get married, or move to a new area? Consider what is important to you at home and then make career decisions that will help you get there.

