 This applies to all interactions including purchasing tickets, buying snacks and drinks at the concession stand, and acknowledging cleaning staff as you exit the theater at the end of the movie. How you treat the staff is a reflection of your own maturity., You will enter the theater at the very bottom or very top of the seating area. Find your seat respectfully without pushing, running, jumping, or talking loudly. If you sit next to another patron, always ask if the open seat is actually available. They may be saving it for someone.
 This is one of the biggest behavior faux pas you can make during a movie. Make sure your mobile phone is turned completely off. The light from your screen can be incredibly irritating to the other movie goers. , If you are saving a seat for a friend or family member, release the seat as the lights dim and before the trailers begin. Seats are generally available on a first come, first serve basis. It is rude to hold a seat for someone who is late over movie goers who have arrived on time. , The sound of your voice may disturb other patrons who are trying to listen to the movie. If you absolutely have to make a comment, make sure to speak in a quiet whisper. , If you have to leave the theater while the movie is still showing, try your best to crouch to avoid blocking other people's view. Be as quick as you can, while also keeping safety in mind. Don’t talk while leaving the theater and try your best to time your departure with an appropriate part of the movie.
 Be aware of shared armrests and don’t let your personal items stray into another seat. Be careful not to kick the chair in front of you. If you experience disruptions, such as a movie goer kicking the back of your seat, address the situation calmly and politely. You can also find a different seat. Keep in mind, everyone has a right to sit where they want, so try to make the best of the situation without disrupting the movie.
 Leaving empty candy boxes, greasy popcorn bags, and emptied soda containers is disrespectful and immature. By cleaning up your seating area, you are treating the movie theater staff with respect. Remember, they have to clean up the theater after every movie for their entire shift.
 Unless it’s an emergency, wait until the lights have turned on before standing up. This shows respect to other movie goers who are still watching the screen. It is also safer as you can easily see where you’re walking.