 It can be any color or pattern you want, but make sure that it's clean. Striped socks work the best for this! You can also use a crew sock instead for a smaller caterpillar. Don't use an ankle sock, though. It won't be long enough.

Consider using a soft, fuzzy sock for a fluffy caterpillar., If you can't find any, you can use cotton balls or scraps of yarn.You can also use six 3-inch (7.62-centimeter) Styrofoam balls. If you are using Styrofoam balls, you may not fit all of them into the sock. Don't try to cram them in., If the sock was very long, you may still have some leftover. Cut the extra sock off so that you have a 2-inch (5.08-centimeter) stub.If you are using Styrofoam balls, leave enough space in the sock so that the balls can wiggle.
 You can also use pieces of colorful yarn instead. Plan on having about six segments. If you used Styrofoam balls, tie a rubber band/piece of yarn between each ball., Turn the sock caterpillar so that the toe part is facing you. Glue two googly eyes on top, right above the seam. Hot glue or tacky glue will work the best. You can also use a hot glue with an adult's help., You can use the seam on the toe part as a mouth. You can also draw your own mouth with a marker. If you want to, you can add some more details, such as rosy cheeks or eyelashes. For a silly caterpillar, glue a small pompom onto the face for the nose.

For a rustic touch, use buttons instead of googly eyes. You can sew or glue them on.
 The neck is the first joint behind the head. Find the middle of a pipe cleaner, then place it under the caterpillar. Wrap both ends around the neck, then twist them together once or twice., Pull the antenna apart to make a V-shape. Curl each end downward with a pencil.You can also cut the antenna shorter and hot glue a mini pompom to the tips., You don't have to do this if you don't want to. Decorating the caterpillar will give it character and make it look more interesting. Here are some ideas:

Draw designs with markers or puffy paint.
Sew or glue buttons onto the caterpillar to make spots.
Make a small bow out of ribbon and glue it onto the caterpillar's head.
Glue a pompom onto the tail-end to help hide the stub.

