 One of the most important things to do when dealing with jealousy within your group of friends is to acknowledge the emotion. Jealousy may appear as many different emotions: anger, betrayal, insecurities, humiliation, fear, and loss. If you name these feelings are jealousy, you can deal with it. If someone else feels jealousy, you can understand better their responses to things that happen.When you know that a friend is jealous of you or someone else, you can understand that their negative reaction may not be because of the friend, but directed at themselves because they are comparing themselves to others in the group. Jealous emotions usually stem from a sense of inadequacy and a perceived threat to one's self.For example, your friend may get mad sometimes when something good happens to you. Maybe they get upset or feel left out if you do something with someone in the friend group without them. This may all be due to jealousy.;
, You don’t want to accuse your friend of being jealous if they are not. You may be suspicious, but your friend may be going through something difficult. Ask them if they are okay and if there is anything they need to talk about.Your friend may be going through a bad breakup or maybe they have just gotten snubbed by someone they cared about. This can cause them to be negative towards other people in the group's relationships. If they are having family troubles, they may feel more insecure or be more easily upset than usual.
If they say they are fine, you may want to look for signs of jealousy. For example, they may be passive aggressive, overly competitive, unsupportive, or clingy. Other signs of jealousy may include being critical and negative, gossiping, and not congratulating other people on their successes.
 Saying how you feel out loud can help you to become more aware of your feelings and sort them out. If you feel jealous of your friend, you may want to talk with others in the group. Make sure to frame this not as if you are talking behind your friend’s back, but that you are concerned about your own feelings. You want to save the friendship, but you need to talk to someone you can trust.Tell your friend, “I need to talk to you about something. I am feeling jealous of our friend. I know that it is irrational and unfair, but I want to talk through it so I can deal with the emotions and move on.”

