 Place the chickpeas in a large saucepan or stockpot and pour cold water over them. The water should cover the chickpeas by 3 to 4 inches (7.6 to 10 cm).


As the chickpeas absorb the water, you may need to add more. In fact, chickpeas can nearly double in size, so you may end up needing twice as much water as you have chickpeas.
Soaking is important for two main reasons. First, soaking dried chickpeas softens them, thereby cutting down the amount of time they need to cook. Second, the soaking process breaks down many of the gas-inducing sugars in the beans, thereby making them easier to digest.;
, Stir 1 Tbsp (15 ml) of baking soda into the water until it dissolves.


Baking soda is not strictly necessary, but it can be beneficial. The molecules in baking soda attach themselves to gas-inducing sugars in the chickpeas known as oligosaccharides. By binding to these sugars, baking soda can break them down and partially remove that gut felt odorous, gas producer from the structure of the chickpea.
On the other hand, baking soda can leave behind a salty, soapy flavor in large amounts, so if you decide to use it, you should only use a little.
 The chickpeas should soak in the cold water for at least 8 hours.


Cover the pot of chickpeas with a clean dish towel or lid as they soak. You can leave them out at room temperature; refrigeration is not needed.
 If you only have an hour or so to work with, you can soak the chickpeas faster by rapidly boiling the beans in a stockpot of hot water.Place the chickpeas in a stockpot or large saucepan and cover with 3 to 4 inches (7.6 to 10 cm) of water.
Bring the contents of the pot to a boil over high heat on the stove. Let them continue boiling rapidly for 5 minutes, with baking soda included.
Remove the pot of chickpeas from the heat, cover loosely, and let the chickpeas soak in the hot water for a full 1 hour.
 Pour the water and chickpeas through a strainer to separate them. Rinse the chickpeas for 30 to 60 seconds under running water while in the strainer, gently sifting them so that all the chickpeas get washed with the water.


Any dirt or debris in the soaking water can adhere to the chickpea skin as the chickpeas soak, so it is important to drain the water and rinse the chickpeas well. The sugars that broke down into the water can still cling to the sides of the chickpeas, too, which is another important reason to dump the water and rinse the beans.
Rinsing the chickpeas can also help remove the aftertaste left behind by baking soda.
 Transfer the chickpeas to a clean saucepan or stockpot and fill the pan with enough water to cover the beans.


If you want to make the beans more flavorful, add about 1/4 tsp (1.25 ml) of salt to the contents of the saucepan for every 2 qt (2 L) of water used. The beans can draw the salt in as they cook, thereby flavoring the inside of the chickpea as well as the outside.
As a general guideline, use about 1 qt (1 L) of water for every 1 cup (250 ml) of soaked beans.
 Then reducing the heat to medium or medium-low, until the water simmers, then simmering in water for 1 to 2 hours.


For dishes that require firm beans, like stews and soups, only cook the beans for about 1 hour. For dishes that require softer beans, like hummus, cook for about 1 1/2 to 2 hours.
 Once finished, pour the chickpeas and water through a strainer and rinse the beans, still inside the strainer, under running water for 30 to 60 seconds. Serve immediately, add to a recipe calling for chickpeas, or save for another time.

