 If you do not already have on OnStar account, push the blue OnStar button located on your rear-view mirror to speak to a representative and open an account. In order to use RemoteLink, you will need to know your account number. If you are setting up your account for the first time, remember to ask the OnStar representative for your account number. If you have been using OnStar prior to using RemoteLink, you can push the blue OnStar button and ask the representative for your account number.;
, From a computer or smartphone, go to www.onstar.com. Under the "Account Login" button, click on "Set up your online account." You will create a username and password in this process that you will use for the RemoteLink app.
 The app is available from the iPhone App Store, Android Play Store, or Windows Store.
 Under the "Key Fob" button on the RemoteLink homepage, you can lock, unlock, sound the horn and lights and stuff you could normally do with your key fob or remote start (and stop) your vehicle from your phone. You can also flash your lights and sound the horn in the event that you cannot find your vehicle., Under the "Vehicle Status" button on the RemoteLink homepage, you can view your vehicle's current fuel level, gas mileage, miles until empty, remaining oil life, and tire pressure. Electric vehicles will show battery level instead of fuel level. This information is a major item that most people will want to check every few days, to ensure your levels are where they need to be., Under the "Map" button, you can find your car., You'll find this information under the "4G LTE" button's information on the RemoteLink Home page., Under the "Navigation" tab, you can search for a destination and send it to your vehicle. After you find a destination, start your vehicle and OnStar will automatically start giving you turn-by-turn directions to your destination., Have an OnStar representative help you with a feature on the app. This screen will give you the numbers you can use, and with the press of a button, you can remotely call OnStar to have them help you right from the phone.