 The easiest way to adopt a child in Australia is to adopt one that you are related to, either by blood or as a step-parent (intrafamily adoption). Your specific relationship to the child will determine your eligibility.For step-parents, you must have lived with the birth or adoptive parent of the child for at least two years immediately prior to the application.
For a grandparent, aunt, uncle, or sibling, you must have had a stable and ongoing relationship with the child for at least two years.
 The child must also be eligible for you to adopt, under the law. There are several specific guidelines that apply.For step-parents, the child must be at least five years of age.
A child must usually be under the age of 18 on the date the adoption application was submitted.
Step-parents and relatives may file for adoption of persons over the age of 18 if they cared for the child prior to his or her 18th birthday.
 An application for intrafamily adoption can filed directly with the supreme court of the state you live in.Contact the court to obtain the necessary paperwork.


It is a good idea to meet with a solicitor or contact Legal Aid for advice on filling out the application., If the person you wish to adopt is under the age of 18, you will have to provide a court report detailing the adoption, prepared by a Contracted Adoption Assessor.The Contracted Adoption Assessor will prepare this report, for a fee, that details your suitability to adopt the child. The Assessor works on behalf of the Family and Community Services department of your state. Check your state's website to find out how to initiate the assessment process.
 Unless the court waves this requirement, you must obtain consent from the birth-parents of (or whomever has parental responsibility for) the child. There are some exceptions to this requirement:If the child is 12 or older, he or she may give consent to be adopted, rather than a parent.
Parental consent is likewise not necessary if the person being adopted is over 18.
 Last, you must wait for the court to make a ruling about the adoption. The court will rule based on whether the adoption will be in the best interests of the child.