 You can dye it but it is NOT recommended if you have raven hair. You can buy a wig if you want but if you don't want to, that is absolutely fine. Get bangs - you can go to the hairdressers to do this or if you think you are a hairstyling expert, you can do it by yourself but I don't suggest this. Claire tries to grow out her bangs, though, so having them is not an absolute must. Claire is mostly herself though, so to really be like her, keeping your hair the way it is is completely fine. It doesn't have to be extremely well, and professional looking, Claire doesn't care. If you brush your hair, wash your hair, condition it, and rinse it with cold water to make it as shiny as possible, your hair will be nice enough.;
, She just uses simple scented/flavored lip gloss in a fruity flavor. She has blue eyes that are beautiful and very noticeable, but no matter what color your eyes are, getting them noticed is really a matter of technique. Silver eyeshadow brings out your eyes the best, but try finding a color that truly brings out the color and shape of your eyes, as everyone is different. Claire is lucky to not have gotten bitten by the acne bug, but not everyone is as fortunate. To be like her, you can't wear any foundation, so having clear skin is a must. Clean and Clear has many great products to help you get the flawless dreamy sin you want. Use it every day, day and night with a moisturizer and in the mornings, a teeny bit of powder is a miracle worker and you'll be perfectly fresh-faced. A tiny bit of rosy blush and clear mascara will take you where you want to go. You'll be looking oh-so-natural with these tips and tricks!

, As basics, get 10 pairs of jeans. Claire likes skinnies, so maybe invest in those. Get flare jeans, bootcut, cropped jeans and capris too. Buy 5 pairs of colorful, cute shorts (Remember: Claire is from Orlando) Claire also has many graphic t-shirts with cartoon characters and funny sayings. You could find these at Walmart, Kohl's, Kmart, etc. For shirts with funny sayings, check out Snorg tees because they are hilarious. Claire's signature shoes are Keds, so try investing in some of those puppies. If they aren't your style, Converse and Vans work too and may be even better. Get accessories like necklaces, bracelets (friendship bracelets, not real jewelry, cute very small and non-dangling earrings, hats, small totes and belts, good ones can be found at Forever 21. Shop at vintage places too, they have cute and cheap things to help personalize, and make your style very unique. Claire has sweatshirts, sweatpants, and all that fun, comfy stuff so remember to have quite a few, and wear at least two each week to keep up that casual, sweet look.
 Just think what kind of phone Claire would get if her mom allows her. Cheap, but useful phones are good. Really, you don't have to get an I Phone or anything close to it. An MP3 or Walkman would be nice and you can get it in your favourite color.
 You shouldn't be forced to be someone you aren't. If you want to be popular, that's okay but remember to be yourself during the process. Try to be friends with a member of a very popular clique at school. If they reject you, don't be a totally mean bully unless you want to make enemies. Now, you don't want that don't you?

