 Consider telling them a bit more about what you've been up to. For example: an award you recently received, a new teacher/lecturer at your school or college, a new style that everybody is wearing, which of your hobbies you like the most, and so forth.;
, You don't have to be entirely familiar with your relative to be polite. Just avoid topics that might be touchy, be respectful of their opinions and avoid arguing the point on anything.


Be considerate as well as being polite. For example, if a relative recently passed that Uncle Larry was close to, don't say anything that might stir up bad memories.
 Make a reference about the food you are eating. It's a common task that can take the conversation far. It will often draw in others too, as they won't want to appear remiss in mentioning the chef.
 Current events are ways to get family to talk about opinions or experiences, as well as discussing whether they're going or not. It's also a great way to find out what other events are coming up, as they'll share the things they're planning to do that haven't been mentioned yet.
 This can ease a bit of tension, by allowing others to contribute to the conversation. In particular, look for the quiet ones who seem willing to say something but need prompting, out of shyness, fear or uncertainty.
 This is a great conversation topic that really can get things moving. Asking after what a mutual friend/neighbor or person is now doing can be a great way to connect various people and to lead into further discussions.
 If people wish to talk about something that you're not that interested in, make an effort to appear interested for at least a short time. You can change the subject after it's clear that they've said their piece and feel heard, not before.
 Offer to hand out food when people are seated elsewhere than at the table. When at the table, pass food promptly and considerately so that everyone gets a share. It's another good excuse to talk too, as you can ask how they like the food, what their favorite foods are and whether they'd like more.
 Offer to do the dishes, put things away, clear up, etc. Encourage others to help too. It's a good way of having a chance to natter with those who are helping with you and to get the cleaning up done quickly, so that everyone can get back to conversing together. Do not leave the chef all alone in the kitchen, unless he or she prefers it that way.
 If some of your family members are parents of small children, offer to play a game with the kids outside or in another room, to give the parents a break and a chance to chat with the rest of the family without constant interruptions. You'll get to spend time with the kids and you'll get lots of appreciation and respect from the parents.
 If there are members of your family who need assistance for any reason, offer to walk them home, drive them home or even catch public transportation with them. It's a kind gesture and you'll get to spend some one-on-one time with them to learn more about them.

