 If you’re changing your crawling baby on a countertop or table, they might roll or crawl over the edge if you’re not around to monitor them. Therefore, you must always be watchful and stay by your crawling baby when they are on an elevated surface.It’s best to change your baby on the floor on a changing mat or towel. This will prevent your crawling baby from being hurt in a fall.
Even a relatively low elevation like a sofa or chair could be high enough for a crawling baby to really hurt themselves if they fall.Some changing pads have straps to help hold the baby in, but you should never leave your baby unattended even if you use these.;
, If you put your baby in a baby carriage or high chair, ensure that your crawling baby won’t crawl out by strapping your baby in with a five-point harness. A five-point harness is a piece of safety equipment that ties around the crawling baby’s waist, crotch, and shoulders to keep them from crawling out of the place they’re meant to remain. If your crawling baby is not safely strapped in, they could crawl out and get hurt in the fall., Safety gates are removable barriers that prevent the passage of crawling babies from leaving a certain area. While adults can easily step over safety gates, for crawling babies, safety gates are an impenetrable obstacle.Do not use older accordion-style gates. They might trap your crawling baby if they put their head through them., If your baby is crawling about on an upper story and your home has an area of bannisters along a walkway, they might fall through the bannisters if they are spaced further than 2.5 inches (6.5 cm) apart. In this case, cover the bannisters with boards or a safety net., Crawling babies are very creative. If your low furniture is close to windows, your crawling baby might clamber onto a chair or sofa and crawl right out of an open window. Your baby might also open a closed window and crawl out. Fit your windows with locks or safety catches that make it impossible to open the window more than 2.5 inches (6.5 cm).Ensure that you and the other adults in the house know where the keys for the safety catches or locks are to get through the window in case of fire (or in case you just want to let in a nice breeze).
 If your crawling baby has any toys or bumpers in their cot, they might climb or crawl on them to escape.In so doing, your crawling baby might take a nasty fall and get hurt. To prevent this from happening, remove these toys and bumpers from the crawling baby’s bed.