 Visit https://ello.co/ from any web browser. If you aren't already signed in, you'll see that “Ello is invite only.”;
, Move your cursor to the bottom of the first page. Click the “Request An Invitation” button.
 In the box that appears, enter your email address then click the “Request Invitation” button.


Your request for an invite will be sent to Ello, but you may need to wait a while to get an invite.
 Currently, Ello is only inviting small batches of users at once, and they don't specify how long you'll have to wait. If you have another friend who has Ello, you may want to ask them to send you an invitation to speed up the wait time. See section 4 to find out how to get a user to invite you.


While you are waiting, you may want to read Ello’s manifesto to know more about what you’re signing up for. Scroll to the bottom of the page and click the “Read the Manifesto” button.
 Once your request for an invite has been granted, you will receive an email with a link and an invitation code. Click on the link to join Ello, using the invitation code in your email.


Again, you can also get an invitation code from an Ello user as detailed in Part 4.
 Go to https://ello.co/join and fill in the registration form. You'll need to input the invitation code, your email, a username, and a password. Click the “Create Account” button when you are ready to create an account.
 Once your account has been created, you will be brought to https://ello.co/friends, which is Ello’s landing page. This is your wall or timeline where all your posts will appear and where all your friends’ activities will be displayed.


If you were invited by a friend, they will automatically be listed in your friends list.
 Click on the gear icon from the header menu on the left panel to access Settings. You will be brought to your Profile and Settings page.
 You can upload a header image for your Ello profile. This will appear on the top of your Ello page. Scroll to the top of the page, and drag and drop a photo from your computer to the photo box for the header image.


The recommended image size is 1800 x 1013 pixels, so you may need to crop your photo for best results.
The uploaded header image will immediately be displayed on the top of your page.
 To do so, find the circle on the Profile header. Then, drag and drop a photo from your desktop onto the circle. This is will be your a profile picture, and will appear by all your posts within Ello.


The recommended size is 340 x 340 pixels, so you may need to crop your photo for best results before uploading it.
The uploaded image should immediately fill the photo circle.
 Input your username, email address, name, a brief bio, and some personal links or URLs.


Note that your profile (excluding your email address) will be seen by anyone on Ello.
 Scroll down until you see the 'Settings section.' There are three options you can toggle: Public Profile, Comments, and Analytics. Each of these options has Yes/No buttons beside them.


Click the “Yes” button for Public Profile if you want your profile viewable outside Ello.
Click the “Yes” button for Comments if you would like to allow others to comment on your posts.
Click the “Yes” button for Analytics if you would like to allow Ello to gather data about your visits.
 Further down the page, you’ll see the Notifications section. These settings control what type of notifications you will receive from Ello. There are three options you can toggle: Comments, Mentions, and New Followers. Each of these options has Yes/No buttons beside them.


Click the “Yes” button for Comments if you want to receive email notifications when there’s a comment on your posts.
Click the “Yes” button for Mentions if you want to receive email notifications when you’re mentioned in another user’s post.
Click the “Yes” button if you want to receive email notifications when others follow you.
 Click the black circle with a smile logo on the upper left part of the page. This will bring you back to your profile. You’re now set to explore Ello, and even invite others!

, Since Ello is invite-only, you'll need to personally invite any friends who are not already on Ello. Each account will be able to invite five friends.


On the header menu on the left panel, click on the plus icon for “Invite.” You will be brought to the invitation page.
Generate the invite code. For your friends to be able to join Ello, they need an invite code. Click the “Generate Invite Code” button to generate one of your five allowed invite codes.
 An invite code will appear where the button used to be. Highlight the whole text and copy it.
 You can now paste this invite code in your email, Facebook, Twitter, IM client, or any other communication medium to send it to your friends.


You can also put in an email address on the box provided and click the “Invite” button. This will automatically send your friend an email with the invite code.
 Once you've used up your five invites, you can encourage your friends to use theirs and grow your network!