 For a smart casual outfit, you must balance flairs of professionalism and fashion.Consider wearing bottoms that are comfortable but sharp looking; they need to be able to pull through a professional yet casual look. For example, a nice pair of slacks, darker-colored conservative skirts, and even a dark wash pair of jeans can all be appropriate bottoms for a smart casual outfit.Most times, your bottoms can act as a base from which you create your ensemble outfit.


Your bottoms can absolutely incorporate a pop of color.You could wear something like a brown or dark green skirt, navy blue slacks, or a dark, indigo wash pair of jeans.If you decide to wear a skirt, it must be a business appropriate length (at least to the top of your knees).
However, keep in mind that if your bottoms include color and are more fashionable, you should try to balance your outfit with a milder, yet chic top.;
, Since smart casual is all about balancing, your top must equalize your outfit. If your bottoms are dressier, your top can be more casual (ruffles, color, accents, prints, etc.). If your bottoms are more casual, dress up your outfit by sporting a sleeker, more professional top.


A professional top would be a button-down shirt, a dressy blouse, or a collared top.Again, your top can incorporate color, it just has to stabilize out your outfit. If your bottoms are a muted color, opt for a colored shirt.If your bottoms are the outfit piece adding color, wear a more neutral top.
 Wearing a dress is a safe choice if you are trying to dress smart casual. A dress immediately elevates the “dressiness” of your outfit, but the print or material of the dress can add a needed casual element.No matter what kind of dress you choose to wear, the hem of the dress should reach at least the top of your knees.If you have a professional looking dress (conservative length, darker color), you can dress it down by pairing it with casual accessories like a colored scarf or simple, yet stylish jewelry.Vice versa, if you have a more casual dress, you can spruce up the look by pairing it with stylish and conservative heels and simple, clean cut jewelry.
When wearing a dress for a smart casual outfit, choose to keep it simple. When in doubt, you rather your outfit come off as more dressy than casual., A blazer is a great outfit piece that can add a professional tone to your outfit, but still keep it casual when paired with a softer top.If you’re considering wearing a blazer, make sure it has a fitted cut. This tailored piece can make your outfit look a bit more put together, while your other clothing items channel the more casual side of your ensemble.


A plain black or navy blue blazer can incorporate a more professional feel, while a colored blazer can add in a pop of color as an accent piece., For a smart casual outfit, consider finishing your ensemble with a comfortable pair of dress shoes. Heels work great, and close-toed pumps are always a safe choice to complete your look.Flats can also be an option if you want to go for a more casual look.


You can make your outfit stand out while maintaining a casual look by having your flats be a main fashion statement. They can be colored or patterned, but it must balance out your outfit of mainly neutral, composed pieces.Wedges and some opened toed shoes can also work for a smart casual outfit if you are attending a more casual event. However, if you are dressing for work, stay away from these options.Avoid wearing sandals with a smart casual outfit; sandals are plain casual.

