 Include relevant information like where you were, what you were doing, the data and time of the incident, and what you were eating. Communicate this information to your physician when seeking treatment for your mold allergy. He or she will then be able to develop a treatment plan to help you better live with your mold allergy.
 Corticosteroids are nasal sprays that can prevent and treat inflammation associated with a mold allergy. These medicines are the most effective method of combatting mold allergies, but can only be prescribed by a doctor.


Each nasal spray is slightly different. However, general guidelines recommend removing the cap and gripping the pump bottle in one hand with your thumb on the bottom. Place your index finger on one of the pump bottle’s fins, and your middle finger on the other of the pump bottle’s fins.
Tilt your head forward slightly and insert in the open end of the pump bottle into your nose. With your free hand, squeeze your opposite nostril closed. Breathe out, then breathe in while pumping the spray bottle by pushing the fins down and breathe in.Repeat once in your other nostril.
Schedule an appointment with your physician and talk to them about getting a nasal spray to treat your allergy.
 These medicines are good if you suffer from an itchy, sneezy, or runny nose in the presence of mold. You can get antihistamines from your doctor or at your local pharmacy.


Over-the-counter antihistamines include loratadine, fexofenadine, and cetirizine. These are available as pills. Directions for use vary with manufacturer. Read your medication’s label for specific use directions.
Prescription antihistamines are generally nasal sprays, and general directions for use are identical to those for nasal corticosteroids. Insert the nasal spray tube into your nostril, close your opposite nostril with your free hand, and squeeze the fins attached to the spray tube down while breathing in. Repeat on your other nostril.
 Decongestants are available over-the-counter in the form of both oral medications or nasal sprays, and are useful for relieving stuffy noses and respiratory tract congestion. Examples of oral decongestants include Sudafed and Drixoral. Afrin is a common decongestant nasal spray. Check the directions for use before using a decongestant.


Decongestants might raise blood pressure or cause insomnia, anxiety, restlessness, headaches, and a loss of appetite. Consult your doctor if you experience these or other side effects.
Do not use decongestant nasal sprays for more than three or four days; they can cause your congestion to rebound with a vengeance.
 Montelukast, known by its brand name Singulair, is a tablet that prevents allergic symptoms. It has proven useful in treating mold, and is a useful alternative if nasal sprays prove too strong for you, or if you have asthma in addition to your mold allergy.


Montelukast should be taken once around the same time each day.
You can take montelukast with or without food., You can buy a saline kit like Sinus Rinse, or assemble the necessary equipment yourself. You’ll need a bulb syringe, neti pot, or a specially designed nasal squeeze bottle.


Pre-mixed nasal washes are available at your local drug store.
If you wish to make your own saline nasal wash at home, mix one teaspoon baking soda, one cup of warm, distilled water, and three teaspoons of canning or pickling salt.Your salt must be iodine free.
Fill the device of your choice (bulb syringe, neti pot, or nasal squeeze bottle) half full with the saline solution.
Keep your head over a sink or shower, and tilt it to the left. Slowly pour the solution into your right nostril. The water should exit your left nostril.
Repeat on the opposite side. Blow your nose to get rid of excess water and mucus.
 If your conditions are not under control after three to six months of treatment, or if your symptoms become more severe and unmanageable, you should ask your doctor for alternative treatment options. Your physician might recommend that you consult a mold allergy specialist. The specialist will be able to better assist you in treating your allergy symptoms.


Use the American Academy of Allergy, Asthma & Immunology’s physician database at http://allergist.aaaai.org/find/ to locate a specialist near you.
Other conditions can be caused by a mold allergy and these conditions need to be evaluated by an allergist, such as allergic asthma, allergic rhinitis, allergic bronchopulmonary aspergillosis, hypersensitivity pneumonitis, and allergic fungal rhinosinusitis. The treatments for these conditions vary due to the degree and severity of the condition.

