 You want to apply any eyeshadow and eyeliner before you start working on your lashes. If you try to apply shadows or liners afterwards, your lashes will likely get jostled and lose their winged effect. Always do your lashes last, as the finishing touch.


You can do winged eyeliner to enhance the look of your winged lashes.;
, Before you start applying product, it’s important to add volume and curl with an eyelash curler. Place the curler around your lashes, at the very base. Squeeze the handle firmly, holding the curler down for about five seconds. Then, release the curler and slide it down to the middle of your lashes and press and hold again. Do this once more at the ends of your lashes.You can learn more about curling your eyelashes here.
 Fortunately, you don’t need a new, special mascara to achieve this look. Grab your favorite one, and it will do the trick. Load the product onto the wand, and begin applying your mascara like normal.Start at the base of your lashes, wiggling the wand as you move it down the length of your lashes. Make sure your lashes are evenly coated, without clumping.
After you’ve applied one coat of mascara, it’s time to start creating the winged effects. Move your wand so that you’re applying mascara to the outer half of your eye. As you wiggle the wand out from the base of your lashes, gently pull your lashes toward the outer corner of your eye.
As the mascara dries, the lashes will be held in this winged shape.
Apply mascara to your inner corner eyelashes as normal. To accentuate the wings, apply two or three coats to the outer lashes, while only using one on the inner lashes.
 Because you’re pulling your eyelashes in a different direction and applying a few coats of product, it can be easy to get clumps of mascara in them. To avoid this, comb your lashes out with a clean, dry spoolie brush once your mascara has been applied. Gently brush out any clumping and focus on separating your lashes, while continuing to pull your lashes in the direction of your outer corner.You can purchase clean spoolie brushes at any beauty supply store.

