 Will he have a mohawk or long ears? What do you think his personality will be like; will he be shy and introverted, or crazy and extroverted?
, You will usually need two socks to create monsters, and you will almost always have plenty of extra scraps at the end of another monster's creation which will be useful for future projects; keep them safe and sound just in case. Your socks should be laying with their heels pointing up towards the ceiling.

For the monster that this article will specifically show you how to make (his name is Quiggley), you will need two socks, preferably the same, but if not, socks of similar fabrics and complimentary patterns will be the best. The socks should have colored heels and toes.
 If he's going to have ears, make the cuts accordingly.

Quiggley will need 2 slits on the side of the top of the heel and in the middle.
 It's easiest to cut a 2 1⁄2 inch (6.4 cm) vertical line 1⁄2 inch (1.3 cm) underneath the heel and two small slits on the sides.

Follow the above instructions for Quiggley's neck.


Quiggley has short arms with little 'mittens' which are made from the colored top part of the heel. You make his arms by cutting a vertical line starting at the center of the toe and ending 3 inches (7.6 cm) below the heel. From there, you cut a horizontal line across the bottom of the previous cut to separate the arms from the sock. Turn the arms wrong-side-out and stitch the edges together to from the very edge of the 'mitten' to the corner, but not the top, as it needs to be attached to the monster and stuffed.
 All that is needed is a vertical cut down any of the two places the arms could be cut, except a bit longer.

Quiggley's legs are cut from the bottom of the 'body' sock (the one that has the neck cuts). Cut a vertical line starting from the bottom center of the sock to less than halfway up the tube. Sew from the very bottom part of the leg to about 2 inches (5.1 cm) below the top so they can be stuffed and so you don't close the stuff-hole.


Quiggley has two large ears that are made from the very bottom part of the sock you used to make the arms. Cut a vertical line in the center where the arms stop and sew from the cuff up to the edge leaving the very top part open to sew it on and stuff it.
 The easiest way to do this is to turn the limp/appendage right-side-out and to stick in the appropriate opening, pinning the edges together and stitching around it. Pull the limb/appendage out and it will be wrong-side-out like the rest of the monster.

Follow the above instructions for Quiggley's arms and ears, being careful not to rip the seam when pulling the limb out.
 There can be as many or as little as you'd like, but try to make them compliment each other. A bunch of different buttons starts to look less like eyes and more like a bunch of buttons., Add any last minute stuffing and use a ladder stitch to sew the stuff-hole closed.

