 You will know you are being sued when you receive a copy of a complaint and a summons. These documents will probably be delivered to your home or work address by mail or courier. Read both documents carefully.


The complaint will tell you why you are being sued. It will also explain the legal theories under which the plaintiff (the person bringing the lawsuit) is suing. The complaint may make a demand for money, called “damages.” This is how much the plaintiff is suing you for.;
, The summons will tell you how much time you have to respond to the lawsuit. Make careful note of the date. If you don’t respond in time, you could lose the suit without ever getting to put on a defense.
 The plaintiff should state under which legal theories you are being sued. Authors may face liability for the following conduct:


Defamation. You commit defamation when you make a false statement about a person to a third party and the false statement injures the person’s reputation. Invasion of privacy. You can invade someone’s privacy in a number of ways.

You could publicly disclose embarrassing, private facts about someone.
You could cast someone in a “false light” by creating a misimpression in the reader’s mind.
You could use someone’s name or likeness without their permission. Copyright infringement. If you plagiarize a portion of someone else’s work, you can be sued for copyright infringement. As soon as a person writes something down, their words are automatically copyrighted. Copyright does not cover ideas, but it does cover the words used. , Consent is a defense against claims of defamation, invasion of privacy, or copyright violation. For example, someone could consent to your publishing private information about them. If they so consent, they cannot later sue you. Ideally you will have a signed waiver and release form. Find your copy.
Consent can also be given orally, although in this case it might be hard to prove in court that the plaintiff actually gave you consent. If you were given oral consent, write down your memories of what the person said. If a another person overheard the consent, contact that person, who can serve as a witness.
 You can defend against a defamation claim by showing that your statement is substantially true. Even if a statement is not true, you can defend yourself if you can show that you made a reasonable effort to discover the truth before making the statement. Find your research notes. These can help you if they show whom you spoke to, when the conversation occurred, and what the person said.
If you showed the plaintiff a draft of your work before publication, you should gather copies of any related communications. If the person read your work and did not object to the portrayal, you have a stronger defense.
 A qualified attorney can advise you about your best defense against a liability claim. Gather all of your evidence, including a copy of the complaint, and schedule a consultation with a lawyer. At the consultation you can explain your situation and talk about defending yourself.


To find a lawyer, contact your local or state bar association and ask for a referral. Ask how much the consultation will cost. Some lawyers offer free consultations, but these are little more than “meet and greet” sessions. You definitely want legal advice during your meeting, so be sure to tell the lawyer that and get a quote for how much such advice will cost.
 Your lawyer can describe your options for raising a defamation defense. In addition to consent, you can offer the following defenses:


The statement is true. Defamation claims succeed against false statements only. If you can prove your statement is substantially true, you have an absolute defense. You did not publish the statement with actual malice. Generally public figures (politicians, celebrities, professional athletes, etc.) cannot sue you for defamation unless you made the statement with “actual malice.” This means that you knew the statement was false but published it anyway, or that you had serious doubts about its truth but were reckless in not finding out for sure before publishing. You can prove absence of malice by producing your fact-checking log.
The law gives you permission to make the statement. These are called “privileges.” For example, you have the privilege of “fair comment” in a movie or book review. Talk with your lawyer about what other privileges may apply.
 Consent is a defense against invasion-of-privacy claims, although truth is not. For example, when someone sues you for publicly disclosing private facts, the facts may be true, but the suit could result from embarrassment you caused by revealing private information. Your defense might consist of arguing that the private facts had already been disclosed to other people or were in the public record.
You could also argue that the facts were of legitimate public interest. For example, if someone suddenly becomes a public figure, disclosing that this person was divorced may qualify as newsworthy and thus not an invasion of privacy.
 Your lawyer will help you analyze whether you have a fair-use claim by looking at four factors: Why you copied the material. If you copied material for educational or non-profit purposes, you have a reasonable fair-use claim. Using key elements of someone else’s work for purposes of parody is also sufficiently transformative to qualify as fair use.
The nature of the copyrighted work. Published work will be given less copyright protection than unpublished work. Factual works like biographies are also afforded less protection. If you copied from a published factual work, you may have a strong fair-use claim.
How much of the original you copied. There is no customary amount you can copy without infringing on someone’s copyright. However, the less you copy the better. If you copied 1% or less, your fair-use claim is likely to be successful.
The effect your copying had on the market for the original. If your copying undermines the market for the copyrighted work, you have a weaker claim to fair use.
 No single factor by itself will qualify you for a fair-use claim. View them together. If, for instance, you copied a tiny amount of a published work for non-commercial purposes, you probably have a very strong fair-use claim.
 You will respond to the complaint by drafting an “answer” in which you respond to each allegation. You can either admit culpability, deny it, or claim insufficient knowledge about it, but you must respond to each allegation. Don’t overlook any of them. If you fail to respond to a particular allegation, the court may assume it to be true.


Raise any applicable affirmative defenses in your answer. One common affirmative defense is that the plaintiff waited too long to sue you. Check your state’s “statute of limitations” for the claim the plaintiff is bringing. If you hired a lawyer to defend you, he or she should draft the answer. If you don’t have a lawyer, ask the court clerk if there is a fill-in-the-blanks answer form you can use.
See Answer a Civil Lawsuit for more information.
 Once you have drafted your answer, make several copies. Take the original and the copies to the court clerk. Ask to file the original.


The clerk should stamp your copies with the filing date.
You may have to pay a fee to file your answer. Ask the clerk about the fee and how to pay it.
 You have to give the plaintiff a copy of your answer. You can do so by having someone 18 or older who is not part of the case hand-deliver a copy to the plaintiff. You could also hire a private process server, whom you can find in a phone book or on the Internet.


If the plaintiff has an attorney, serve your answer on the attorney. Check your copy of the complaint to see if a lawyer is listed.
 Settling a dispute has many advantages and some disadvantages. Discuss with your attorney whether settling would be a good way to make the dispute go away.


There are several advantages. By settling the dispute, you gain certainty. You'll know exactly what (if anything) you will have to pay to end the lawsuit. A trial, on the other hand, is uncertain. Even if you win at trial, the plaintiff could still appeal, which would prolong the dispute.
One disadvantage is that you will probably have to pay money. While some plaintiffs will settle for a public apology, most are looking for monetary compensation. The amount you pay in a settlement, however, would probably be less than you'd pay if you lost the lawsuit.
 Don’t walk into negotiations unprepared. Think carefully about how to approach them. Discuss the following with your lawyer:


Your ideal resolution. This is what you need to aim for while negotiating. For example, your ideal resolution might be simply to make a public apology without paying money.
The absolute maximum you are willing to pay. Because negotiation is voluntary, you should know when to walk away from the bargaining table. Come up with your “walkaway point,” which is the absolute most you will give up to settle the dispute. The strength of the plaintiff’s case. This will determine how aggressive the plaintiff is during negotiations. Look at the evidence objectively. If the plaintiff’s case is weak (because for example, the statement you made about the plaintiff is substantially and demonstrably true), you can anticipate that the plaintiff might be willing to accept a low offer to settle.
 If you have an attorney, he or she will handle most of the negotiations. You should attend, however, and provide input. Your lawyer cannot accept a settlement offer without your permission. Don't stop too soon. The plaintiff expects you to negotiate, so try to push for the best deal possible, even if the plaintiff’s first offer is attractive.
 If you reach an agreement with the plaintiff, you should both sign a settlement agreement. This document will set out what each side will do. Typically you will agree to pay the plaintiff money, and the plaintiff will agree to dismiss the lawsuit.


Make sure the agreement contains a “full final release of all claims,” which prevents the plaintiff from bringing future lawsuits based on your publication. , Mediation is similar to negotiation, except that there is a third person involved, one who is not working specifically for either party, to help resolve the dispute. This "mediator" is not a judge but instead helps the parties understand each other and come up with a mutually acceptable solution. Contact the court if you are interested in mediation. They may have a list of mediators you could use.
You can contact your local or state bar association, which might also keep a list of mediators.
You have to pay for the mediator’s services. Mediators charge as much as $400 an hour, depending on the complexity of the dispute and the mediator’s reputation. You can split the cost with the plaintiff. , Unless you are sued in small claims court, you are allowed to request information from the plaintiff in a process called “discovery.” During discovery you can use many different techniques to find information that can aid your defense: Requests for Production. You can attempt to locate a copy of any document that might be relevant to the dispute. For example, you might want the plaintiff in a defamation lawsuit to turn over proof that he or she suffered financially because of the statements you made.
Interrogatories. These are written questions you give the plaintiff to answer under oath. This is a common way of getting basic information from the plaintiff.
Depositions. You can have a witness answer questions under oath. A court reporter will record the questions and answers. You might want to have the plaintiff sit for a deposition in hopes of uncovering helpful information. For example, if you are sued for invasion of privacy, you might get the plaintiff to admit that he or she disclosed the same information to other people.
 You can try to win your case before ever getting to trial. After discovery ends you should file a motion for summary judgment. You argue that trial is unnecessary because no meaningful facts are in dispute and that you are entitled to judgment on the law. If you want to file a summary judgment motion, have a lawyer draft it. This is a complicated document that makes complex legal arguments. If you have been representing yourself, hire a lawyer just to draft and argue this motion.
 If you are defending yourself without a lawyer, sit in on a trial to prepare yourself for what's coming. Courtrooms are generally open to the public, and you should try to watch a trial from start to finish.
 Be sure to arrive early at the courthouse. Give yourself enough time to find parking and pass through security. If you have a lawyer, s/he will handle the whole trial. If not, you will be responsible for presenting your case. Your trial is likely to follow this sequence: Pick a jury. If either you or the plaintiff requested a jury, one will have to be seated. The judge or attorneys will ask potential jurors questions. You can request the judge to dismiss a juror you suspect might be biased against you. If neither side dismisses a particular juror, that juror becomes a member of the jury.
Make an opening statement. In no more than 15 minutes you should provide an introduction to your defense.
Listen to the plaintiff present their case. Listen quietly as the plaintiff’s witnesses testify. You will have a chance to question them on cross-examination.
Present your own witnesses, and, if you like, testify on your own behalf.
Make a closing argument. Sum up all of the evidence, and tell the jury why it fails to show that you are liable for the plaintiff’s injuries.
 After all evidence has been presented, the judge will read the jury its instructions and let them retire to deliberate. If this is a bench trial (no jury), the judge will deliberate alone and deliver the verdict from the bench.


In federal court the jury must be unanimous. In many state courts the plaintiff can win if as few as nine of 12 jurors agree with the plaintiff.
 You might want to appeal if you lose, although you should talk this over with your lawyer. An appeal could take about a year to resolve. You will need to hire a lawyer even if you represented yourself during the trial. Appeals are usually pretty complicated.


If you want to appeal, file a Notice of Appeal promptly. You usually have 30 days from the date final judgment is entered, although some states will give you even less time. 