 When treating oily skin, it is important not to let it become too dry. If you let oily skin become dry, it will start to produce even more oils to compensate.This mask contains ingredients that may help control excess oil production without drying out your skin. Some of the ingredients are also helpful when it comes to treating acne.
 Crack an egg open into a small cup or bowl, then beat it briskly with a fork or mini whisk until it is pale and frothy. Egg yolks help hydrate skin, which is important even for oily skin types. The yolks also contain zinc, which can help treat acne.Egg whites help tighten the skin and close up pores, which can help reduce acne., Pumpkin is rich in vitamins and minerals. It also contains zinc, which can help control hormone levels and excess oil production., It is a natural humectant, so it helps draw moisture into the skin. It is also naturally antibacterial and antimicrobial, so it helps manage acne.
 At this point, your mask has all of the necessary ingredients, but you can make it even better by adding some milk or apple cider vinegar. Both do different things for your skin, so choose one that suits your skin's needs the best.


If you have dull skin, add 1 tablespoon of milk.The lactic acid in milk is gently exfoliating, so it can leave your skin feeling softer, smoother, and brighter.
If you have oily skin or acne, add 1 tablespoon of raw apple cider vinegar., Keep stirring the mixture until everything is evenly combined. You do not want to see any streaks or swirls of egg yolk.
 Because this mask contains raw egg, it is very important to avoid the mouth and nose in addition to the eyes. You can apply the mask using your fingers, but make sure to wash them well first with soap and warm water.


Keep your hair clipped or tied back so that the mask doesn't get all over it.
 Avoid moving around too much during this time, or the mask may start to drip. If you can, sit or lay down someplace comfortable. You can pass the time by reading a book, listening to music, daydreaming, or watching your favorite show.
 You may need to use a washcloth and some facial cleaner in order to get the mask all off. Once your face is clean, splash your face with cool water to seal your pores, then gently pat it dry with a soft, clean towel. Follow up with your usual toner and moisturizer, if desired.


You can use this mask once a week.

