 You'll need about a 1/2 cup of olive oil. Extra virgin olive oil is a little more expensive than other types, but it has a much nicer fragrance and more antioxidants and vitamins that will give your hair strength and shine.


To add pleasant fragrance and additional benefits, you can allow a sprig of dried rosemary or lavender to soak in the olive oil bottle several days prior to making your mask. These fragrances are excellent for relaxation.;
, Honey is a natural humectant (meaning it helps seal in moisture) and contains antioxidants and anti-inflammatory compounds. These properties make honey ideal for restoring dry and damaged hair and split ends. Raw honey has more of these properties than processed honey.Using a whisk, incorporate the olive oil.


Mason jars with resealable lids are great for this (and for storing any extra), but you can use any clean glass container.
If your mask becomes too sticky, dilute it by adding more olive oil and continuing to whisk.
 You can find liquid-filled Vitamin E capsules at most grocery stores and pharmacies. The additional Vitamin E will not only help repair damaged hair, it has anti-inflammatory properties that will soothe your scalp.Whisk mixture until the consistency is smooth and manageable. The mixture shouldn't be overly sticky.
 Concentrate on the ends, which tend to be the most dry and damaged. Make sure the mixture is distributed evenly throughout your hair.
 If you have long hair, you may want to twist your hair loosely on top of your head and secure with a clip before you wrap it. Wait for 90 minutes to allow the oil and honey mixture to fully permeate your hair.


The heat that gets trapped inside the plastic will help the olive oil and honey absorb into the hair.
 Rinse your hair thoroughly with warm, not hot, water. Your hair may feel stiff or sticky; continue rinsing until your hair feels loose and supple. Use a gentle shampoo to wash your hair and follow with conditioner.


Shampoos that say "sulfate-free" or "surfactant free" are more gentle on your hair than other shampoos. They don't form the same foamy lather, but they clean just as well.

