 Being loud, flashy, and talking all the time, sends a “look at me” message. However, quietly confident people realize that you gain much more respect (and learn more, too) by listening more than you talk.Try to truly understand the other person’s message. Don’t interrupt them. Once they’re finished, try to paraphrase what they said to make sure you properly understood.
 Some people act as if it’s physically painful to highlight others’ successes. In truth, when you are able to celebrate others, it shows that you can share the spotlight, and that you are a team player. Make an effort to call out someone else for an accomplishment when the situation arises., An insecure person might hope the ground swallows them after a mistake. They may simply search for an out. Meanwhile, an arrogant person may find a way to hand the blame off onto someone else. It can be hard to admit “I was wrong.” But doing so shows others that you are willing to take responsibility for your actions.As soon as you realize you made an error, take ownership. For example, the client is late for the meeting because you forgot to schedule their car service. Say, “Oh, goodness. This is my fault. I forgot to call a car. I’ll fix this right away.”

, A quietly confident person isn’t afraid to admit that they don’t have all the answers. Everyone has areas in which they can improve. Don’t be shy about owning up to yours and asking for help.

You might say, “I must have forgotten that aspect of our training. Do you mind offering me a refresher course?” Or, “Helen, you really have a handle on presentations. Can you give me some pointers?”

, One way to appear low in confidence is by constantly gossiping about others. A quietly confident person knows their own value, so they don’t get off by putting others down. Stop hanging with people who gossip. Learn how to redirect conversations when they're headed for gossip town.For example, you might say, “Enough about that, what did you guys do this past weekend” to change a conversation when gossiping is taking place.

