;
, During this step, do not do anything your coxswain (or other person directing you) doesn't say, and do everything he/she does say. The instructions will typically be very clear and specific.


With the other members of your boat, and probably a few others besides, pick up your boat, gently swing it over your head, and balance it there on extended arms as you walk towards the water.
Place your toes as close as possible to the water and swing the boat down.
,


Retrieve blades and place them next to the boat.
Undo the oarlocks in order to place the blades in their positions.
Place the blades in their positions, making sure to put the correct blade on the correct side of the boat. Port blades typically have a red band/piece of tape, while starboard ones typically have blue or green.
Lock the gauges again, making sure that they are secure, but not so secure that you won't be able to undo them at the end of the day.
 You will notice that there is a hollow where your feet are strapped in. This is a convenient place to put a water bottle. You will need one.



Remove your shoes.
Hold all of your oars with one hand (two or one.) You should move your seat back, and step in the front of its track (not on the track, just where the seat would be if it was all the way forwards. Do not step in the hollow. Your foot may go through the boat, and that would be a bad end to both your day, and your expensive boat.
Sit down on the seat.
Strap your feet into the shoes in the boat. Ideally, you want the shoes secure but loose enough so that you can slide out of them if need be, but you may find (especially if you are rowing with your school) that the shoes are made for giants, and there is no way they are going to be secure. Don't worry about it. Do the best you can.



If someone (such as a coach) is on the dock, they may help you push away by picking up your oar and pushing it. If this happens, lean the oar they are pushing.
 They may say something like "hard on port" or "port hard." (or with starboard.) This just means that port oars should row harder than starboard oars (or vice versa.)

,, This is to ensure that a person rowing does not hit your blades, when you are not rowing. These, therefore, are guidelines, but by using common sense you will get better results.


For sculling: You should sit all the way forward on your slide, with your knees bent.
For sweeping: Flip your outside hand over so it is underneath the handle. Use your other hand to grab the side of the boat.
 This is done whenever you are not rowing to keep the boat level. If the boat is stopped, or other people are rowing, you set the boat. (If you are sculling, do both at the same time.)


If the boat is tipping towards your oar, lift the handle of your oar up. This pushes the flat of the blade on the water, leveling the boat.
If the boat is tipping away from your oar, push the handle of your oar down.



Push your hands down, allowing the blades to come off the water slightly.
Extend your arms.
Lean forward from your hips.
Glide forward on the runners by bending your knees. Go almost all the way forward, but not quite all the way.
Square your blades. This means rotate them 90 degrees to get them perpendicular to the water. If you are sweeping, this should be done only with the hand closest to the blade, the inside hand. This should not be done after sliding all the way forward, but should instead be done smoothly while you are sliding forward.
Allow your hands to come up, and let your blades go into the water.
As soon as the blades are in the water, push against the footplate with the balls of your feet to extend your legs, then lean back, and finally, last, bend your arms.
Push your hands down and feather your blades once they are out of the water.
Repeat the whole stroke again…and again…and again…and get into a rhythm.
,,,