 When you use your wok for steaming, you need to add a basket or rack to hold the food above the water. The concave shape of the wok makes it ideal for holding a bamboo steamer basket insert that is traditional in Chinese cooking. A metal steaming rack can work well too, though. Place the vegetables, dumplings, or other food that you’re steaming in a single layer in the basket or rack, so they’ll all be steamed evenly.The benefit to using a bamboo steamer basket is that its lid actually absorbs excess moisture inside the wok, so it doesn’t drip back down over the food and make it soggy.
If you are using a metal steaming rack, you can opt for a style that has hooks to secure it over the edge of the wok or one that has legs that will hold it above the water in the bottom of the wok.
If you’re using a bamboo basket to steam food in your wok, you should line the bottom to prevent the ingredients from sticking to it. You can use cabbage or lettuce leaves, or parchment paper to line the basket.
A bamboo steamer basket has its own lid to trap the steam, but if you’re using a metal rack, you’ll need to place the lid on top of the wok.
 Before placing the steamer basket or rack inside, you should add water to the wok and bring it to a boil. You’ll want to fill the wok with approximately 2-inches of water, though it vary depending on how large your wok is. The water level should be about halfway up to the bottom of the steamer basket or rack. Turn the heat up high to bring the water to a boil.Before you bring the water to a boil, make sure that the steamer basket or rack fits securely in the wok and isn’t going to tip over. Remove it before you boil the water, though.
The food in your steamer basket or on the rack should sit above the water, so it doesn’t get overcooked.
You don’t have to use water to steam in your wok. Any translucent, light liquid, such as broth, stock, wine, or juice, can work.
 Once the water has come to a boil, reduce the heat to keep it a simmer and place the steamer basket inside the wok. You should keep an eye on the water level because if too much water evaporates, you may need to add more to properly steam the food. Check on the food every few minutes to determine if it’s done to your liking and remove it from the basket or rack.The steam inside a wok is extremely hot, so be sure to use long-handled tongs when you’re adding and removing food to prevent burns.After using your wok for steaming, there may be a waterline across the surface. You’ll need to re-season the wok to get rid of it.

