 If you’ve noticed that someone acts annoyed or angry when you interact with them, try kindly and gently asking them what it is that you’re doing to upset them. Making it clear that you’re just asking them for information and not asking them to change how they’re behaving helps avoid a confrontation. If you don't want to confront them personally, a note or a voice message can give them time to think about how they want to respond rather than reacting instinctively, which might be to defend themselves rather than solve the problem. Remember that even if you ask perfectly, they might still lash out at you, and there’s nothing you can do about that. Some example questions are:


"You seem really down all the time, is there anything I can do to cheer you up/make things easier for you?”
"I feel like you treat me differently than everyone else around here, why is that?”
“I’ve noticed that you seem angry when _______, is there anything I can do to make your happier?”
"Have I done anything to irritate you? I feel like you're angry with me and I don't understand why."

, Consider how you would react if someone treated you the way you treat them. Some possibilities to consider are:


Might they feel like you are giving them an unfair workload?
Do you express when you are annoyed with them more than you express it when you're happy?
Do you disagree with a lot of the things they say? Even if you try to hide your disagreement, they may still be picking up on the fact that you're hiding an emotion and not trust you.
 Yelling or being rude never makes a bad situation go away. Keep your cool, and try to come to a compromise that you can both live with. Remember that you can’t make the other person talk to you in a reasonable way, and if they aren’t willing to work out your disagreement, there’s not much you can do apart from avoid them.
 Some people who are unhappy take out their anger on people who might be totally unrelated to the source of their unhappiness. It can be very difficult to tell whether someone hates you or is using you to vent their frustration, but in either case, it can help to stand up for yourself, and not be an easy target. When you are put down, keep your tone of voice neutral and say something like:


"That's a really mean thing to say."
"Why would you say that?"
"I'm sorry you don't like this dress, it happens to be my favorite." (or get really serious with something like "This was my mom's favorite dress. She died last year.")
"I'm sorry that's upsetting to you, I didn't mean to annoy you."

, If you started the conflict, then they probably think it's your job to end it. Even if it was a long time ago, it's never too late to try to make up.

