 A credit card can’t open every lock type. If your door is a simple knob lock with spring-latch or a slanted-latch, you’re in luck. You’ve likely got one of these lock systems if your door is locked through the doorknob, and not through a separate deadbolt.If there’s a deadbolt or slide lock secured on the inside of the door, you’ll strike out with the credit card method. You can try picking the lock or kicking down the door if you don’t want to call a locksmith.
If the slant of your slant-latch lock faces away from you, it’ll be difficult to open with a credit card. Most slant-latch locks are installed, however, to face you.;
, Make sure that there’s nothing that’ll block the movement of the credit card. This can include moldings or metal plates along the door frame and door jamb. If these are present and cannot be removed, the credit card method may not work., Opening the door with your credit card might permanently bend or damage your card, so be sure to use an older one that you don’t use often. The card should be large and flexible, but it also should be durable enough to push down a metal latch.


Don’t have a credit card? You can always use other cards, such as membership card, reward card, old hotel key, or any other cards you don't use anymore., If your card doesn’t fit in the gap between the door and door frame, go back to your wallet and chose another one that does., Insert the card into the gap between the doorknob and door frame and then slide it down next to the doorknob. Push it in as far as it will go at a ninety degree angle to the door.








To see the location of the door frame more easily, push the door back as far as it can go with your other hand.
 Tilt the side of your credit card facing you towards the doorknob until it is almost touching it. You’ll be able to push the credit card further into the gap between the door and door frame.
 Bending the card back the other way will make the card slip under the angled end of the slant-latch, forcing it back into the door. Quickly open the door and unlock it on the other side.
 If your door didn’t easily pop open, try leaning against the door while bending your card back and forth a few times. This will add more pressure to the latch and should open it.