 This lightening spray calls for hydrogen peroxide, water, lemon juice and a strong brew of chamomile tea.Additionally, you’ll need a spray bottle that will hold 1.5 cups (12 fluid ounces) of the formula. The exact measurements are:


½ cup of water;
1/4 cup hydrogen peroxide;
1/4 cup lemon juice;
1/2 cup chamomile tea.
 Place the tea bag in a mug and pour the boiling water over it, just as you would if you were making yourself a cup of tea. Allow the tea bag to steep until the water has cooled to room temperature, which will result in a strong brew


It will take approximately 30 minutes for the water to cool down.
Remove the bag from the water and dispose of it once you’ve finished steeping.
 Be sure to use a clean and empty spray bottle. Measure out ¼ cup of hydrogen peroxide, ¼ cup lemon juice and ½ cup water and pour them into the spray bottle, along with the freshly brewed chamomile tea. Use a funnel to easily transfer the liquids into the bottle.


Once all of the ingredients are in the bottle, stir the contents gently until mixed well.
Attach the nozzle to the spray bottle to close it up.
 Since this formula contains hydrogen peroxide, it’s best to perform a strand test before applying it all over your hair. Spritz a small amount of the spray onto a tiny section of discreetly located hair (i.e. a piece on the underside of your mane).


Make sure you like the results before committing to an all-over application.
If you have dark brown or black hair, the highlights will be closer to auburn than blonde.
 After shampooing and conditioning, towel-dry your hair and then spray on the mixture. Run a comb through it to evenly distribute the formula and then style your hair as usual. It will take several applications before you start seeing results.


To heighten the lightening effects of the peroxide, you can go sit in the sun with the formula in your hair for 30 minutes. Be aware that peroxide is damaging to the hair and the sun increases the damaging effects.
You can also use a blow-dryer or any other heated tools to style your hair to see results faster.
Store the bottle in a cool, dry place out of direct light. Shake the bottle well before each application.

