 If a stranger asks you to carry a mysterious package for them on the plane, refuse. The package could contain drugs, weapons, or other illegal items. If the items are caught by security, you will take the blame. Instead, only carry your own possessions., You should only ever check your luggage in at a desk where there are uniformed agents and computers. If someone comes up to you while you are in the lobby or in line offering to check your bag for you, they may be trying to steal your luggage. They may act as though they are an official employee, or they may wear a similar uniform. Keep in mind that the only place where you can check a bag is at the desk., As you travel through the airport, always keep a firm grasp on your belongings. If you let go of it for a second, someone might steal it. Occasionally, scammers will place contraband or illegal substances in your bag as well.Never leave your baggage unattended at the airport, even for a second.
 Panhandlers can appear at the airport too. Someone might tell you a story about how they do not have the money for an overweight baggage fee, or they might need money for a taxi or bus. In most cases, they are a scam artist.The best response to this is, “Sorry, I don’t have any cash on me.” If they persist, say firmly, “I am not giving you money.”

, If you are using luggage lockers at the airport, you should be the only one handling the lock or luggage. Occasionally, a friendly stranger will be taking their luggage out of a locker and offer you the locker. They may try to help you lock up your luggage, but they will secretly take the real key and give you a fake. You will no longer have access to your luggage.If someone offers you help, politely refuse and say, “It’s all right. I can handle it myself.” If they insist, you can add, “Thank you, but I prefer to handle my own luggage and locker.”

, As you travel through the airport, keep your money and passport in a safe place. You may want to purchase a special money belt that goes under your clothes. You also tuck it in an inside pocket that only you can access. This will prevent thieves from getting to it.


Do not keep your wallet in your back pocket. This leaves it open to pickpockets.