 Try to avoid involving your friends in this process. Though it is okay to talk to them about your new relationship with your best friend, avoid giving them too many details. In the course of developing this new relationship with your best friend, you don’t want to alienate your other friends in the process.At first, the change in your relationship should remain private. Don't share details until you know that you want to be an official couple.
Try not to put them in the middle of the two of you.
 Though you have been accustomed to being friends for a while and may feel that you know your best friend very well, remember that you don’t know them in a romantic context. You both know about each other’s various relationships, but at the end of the day, you have never dated each other. Ask questions to find out what each other wants from a partner and a romance.


Start slowly so that you each have time to decide if you want the relationship to transition into a romantic one. Rushing things can put pressure on you both to make decisions that you're not ready to make, putting the relationship in jeopardy.
For instance, find out how many nights a week they would want to hang out or go on dates.
Find out what you both are comfortable with sexually. Don’t engage in any sexual behavior until your friend is ready.
Jumping in too quickly can make it difficult if one of you decides not to pursue a romantic relationship.
 Perhaps your friend has told you that they do not want to explore a romance with you. Though this might hurt you, do not try to make them do something that they do not want to do. Accept their decision and move forward.To move forward, take a bit of time to heal from this rejection. Cry if you need to. Connect with friends and spend time exploring your hobbies. Perhaps even go on a few dates.
Spend some time apart then gradually reconnect by doing activities that you two enjoyed before trying a romantic relationship. Consider hanging out in a group before getting together alone.
Make sure that both of you understand that hanging out together is never going to turn romantic. If either of you is holding out hope, then consider other options for spending time together, such as group hangouts only.

