 Caffeine is a stimulant, and people have differing sensitivities to it, based on a number of factors, including gender, amount of use, and whether or not you have an anxiety disorder.However, it is best for most people to avoid caffeine close to bed (at least four to six hours).

Caffeine use has been linked to increased anxiety, which can also disrupt your sleep. Cutting out caffeine should, if anything, save you money, assuming you replace it with water., Like caffeine, nicotine is a stimulant and so should be avoided before bed.Don't smoke 30 to 45 minutes before bed, and smoke less in the four hours before bed to help with going to sleep.However, to really improve your sleep quality, it is best to quit nicotine use altogether. While quitting nicotine use altogether will ultimately help your sleep, the side effects of nicotine withdrawal include insomnia and irritability, and so it may take some time to get the full effects of quitting nicotine.Decreasing or quitting smoking will certainly save you money as with perpetual nicotine the wallet certainly takes a hit.
 Although alcohol is a depressant, and may help you fall asleep easier, often you will not sleep as well, especially after large amounts of alcohol. It lowers the quality of your sleep, and if you use alcohol to go to sleep regularly, you may find it difficult to go to sleep without it.While there are some cheap alcoholic beverages, generally it costs less to drink something else, and so drinking less should save you money.
 While you can certainly eat something light before bed without impacting your sleep too much, it is best to eat heavier meals earlier in the day. Eating too much late at night can make it uncomfortable to lie down, and may cause additional sleep issues for those with heartburn.This is yet another cost effective way to try to decrease sleeping problems.
 Blue light can trigger the brain to become more awake. As screens typically have a lot of blue light, even if the room is dark, it will wake us up. It’s best to turn screens off and unplug an hour to an hour and a half before bed. This takes no money, only willpower.If you must use your screen shortly before bed, there are apps that decrease the amount of blue light that a screen emits. These apps should help you get sleepy even as you are using your phone or computer before bed. However, if you’re doing particularly stimulating activities on your computer or phone, such as playing an exciting action game, you may still find it hard to fall asleep. An app may cost anywhere from nothing to three or four dollars.