 Range of motion exercises gently move certain joints, like an elbow or hip, through the joint’s entire range. This range runs from flexion (bent) to extension (straightened out). To perform a range of motion exercise, lay down your dog on their side on a mattress or blanket, with the limb you intend to exercise positioned towards you.With one hand, support the limb you intend to exercise below and above the joint at a natural position so that your dog is comfortable and without pain.
Flex the limb as slowly as possible until it reaches a natural flexed position that the dog is comfortable with (stop if the dog feels pain) and hold it in this position for 3 to 5 seconds.
After flexing the limb, slowly or gently return it to its original position and extend it all the way outwards. Repeat the gentle flexion and extension exercise 10 to 15 times., A gentle joint massage for five to ten minutes every day can help to relieve some of their arthritis pain. Massage helps to keep the joints flexible and warm up muscles prior to exercise. Start by petting the areas around their joints to warm up the tissue. Then, place your hand over the area and start making small, circular motions while gently compressing the muscle. Finish by petting the area again to soothe the nerves.Do not massage joints that are currently aggravated. If your dog winces or seems to be in pain, stop massaging that area immediately.
This is also a great way to bond with your dog.
 After exercising your dog on the underwater treadmill or by swimming, thoroughly dry your dog using soft towels so that your dog will not be chilly. Cold temperatures can decrease blood circulation and cause joint pain. If you opted to take them for a walk, be sure to warm them up if you’ve been in damp or cool weather.
 After exercise, your dog's muscles need to be cooled down. Perform the same range of motion exercises by repeating the same procedures that you performed when warming your dog up.


Perform these exercises in a warm area or inside so your dog will be more comfortable.
 Warm temperatures can help to increase blood circulation, thereby reducing pain and inflammation. On the other hand, cold temperatures can exacerbate symptoms of arthritis. After you’ve had an opportunity to exercise your pup, make sure they have a warm and comfortable area to rest in.


Provide your dog with a thick, soft dog bed to sleep on. There are also heated dog beds that you can purchase for your arthritic dog.

