 Already have a vision of what you want your makeup to look like that amazing day––it's time to amass a few ideas so that you can narrow it down to a few choices. Look through books, magazines, and even in the hairdressing salon's books for makeup ideas.

Bridal magazines have great pictures or the Internet and sites such as Pinterest are useful.;
, Tear or print pictures out, and make a folder.

Don't assume anything if you're not expert with makeup. Sometimes what you think is natural makeup maybe not be as natural makeup to other, so is good to bring pictures and have the makeup explained to you.
 Visit the stores that carry the lines you like best. Ask whether the store has makeup artists; if so, ask to take a look at some of the makeup artist's portfolio. Do you like the portfolio makeup? If so, that's a good start., If you like the convenience of having someone come to you directly on your wedding day then seek out makeup artists that are freelance and mobile in your area.
 If this is a requirement for you, then conduct a web search for makeup artists and hair stylists in your area. Many bridal makeup artists also provide hair styling and can accommodate this type of request.
 Ask your friends, family, coworkers and hairdresser if they can recommend a good makeup artist and if possible, look at the makeup artist’s portfolio to see if you like the artist’s work yourself! If you're having your wedding planned by a wedding planner, ask if they have any makeup artist suggestions, because they should have at least one.
 Look at their portfolio of work and decide if their style of makeup is similar to your own. When looking over the images, check for things such as skin tone matching, attention to detail and if they include any current bridal makeup trend pictures in their portfolio of work. The portfolio is everything, and don't try to ignore what you don't like.
 Contact them and ask around or visit, as required.
 A top makeup artist should demonstrate an open and friendly manner on the phone. Be sure you have a calm and confident feeling when you’re speaking with them. If they exude a calm and natural manner over the phone they will likely be this way in person and will keep you calm on your wedding day

, Be specific on how you would like to look on your big day. Use your collected clippings from magazines, etc., to show the makeup artist what your preferred style is. Check that they listen to what you really want. If you aren't that sure, ask if your makeup can be done in front of a mirror, or if you can have a break every minute or so. Check in the mirror when doing this.
 Once your makeup trial is complete, the makeup artist should ask you if you’re happy with the results. If you are not, they should re-do the look until you are satisfied., Ask the artist what kind of fee do they charge. Find out what availability they have. Check that they'll use the makeup brands you like (or have to use if you have specific issues such as allergies)., A good makeup artist will often be booked months in advance. If you are not happy with your results, go back to your list and start over.

