 A lot of research focuses on the depressed mother's impact on her children. The father's depression, however, also influences a child's mental well-being. Different from depressed mothers, who may have trouble developing a bond with their children, men have a tendency to repress their emotion and, instead, act out in anger.


As a result of living with one or both parents who are suffering from depression, children in this environment are likely to develop anxiety or depression themselves. In addition, these children also have trouble socializing at school, perform poorly in academics, and are more likely to engage in risk-taking activities.
Therefore, even if you are a woman who is planning to conceive, the mental health of your partner is just as instrumental in the healthy development of your children.
 Research has shown that even when a father is depressed, having a supportive spouse or partner can buffer the negative effects of his condition.That means that when a father feels listened to and supported his depression is less likely to have a negative impact on his children.


If you are a male suffering from depression, it's vital that you and your partner work on the health of your relationship in order to counteract how depression affects your children.
If you feel emotionally supported by your partner, that's great. However, if you do not, it may be beneficial to attend couples therapy before deciding to have children.



If you notice your partner becoming more irritable, withdrawn, sad, or making remarks about suicide, seek professional help right away to minimize the effects on your marriage or partnership and on any children in the household. Call your partner's doctor or therapist and seek support from family and friends to help you get through these episodes.In addition, to being aware when your partner is feeling depressed, you will also need to take care of yourself so that you can continue parenting when your partner is incapable. Practice regular stress-management with deep breathing or meditation. Get plenty of rest and consume a healthy, nutritious diet. Leading an overall healthy lifestyle can positively impact everyone in your household, even the depressed person.

