 Your hair is probably the next most important thing besides your outfit. Whatever style you end up going for, make sure your hair is freshly washed, so it is easy to work with and smells nice and clean.



Keep things simple. If you want to keep things easy, try straightening your hair with the flat iron for a simple, sleek look, or try curling it with a curling wand to achieve glamorous, loose waves or pretty, tight ringlets.

Try an updo. If you want an updo, consider trying a classic French twist, an elegant sock bun or a chic braided updo.

Experiment with braids: If braids are more your thing, try a French braid, a fishtail braid or braided headband.
 If you have the money, you could consider going to the hair salon and getting them to blow dry, curl or style your hair.


You could even try a new color or an interesting new cut, like a side fringe, a pixie cut or a bob!
However, if it's a birthday party you're going to be careful -- you don't want to upstage the birthday girl with your new 'do!

, Make up is the next thing you need to think about -- it's amazing the variety of different party looks your can create! Again, you need to think about the time and location of the party.


Daytime and outdoor parties will require more of a toned-down look, elegant evening parties can be glamorous and elegant, while fun, crazy night-time parties can be crazy and colorful!

, The first thing your need to think about is your base.


Make sure your skin is clean and well-hydrated, then apply some primer to give you a flawless base.
Use concealer to cover up any blemishes, then apply a foundation that perfectly matches your natural skin tone.
 Choose your eyeshadow, blush and lipstick colors based on the type of party.


Toned-down, nude colors are best for during the day, while smokey eyes and red lips work nicely for glamorous evening looks.
Pretty much anything goes at night! Try bright pink or dark purple lips, neon eyeshadows and glittery mascaras.
 Two make up tasks that girls most often have issue with are eyeliner and mascara application.


See this tutorial on how to do perfect winged eyeliner and this this tutorial on the correct way to apply mascara. If you're feeling really adventurous, you could even apply false eyelashes!
Also, don't forget to tidy up your eyebrows and fill them in with a little pencil -- this can really sharpen your look!

