 Gallbladder 20 (GB20), also called Feng Chi, is recommended for headache, migraines, eye blurriness or fatigue, low energy, and cold or flu symptoms. GB20 is located in the neck.Clasp your hands, then open them while keeping your fingers laced. Form a cup shape with your palms. You will use the thumbs to massage the pressure point.
To find this pressure point, place your interlocked hands behind your head. Use your thumbs to find the depressions at the base of your skull. They should be about 2 inches from the middle of your neck. These depressions will be below the skull and beside your neck muscles.
Press your thumbs in and slightly upwards towards your eyes.
 Gallbladder 21 (GB21), also called Jian Jing, is commonly used to treat pain, neck stiffness, shoulder tension, and headaches. GB21 is located in the shoulder.Drop your head forward. Find the round knob at the top of the spine, and then the ball of your shoulder. GB21 is located halfway between these two places.
Use your finger to apply steady downward pressure to this point. You can also press the point between the thumb and index finger with your opposite hand. Then, massage the spot in a downward motion with the finger for 4-5 seconds while releasing the hold.
Use caution with this acupressure point on pregnant women. This pressure point is used to induce labor.
 Large Intestine 4 (L14), also called Hoku, is commonly used for stress, facial pain, headaches, toothaches, and neck pain. L14 can be found on the hand between the thumb and the index finger.To stimulate this area, apply pressure on the webbing between your index finger and thumb. Focus on the area towards the middle of your hand, between the first and second metacarpal bones. Apply steady, firm pressure as you pinch.
This pressure point has also been associated with inducing labor.
 Liver 3 (LV3), also called Tai Chong, is recommended for stress, lower back pain, high blood pressure, menstrual cramps, limb pain, insomnia, and anxiety.It is located in the soft flesh between your big and second toes.Find the point by going two fingers lengths above where the skin of your big toe and second toe join. Using a blunt object, press firm pressure to this point.
This must be done with the shoes off.
 Pericardium 6 (P6), also called Nei Guan, is recommended to relieve nausea, upset stomachs, motion sickness, carpal tunnel syndrome, and headaches. It is located just above the wrist.Place your hand so your palm is facing you with your fingers towards the ceiling. Lay the first 3 fingers of your opposite hand across your wrist. Touch your thumb to your wrist just below your index finger. You should feel 2 large tendons.
Use both your thumb and forefinger to press this point. Make sure to apply this technique to both wrists., Stomach 36 (ST36), also known as Zu San Li, is commonly used for gastrointestinal discomfort, nausea, vomiting, stress, boosting your immune system, and fatigue. It is found below the kneecap.Place 4 fingers below your kneecap on the front of your leg. Below your fingers, you should feel a depression between the shinbone and leg muscle. The point is outside of the bone.
Press this point using a fingernail or thumbnail. This helps you can closer to the bone., Lung 7 (LU7), also called Lieque, is used for head and neck pain, sore throat, toothache, asthma, coughing, and overall immune health. It is located on the arm.Make a thumbs up. Find the depression at the base of your thumb where two tendons are. The pressure point is about a thumbs width away from that spot, along the side of your arm where you feel a bone sticking out.Press. You can use the nail of your thumb or index finger.

