 Don't expect the child to immediately love you. Continue being trustworthy and persistent.Different children take different lengths of time to warm up to someone, so don't be surprised if it takes several days. Don't give up on them. Keep showing that you care.
Don't take it personally if the child doesn't trust you yet., Do your best to keep things pleasant and low-key. Shouting and mood swings can be frightening to an autistic child.Keep the rules consistent, and follow through each time.For example, it's confusing if sometimes you let them watch TV after 7 pm but other times you scold them.
Phrase demands as demands, not as requests.This can confuse the child, and make them think that they are not ever allowed to say no to requests.If you're making a request, phrase it like a request.
 Do your best to avoid making sudden or loud noises. If you need to do something loud, warn the child first. For example, "I'm going to get some ice from the ice machine. You might want to cover your ears."

, Autistic children focus on the literal meaning of your words, and this might be the only thing they can use to judge your intentions.Don't make promises you can't keep. If you aren't sure if you can do something, say "I'll do my best to..." or "I want to..." This keeps a level of uncertainty for unplanned contingencies, such as you getting too sick to visit or you being late due to a traffic jam.
If you say "We're leaving in 5 minutes," that means literally five minutes. Get out your watch.
 Treat the autistic child with the same love and respect that you give their peers. Showing favoritism, or being strict with the autistic child and lenient with other children, may make the child feel rejected and they may no longer trust you.


Don't make the child follow rules that other kids can get away with breaking.Consider how much time you spend praising the child, and how much time you spend correcting or criticizing them. Are you supporting their self esteem, or only tearing them down?

, Autistic children may have difficulty reading tone of voice and body language, so they may struggle to figure out how you feel. It can help to verbalize how you're feeling.For example, "I'm not mad at you, just frustrated about the delay. I know it's not your fault."
Avoid sarcasm, as many autistic children don't understand it.
Match your body language and emotions. If there's a mismatch, explain how you really feel, so that they don't get confused.
 Autistic children can be easily frightened,and they might be afraid if they see an angry, scared, or frustrated adult. You can making the situation less scary by taking a break, and coming back when you are able to express yourself more calmly.


Tell the child what you're doing: "I'm having a hard time right now, so I'm going to take a minute or two of quiet time to calm down. Then I'll come back."

