 If the chocolate is sweeter than the wine you select, the wine will taste acrid or bitter in contrast. Your wine should be at least as sweet as the chocolate you plan to pair with it. Look for a wine that is fruity and sweet rather than bitter and dry.For example, if you’re eating sweet chocolate, opt for a dessert wine like port, Madeira, or sweet sherry rather than a drier Pinot Noir.
Some white dessert wines work well with sweet chocolates, too. Moscato and ice wine are both good choices.
 In addition to the sweetness of the chocolate, consider how rich, heavy, or creamy it is. Select a wine that matches the weight and intensity of the dessert.For example, a simple, bittersweet chocolate bar might go well with a light, sparkling, fruity wine, like a Brachetto d’Aqui.
A rich and creamy piece of fudge or chocolate cake will pair well with a heavier, more syrupy fortified wine, like Banyuls or Maury.
 If you’re eating bitter dark chocolate, you can get away with a less sweet wine. The wine you select should be fruity, low in tannins, and not super dry or acidic.Some good options include warm climate Cabernet Sauvignon, Merlot, or Petit Syrah.
For a sweeter, heavier companion to your dark chocolate, try port.
 Milk chocolate is sweeter than dark chocolate, so it will go best with a sweeter wine. Try a sweet or semi-sweet wine, like Moscatel, PX Sherry, Port, Zinfandel, or Vino Santo., Since white chocolate is extremely sweet, it will taste best when paired with a very sweet wine. Ice wine, which is made by allowing the grapes to freeze on the vine before fermenting, is an especially popular pairing with white chocolate., If you’re eating chocolate mixed with fruit, nuts, caramel, or other flavors, take the additional flavors into account when selecting your wine. A good wine pairing will help bring out the other flavors in the chocolate. For example:Chocolate with peanuts pairs well with Banyuls, a syrupy dessert wine with a spicy strawberry flavor. Banyuls also goes well with desserts that include berries.Chocolate with caramel and sea salt pairs well with red wines that have berry, chocolate, or spicy notes. Try combining dark chocolate with caramel and salt with a Cabernet Sauvignon and Malbec blend.