 For the sugared rose petals, you’ll need 2 to 4 organic roses. Carefully pull the petals from the flower, working slowly so you don’t tear them. Collect the petals on a plate or in a bowl.Be sure to use pesticide-free roses so they are edible.
If there is a white area at the base of the petals, you should cut it way. It usually has a bitter taste that makes it unpleasant to eat.;
, After you’ve removed the petals from the roses, fill a large bowl with cool water. Gently rinse the petals in the water to remove any dirt or debris that may be lingering on the surface.It’s best to rinse the petals only a few at a time.
Handle the petals gently as you wash them because they may bruise if you are too rough.
 Once the petals are clean, set them out on a kitchen towel. Let them sit for 20 to 30 minutes so they dry completely.If you’re short on time, you can dab the petals with a towel to help them dry more quickly. Be gentle, though.
 To set up an area for the sugared rose petals to set, line a baking sheet with parchment paper. Next, place a cooling rack on the baking sheet and set it aside for the moment.You can line the baking sheet with wax paper or foil if you prefer. The liner just makes cleanup easier in case any sugar or liquid drips off the petals as they set.
 Add the egg white from a large egg to a small bowl. Use a whisk to beat the egg white lightly and set it aside for the moment.To separate the egg white from the yolk, break the egg against a flat surface. Separate it into two halves over a bowl, allowing the yolk to fall into the lower half. Move the yolk back and forth between the haves so the white drips out into the bowl below. Continue moving the yolk until all of the white has dripped out.
 After you’ve beaten the egg white, place a shallow dish beside it. Add ½ cup (100 g) superfine sugar to the dish, spreading it out into an even layer.Superfine sugar is also known as caster sugar.
If you don’t have superfine sugar, you can place regular granulated sugar in a food processor or blender, and pulse it until it is finely ground but not powdered.
 When the egg white and sugar are ready, lift the petals one by one with a pair of tweezers. Next, use a small, soft bristled paint brush to carefully coat both sides of the petals with the egg white.If you prefer, you use the tweezers to dip the petals in the egg white directly.
 After the petals are coated with the egg white, place them in the bowl with the sugar. Turn them over with the tweezers to ensure that the sugar coats both sides.If the petals aren’t fully covered, you can sprinkle a little sugar directly on them so they’re evenly coated.
Be sure to shake off any excess sugar before leaving the petals to dry.
 When the petals are completely covered with sugar, place them on the wire cooling rack on the baking sheet. Let them sit for at least 8 hours so they have time to dry and harden.It’s best to leave the sugared petals in a cool spot to dry.
 Add ½ cup (118 ml) of water and ½ cup (100 g) of fine sugar to a small saucepan. Heat the mixture on medium and stir it until the sugar dissolves.You can make more simple syrup if you have to extra to use for cocktails and other recipes. Use a 1:1 ratio of water and sugar.
 Once the sugar has dissolved, turn the heat up to high. Allow the mixture to come to a boil, which should take 5 to 7 minutes., After the syrup has come to a boil, lower the heat back to medium. Allow it to simmer for another 3 minutes so it has time to thicken up.Stir the syrup periodically as it simmers to ensure that it cooks evenly.
 When the syrup is finished simmering, remove the pan from the heat. Carefully transfer it to a bowl and let it cool completely, which may take up to an hour.It’s important to ensure that the syrup is cooled completely because it can wilt the petals if it’s too hot.
 While the simple syrup cools, add ½ cup (100 g) of superfine sugar to a shallow dish. Use a spoon to spread the sugar out in an even layer., Once the syrup has cooled completely, dip a pastry brush into it. Carefully brush both sides of the petals one at a time with the syrup to coat them fully.You can also use a small paintbrush to coat the petals with the syrup.
 When the petals are coated with the syrup, place them one at a time in the dish with the sugar. Turn the petals over in the sugar to ensure that they’re covered on both sides., After you’ve coated the petals in the sugar, set them down on the cooling rack on the baking sheet. Let the petals dry for 6 to 8 hours or until they harden completely.Store the sugared rose petals in an airtight container. They are best used within 7 to 10 days.

