 LAN functionality is becoming less and less common in modern PC releases in favor of online multiplayer. Before you go through all the trouble of setting up your LAN, make sure the games you want to play actually support local multiplayer.

You can check sites like langamelist.com (Check the "Offline LAN" box), or look through Steam curated lists like "LAN Party Games," but be aware that these lists are never comprehensive.
For most games, each player will need their own copy installed on their computer. Try to ensure that everyone has the games you intend to play installed before they come over, so you can get up and running without waiting for people to install things.Some of the most popular multiplayer PC games still support LAN. Minecraft, DOTA 2, League of Legends, Counter-Strike, and more have LAN support, though some require an internet connection to function. Note that recent Blizzard games like Diablo 3 and Overwatch do not support LAN.;
, Running a LAN party doesn't require much, but there are some things you'll absolutely need:You'll need enough Ethernet cables to connect each computer to your switch, as well as a cable to connect your switch to your router. You can ask your guests to bring their own Ethernet cables, but you'll probably want to have a few spare cables handy.
You'll need surge protectors and extension cables to ensure that you don't trip circuits.
If you don't have the table space, you'll need a few folding tables and chairs depending on how many people are coming.
 It doesn't take many computers on a single circuit to trip it and bring your LAN party to an early end. Knowing how your circuits are configured in your house or apartment can help you determine where to plug in all the computers.Most houses have separate circuits for different rooms (living room, kitchen, utility room, etc.). Keep in mind that most circuits have multiple outlets, so just spreading your computers between outlets in the same room won't help.
You'll want to limit each circuit to about four computers. This means you'll likely need some heavy-duty extension cables and surge protectors to plug the computers into.
 If you're connecting more computers to the LAN than there are ports on your router, you'll need a network switch to connect them all. You can find 5-port switches at most computer retailers for around $20 USD.

Do not get another router, as this will make things needlessly complex and expensive. A simple switch is all you need to connect many more computers to your existing router.
Make sure your new switch uses auto-sensing ports. This will allow you to connect everything with standard Ethernet cables instead of having to buy, or make, a special crossover cable. Most all modern switches have auto-sensing ports.
While you can have everyone connect to your wireless network, this is not recommended for most multiplayer games. Once everyone is playing together, you'll likely notice serious lag.
 Switches need to be powered in order to work., This will essentially extend the number of ports on your router, allowing you to connect more Ethernet devices to it. Any computers you connect to the switch will be connected to the router and the internet.

If you don't need to have internet access during your LAN party, you can just use a switch and no router. You may want to have internet access, however, so that other players can download any necessary updates or games that they don't have installed. Routers will also handle assigning everyone a unique IP address, which makes getting connected much easier.
 Use Ethernet cables to connect each computer's network adapter to an empty port on the switch. If a computer doesn't have an Ethernet adapter, you can connect it wirelessly or use a USB Ethernet adapter.

It doesn't matter which computers go into which ports on the switch.
If you're using multiple switches to connect a lot of computers, don't connect all the switches to the router. Instead, connect the first switch to the router and the second switch to the first switch.
 If any of the connected computers are running a firewall program, it may hamper their ability to connect to the other computers. Make sure all firewall programs, including Windows Firewall, are disabled.

If you're using an antivirus program, it may have firewall software built-in. Open the program's interface and check for an option to disable the firewall.
See Turn off Firewall for details on turning off the firewalls for Windows and Mac computers.
 Besides playing games, one of the common functions of a LAN party is massive file sharing. D-LAN is a program that makes setting up shared folders easy so that your guests don't have to fumble with Windows sharing settings.

You can download D-LAN for free from www.d-lan.net. After installing it, you'll be able to see everyone else on the network who has it installed, and you can quickly create and access shared folders.
Make sure your guests aren't transferring files while others are trying to play, as this will drag down the connection speed.
 When you're creating a LAN game, one computer typically acts as the "host." The other computers will essentially connect to this computer to get the game data. If your strongest computer is the host, you'll have the best connection for the game.

You may want to consider setting up a computer as a dedicated server. This will allow for the best performance, but that computer will be unavailable to play on. The process for setting up a dedicated server varies depending on the game, and not all games support them.

