 Getting hit during a fight will take a lot of energy out of you and cause you to become fatigued. When you get tired, it will be harder to keep your hands up. To prepare your body for this, train with 3 or 5 pound weights around your arms and ankles.To prepare for body shots, have someone drop a medicine ball on your stomach while you are doing crunches. The ball should drop in between each repetition., In addition to protecting your head with your fists, you must learn to move your head to avoid getting hit. A good way to move is to practice making letters with your head. Try the following letters:"T" - move your head side-to-side and then duck down
"V" - move your head down and then slip
"C" - move your head backwards and then around

, Sparring is a time for you to have a practice your skills and test your conditioning. Punching bags are fine, but they cannot prepare you to box with an opponent in the ring. Spar with people who are a different size than you and that have different abilities (e.g. faster, more advanced, better jab, slower than you, etc.) Remember that sparring is about practicing and getting better, not beating up your partner., When your opponent throws a punch, your first instinct will be to protect yourself. However, you do not have to wait for your opponent to finish throwing punches before you start punching back. Counter your opponent's punches instead of focusing on blocking.Always keep your eyes on your opponent as you take a punch and try not to lean back.
 Shadow boxing allows to you to visualize different opponents and scenarios.Practice throwing punches, moving your head, and moving your feet. Practice different combinations. Focus on your technique and quickness as you throw your punches as well.Do not wear gloves or use weights when you shadow box.
It is helpful to shadow box in front of a mirror or in front of a trainer so that you can get feedback on your movements.
You can shadow box for an allotted time period. Try focusing on a specific skill (e.g. uppercut, pivoting your foot) during each round.

