 If the dry winter air (or the dry air from your heating system) has already caused your skin to become dry or cracked, it's important to take proper care of it until it's able to heal naturally. Moisturizers are your first line of defense against further damage. Apply a moisturizing lotion, balm, or cream to any irritated areas at least daily until the skin shows signs of improvement — at this point, you may gently taper off your moisturizer use and start relying on other methods of protection (though some moisturizer use may be necessary for the entire winter.)


Be sure to clean and bandage any major cracks or splits in the skin as you would with normal cuts and scrapes. Though unlikely, cracks in the skin can be infected if exposed to bacteria, leading to further pain and irritation, so basic prevention measures are important.
 As hinted at above, one of the least obvious (but most dangerous) places for skin irritation during the winter is inside your warm, cozy home! The warm air that comes out of most home heating systems is usually quite dry and can have a dehydrating effect on the skin similar to what you might experience in dry conditions outdoors.To avoid this, try running a humidifier in whichever room you spend the most time in at home. These handy devices vaporize water and release it into the air, increasing the humidity level in the surrounding area.


Ideally, for this purpose, you'll want to use an evaporative or steam humidifier. So-called "cool mist" humidifiers can sometimes release allergy-causing aerosols., The soap, shampoo, and other cleaning products you use on yourself during the winter can all have an effect on your skin's health. Harsh cleaning products, especially those containing alcohol or astringents, can strip away your skin's natural protective oils, making it extra-vulnerable to drying out.To prevent this, use the gentlest cleaning products available. Below is a very brief guide to making smart cleaning product purchases:


Soaps: Use mild, unscented varieties, as well as those advertised as "moisturizing" or "for sensitive skin." Moisturizing liquid body washes make a great alternative to ordinary soap. Avoid alcohol-based soaps or sanitizers and standard bar soaps, which can be too harsh for winter use.
Shampoos/hair products: Use shampoos labeled "moisturizing" or "for reviving dry hair." Condition after using shampoo.
Facial products: Use mild, foaming cleansers. Tend towards oil-based or "moisturizing" face rubs. Avoid alcohol or salicylic acid-based cleansers.
 You don't necessarily have to use a commercial lotion or balm to treat your dry skin. In some cases, a natural home remedy may do the trick. The problem with home remedies, however, is that they're usually unverified — that is, they're not backed up by serious scientific evidence. If you do plan on trying to treat your dry skin with a home remedy, try tending towards safe, mild natural oils, which should trap moisture near the skin like ordinary lotions. Just a few natural oils that are claimed to work as skin moisturizers are:Olive oil
Coconut oil
Avocado oil
Jojoba oil
Sweet almond oil
Grapeseed oil

, For most people, skin irritation during the winter is an annoying, but ultimately temporary problem. However, in extreme cases, dry skin can be a serious, lasting source of irritation. If your skin's dryness and irritation doesn't go away within a few weeks or starts to seriously affect your ability to live a happy, productive life, don't hesitate to see a dermatologist — if you don't know one, your general practitioner can refer you to one. In addition to helping with everyday dry and irritated skin, dermatologists can diagnose skin problems like eczema and psoriasis and prescribe treatments for them.


Note that, while quite rare, severe itching can sometimes be a sign of liver disease or cancer, so if you're experiencing itching that's interfering with your daily routine, you'll want to see a dermatologist right away to rule these serious conditions out.