 If you suspect that your cat has gone blind or is losing her sight, schedule an appointment with your cat’s veterinarian right away. Some types of blindness are reversible if they are treated right away. For example, if your cat is suffering from blindness caused by hypertension, a daily medication may restore her sight and prevent further health problems as well.Make sure that your cat gets regular check-ups with a veterinarian even if she seems healthy. Early diagnosis and treatment of a problem can prevent your cat from going blind.;
, Sometimes a cat will go blind over a period of days, weeks, or months. After the cat has become mostly or totally blind, you may begin to notice some strange behavior. Observe your cat to determine if she might be blind. Some of the behaviors that blind cats display include:Seeming confused about her surroundings
Bumping into furniture and other objects
Missing jumps or landings that she used to manage with ease
Seeming reluctant to move around or venture outdoors
Rubbing or squinting her eyes

, If your cat’s behavior has you suspicious that she might have gone blind, inspect her eyes to see if they look different than usual. Even if your cat is not showing signs of blindness, you should inspect your cat’s eyes regularly to check for early symptoms of blindness. Some common symptoms of blindness in cats include:Eyes don’t respond to light, pupils are dilated
Eyes look cloudy, inflamed, or discolored

, Since your cat may have a hard time navigating the house at first, you should do your best to provide a home that is as free from obstacles as possible. Keeping the floor clear will help your cat to navigate the house without bumping into things.Some suggestions for how to minimize obstacles in your home include:


Leaving your furniture where it is
Keeping your home clean and clutter-free
Teaching children to pick up their toys after they are finished playing with them

, Since your cat no longer has her sense of sight to determine whether or not something or someone is a threat, she may be more frightened by loud noises than she was before losing her sight. Help your cat to feel calm and safe by avoiding making loud noises and asking others to do the same.If you accidentally make a loud noise, make sure to comfort your cat by petting her and speaking softly to her. Some other suggestions for maintaining a calm environment include:


Getting up slowly from a chair instead of jumping up suddenly
Walking upstairs to speak to someone instead of yelling up to them
Avoiding slamming cupboards and doors

, Since your cat can no longer see you when she enters a room, you might want to develop a habit of humming or chatting to yourself to let her know where you are. Your cat may also feel safer and more relaxed if you hum and chat when you are around her. This will also help prevent startling your cat when you want to pet her. By announcing your presence, she will be less likely to be surprised by the feeling of your hand on her back., If your cat used to go outside before she went blind, stay with your cat as much as you can when she ventures outside. By being present as your cat rediscovers the outdoors, you can rescue her from any mishaps while still allowing her to enjoy being outside.


Try keeping your cat in an enclosed garden when she wants to go outside. This will help minimize the chances that she will get injured or lost.Consider getting a cat harness and leash to prevent your cat from wandering off into danger.
If you are unable to monitor your cat while she is outside, do not let her go out.
 If your cat has been diagnosed with a medical condition that requires special treatment, medication, or other interventions, make sure that you follow the veterinarian’s instructions. If your cat’s blindness is related to a medical condition, it will not improve until she is cured. Contact your veterinarian immediately if your cat’s condition worsens or does not improve despite treatment.


Be aware that some forms of blindness are not reversible even with medical interventions. Your cat may remain blind for the rest of her life, but she can still have a happy life., Your cat is still normal. Even though she has gone blind, she will still want to do everything that a cat likes to do, like playing. While buying toys, look for cat toys that are made specifically for blind cats. Also, shift from sight-based games to sound-based ones, such as "follow-the-noise." Anything that crinkles, crackles, resounds or can be tapped can serve as a new source of entertainment.


Try buying toys that squeak like a mouse or chirp like a bird. Your cat might like to play follow the noise with those types of toys.
 Groom your cat regularly, feed your cat nutritious food, provide occasional treats, and take your cat to a vet for regular check-ups. Pay special attention to your cat's nose and ears, as these senses now make life easier for your cat.


Keep your cat’s food and water in the same place they have always been kept.
Consider adding a second litter box to make it easier for your cat to get to the bathroom in time. It may take her longer to find the box now that she is blind.