 One easy way to spot a counterfeit is when the All Stars come in a box that is obviously not Converse. Fresh shoes also come with tissue in the packaging. Sometimes they’ll even have paper stuffing in the shoes. If you don’t see any of the “typical” signs of fresh shoes, they're probably worth suspicion., The real patch has a navy blue star, whereas the fake one may have different shade of blue. Also, the original will be stamped with only a star and Taylor's signature. Be leery of emblems that are not clear. Many fake ones look blurry and have other design elements or words.


All Stars also come in such a wide array of styles and colors. The logo won’t always be blue and sometimes the patch is made of rubber.
Examine the star itself and be sure it is a clean print.
 Shoes made before 2008 will have the ® symbol under the All Star logo. If you see this symbol on shoes made after 2008, be cautious. Check the stitched logo as well. Although it may appear authentic, if you spot a patchy or unclear logo, it’s fake., The All Stars logo will be printed very clearly on the top of the tongue. It is fake if the print is blurry or the thread in loose around the print. The traditional tongue is made of a thin canvas. Pay attention to the stitching around the border the tongue.


As a general rule, if the stitching is loose or uneven, it’s counterfeit., In real Converse, the inner sole will have the word Converse printed sharp and plain. Be aware if you are buying a used pair. A used pair’s insignia will appear more faded than a new pair, but this doesn’t necessarily mean they’re counterfeit.
 This is painted on the top edge of the sole. It should be smooth and perfect. If it is shaky, not crisp looking or uneven, it is a red flag.
 The best way to understand All Stars is by having an authentic pair. If you’ve never owned them, purchase a pair from a trusted seller. Once you have a pair of Converse All Stars, you’ll know all the quirks and attributes of the shoe.


Save the location of where you spotted a deal for next time. Even authentic All Stars will need to be replaced.

