 The ideal container is wide, flat and shallow, such as a baking tray, takeaway food container, or foil pie dish. It needs to be shallow enough to slide under a small dog, and yet wide enough to catch the urine if your aim is a bit off target.;
, If the vet wants to check the urine for the presence of infection, he or she may want to culture the sample. For the results to be accurate, the urine needs to be collected in a clean container and transferred to a clean jar or bottle to transport to the vet. This is done to avoid contamination from environmental bacteria, as the lab tests will highlight any bacteria present (including bacteria from the environment).


Using a sterile jar allows precise identification of the bugs present and an accurate selection of the antibiotic to which the bacteria are most sensitive.
There are three ways to sterilize a container at home, all of which will be detailed in the following steps.
 There are many brands readily available from chemists or supermarkets. Simply follow the directions on the packaging, which usually involve:


Diluting the sterilizing liquid with a set volume of water.
Immersing the object into the diluted fluid for a set period of time.
 If you have access to a steam sterilizer, (of the sort used for babies bottles) use it to sterilize foil containers. You can also use it to sterilize plastic containers that withstand high temperatures.Again, follow the manufacturer's instructions, which usually involve adding a set amount of water to the sterilizers and setting it running on a steam cycle.
 If you do not want to purchase sterilizing fluid, or do not have access to a steam sterilizer, you can use boiling water to sterilize the container. Bring a pot of water to a boil. Place the container in the boiling water. Make sure that the container you use can withstand high temperatures.


Let the container sit in the boiling water for several minutes. Use extreme caution when removing the container from the water, as it will burn you. Place it on a clean surface to cool.
 If the vet does not want to send the sample for culture, then it is sufficient for the container to be clean and dry, rather than fully sterile. It is vital the container is not contaminated with food, or a sugary residue, since this could give false results on a dipstick test.


To clean the containers, wash them in hot, soapy water, rinse well under running water and then towel or air dry.
 Once you have caught the urine in your flat container, you will have to transfer it to a sterile bottle so that you can bring it to the vet without spilling it everywhere. Your vet may supply you with a container for this purpose, but there are also several household items you can use.


A glass jar, such as a jam or coffee jar, with a screw top, will do just fine. Give it a thorough wash with detergent to get rid of any sugary residue. Again, where possible, sterilize the container either with a chemical sterilizing agent, or if the material will take it, with a kettle full of boiling water. This last step is only essential if the sample is being sent for culture.

