 In order to pay an HSBC card bill online, you need to first create an account with their online banking system. If you are an HSBC customer, this should not be a problem as long as you have the following information:


Your social security number (US only)
Your nationality/citizenship (UK only)
Your HSBC card number
A valid e-mail address
Your PIN number
Your mobile phone number;
, When you start to create your online banking account, HSBC has certain terms and conditions you need to follow. These policies are outlined in a statement given to you when you sign up for your account. Take time to review the statement carefully. Call your local HSBC if you have any questions regarding the policies., Once you've agreed to the terms and conditions, you'll have to verify your identity. To do so, enter the information listed above (your social security number, HSBC number, etc.) into the online system and hit "Continue.", Next, you'll be asked to set up a login ID and password. You will also have to create a security question in the vent you forget your password.


Pick a login ID that's easy to remember, preferably one that uses your name. If your name is Ramona Lancaster, for example, use something like RLancaster. You may have to experiment with a few different login IDs if the your first choice is taken.
A strong password should be a combination of upper and lower case letters as well as some numbers. You should also pick something you can easily remember rather than just a random assortment of characters. Do not use a dictionary word as this can be easy to hack. For example, say you have three cats named Murphy, Tabitha, and Diego. Your password could be MuTaDi3.
The HSBC system will present you with a variety of security questions to choose from. Select a question where the answer would be difficult to guess. For example, if your high school mascot was a cougar do not choose "What was your high school mascot?" as many high schools use cougars for mascots. A hacker could conceivably guess this information. If your high school mascot was a gremlin, an unusual choice in mascot, this would be a good security question to choose.
 Once you've entered all the necessary information, you will receive an e-mail asking for a confirmation. Simply click on the link and your account will have been created.

