 Pheochromocytoma refers to a medical disorder that affects neuroendocrine cells at various sites in the body and which are called chromaffin cells. This type of cells is spread among the body tissues at various sites. This tumour of chromaffin cells is characterized by its excessive secretion of different types of compounds into the circulation.;
, The most important of which are the catecholamines and, in particular, epinephrine and norepinephrine. These two compounds are important due to their clinical effect on inducing hypertension in affected individuals. These two compounds are usually secreted by the sympathetic division of the nervous system.
 They mediate a stress situation such as increased heart beat rate and increased perspiration, in addition to increased wakefulness. In addition these two compounds increase the constriction of blood vessels including arteries and veins. Thus it induces a state of increased blood pressure and hypertension.
 In the neuron synaptic cleft they function as neurotransmitters which transmit electric signals between neurons. In the adrenal medulla, they are secreted to the circulation as hormones.
 The most important chromaffin cells are present in the medulla of the adrenal gland. As a result of a tumor to this part of the gland it oversecretes autonomously increased amount of several compounds of which epinephrine and norepinephrine are the most important. As a result a state of hypertension occurs and which does not respond to medications.
 Accompanying symptoms include increased activity of the sympathetic nervous system which includes increased perspiration and heart beat rate. Other stressful symptoms can also occur such as dilatation of the eye pupils.
 Its excessive secretion can lead to distinct symptoms that are typical for dopamine such as psychotic symptoms in addition to increased sexual desire.
, The clinical picture of this syndrome usually depends on the type of compounds that are secreted by the affected chromaffin cells. Catecholamines which are usually secreted in this type of tumors are derivatives of amino acids and which are by themselves clinically important.
 Its excess as occurs in certain types of pheochromocytomas can predispose to psychosis. In addition its deficiency can cause Parkinsonism as occurs sometimes in people taking dopamine antagonists. An example is the drug risperidone.
 Chromaffin cells associated with pheochromocytoma usually secrete these two compounds in an endocrine fusion exerting their effect on blood vessels as hormones.
