 If you find that you need some help getting inspired, try listening to music as you create art, particularly music that you like, and music that suits the atmosphere of the piece you are trying to create.

For example, try not to listen to something upbeat if you're trying to paint someone crying, or listen to something slow and sad if you want to draw a picture of flowers in a meadow.


This method of overcoming artist's block works well for some, however others might need complete silence in order to work. Work to your own preference, with or without sound.;
, Observe how other artists do their artworks. You can then attempt to replicate the style, but with a twist of your own, to help get you inspired. Watching how other people shape and uniquely craft their art can help to inspire you and may help you to improve in drawing.

For example, try drawing a horse in a pose that somebody else has drawn and change it up a little, such as: make it gallop, add fire, etc.
 If you've been trying too hard to be inspired and keep drawing a blank, it's time to pull back. Even if you take a break for a month or so, you will come back refreshed and ready to create again., Learn to do new things with your art. If you're having artist's block, the problem might just be that you've run out of things to do and you find yourself creating the same thing over and over again. If this is the case, its time to look up some tutorials or do the copy from reference method., Think about artworks you've made that you're particularly proud of and consider the qualities of individual finished pieces that give you the most satisfaction. Reflect on the process by which the idea for the work was originally generated and how this evolved as you proceeded. Take some notes. The purpose of this is not to encourage the creation of duplicate artworks, but to help you identify the aspects of your own art practice that are unique and interesting.

Be specific about strategies and techniques you've adopted that made a difference: e.g. limiting or extending a colour palette, applying novel textures or finishes, refining or exaggerating physical forms, adding or removing depth, following or breaking established rules, using contrast or incongruity, trying to express joy or despair or humour or anger through the artwork, spending more time on the work or stepping away from it earlier, etc...

