 The expectations here depend on what country you live in. In the US, tipping a server less than 15-20% is a strong statement and has a big financial impact on them; most, if not all, servers in this country are being paid an hourly wage of less than the country's minimum wage because they are required to claim tips as a source of their income (usually marking them around $5/hour). Therefore servers need your tips to pay for their bills and to tip out others in the restaurant for their duties to the server (bussers, bartenders, food-runners, etc.).


By not tipping the standard 20% in the US, you are severely hurting this server's financial standing. It is not fair to the server to do this. The old rule of thumb that has been passed through the grapevine, that you can just double the tax of the final bill is far from the truth and almost always falls far below the recommended 20% minimum tip you should be giving to your server. (Refer to the "Tip Tutorial" below for the correct tipping process).;
, Do not complain about where you're sitting in a restaurant, most especially if you've already been waiting an extended period of time for a table. This is about your food's quality, timeliness, or what you were expecting from it. These types of complaints should come only if something is truly unbearable and should not be used to the patron's advantage in getting something free or extra simply because they know they can take advantage of that system.
 Snapping, waving, hand raising, or flagging down a server to get their attention is extremely rude and a sign of impatience. Unless the server has neglected your table for an excessive amount of time, there is no need to get their attention in this way.


Be patient and polite. The restaurant might be busy, and your server will come back to your table in a timely manner (when they have all other duties with other tables completed). There is no way that whatever you are going to request from them cannot wait a few more seconds. In addition, there is no way that you need it at that specific and exact moment in time, and need to disrespectfully wave them over for it.
 The server may be in demand, running back and forth. As a guest, you have the power to control how much a server is doing this. Keep in mind that you are not the server's only responsibility, so when you continuously make requests for the server to refill or bring you something, you are making it much harder for that server to abide to those other responsibilities. Have an idea of what you want server to do when they check in on your table, and don't have them make multiple unnecessary trips for each table visit they provide to you. Combine all requests into one trip visit for the server, so they don't need to keep coming back.
 Sitting at a table for an extended period of time after you have paid with the server, or sitting at a table for a long time while waiting for the rest of your party to file in, is very hurtful to your server's earnings. The server can't "flip" that table to a new round of customers when you do this; therefore he or she can't make any more money when you take up their table.
 Don't say "...well they did it for us last time" because the servers know how the restaurant runs. It is not proper to dupe the workers into believing you by saying that, just because you want to get what you want.
 This gauge of respect is no different in the server-patron relationship as it is in any other kind of interpersonal relationship. Your server is required to give you the utmost respect at the table, and strives to do so. It is only fair to give them the same back when you are their guest. Do not be pretentious or condescending to a server because you think they are lower than you on the totem pole of humanity.
 These words are ones we have all been taught since we were little, and are really easy to say. These words include "please" when asking for something, "thank you" when something is given to you or being done for you or "take your time" when you can see that the restaurant/server is busy. It is suggested that you talk to the server as you would a guest in your mother-in-law's home. In other words, you should never act like something is owed to you simply because your butt is in a seat at a restaurant. This comes off as arrogant and is very unpleasant to have to wait on.
 Compliments are always acceptable and appreciated. Never think that by complimenting a server to their face or to a manager is a waste of time or is something that no one cares about anymore. Whether you're applauding the server directly about their performance, or you are pulling a manager to the side and telling them about how enjoyable your server was, it is always greatly appreciated by servers and managers alike. It is a good feeling for a server to hear this and honestly boosts their performance for the rest of the night.
 A life of a server is one that can be very robotic and brainless at times because they need to say the same 5-10 things at a table to be acceptable and friendly to their tables. To break this chain, you can simply just try to talk and get to know your server a little more than just knowing their first name that they told you when they greeted the table. Even if it means simply telling them that your grandson has the same first name as them, or telling them that they look like someone you know.


Try asking questions that many people see as cliché conversation starters. Questions include "where are you from?", "do you go to school?", and "what is your major?" Keep in mind the apparent age of the server. Even these basic human interactions make it that much easier and enjoyable for the server to come back to your table time after time. And it breaks that brainless robotic server chain of just flipping tables, and get it to a more personal and humanistic level, which is beneficial for the guest and the server alike.
 Waiting on children can also be the most challenging part of being a server due to the parenting accompanied with this child. Telling your child to give the server eye contact, and to say "please" and "thank you" when they order is great.


Make sure your child knows that making a mess of the table or floor, shouting across the restaurant and running around busy gangways are all unacceptable behaviors. When a parent does all of these things - and, simply put, is a parent - it not only makes that child's visit to the restaurant better, it makes the server's experience with your specific table joyous.
 A server will never rush you and your party into ordering quickly. But when a server comes to your table and asks "all ready to order?", and you, as a group, respond with "yes", then that order should be ready. Have the item and all of its modifications that you are ordering ready when you say that you are ready. Don't say you are ready to order when you are not. When it's your turn to order, don't ask a plethora of questions, or simply not know what you want to order.
 When you are done with a plate, whether it is a bread plate, an appetizer plate, a share plate, a dessert plate, an entrée plate, or empty cups, just help get them off of the table when your server comes over to clear the table. No one like to sit with a mound of dirty plates and cups in front of them, and the server knows this.


One of a server's duties is to pre-bus a table, meaning he/she clears off as many finished cups and plates from the table each time they come back to check up on you. Help yourself and your server by stacking plates, handing them to a server, and putting dirty/finished cups and plates at the edge of the table.



Calculator - Type in 34.65 (total bill) and multiple it by .20(20%) = 6.93. This number is the equivalent to $6.93 and is exactly a 20% tip on this bill.
Mental Maths - When doing mental maths to figure out a tip total, it is easiest to simply look at the check's first primary number(s) and just multiply by 2, which is the gauge for 20% tip. This check has a 3 for its primary digit, and 3 x 2 comes to 6. This is less than the tip we have above when using the calculator, so this is where the rounding process comes in to play. If the 2nd number of the total is a 5 or above you need to round up and add one more dollar. Since this check, when rounded up, equals $35 (or 3.5 for your mental maths sake). You will now do 3.5 x 2 instead of the 3 x 2. That will give you a 7 dollar tip (which is essentially equal to the 6.93 we got when using the calculator).
 27.32 x .20 (20%) = 5.464. Using correct rounding this would be a $5.50 tip.


For the mental maths approach: Simply do 2.7 (primary digit) x 2 (20%) and you come to 5.4. You break that down to a tip and that come to $5.40. Now this is just a rule of thumb as a patron, you can either leave it at the $5.40 or round it up to an easier number and come to $6.00
The idiot's guide to mental maths for this example (that applies to any other example) : round the 2.7 up to the easy number of 3. Do the first number of this multiplied by 2 (20%): 3 x 2 = $6. This idiot's guide to mental maths is the easiest approach.
 So the primary number of this bill, since the bill is 121 and is triple digits, is now 2 numbers instead of one number as shown in the first two examples. That number being 12 in this instance. So just do the same approach as the 1st two examples and do your bill's 1st number, which in this case is 12 and multiply it by 2 (20% tip) and you come to 24. Therefore you should leave a minimum of $24 for your server on this bill.


Use a calculator. So 121.38 x .20= 24.276. Which equals the $24 we came to with your much easier and quicker mental maths approach.
 However, the number following it is another 6, so you can round your primary digit up to 7. Then multiply 7 x 2 (20% tip) and come to 14. The tip you'd leave for this bill would be $14. That's simple!

, Do that primary digit, 23, and multiply it by 2 (20%) and you get 46. The tip you would leave for this bill would be $46.
 7 x 2=$14. And there you have it. You would leave a $14 tip for this check.
 You are not obligated to tip in the UK. Tips in some places are a reward for a job well done and not a top up to a meagre wage.

