 Dry mouth decreases the amount of saliva in your mouth, which can lead to tooth decay. Buy toothpaste containing fluoride to help protect your teeth. Avoid toothpaste that contains sodium lauryl sulfate. This product will dehydrate your mouth.Look for toothpaste without sodium laurel sulfate in the natural foods aisle of your local store.
 Avoid any mouthwash or rinse containing alcohol or peroxide, as these products will dry out your mouth. Instead, look for mouthwashes that contain xylitol or fluoride. Fluoride will strengthen your teeth, while xylitol is a sweetener that may help minimize dry mouth., Instead of breathing through your mouth, make a conscious effort to breathe through your nose. If you have a dry, stuffy nose, you may have trouble breathing comfortably through your nose. Moisturize your nasal passages by using a nasal saline spray, which will help with a dry, stuffy nose. , A common cause of dry mouth is snoring. Try using nasal strips or external nasal dilators. Sleep on your side, and elevate your head with an extra pillow or a tilted mattress. Limit your use of alcohol and sedatives.Losing weight can help you stop snoring if you are overweight.
Try to monitor your sleep patterns and seek medical treatment. Snoring can be caused by a deviated nasal septum, sleep apnea, or long-term congestion. Your doctor may be able to help you treat these issues.
 A humidifier adds moisture to the air, and is particularly useful in dry regions or during the winter months when home heating makes the air inside your home dry. Run the humidifier in the bedroom while you sleep. Do not use more than the manufacturer recommends. Decrease humidifier use if you notice condensation or mold on your walls.Avoid sitting in front of a heater, fan, or air conditioner, as these can dehydrate you.
 Smoking and chewing tobacco can cause dry mouth.If you use methamphetamines, quit immediately. Prolonged meth use can cause severe dry mouth, leading to tooth loss. Visit your doctor or a local health clinic for information on how to quit smoking and drug use.
 There are over-the-counter and doctor-prescribed products that create artificial saliva and stimulate the production of natural saliva. Artificial saliva is not a complete substitute for natural saliva, since it does not contain the digestive and antibacterial enzymes that natural saliva contains. But it can be useful in relieving the discomfort of dry mouth. Artificial saliva products may be available in rinses, sprays, toothpastes or washes.


Many of these products do not require a prescription, but they are not often easy to find. Ask your pharmacist to help locate these products.Artificial saliva is rarely prescribed unless you are suffering from a severe syndrome, such as Sjögren's syndrome.
 Antihistamines and decongestants dry up your mucus production, thus worsening dry mouth. If you have a cold or need to treat congestion for any reason, visit your doctor instead of taking a non-prescription decongestant.