 Create a precise timetable detailing times set for revising, relaxation, sleeping and exercising. Start this process well ahead of time, so that you can allot enough time to study each day, without being overwhelmed.


Ideally your study schedule will be divided by subject, with a little extra time spent on the subjects you need more work on. If you need help deciding when and how to study for which part, ask your teacher or tutors for input.;
, This will help you feel in control and avoid your being overwhelmed by stress. Leave lots of time for relaxation and breaks; don't overwork as you will become tired and more stressed.
 You want to revise hard, but you also want to build in breaks, and break your studying up into sections so that you don't overwhelm yourself. Don't get so absorbed in what you're doing that you forget to get up, stretch, and have a drink or a snack every now and then. You'll come back to the books more refreshed and focused if you allow yourself little breaks.
 If you don't understand a concept or need a little extra help in a particular subject, don't wear yourself out going over and over the material again by yourself. Reach out to teachers, tutors, or your parents for clarification and help. This will not only reduce your stress levels but also help you master the material.
 Are you becoming nervous? Do you do repeated unusual actions? Do you feel unwell, with signs of headaches? These are all signs of stress; try to reduce it as much as possible by talking to friends or family.
 Try to eat and drink regularly and remember to sleep as much as possible.


Exercise is also a good way of keeping stress levels to a minimum; it will help keep your mind off the forthcoming exams.
 A tough time with friends or a bad relationship are prime examples. Try to stabilise your surrounding life so your full attention can be on your GCSEs. It's not a good time to take on new challenging hobbies or relationships, or start a new part-time job.
 Treat yourself often and take time to just do what you want to do. While you need to find time to revise, you can balance this with relaxation time. A calm relaxing bath for example can be therapeutic.
 Full preparation is key; knowing that you are prepared for the exam as much as possible will hopefully reduce your stress. Make sure you have all your supplies for test day ready ahead of time.
 Remember that you can do it! You have done lots of revision and will be ready. Try to remain calm; bad nerves could hinder your academic performance.
 You have finished your exams they are in the past. You have done the best you could have so relax. Enjoy your time with friends and family and try not to focus on your exam performance. Going on holiday or meeting up with friends is a great way to distract yourself whilst waiting.

