 As pretty as your ornamented and light-wrapped indoor tree may be, it can also pose a consider threat to your dog. Namely, the tree may liable to fall if your dog bumps into it. To prevent this, use strong string or wire to secure the tree in a stable vertical position.Meanwhile, use a base that is not only sturdy but that prevents Virginia Woof from drinking the water you provide the tree. Standing water can cause your dog to become ill.
Sweep beneath the tree whenever you notice pine needles have collected. They can make your dog sick too.
 Other popular holiday plants, including Mistletoe & Holly, can cause significant health issues if ingested. Unfortunately, their aroma may intrigue your dog enough to snack on them. If you’re using these plants, make sure they are secured in places outside of your dog’s reach.Consider decorating with silk or plastic artificial plants. While these can also pose a minimal threat to your dog, your dog is much less likely to try to eat them.
 It’s important to be especially aware of fire risks during the holidays. This means never leaving any source of fire unattended, regardless of the context.For example, while a candle on a table may seem safe, Joni Muttchell may bump the table and tip it over.
 Make sure any holiday string lights are out of reach of your dog. Further, avoid hanging ornaments where your dog can reach them, unless absolutely sure that they don’t pose a risk. Note that ornaments made of dried play doh are especially dangerous, as your dog may attempt to eat them.Many ornaments are fragile or fragrant. Even if Dumbledog doesn’t try to eat one, they make knock it off the tree, causing decorations to shatter on the floor.
 There are few things that are especially dangerous to your dog that may surprise you. In particular, the liquid within snow-globes is extremely toxic. Unfortunately, it also smells enticing enough for a dog to eat. If you decorate with snow globes this year, make sure they’re safely and securely located somewhere they won’t be broken.Similarly, salt and other materials used to melt ice can be extremely dangerous - and intriguing - to your dog as well. If these products are used on your property, make sure your dog is not able to eat any of them.
 Good training provides the foundation of a fun, healthy relationship with your dog. During the holidays, there is one command in particular that can help you keep your dog safe. Namely, be sure your dog understands and responds to the command to “drop” or “leave” something alone.These commands are most effective when the dog is touching something they shouldn’t be. Further, they are best learned in everyday situations. Whenever you dog is getting into something they shouldn’t, immediately command them to “leave it!” in a loud, clear voice.
When the dog turns away from the item, immediately give them praise and provide a treat or a toy instead. This will help teach them that listening to your command will be rewarded.

