 Not all insurance premiums are created equal. In fact, they can vary widely from company to company. Different insurance plans will offer coverage for different kinds of medical aid; some can be quite comprehensive while others only cover the basics. The amount of the deductibles can also change radically from plan to plan. Look for a plan that covers the bare minimum of what you need, then look at the price of the deductibles and co-pays. Typically, the least expensive plans will offer the highest deductibles and co-pays. This is fine if you are healthy and don't expect to use your coverage except in case of an emergency. Basically, find the cheapest possible policy that offers the coverage you need., If you are working but paying for your own insurance, then saving the money to pay each month's premium will likely be easier than if you are out of work. Set aside enough money from each paycheck to cover your premium. Do this before you spend any of your money elsewhere., If you're not working, are disabled, or don't make much money, you may qualify for medical aid. There are social programs in place that can alleviate the costly burden of having to pay for medical insurance. Even if you don't qualify for medical insurance or you can't afford it, there are programs in place to make sure your children have access to medical insurance., If you're self-employed, then you may be able to join a professional association linked to your business. Many of these associations offer group insurance plans with more affordable premiums. You can deduct the membership fees from your taxes and take advantage of their group plan, making insurance affordable., Even if it is only part-time work, get a job. Many companies extend their health insurance to part-time employees. Find a company to work for that offers health insurance as a benefit. If your current job doesn't offer insurance, consider finding a new job that does.Since the passage of the Affordable Care Act, any individual who consistently works 30 hours a week or more is entitled to purchase health care through their employer. Make sure you track the number of hours you work per week to know if you are eligible for coverage through your employer’s insurance.If you work part-time and don’t make enough money to pay for insurance premiums on a monthly basis, the Affordable Care Act offers subsidies to help offset your monthly insurance costs. So, your total premium may be $200 a month, but the federal government may cover $150 of that monthly cost. This makes it far easier for low-income and part-time workers to pay for their own insurance out-of-pocket., If you live in the United States then you can open a health savings account. This is a tax-advantaged savings account for medical needs. It is available to taxpayers who are currently enrolled in health plans with high deductibles. The money you put into the account is not subject to federal income tax when you deposit it, and the funds roll over into the next year if not used. If you need to pay for medical deductibles, then you can withdraw the money and use it to pay your fees.If you are self-employed, you may want to consider enrolling with a plan that has a high deductible and low premium and then use a health savings account to offset intermittent health care costs.
 Getting a personal loan from the bank to pay a year's worth of health insurance premiums may result in a discount on your premium amount. Just make sure that you can pay back the loan in a timely manner., Since the roll out of the Affordable Care Act (often called “Obamacare”), Americans can go online to a government-run portal that allows you to input some simple information and see what sort of subsidy (or rebate) you are entitled to. Depending on your income and the type of health care plan you need, you may end up securing health insurance for little to no cost., There are a number of questions you will need to answer once on the government-run portal. In addition to personal information (like your name, mailing address, birth date, etc.), you will also need to input information regarding your income and health care needs. , Not all health care plans fall under the realm of the ACA, so you will need to find a plan in your area that is endorsed by the federal government. Make sure to consider the full range of benefits you will need from your health plan before making a selection.For example, if you are a young person with few to no health problems, it may be wise to select a plan that provides minimal coverage. This will help to keep your monthly premium lower. However, if you have an ongoing illness or health problem that will require more frequent doctor’s visits, it would be wise to select a more comprehensive plan with a higher premium. The additional monthly cost will be far more affordable than frequently paying high medical bills.
 Once you have found a plan that works for you, purchase it through healthcare.gov. Once the subsidy is applied to your monthly payments, you will have a clear idea of what you will need to pay on a monthly basis, out-of-pocket.Be sure to document all information about the company that is handling your health care as well as the plan itself to avoid superfluous charges and payments in the future. Also, if you do run into any trouble with your health insurance in the future, you will need to contact the company directly.
 Health insurance does not mean “free health care”. Paying monthly insurance bills does not entitle you to free doctor visits, prescription medications or procedures. Rather, you pay a monthly bill so that the health insurance company will offset the costs of your health care up to or beyond a certain cost.For example, you may go to a doctor because you have a bacterial infection. The doctor will charge you for the visit and you will need to purchase prescription medication to get rid of the infection. Without insurance, it would cost you anywhere from $100 to $200 for the visit and anywhere from $70 to $80 to fill your prescription at the pharmacy. However, with insurance, those costs are drastically reduced to about $15 to $20 for the doctor’s visit and $5 to $10 for the prescription.
 There are a number of questions you will need to ask of your health care needs before deciding on what type of health insurance plan to purchase. How many times a year do you go to the doctor? How serious are the causes of those doctor’s visits? Do you take daily medication? Do you have an underlying health issue that will represent continuous costs? Do you even go to the doctor when you are sick? Once you have dealt with issues like this, you will have a clearer idea of what type of health plan you need to purchase., Health care plans use a very specific jargon that relates to costs and expenditures in this area. You need to understand these terms to know what type of insurance plan you are buying. Some of the basic terms are:


Deductible- This is a specific dollar amount that a health plan requires you to pay out-of-pocket before your insurance plan begins to cover medical costs. A high deductible is bad, as it means you need to pay more money before the insurance plan starts to help cover your costs. A low deductible is good, because you pay less out-of-pocket before your insurance kicks in.Premium- This is the amount you will owe to the insurance company on a monthly basis. This is the amount that you will be billed for in order to keep your insurance active and up-to-date. You will owe this amount to the insurance company whether you incur medical costs or not.Co-pay- This is a cost that the insurance company determines you must pay for medical services or supplies. For example, you will likely have a set co-pay for doctor visits and prescription drugs. So a doctor may charge $100 per visit, but if your co-pay is $20, you pay $20 at the time of your doctor’s appointment.Dependents- These are individuals who are covered by the primary subscriber’s health care plan. Usually this refers to the spouse or children of the insured individual.Lab(s)- This terms refers to most diagnostic tests run on individuals. It includes x-rays, MRIs, blood tests, and almost any other medical tests that are run to determine an individual’s illness., You should be aware that health insurance companies charge higher premiums to cover the costs of older customers. This is because, as you age, your body suffers from an increasing range of medical problems, which will ultimately amount to higher costs for the company., Since 1965, the federal government has run a program called “Medicare” to help the elderly and low to no-income individuals cover their medical costs. If you have a number of dependents and/or live well beneath the national poverty line, you may be entitled to free health care through the Medicare service. The healthcare.gov questionnaire will help you determine if you qualify for Medicare.