 Gas stoves work best. As the pans and water heat up, you may reduce and readjust the heat.;
, Heat, stirring constantly, to a steady temperature of about 180 degrees F (about 82 C). The cream should barely simmer.
 You will notice the mixture beginning to thicken almost immediately after incorporating the tartaric acid. You might want to switch quickly between a high heat rubber spatula to skim the sides, and your whisk or spoon, in order to maintain an even temperature and consistency throughout the thickening mascarpone. Be very aware of the temperature.
 Any higher temperature will burn the cream. Continue to stir for at least two minutes. Have at the ready your chinoise mousseline, (lined with damp cheesecloth if desired). This should be in place over a stainless steel vessel suitable for storing overnight in the fridge.
, (Bain-marie pots are perfect for this function.) To facilitate the passing process, you may use a small ladle to press the cream through the bottom of the sieve.


Cover well, and refrigerate at least 8 hours or overnight.
Glass or porcelain may be used to store the mascarpone if stainless steel is unavailable, but avoid using any 'reactionary' metals like aluminum, as the acid in the mascarpone will undergo a chemical reaction with the metal.
 Try balancing the tart flavor with a slightly sweet ingredient and making ice cream.
 A classic, simple dessert may be prepared by slicing fresh strawberries and placing in a martini glass or ice cream bowl. Drizzle in a bit of balsamic syrup or Chambord liquor, or even Champagne or framboise Lambic. Top with creamy mascarpone.


You might notice many recipe ideas for desserts like strawberry mascarpone 'parfaits', or mascarpone cream online. These will call for whipping together the dense version of mascarpone with heavy cream. Because this creamy version has not been strained, this recipe is already perfect for use as a berry or fruit accompaniment––no additional cream is necessary.
Creamy mascarpone may be whipped, like cream. This is fantastic served with rich desserts like a fallen chocolate souffle cake.
If you'd like to experiment with flavoring the mascarpone for particular desserts, add the desired ingredients (like vanilla beans and molasses) to the cream before the tartaric acid is introduced. This way, the flavors will really meld and develop, and any detritus, like vanilla bean pods, will be strained out before chilling. If you want to add flavoring to the final product, incorporate very well, and consider straining once more before using in your recipe.
 If you'd like the creamy mascarpone to be a bit sweeter, experiment with flavoring it with vanilla sugar syrup, molasses, or honey before serving. When serving with unsweetened fresh fruits like berries, green mission figs, peaches, or poached pears, the tart but slightly sweet smoothness provides a perfect juxtaposition.
