 If your family member is in the middle of a suicide crisis or you think they might be, you can help them by determining how serious they are about attempting suicide. Knowing their intent will help you decide the best thing to do to help.


Let your family member know you care and ask them if they are thinking about suicide. You could say, “I’m concerned. Have you thought about suicide?”
If they say they have thought about suicide, you should find out if they have thought about how, when, and where they will do it.
You might ask, “Do you have a plan for how to do it? Do you already know when you will do it?”
If you think they intend to attempt suicide soon, then don’t leave them alone. If you can’t stay, contact someone else to come stay. Don’t leave until the other person arrives.
 Remembering the acronym CLUES will help you know what to do if your family member is suicidal right now. It reminds you to connect (C) with your family member and listen (L) to them. It also reminds you to understand (U) their feelings, express (E) concern, and seek (S) help.
 You can help your suicidal family member by letting them know that you care about them and are there for them.Connecting with them lets them know that someone realizes how bad things are for them and wants to help make it better.


Connect with your family member by saying things like, “You may feel alone, but you aren’t. I’m here for you.”
Don’t tell them that their problems aren’t that bad or that they should cheer up. It will make them feel like you don’t understand. Don’t ask them to explain the reasons for their feelings either because this may seem like you are minimizing their feelings. Just let them know that you are there for them.
Try saying something like, “I know it’s really hard for you right now, and there aren’t any easy solutions. But we can work this out.”

, You don’t have to talk to your family member a lot or say anything at all. Just being with them, giving them a chance to talk about how they are feeling, and listening to them will help them.Let your family member know they have your attention by getting rid of distractions. Cut the TV or music off. Put your electronic devices on silent.
Keep your phone nearby in case you need to call for help, but don’t keep checking notifications.
 Don’t try to offer advice or tell your family member what to do. Instead, put yourself in your suicidal family member’s shoes and think about how they are feeling so you understand what they are going through.Think to yourself, “How would I feel if I was in this situation? Can I understand how they might feel like they do?”
You can tell your family member, “I know what it feels like to be discouraged. I can only imagine how hard it must be for you.”

, You can help a suicidal family member simply by letting them know that you care about them, are worried about them, and want to help.Like connecting with your family member, expressing your concern is a way to show them you understand the seriousness of their feelings.


Be sincere and genuine when you are talking to them.
You can say, “I don’t know everything you are dealing with but I know that I want you around and that I love you.”
You might say something like, “I’m concerned about you and want to help you with this situation.”

, If things get too out-of-hand and you think your family member is going to attempt suicide right now, then get help immediately. Even if your family member doesn’t want help, you should get it so that you can keep your family member safe and prevent them from attempting suicide.Call 911 or a crisis hotline like 1-800-SUICIDE or 1-800-273-TALK.
A suicidal person can be taken to the emergency room if they might be in immediate danger or are hurting themselves.
Tell your family member that you are worried and want to keep them safe so you are getting help.
You might say, “I want to keep you safe and I know this is the best way to do that right now.”
If you need to, then call for help without them knowing or text someone and tell them to call for help.
If your loved one is seeing a mental health professional currently, then you may want to alert their therapist that you believe they are suicidal or encourage your loved one to call their therapist.

