 When you look at the periodic table, you will notice that the elements are all numbered. This numbering is far from random. Actually, it is known as the atomic number for that particular element and is equal to the number of protons the element has in it’s nucleus.For atoms (not ions), the atomic number also represents the number of electrons in the atom. The number of protons and electrons in an atom are equal.
On some periodic tables, you will notice a second number that is in a smaller font. This is the average atomic mass for that element.
 Valence electrons are the electrons in the outermost shell of an atom’s electron cloud. The valence electrons are the single largest factor in how the atom will react chemically. The most stable configuration for an atom is to have the electrons in it’s outer shell filled, therefore it will bond with other atoms by giving or taking electrons to achieve a full outer shell. In most cases, the outer shell needs to contain eight electrons to be full (depending on the size of the atom this can vary).For example, fluorine has nine electrons. The first two fill the innermost orbital, the remaining seven are valence electrons. This means fluorine needs only one more electron to fill its valence shell. Thus, fluorine readily reacts with atoms that can give up an electron (particularly metals).
An example of the opposite is lithium. Lithium has three electrons. The first two fill the innermost shell and the last one is a valence electron. Since lithium would need to gain seven electrons to fill its valence shell, it is easier (more energetically favorable) for it to shed the one valence electron it has instead. So, lithium readily reacts with elements that will accept an electron (like halogens).
 Though the valence electrons are the best predictor of chemical properties in a given atom, the size of the atom also matters. Larger atoms have more electrons between the nucleus and valence electrons, which means that they are held to the atom more loosely than on smaller atoms. This accounts for why two atoms with the same number of valence electrons (for example, fluorine and chlorine) have similar, but not identical, chemical properties., Knowing periodic trends can help you to recognize the likely chemical properties of an element based on its location in the periodic table. It is important, however, to remember that three groups (noble gases, lanthanides, and actinides) do not follow these trends due to their unique chemistry. Some periodic trends are:Atomic mass increases from left to right and from top to bottom.
Atomic radius decreases from left to right and increases from top to bottom.
Electronegativity increases from left to right and decreases from top to bottom.
Ionization energy increases from left to right and decreases from top to bottom.
Electron affinity increases from left to right and decreases from top to bottom.
Metallic character decreases from left to right and increases from top to bottom.

