 In a large sized bowl, add the flour and salt. Stir together with a whisk until both the flour and salt have fully combined.;
, Slowly pour the water and add the butter. Use your fingers to mush the dough together. Crush and combine the butter together. You can use a pastry blender but it's recommended to use your hands for better results. Knead if necessary. Blend until moist and doughy.


If pastry dough is too dry add an extra ½ cup of water.
 Cover the bowl with plastic wrap and refrigerate for about half an hour. Chilled dough is usually easier to handle.
 It is important that the bowl you use doesn't get hot after several minutes of microwaving, or it will overheat the chocolate.
 Place the chocolate chips in the microwave to melt. All microwaves differ but it will take about four minutes for it to fully melt.
 Chocolate can burn quickly so it's important to stir the mixture every thirty seconds. After stirring a few times, add the milk.
 Remove the bowl out of the microwave and have it cool. Use a rubber spatula to mix the chocolate sauce. Set the bowl aside for later.
, Remove the pastry dough from the fridge and place it on a floured surface. Use a rolling pin to roll the dough 9x12 inches thick. Use a pizza cutter or kitchen scissors to cut the pastry dough into rectangles.
 Remove the rectangles from the dough. You can throw out the remaining dough or use it for more tarts. Using a metal spoon, add a tablespoon of chocolate spread on the rectangles. Have each piece close each other and press the edges gently with a fork. Continue the process with all the tarts.


You are welcome to use any chocolate spread you prefer, whether Nutella or an alternative.
 Ensure you brush each pop-tart well.
 On a greased tray, bake the pop-tarts for about 10-13 minutes or until the edges are golden brown.


When the tarts have fully baked have them cool on a plate.
 Use a fork to drizzle your chocolate chip sauce across the tarts. This sauce gives your pop-tarts a more chocolaty and sweeter taste. Avoid adding too much sauce (more than a teaspoon), as it can cause the tarts to turn out soggy.
 If desired, add frosting, butter, jam, and/or ice cream on your tarts. Enjoy your chocolate chip pop-tarts!

