 As the coach, you will first need to learn the rules specific to the league you are competing in. Once you have studied the rules, ensure your team members know and follow them.;
, There are 4 basic swim strokes. These strokes will be raced during the meet in individual and relay races. You will need to know the mechanics of each stroke to ensure your team is performing appropriately.


Freestyle is swum by alternating an over arm stroke while flutter kicking. The swimmer's face is in the water turning side to side to breathe every 2 to 3 strokes.
Backstroke is swum by floating on the back with an alternating over arm stroke and flutter kick.
Breaststroke is swum by moving both the arms and legs in a circular motion while bobbing the head in and out of the water to breathe.
Butterfly is the hardest of all strokes. It is swum with a dolphin kick while throwing the arms forward in a keyhole shape.
 With swimming and all sports, enforcing safety is the most important step of all. When working with a swim team eliminate all rough-housing and horse-play. This will help to prevent accidents.
 As a swim coach, you will need to strategically assign team members to individual and relay races. Knowing each member will help you effectively run your team.


Be aware of the age of your team members. The teammates' ages will determine their maturity and responsibility levels. The ages of your team member will affect how you speak to them, how much they can practice, how they will interact with each other and swim during a meet. As the adult coach, you must treat each member age appropriately.
Plan around your team members' abilities. Certain members will thrive at particular strokes and not at other strokes. Some members will thrive in individual races while others will thrive in relays. Learn your team members' strengths and weakness and then plan your meet strategy around them.
 How well you motivate and lead your team will depend on your ability to effectively communicate and interact with them.
 Practices can be held as often as necessary. Practices should be structured and organized.
 While you will not win every meet, instill in the swim team a drive to do their best.

