 These activities all require your calves to carry your body weight while doing a more intense activity for a longer period of time than you normally do. This is especially true of running and hiking uphill. Your calves have to work very hard to get your body over steep hills, so consider using uneven terrain to maximize your calf workout.You can use an elliptical to build your calf muscles and protect your joints at the same time. Many ellipticals have an incline feature that will work out your muscles further while still being comparatively low-impact.
If you do walk, run or hike on uneven ground, pay attention to your footing so you don't trip and hurt yourself.
 There are many activities that you can engage in regularly that are fun and will help you tone and build your calf muscles. Consider sports activities that require you to run, jump and push off of your calf muscles for quick acceleration or directional changes. These include soccer, basketball, tennis, kickboxing and other sports that mainly utilize your legs., Step and dance classes require you to use your calves a lot. When you move on or off a step, bend your knees or push off the balls of your feet, you will be working your calf muscles. Check online or in your local phone book for ballet, jazz, hip-hop or aerobic step classes near you., If you are recovering from an injury or cannot participate in high-impact activities because of certain medical conditions, consider swimming. When you swim, you use your leg muscles, including calf muscles. It is easy on the joints because there is no impact involved, and is a fairly safe way to make your calves stronger., Technically, a bicycle is a type of equipment--but it's one common to many households. If your climate and weather conditions permit, take your bike out for a spin. It's a great way to target the muscles in your calves. Another advantage of biking is that there are many ways to challenge yourself.


Switching gears can heighten the intensity of your bicycle workout as well as biking over hills and rougher surfaces like grass instead of pavement.
 Eating fruits and vegetables will give you the energy you need to workout hard. Protein filled foods such as beans, lentils, quinoa, eggs, white meat, white fish, nuts and cheese, as well as protein supplements that can be added to shakes, will help to increase your muscle growth. Don't forget to drink plenty of water.


If you are a man, eat at least 60 grams of protein every day, while women should get at least 50 grams.
Drinking plenty of fluids is essential to any workout. Drink at least 64 ounces of liquids a day, preferably water.

