 Yogurt and buttermilk contain enzymes and acids that work together to break down the proteins in chicken meat, causing it to become more tender. That's why so many cooks know that soaking chicken in yogurt or buttermilk overnight before frying chicken results in the very best fried chicken imaginable. The same trick can be used to prepare any type of chicken for any cooking process.If you want to use yogurt, generally use a plain yogurt. Flavors such as vanilla yogurt may come out unpalatable.
Some flavored yogurt, such as lemon, lime, coconut, or other fruit flavors that work well with chicken can yield wonderful results.
Full fat or low-fat yogurt both work fine. The chicken will have a slight yogurt flavor, which pairs well with peppers and other spices.
Buttermilk is a little milder and will not affect the flavor of the chicken. If you do not have buttermilk on hand, you can make it. Simply add 1 tablespoon (30 mL) of white vinegar to a cup-sized measuring cup. Fill up the rest of the cup with whole or low-fat milk. Let the mixture sit for 5 to 10 minutes, until it curdles. You can use this in place of buttermilk.
 Overnight is best, but marinating the chicken in buttermilk or yogurt for just an hour or so will make a big difference in the texture of the meat. To marinate it, simply place the meat in a container and pour enough plain yogurt or buttermilk to cover it. Close the container and let it sit in the refrigerator until you're ready to use it.


You can season the marinade with spices and salt to brine the chicken while it's marinating.
After the chicken is done marinating, shake or rinse off the excess buttermilk or yogurt before using it in your recipe.
 They will tenderize differently. There are hundreds, maybe thousands, of marinades and brines to choose from, both homemade and commercial. But realize that not all marinades will tenderize equally. Some will yield a firmer chicken, and not actually tenderize.


Using a very acidic marinade, like one with vinegar or lemon juice, may slightly toughen the meat. Acid-based marinades infuse the meat with great flavor, but you may have to get very aggressive with mechanical tenderizing.This works best when you're making a curry. You cannot really detect the fruit in the finished curries, but you may be able to in dishes without a strong-tasting sauce.For a mushy chicken, use an enzyme-based marinades that contain pineapple or meat tenderizer. These may do the job a little too well, causing chicken meat to become "mushy". Of course, this may be the desired outcome, and this may be fine for dishes that call for very soft chicken.
Alternatively, use a fruit marinade. If you want the chicken to be as tender as possible, and don't mind if it gets a little mushy, you can take advantage of the enzymes naturally found in certain fruits. Peel and puree a Kiwi fruit, pineapple, or mango and mix with your raw chicken pieces. Keep it covered in the refrigerator for about an hour.
Try soda as a marinade. An easily available and surprisingly good marinade is a soft drink. The highly acidic properties of pop chemically break down the chicken, and the flavor is delicious. Simply cover your chicken with your choice of soda, and add about a teaspoon of salt. If you do not have quite enough soft drink, add some water to the mixture

Cola flavors tend to work well: Coca Cola, Pepsi, RC, etc.
Lemon-Lime flavors also work well: Sprite, Mountain Dew, 7 Up, Sierra Mist, etc.
Moxie (an uncommon American soda brand) also works very well.



