 Since you’ll be in natural terrain for a long period of time, it would be wise to use lightweight gear. Visit your local outdoor supply store—such as REI—and peruse their backpacking section. You’ll want a backpack with a lightweight, sturdy frame and hiking boots that offer a firm tread and solid ankle support.


Avoid buying backpacking gear online, since it’s important to feel the gear on your body. You should wear everything before purchasing, and make sure that the backpack, hiking boots, and other outdoor clothes are comfortable and won’t rub or cause painful blisters.
Also, purchase a lightweight sleeping bag that will suit the climate that you’ll be backpacking in.;
, When packing for the fitpacking trip, bring only what you’ll need. Plan to bring a few pairs of hiking socks, a windbreaker or other light jacket, a heavier jacket (depending on the season and location), and wool or synthetic hiking pants (no jeans). Bring a first aid kit as well, in case of emergency, unless the fitpacking group leader has clarified that they’ll bring one.The recommended total weight of your pack should come to about 40 pounds. More weight than this would be exhausting to carry for an entire day.The cost of the fitpacking trip does include two nights spent in a hotel, so you’ll be able to wash your dirty clothes at those locations., Official Fitpacking trips regulate that participants carry their own food, as there are no restaurants or grocery stores in the backwoods.(Keep in mind when you’re packing clothing that you’ll need to leave room for the food.) Plan to bring foods that are high in proteins, as these will give your body the most energy during physical exertion. Also, bring fibrous foods (such as high-fiber energy bars) and portable fruits and vegetables, such as apples.


Outdoor supply stores will sell dehydrated food that is lightweight and takes up very little space in your pack. Avoid packing any food that contains liquid or heavy packaging (cans, for example), as these will add substantial weight., The Fitpacking site allows you to book a reservation on a fitpacking trip, and specifies the dates, location, and fee in advance.Outdoor-oriented retail stores such as REI will also put together fitpacking trips in their local area. If you have a few friends who are interested in trying fitpacking with you, bring them with and you can all sign up together.The REI website does not offer any fitpacking information or a signup page, so you’ll need to visit a brick and mortar store to find out what fitpacking opportunities they offer.
 Official Fitpacking excursions are conducted in many scenic places throughout the United States; most are located in well-known National Parks and Forests including the Grand Canyon, Los Padres National Forest, and Acadia National Park.Other organizations (such as REI) may book more Fitpacking trips in the backcountry.


Finally, if you have a group of friends that you’d like to try fitpacking with (at least 7–10 people), you can do your own research into an affordable destination and put together your own unofficial fitpacking-type backpacking trip.
 Since fitpacking excursions are booked months in advance, you’ll need to be mindful of the season during which you’ll be fitpacking. Summer trips are advisable for beginners, as you’ll be dealing with fewer extreme weather conditions, and travel fees (including plane tickets) will likely be cheaper.Avoid fitpacking in winter unless you already have substantial winter wilderness experience. Fitpacking trips last for one or two weeks (depending on the duration of the trip you booked), which can be a dangerous duration of time for a novice to spend in nature in the winter., Official Fitpacking trips are designed to encourage weight loss through hiking, avoiding sedentary activities, and spending time outdoors. That said, it’s important to not starve yourself while hiking; your body will need plenty of calories and protein to keep up energy levels and be able to perform physically. Your physical fitness will improve as you build muscle and shed fat.Don’t bring junk food with you; as tempting as it may be to sneak in a few candy bars for when you’re hungry, avoid this impulse. Instead, snack on an apple or a bag of beef jerky.
 Although you’ll be backpacking and camping with a group, it’s always good practice to let a family member or a friend know where you’ll be backpacking and how long you’ll be gone. This way, if they haven’t heard from you by the time you’re supposed to be back, the individual can notify authorities that the group may be lost or may have experienced a backwoods emergency.To be truly prepared, provide the family member or friend with a map of the area you’ll be backpacking in. If the route has been determined in advance, mark the path you’ll be taking onto the map.
 A common—and potentially serious—mistake among first-time backpackers is not thinking to bring sufficient water for the trip, and also neglecting to bring a water purification system. Water is a heavy substance to bring in your pack, so before you start buying bottled water, research the area you’ll be backpacking. If there are plenty of streams and lakes, you may only need a single water bottle and an efficient means of purifying stream water. However, if you’re trip takes you through dry areas, you’ll need to pack all the water in.


When bringing water with you, plan to have at least four liters of water for a day of hiking. While backpacking, water is commonly carried in a sturdy 1-liter bottle (such as a Nalgene), in a water bladder (like a Camelback) or in a large, collapsible plastic jug.If you’ll have access to water in nature, bring a water filter that will allow you to strain harmful bacteria out of the water. Alternately, purchase bacteria-killing tablets to dissolve in your water containers.
Both water-cleansing methods will be available at outdoor retail stores.

