 Open the cylinder and remove any cartridges that are still inside.Point the gun in a safe direction and cup your left hand around the gun, keeping your fingers clear and away from the muzzle.
Push or pull the cylinder release latch on the left side of the gun with your right thumb. Swing the cylinder out to the side of the gun.
Slip the middle and ring finger of your left hand through the open frame.
Turn the gun so that the muzzle faces up. Close your left thumb and fingers around the cylinder.
Strike the ejector rod with the base of your palm one time. That should loosen the ammo sufficiently. Allow gravity to take over and drop the cartridges from inside the cylinder.
Check all compartments of the cylinder to verify that the gun is unloaded.;
, Slide the dowel rod into the barrel of the gun until it touches the face or front of the cartridge cylinder.Use a dowel rod that with a diameter that is smaller than the diameter of the revolver barrel. Do not force the dowel rod into the barrel since doing so can potentially cause damage to the gun.
The front face of the cylinder rests just behind the frame of the gun and is the actual start of the barrel. Note that the cylinder is not included in the length of the barrel.
When you are unable to push the dowel rod any further into the barrel, it has reached the face of the cartridge cylinder.
 Once the dowel rod is as deep as it will go, draw a line on the side of the dowel rod at the point where the dowel rod first extends out of the muzzle of the barrel.


Use a pen, pencil, or marker to draw this line. Make the line as close to the muzzle as possible.
Lie the gun down flat on your working surface as you do this.
 Carefully slide the dowel rod out of the gun barrel. Lay the gun aside and place the dowel on a flat working surface.


When setting the gun aside, make sure that the muzzle points away from you and away from anyone else. Even though you already unloaded the gun, you should always treat a firearm as though it is loaded.
 Use a measuring stick or measuring stick to measure the dowel rod from the marked point to the end previously inserted into the gun barrel.


This measurement is the length of your gun barrel.

