 You may be tempted to brush off a racist comment or micro-aggression as “nothing” or think that you are being too sensitive. You are not. Being mistreated or stereotyped because of your skin color is hurtful. And no matter what is put out in the media about racism no longer existing, your feelings are very valid.As a test of the seriousness of the situation, check yourself a few minutes or hours later. Does the comment or behavior still bother you? If it does, that’s a sign it was inappropriate and should be handled accordingly.;
, If you are faced with racism, it can help to discuss the matter with someone you think will understand. This can be a friend, partner, or family member of the same race who may have had to deal with something similar in the past.


This person can help you decide how to handle the racism. Or, if you feel as if the comment or behavior was only minor, you might choose to simply vent to your loved one and get it off your chest.Talking it over with someone who gets it may help ease some of your anger or frustration.
You can say something like "Yesterday this girl at school told me that I was pretty intelligent for a black girl. Has something like that ever happened to you?...How did you handle it?"

, Micro-aggressions are often seemingly minor comments that may not be overtly racist but still upset the receiver. Sometimes, people don’t even know they are being discriminatory with these comments/behaviors. One potentially effective way to stand up for yourself is to not allow the issue to pass by without incident.If someone said something ugly to you or acted in an unfair way towards you, it may help—them overcome their own ignorance and you feel better—if you call them on it. Say something like “Excuse me, but what did you mean by that?” Request that the person explain their actions. If they claim to not know what you’re talking about, state the facts and wait for their response.
If you do not feel brave enough or think the person deserves your reaction, speak out in some other way. Write a detailed social media post giving testimony to the racism you encountered. Get the message out there to shed insight to those who are ignorant of racism’s existence and impact., Black people are often shamed for bringing attention to racism. Members of the majority group (whites), often disregard stories of racism and counteract that blacks are actually the ones who are racist.You can anticipate hearing all of the above when you make the choice to speak out against racism. But, you must not let that stop you from using your voice.


Prepare yourself by anticipating how you will respond to backlash and getting your family and friends on board for support. Remind yourself that negative comments directed at you are out of fear or ignorance. If someone doesn't know you personally, try your best not to take their insults personally.
 You should not feel in danger simply because of your skin color. If someone says or does something to you that makes you feel threatened, contact your local authorities and report the incident. For example, if you are mistreated, bullied, or harmed as a result of racism you need to take it to the authorities.


For lesser acts of discrimination, you can tell your teacher, coach, parents, employer, or even reach out to a local civil rights organizations such as the NAACP.
 Generations and generations of racism have caused some African Americans to have a poor sense of self-worth. Is your sense of self-worth jeopardized by living in a society that revolves around white privilege? Studies show that blacks who face racial discrimination have more chronic disease and a shorter lifespan.Check yourself to see if racial discrimination is making you think any less of yourself--your health could depend on it.


Look deeply at your thoughts, feelings and beliefs. Do you frequently find yourself buying into stereotypes about African Americans?If you spot some anti-black beliefs, strive to change them by first bringing awareness that they happen. Then, you can look for ways that African Americans defy stereotypes. When you find yourself playing into these stereotypes, recall all the examples of blackness that does not meet the given criteria.
 Because you live in a society that has historically oppressed people of color, you have to work double-time to convince yourself of your worth, especially when negative messages abound about your people in the media. It may seem forced at first, but try to engage in a few activities that help you boost your self-worth.Create a list of everything you love about yourself.
Surround yourself with people who are compassionate, understanding and supportive.
Question whether negative thoughts are realistic.
Celebrate your similarities and differences from others.
Take care of your mind, body and soul.
 This may seem unrelated to dealing with racism, but it’s highly important that you lead a life you enjoy no matter your race, culture, or creed. Taking the time to get involved in activities and endeavors that you are passionate about can help you buffer unwelcome racial micro-aggressions that you encounter.


Things you enjoy might include spending time with friends who are fun or awe-inspiring. You might also engage in hobbies such as playing sports, creating a work of art, or watch television shows that represent your race in a positive way.
Of course, these things won’t change anything or make racism go away, but they can help build your self-esteem and lift your mood. Find whatever it is that makes you smile and do more of it!

, There are many terms which are often used interchangeably with racism, such as prejudice, stereotype, or discrimination. When people mistake the true meaning of racism, they fail to see its true impact. Racism is the belief that some groups of people have traits or characteristics that make them superior or inferior to other groups.Historically, whites have been the dominant race in many societies. Therefore, racism towards blacks occurs because they are thought to be inferior to whites in some way.
 It might be easier said than done, but try to find the patience and compassion in your heart to not perseverate hate. Of course, it’s perfectly natural to feel upset, disappointed, hurt, or rejected after facing racism, but it’s important to not allow those negative feelings to poison your heart. Remember, hate cannot triumph over hate, only love can do that.


Send out good vibes in the face of racism by repeating something like "I can not change your heart, but I can use mine to offer love." You can even remind yourself before reacting in an unhelpful way that "Two negatives only make a positive in math."

, Learn about your racial heritage and the history of racism. Strive to correct inappropriate viewpoints you hear about black history or blacks in general. The more you know about what people in your race have encountered and overcome, you will probably feel a greater resolve to stand firm in fighting racial hatred.Decide whether you want to educate some people or not. Keep in mind that everyone won’t be worth your time to try to discuss issues about race. Some people will be willing to hear your side of things and others will be resistant to hearing any opinions that differ from their own.When you make the decision to educate, challenge people's stereotypes by asking "How do you know all black people are that way? What proof do you have?" Listen to the response and then say "I have evidence that there are many African Americans who do not fit your description. Are you willing to change your opinion?"

, Some of the fight has to go into the halls and offices of your local, regional, and national politicians. Do what you can to spread the message about anti-racism and educate others about the existence of subtle racism like micro-aggresssions.


Research racial justice groups and volunteer your time and efforts towards advancing their cause. Volunteering is a wonderful way to impact your local community, help you develop empathy for people from all walks of life, and make new friends.Or, simply sign a petition to bring more attention to racial problems facing people like you in your area and abroad.