 An enriching environment will invite the cat to do more while you're gone. Just make sure that the cat can easily get down from any of these spaces. There are all kinds of cat trees and cat climbing spaces available out there. If you’re worried about design, there are also design-friendly cat climbing fixtures.You can buy a lot of different structures from your local pet store or online.
You can build a cat castle by taping or stapling cardboard boxes together and cutting out holes for the cat to climb through. Cats love boxes.
You can even put up cat shelves for the cats to explore., You don’t want your cat to break something trying to get to a high spot, so make it easy for them to climb to it. You also don’t want the cat to injure themselves or damage furniture in trying to make the jump or climb, so it’s best to make sure high places aren’t too far apart. Test out the distances with your cat when you’re home., If you have breakable items that you value, you may want to have a closed-in curio to display them, so that your cat won’t knock them over. Also remove dangerous houseplants, cotton balls, and anything else the cat might be interested in chewing up and swallowing., Cats like to discover their toys and it can be a great way to keep them entertained. The more toys the better. You can leave them in high places and even some hidden places (under the couch, for instance). That way the cat has "prey" all around the house., Cats like motion, so they will enjoy seeing birds and squirrels go by. It will help keep them entertained in a non-predictable way, and is very cost effective as well. You need not open all the blinds or curtains, just a few that are near the couch or the cat's favorite perch., This is a great way to keep a cat busy. Cats need to scratch, and scratching posts are essential if you don’t want your furniture and carpet completely scratched up. Scratching posts may not completely resolve that problem, but it will mostly likely help. There are all kinds of scratching posts out there in many different designs and to fit many different budgets.Try out different designs to see which the cat likes best. This will help keep your cat away from the furniture., The volume shouldn't be turned up too high, but at normal speaking level. Human voices will make your cat less lonely, and the TV can be set for colorful children's programs or nature programs featuring birds and fish. This will help keep a cat entertained with the movement on the screen., Classical is often a nice genre, but if you know your cat likes a particular kind of music, play that. Leave it on repeat so that the cat has music all day long. The music should help relax an anxious cat., Cats love strange hiding places. Boxes are a cost effective way to keep your cat entertained. They are also easy to modify for cat toy projects.