 Toilet roll piggy banks are arguably the simplest design for homemade piggy banks. They're a good place to start if you're not used to crafts projects. Possibly barring a glue gun, most of the supplies you'll need should be found at home. If you find something that's close enough to one of the listed items, it should be fine.


A toilet paper roll. Save a roll once a given set of toilet paper has run out. If there isn't anything around yet, you might find a roll in the bathroom garbage can.
Pink cardstock. Cardstock is thicker and more durable than regular paper. You can usually find it at an arts store.
Scissors and a box cutter, for cutting out pieces and coin slot.
A low-heat hot glue gun and glue. Remember, you should always have an adult with you to help with hot glue.
You can use a bottle cap for the nose if you want, but this is optional.
Decorating supplies. Markers, felt, constructive paper and collage materials are all fair game when it comes to making a toilet roll piggy bank.
 The head makes a nice decoration, and also keeps coins from falling out of one end. The head shouldn't be much wider than the toilet roll. It will be glued onto a toilet paper roll body, so Don’t just make the outline of a pig’s head—give it eyes, a snout, a mouth, ears, and whatever else you think a pig should have. When you’re happy with your drawing, cut it out.If you’re unsure about the size, just hold it up to the toilet paper roll and see how it looks.
If you want to use another fun recycled object, you could ask an adult to attach a bottle cap as the pig’s snout using a hot glue gun. Add a couple of nostrils with a felt-tipped marker. If not, feel free to just draw the snout onto the cardstock.
 Take another piece of cardstock and stand the toilet roll on top of it. Trace around the toilet roll. Once you have a pencil circle, draw a slighter bigger circle around it. Cut it out. This will be the base of the piggy bank.


You don't need to worry about exact measurements here, but the diameter of the second circle should be bigger by half an inch.
 Work your way around the edge of the circle, cutting small lines that go from the outer edge to the smaller circle inside, that you traced from the toilet paper roll. Make a cut every centimeter or so. You should end up with a series of tabs. Fold all the tabs in toward the center of the circle. They will give you a way to securely attach the base to the toilet paper roll. Stand the roll in the middle of the circle. One by one, have an adult put a dot of hot glue on each tab, and press them to the side of the tube. Before you go any further, make sure the base is firm.


To be extra sure the base is well attached, you can wind a piece of tape around these tabs to be sure they don’t come unglued.
 You can do this with whatever supplies you have on hand that seem fun: markers, paint, collage materials, crayons, or felt would all work well.Since you’re making a pig, pink would be the most obvious choice of color. However, you should do whatever you feel suits your style.Once there is some money in the piggy bank it will stand up on its own with no problem, but if you want it to stand up while empty you can attach a couple feet for balance. Just cut a couple triangles out of cardstock and glue them to the bottom of the base.
 Using a hot glue gun, glue the head to the end of the piggy bank opposing the base. This can be done by dabbing a thin line of glue around the roll's perimeter, and setting the cardstock down firmly. Give it a couple of minutes to settle before you move on.Gluing a pair of feet to the bottom of the head can be good if you really want it to look like a pig.
 Lastly, with a box cutter, you should make a coin-sized hole at the top of the piggy bank. Make it just big enough so that coins can fit through. If you need to test the coin slot to make sure it's big enough, try fitting a coin through. If it doesn't fit, it means you need to make it bigger.


It is recommended you get an adult to help you with the box cutter, as they are very sharp.
 Even something like a toilet roll piggy bank can stand for a great savings plan. Saving money is a very adult thing to do, and if you make a habit of saving money, you'll be rich before long. Put your piggy bank somewhere you'll see it all the time and add coins whenever you get some pocket money.


When it comes time to retrieving your money, toilet roll piggy banks can be saved. Although they don't hold many coins, you can withdraw your money by taking off the head and pouring out your coins. If this ends up destroying the head, making a new head is at least a lot easier than starting the piggy bank from scratch.

