 Sometimes, sharing your deepest fears with a close friend can provide the relief and reality check needed to recognize whether your worries are logical or far-fetched. As you work on your trust issues, select one friend whom you can count on to be candid with you and keep your confidences.


You might say, “Carla got home really late last night from work. I was worried. What do you think I should do?” Hopefully, your friend can help alleviate your concerns, or steer you to take action if your worries are warranted.
 In some cases, no amount of security in the relationship can help overcome deep-seated insecurities that you have about yourself. If communicating with your partner and setting boundaries doesn’t help, you may need to see a professional.A mental health therapist can help you get to the bottom of your mistrust, give you strategies to exercise greater vulnerability in your relationships, and work with you to challenge critical thought patterns.
 Another way to heal from past hurts and learn practical tips on rebuilding trust is by sharing your story and hearing the stories of others. Relationship support groups can be a wonderful outlet to express some of your concerns and have others who have dealt with trust issues help you through them.Talk to your therapist about referring you to a local support group relating to trust in relationships.
It may also be helpful for your partner to join you at the support groups. Attending may help them to gain greater insight into your fears and develop coping skills to handle your insecurities.
 Similar to having a friend to share your worries, writing down your fears into a journal can serve as a handy tool in overcoming trust issues. Putting pen to paper allows you to go through the process of unloading irrational fears and also offers an outlet for you to challenge these worries with reality-testing.


Journaling can help you reduce tension and stress associated with your trust issues, identify common patterns affecting your relationships, and serve as a problem-solving tool as you work with a therapist.