 This reaction although considered now obsolete is still a powerful synthetic tool for the construction of two carbon bonds stereospecifically. Variations of this reaction include its application to heterocyclic aromatic compounds cyclo-addition reactions with appropriate dienophiles. This reaction does not have biologically analogous reactions and is a purely synthetic method that was designed and discovered in the organic research laboratory.
 Its explanation relies heavily on theory that without it, would not be possible to rationalize products of this reaction. The same phenomena occurred with electro-cyclic reactions which eventually were rationalized only based on theoretical arguments from the molecular orbitals theory of organic compounds., It is one type of organic reactions among several reactions that are collectively referred to as cyclo-addition reactions. All these reactions under this category proceed based on similar basic rules that are governed by one of the theories of molecular orbitals theory of organic compounds which is called the frontier molecular orbitals theory.

This theory works quite well at least for these cyclo-addition reactions in addition to all electro-cyclic organic reactions.
This observation has been studied theoretically extensively and found to be compatible with the experimental results.
This trend also is compatible with the theory of valence bond theory which postulates that the most important electrons in a compound and which are responsible for its chemical reactivity are those that are located in the outermost electronic shell of the molecule.
 One of them is a diene and the other is a dienophile. The diene is usually a derivative of butadiene and the dienophile is a derivative of ethylene. This reaction proceeds with high rate only when there is a matching in energy between the diene and the dienophile that are the components of the reaction. Also more important is the matching in symmetry between the frontier orbitals on the two reactants. These are usually the HOMO of the diene and the LUMO of the dienophile. These two orbitals must be close in energy and also must match in their symmetry. Otherwise this reaction will not work. This the most basic form of this reaction that was developed further to measure the effect of substitution of both the diene and the dienophile with a substituent on the electronic properties of the reactants and on the rate of this reaction., Their results have showed that the best/optimal conditions for this reaction to take place is when there is an electron rich substituent on the diene and electron poor substituent on the dienophile. This requirement brings the HOMO of the diene closer in energy to the LUMO of the dienophile. This type of substitution is called normal Diels-Alder reaction. An inverse demand Diels-Alder reaction means the substitution of an electron rich substituent on the dienophile and an electron poor substituent on the diene. This arrangement should bring the LUMO of the diene close in energy to the HOMO of the dienophile. This reaction can also take place in this arrangement of the orbitals provided they are of similar symmetry., This is a general trend in all chemical compounds and is not restricted to dienes and dienophiles. This achieved is by influencing the energy levels of the chemically governing orbitals of the compound which are the HOMO and LUMO.

This reaction is usually thermodynamically driven by the favorable formation of two sigma bonds instead of two pi bonds.
This reaction is also entropically disfavored due to the formation of one compound from two reacting fragments.
The rate of this reaction was shown also to be influenced by the effect of solvent choice and by the effect of Lewis acids on the reaction. This reaction usually proceeds in a concerted manner. This means that there is only one transition state without the involvement of reactive intermediates.

