 You don’t have to write down everything that your teacher says, instead, bullet down the important things. Omit words such as "but, if, then, and, or" if you can. Use slashes , dashes , ampersands , and colons . This will make your notes much shorter, so that you will have more time to both listen to your teacher and copy down more notes to later revise.;
, For the purposes of this article, it’s assumed that your native language is English and the article will refer to it that way; if English is not your native language, please adjust the steps accordingly. Never take your notes in the language you are being taught. This just leads to words being misspelled, cut out, and mistaken.


When you are taking notes, if you want to write a word in the language you are being taught, put it in quotations so that you know the word is not in English, and you can clearly tell that.
Writing in English makes your note taking both faster and much more accurate.
 For example, if your teacher is explaining a verb, and you don't know the conjugations, or if he/she writes a word on the board and defines it for you, write it down. It has being given to you because you need it, so take note. Even if it turns out that it's not needed at that moment, now you have it, and you'd rather be safe than sorry.
 When your teacher puts something on the board, it goes into your notebook, or if she hands you something, paste it in or file it for revision. Obviously, use your judgement on this. But for the most part, any conjugations, and definitions, any synonyms, any pronouns, any vocabulary lists, should all go into your notebook for later.
 It takes twenty seconds to copy it into your notebook, and now you know exactly what's on your test. If your teacher only writes words or questions that will be on the exam, translate or answer them when you get home. It's an effective way of studying and preparing for an upcoming examination and will help you hone your reading and writing skill.
 If for some reason you couldn’t write down something or don’t understand the task at hand, make use of those around you. If they too seem lost, do not be afraid to raise your hand and ask the teacher. Oftentimes, they will immediately stop and explain whatever it was that you are confused about. Teachers like to see that students are paying attention and are actively interested in learning by requesting clarification.
 Doodling, scribbling, tearing out scraps, or writing notes to your friends is not the right way to use paper. If you are a person who must doodle, keep it nondescript and in the margins. Never overlap your words, because even if you can read what you've written at that moment, it’s guaranteed that that you'll have no idea what you wrote two weeks later, when it's time for the test.
 Don't get distracted halfway through your list of words and give up on studying. Put your phone down, close your computer, turn off the television, and shut your door. Look down at your vocabulary and really study for just ten minutes or more. It’s pivotal that you study hard these tasks so that you will be able to put in your best effort come time for the test.
 You won't know everything right away, and you'll only discourage yourself if you believe that you do. Instead, read slowly through your list of words and put check marks next to everything you know. Don't check off words you think you know, or things you only remember sometimes. Only check off the things you are absolutely sure you know. And it's okay if you don't know any of it, these words are new to you; that's why you're studying them!


After putting in the check marks, quiz yourself, but only on the words with the check marks. Aim to run through them quickly and make sure you have noted what each word with a check mark means. Then you can put those aside and focus on the other words.
 It's actually surprising how much this helps. For example, if you are taking Spanish, choose a verb that you are trying to learn and say, very firmly, the word, the definition, and its conjugations. By speaking clearly and firmly, you are helping to ingrain the words in your head and ensuring that you won't just skim over them, which everyone is guilty of doing.


Once done flip the paper over, take out a fresh piece of paper, and write down everything you remember. Whether it be a single word, a word with a translation, a conjugation, a verb, or an adjective, just neatly write down everything you can recall from the lesson. It's amazing how much you'll actually soak up.
 For the words that you’re not sure of, keep working at them. Repeat them out loud until they're firmly in your head. Yell your verbs out the window if you have to. Program them into your iPhone (if you have one) and have Siri repeat them to you. Recite your conjugations over and over like a robot. This will ensure that it’s firmly planted in your brain for you to recite in class or for your next test.
 Write things in the tiniest handwriting that you can read. This makes it so you have to concentrate to read your words. This ensures that your brain has to focus when studying and won’t just glide over the words.
 Talk to your parents, grandparents, uncles, aunts, cousins, siblings, or friends. They'll all be willing to help. It will only take up to ten minutes and you’ll have to ensure that you understand your vocabulary. By having loved ones quiz you, you’ll be able to teach them – and the best way to learn is to teach!

, Have the person who is quizzing you say a word out loud (either in English or in the language you're studying) and reply in the opposite language. For instance, if the person says in Spanish, "Vivir!" reply, confidently, "To live!” go through your entire list, then switch so that you're answering in the opposite language. You’ll impress yourself on how much you actually know!

, Lecture a younger sibling, cousin or just someone in your family who doesn't know the language you're learning. By slowly explaining words and meanings to someone else, you're improving your understanding and practicing knowing things off the top of your head.
 If you have to look something up that you’re not sure of, do it right away; don't wait until the end of your study session. It’s best to get a good understanding of thing’s you’re not sure of so that when the time comes to know the information, you’ll be able to withdraw it without a fuss.
 If you, for instance, use a box when learning conjugations, draw it on the test! Nothing's stopping you, and it will help trigger your memories. Not only will it help with the accuracy of your work, but it will also prove to the teacher that you have been putting effort into studying.
 If you get something on a question right, it's likely that you'll get partial credit. Most teachers are pretty sympathetic, especially in grades ten and lower. If you're a junior or older, you're probably taking an AP Language class, and then you have to pull it together. It’s important to write more than needed because it will show your comprehensive understanding of what is being taught.


If you write the same thing as somebody else in the class but put extra effort and vitality in what you’re writing, it’s likely you will get a higher grade.
 The answer that your brain seems to pull out of thin air is usually right, so trust your insight. By trusting your first instinct you’re avoiding the temptation to go through everything you have learnt to try to find the most rational or likely answer when all along the answer was the first thing that surfaced.
 If you know what three out of four words mean, and you're matching them to their translations, then you clearly know what the fourth one is. Use elimination to navigate towards a most predictable answer, this way even if you don’t know the answer, you’re using strategy to choose one that could get you extra marks.
 If you're confused about the meaning of a word, you might be able to find or deduce the answer from another question hidden in the examination. This will help you define the word and then appropriate it’s use in the question that you appeared to have been struggling with.
 Try to picture your study papers, take a breath, exhale slowly and calmly, and remember what it is that you wrote or spoke out loud. By keeping your cool during the test, you’ll be able to save yourself from slight mistakes or discrepancies that could let you down when your grade is produced. Have confidence in yourself and in your abilities. Your study effort will likely shine in your test and even if you flunk, you’ll always be able to sharpen your skill in speaking the language in other opportunities.

