 Write down everything you need to do on that list, even if it's not related to your college work. The goal here is to create a list so you can stop worrying about stuff on the bottom of the list while working on things at the top of the list.Always sort and rank your items with highest priority at the top. These are things that are important and time-sensitive. You’ll feel better as you complete the most important tasks first. This will boost your morale and give you motivation for the next task.
Make sure to focus your list on things you like to put off, not just things you do on a regular basis. Typically what you do on a regular basis will get done even if you don't put it on the list.
Try not to deviate from your list too much. This is giving into procrastination. If as time has passed your priorities have changed, rewrite the list to reflect your current priorities. However, don't spend so much time shuffling your to-do list that you don't actually spend time working on your tasks.;
, Think about exactly why you keep avoiding starting or completing the task. Is it because you know it will be difficult? Maybe it is not one task but many tasks. Focus on understanding what is scaring you from starting the task and facing your fear head on. Come up with ways to counteract that anxiety.


If you are having trouble with anxiety, talk to a friend or classmate. They likely have gone through the same thing. Maybe they have some good ideas about dealing with your anxiety that you're comfortable with.
You could also try seeing a counselor. Your college probably has mental health support services for students. A counselor can help you cope with your anxieties and develop strategies to defeat procrastination., Remove all distractions, if possible. This may mean switching venues altogether. If you are in your dorm and you are tempted to hang out in the commons area, then study in the library or at a coffee shop. If that new video game or television show is "calling your name," then be sure to study in a place where you can't play or watch.


Turn off your phone and hide it. Especially if you like to check your messages, emails, or news. It takes a second to look at your phone but it could take much, much longer to pull yourself away if something interesting pops up.
If you surf the internet while doing work on your computer, get a program that limits your internet use. RescueTime is a program that blocks off certain or all websites for a certain amount of time that you get to set, and it can only be taken off if you turn your entire computer off. The best part of this program is that you can download it for free online.
 You may dread writing that paper or putting that lab project together. However, research suggests that if you can find something -- anything -- positive or pleasant about the task, you will be less likely to procrastinate on it.For example, if you have a history paper due that you really aren't excited about writing, you could remind yourself that you do enjoy doing research. That will give you a little boost of productivity.
 Frequently your tasks will seem monolithic because they are actually composed of multiple tasks. Break down the big task into smaller micro-tasks to be complete in sequence and separately. You will find accomplishing the micro-tasks provides a boost in your "can-do" attitude.


Setting personal deadlines can also help overcome procrastination. For example, if you have a big paper due in three weeks, set yourself personal deadlines: research must be done in one week, your first draft must be due in two weeks, etc., The action of starting to work on the task, in and of itself, is powerful. Even if you don't complete the task, at least start on it and see how far you can get. You may find it's not as daunting as you thought.


Finish the work period. If you carve out an hour to work on a task, then stick to working on that task for an hour. Even if you get distracted, keep coming back to that task during the hour. When the hour is over, you can put the task behind you. When you look back, you may not be able to say you finished it but you will be able to say to yourself that you worked on it for an hour.
 When you finish an item on your to-do list, reward yourself. You may not want to do this with everything, but especially with the important stuff you've been procrastinating on, this self-reinforcement will give you something to look forward to beyond "being done".

Don't reward yourself early. Almost finished is not finished. This discipline is important because it is what gives the rewards motivational value. Furthermore, getting the reward early may distract you from actually finishing the task.
Make your rewards commensurate to your difficulty with the task. Don't buy yourself a big reward for a small task just because you really want that reward. Be honest with yourself and make your rewards match your effort.
 When you are working with others it is no longer all about yourself. When you put something off you will look bad around others who pushed through and worked. Furthermore, if they need help, you will know that your work will be rewarded by their appreciation when you help them out.

