 They should be larger than your average snowball, but smaller than a traditional snowman head. Make them both the same size, and shaped like the earth—a flattened spheroid, just a little flat on the top and bottom. Spray them with the water bottle to make sure they are strong enough to hold the rest of the body up. Spray them, then wait about 30 seconds for the water to freeze.
 Make it an almost perfect sphere, but like the feet, make it flat on the ends. Spray it with the water bottle, then place it on top of the two feet. Put some snow to make sure it stays on the feet.
 Make it the same shape it would be if you joined the two feet, almost like a rectangle. This one is especially important to completely spray with water, as it is the most likely to fall apart. Place it on top of Olaf's body, making sure you can still see that it is two different balls.
 Spray it, almost drenching it. Do not place it on top of Olaf yet. Once it has frozen, spray it once again.
 This is where Olaf's eyes will go, as well as the carrot for his nose. Spray the fresh snow, and smooth off any rough edges. Then, make the top part of the right angle into a trapezoid. This is a major characteristic  that distinguishes Olaf from other snowmen, so spend a lot of time getting it perfect. Take a bit of snow off right where his mouth (and eventually teeth) will be.
 Form a small snowball, then cut it in half. Stick the semicircles to the top of Olaf's face, making sure they stay. Bring your rocks, and place them on top of those semi-circles. Use twigs to make the eyebrows. Put them high on his head with a pronounced arch, so he looks surprised.
 Using the twigs, stick three of them straight up on his head. Try to spread them out a bit so they look like his hair does in the movie.
 Rest it on the flat part of Olaf's face, sticking the very end right under his eyes.
 Put a chunk of snow right where his teeth will be, then carve away anything that will not be part of his teeth. Make the teeth very wide. Spray the area with water to ensure the teeth hold their shape.
 Because it is a strange shape, it may not balance at first. Put snow at the botton to keep it from falling off. Spray that area with water if desired.
 You can place them both down, or one up, or both up. In many scenes, Olaf is waving, so you may want to position one up and one down.
 Olaf's buttons are exactly this way, so if you are going for accuracy, make sure to follow the directions precisely.

