 If you want your face to look less fat, you need to lose fat overall. Spot reduction of fat is not possible to accomplish with diet alone. Eat fewer calories throughout the day, so that your body will use up fat as stored energy. If you do that, you will lose weight in the face too.


Luckily, if you want a slimmer face, your body goes after the fat first in the neck, jaw and face. So if you cut down on calories but do it in a healthy manner, you should have a less full face in no time.
You need to create a caloric deficit. It takes about 3,500 calories burned to lose a single pound. You will burn some calories every day just by living and breathing. You need to burn more than you take in to lose weight. Effective weight loss occurs gradually.
Cutting calories in a healthy manner means eliminating some calories – say 500 a day, through diet or exercise – without completely depriving your body of food. Instead, make healthier food choices or start slow, say by eliminating that morning doughnut from your diet. Not eating at all is medically unsafe. It also could put your body in starvation mode, which will actually reduce your metabolism and make it harder to lose weight.;
, There are many reasons that it’s a good idea to drink a lot of water throughout the day, but one of them is that it will reduce bloating in your face.


The reason water helps reduce face fat is because it flushes toxins out of your body. Thus, it also increases your overall health. It will also improve the look of your skin and hair.Drinking cold water will burn extra calories. Drinking 64 ounces of water per day is a good target to strive for. Keeping the body constantly hydrated will make you feel better, and it should make your face look more slender over time.
 A diet that is low in processed foods and refined flour (like white bread and pasta) will be healthier for you. Instead, try to eat a lot of fresh vegetables and fruits, foods with fiber, fish, and other protein rich foods.


Try not to eat food with a lot of salt (avoid junk food as it’s loaded with salt). Salt encourages your body to retain more water, so it will bloat your face. Sugar is also linked to a fatter face. Processed carbs with a lot of sugar in them are going to cause face bloat. Although people who are underage should not drink alcohol, another negative side effect of alcohol is that it causes the face to bloat by dehydrating the body.Some good food choices include almonds, broccoli, spinach, and salmon., Sometimes food allergies or intolerance are to blame for a fuller face. See a doctor if you think you might have one.


As an example, some people have sensitivity to gluten and would benefit from eating gluten-free foods. Many restaurants and grocery stores are including gluten-free options these days.Some people with irritable bowel syndrome sometimes think their faces are fuller as a result. Gastrointestinal disorders are fairly common, affecting about 15 percent of adults.
It’s also possible that hormones are causing your face to look fuller, such as PMS (or in older women, peri-menopause).
 You can exercise your face to make it look slimmer. This works by strengthening facial muscles, reducing saggy skin in the face.


Try the cheek puff exercise. Simply take a deep breath and hold the air in your cheeks. Then push it to the other cheek. Do this several times throughout the day.
A smile exercise that tightens the cheeks and mouth is to smile and clench your teeth for a few seconds. Don’t squint your eyes. Then pucker your lips. Repeat. Do this on one side, and then switch sides.
Pucker your lips for five seconds. Hold the pucker on the right, then switch to the left side of your face. If you have an expressive face and use your facial muscles a lot – even just by smiling and laughing a lot – your face will look more slender.
 If you do so, you will also see changes to your face. Exercise is also good for your health overall.


This might mean just walking for 30 minutes most days a week. Or you could try a circuit training program 3-5 days a week. Any exercise is going to help boost your metabolism, reduce overall fat, and slim your face.
Make sure that you don’t make the mistake of thinking you can eat junk food because exercise will take care of it. Losing weight is mostly diet, although exercise will definitely strengthen the body and improve health.
 The body needs sleep to be healthy. There are many studies that correlate lack of sleep with weight gain.


A fatigued body may bloat and also cause the facial muscles to sag. This can make the face look larger than normal.
A good rule of thumb is to try to get 7 to 8 hours of sleep per night. Try to have a regular sleeping schedule.
 From blowing balloons to hot towel treatments, there are many ideas out there that are said to slim the face.


Blowing balloons will tone your cheeks because it exercises the muscles in them. Just blow a balloon and release the air in it, and do this 10 times. You should notice a difference in 5 days.Try putting hot towels on your face because some believe steam can help you reduce cheek fat. The face will sweat and release some fat stored in your face. Just put the towel into warm water, and then apply it to your face. Some think steam can help slim your face by removing toxins from it.Chew sugar-free gum for at least 20 minutes twice a day. This actually works as a facial exercise that will cut calories and tone your face. You could also try a facial massage using ginseng or wheat germ oil to stimulate blood circulation in the face. Start at your chin, moving upwards in a circular motion with your palms.
 There are different makeup tricks you can use to create the illusion of a slimmer face.


Apply a bronzing powder in the hollows of your cheeks or on the sides of your nose. Adding blush to the tops of your cheeks also can make the face look less full.
With the powder, draw a line along your cheekbones, blending the powder in from your ear to the corner of your mouth. Just above it, apply blush. Choose a bronzer that is two shades darker than your skin tone. This way you can use it to add more shape to your face, making it appear slimmer., If you use makeup to put more emphasis on your eyes, your face is likely going to look slimmer.

When your lips are full, it can make your face look rounder. So if you're worried about that, play up your eyes. Put mascara, eyeliner, and eye shadow on them, and leave your lips plain or only put a plain gloss on them.
The shape of the eyebrows is really important to making your face look slim. If your eyebrows are higher and more shaped, this can make your overall face look thinner. Many beauty salons will wax and shape your eyebrows for you if you're not sure how to do it right.
 Many Hollywood stars use contouring to alter the shape of their faces, such as creating stronger cheekbones or slimmer noses.

To slim the nose, take a darker powder than your skin tone, and apply a thin line of it on each side of your nose. Then, use a brush to blend it along each edge. Use a highlighter to apply it above the eyebrows, and draw a line with it down the center of your nose. Blend it into your skin with a brush.
To contour the face, take a contouring powder, also darker than your skin tone, and draw it on your cheeks, angling down your cheeks. Smudge it in so it doesn't look like a harsh line. Use powder that is two shades darker than your skin. Contouring allows you to alter the shape and lines of your face., Another trick that you can use with makeup to slenderize the face is to add an element of illumination to it.Take sheer highlighting powder. Using a makeup brush, put it under your eyes, and down the middle of your nose.
You should use the illumination technique in conjunction with bronzing powder or contouring. Some believe it will make your face look slimmer because of the contrast with the bronzing powder.
 Not all hairstyles are created equal. Depending on your face shape, a hairstyle can make your face look rounder or slimmer.If your hair is long, don’t grow it past your chest, and have a hairstylist create some soft layers to frame your face.You want to create some curves in the hair around the face by the cheekbones and eyes, avoiding straight lines in the hair. Bangs will probably make your face look fuller if they are cut straight across.
You should avoid blunt cut bobs and instead go for a longer shaggier look with layers. Pulling the hair straight back will make your face look rounder by showcasing your temple. A high vertical bun gives the illusion of a slimmer and longer face.
 These can go so wrong, and they may look unnatural. However, it’s obvious that older people sometimes explore them to get rid of fat in the face.


Fat suctioning procedures or face lifts can remove excess fat or skin. Some people opt for cheek implants to give the face a different appearance.
Think long and hard before exploring any of these options. Be happy with your natural looks. Find comfort in your own skin. There are many stories of people who undergo cosmetic surgeries they live to regret. Underage people should try natural ways of slimming the face instead, such as using makeup tricks or, better yet, a healthier diet. Cosmetic surgeries can be dangerous and expensive.

