 You can choose simple shapes like squares, triangles, and circles, or more complex shapes like owls. For instance, if you think the plain square-shaped sandwich is boring, use a knife to cut from the bottom left corner towards the center of the sandwich’s top edge. Then cut another identically-sized piece from the bottom-right corner toward the same point. You’ll now have three triangle-shaped sandwiches (tri-wiches). Eat and enjoy your tri-wiches.Circles are also delicious snack shapes. Place your favorite sandwich ingredients into a whole-grain wrap. You could use mayo, cheese, meat, lettuce, tomato, and/or pickles. Roll it up by folding the edge closest to you to the middle of the wrap. Roll the new, curved edge that forms from the fold toward the back edge until it’s wrapped up nicely. Slice the wrap every inch (every two centimeters) along its length. Enjoy your round mini-sandwich wraps.
Try using different shaped cookie cutters to make fun shapes. Try using a star-shaped cookie cutter in the center of your sandwich.
Which sort of shape should your snack be? The sky’s the limit! Think about your favorite shapes, then bring them to life (with an adult’s help).;
, Sharing a healthy snack with your friends is great fun. Invite your friends over to make a healthy snack alongside you. Making healthy snacks together is a great way to grow your friendship even deeper.To invite your friends over, ask them, “Would you like to come over and make a healthy snack with me?”
Help your friends if they need it. They might not know where the plates and utensils are in your house.
If you and your friend make different snacks, share some with each other. Sharing is an important way to show your friends you care for them.
 Whatever snack you decide to make, invite your family to help. You could invite your mom or dad, or your brother or sister. You could even call your grandparents, aunts, and uncles to help. Making a healthy snack with your family is a great way to have fun in the kitchen.To invite your family to cook a healthy snack with you, just say, “I’m going to make a healthy snack later. Do you want to come and help?”
Ask your family if you need help while making your healthy snack.

