 To take the best care of your doll’s curly hair, buy a hair pick such as the American Girl Sparkly Hair Pick. Then, get a small spray bottle to fill with water.Don’t use a brush on your doll’s curly hair, since it can make the hair frizzy.
If you don’t use the American Girl Sparkly Hair Pick, be sure that your pick’s teeth are spaced out. Don’t use a pick that has the teeth tight together, since that can make it harder to remove tangles.;
, Clean water is all you need, so fill up your spray bottle at the sink. You will use it to dampen the doll’s hair before you detangle it., Before you fix your doll’s hair, tie a bandana, washcloth, or handkerchief around her eyes. This will keep them dry and safe from damage. You can also ask a friend to hold a hand over the doll’s face while you spray her hair with water.
 To avoid damaging your doll’s head or hair, you want to hold her steady. You can hold her between your legs or have a friend or parent hold her tightly., It is easiest if you start with a section closest to the doll’s face. Separate the strand from the rest of her hair with your fingers, and then grab the strand about 2 inches (5.1 cm) above the bottom of the hair.
 Use your spray bottle to spritz the strand of hair. Spray it 3-4 times, until the hair is damp but not soaked. Be sure not to spray water directly into the doll’s face or eyes. Water can cause her eyeballs to rust!, Using your pick, gently comb out any tangles from the strand of hair. Start near the bottom, combing down toward the bottom of the hair. Then, once the bottom section of the strand is tangle-free, begin combing sections further up the strand near the doll’s head. Be careful not to pull too hard, or you could loosen the doll’s head.If possible, have someone hold the neck of the doll to stabilize it.
 Once you have finished detangling one strand of hair, grab the next section. Beginning at the bottom of the strand, use your pick to remove any tangles. Do this with all sections of the hair until you have completed the doll’s whole head.
 Once you’re done, simply let your doll sit and relax while her hair dries. Be sure not to use a hairdryer, since they can damage or melt your doll’s hair! Once her hair is dry, you are free to style it or go back to playing with her as usual.