 There's no rule saying that you must follow one of the patterns described in this article. Experiment with your own moves, rhythms, and patterns until you find a way to express yourself using this technique.


While there might be a traditional rhythm for the hambone “song,” hambone itself is a musical technique or practice and not a song. Hambone is simply a form of percussion that uses the human body as an instrument. It has its roots in African-American tradition.
 As you get more comfortable with hambone motions, creating a more impressive sound and show by striking your body with both hands simultaneously.


When slapping your hambones or thighs, you can use both hands to slap both legs or use them to strike one leg.
If you feel like being even more showy, you can swap legs and strike the right thigh with your left hand and the left thigh with your right hand.
 Another common hambone technique you can incorporate into your own set of rhythms is the cheek slap, made by slapping your cheeks with the fingertips of both hands.


Open your mouth all the way before narrowing your lips into a narrow, rounded opening.
Pat your cheeks rapidly using only your fingertips. If you use your palms or fingers, the sound will come out flat instead of rounded.
Change the sound as you slap by opening and closing your lips. Opening your lips wider creates a higher pitch and narrowing the opening creates a lower pitch.
 If you are flexible enough, you can twist your arms and legs as you hambone so that you can strike your elbows and lower calves with your open hands.


Get creative and experiment with different slaps on different areas of the body.
 You can deepen and enhance the sound by striking multiple places of your body simultaneously with two different hands.


For instance, you could slap your chest with your right hand while striking your thigh with your left hand, or slap your thigh with a backhanded right hand while striking the calf of your leg with your left hand.
 The hand clap is a very basic move, but it does create a percussion sound using your body as an instrument, so it still qualifies as a hambone move. The same can be said for stomping your feet.


Stomping your feet can be an especially good move to work in since you can stomp or tap your foot while slapping the actual notes out using your hands. This can help you maintain the right rhythm.

