 If a website is hosting material you own (such as an essay or a picture), then you can send a “takedown” notice to request that the material be removed. You must send this notice to the website’s agent. The agent’s name and address should be listed on the website.


Look for a “Contact Us” or “Terms of Use” link. The agent’s information often appears at those pages.
If you can’t find the agent’s name or address on the website, then visit the Copyright Office and search their directory for an agent. You can search by company name., You should format the notice as a standard business letter. Also make sure that your notice contains each of the following, which is required:Identify your copyrighted work which you think is being infringed.
Identify the site where the infringement is occurring. Also specify what material is infringing on your copyright. Include the URL and any link, if a link is involved.
Provide your name and contact information.
State that the information in your notice is accurate. Also write that you have “a good faith belief that use of the material in the manner complained of is not authorized by the copyright owner, its agent, or the law.”
State “under penalty of perjury” that the person signing the notice is authorized to act on behalf of the copyright owner.
Include a physical or electronic signature.
 Make sure to mail the notice certified mail, return receipt requested. In this way, you will know when it has been received.


You may be able to email the notice as well. Check to see if an email address has been provided.Hold onto a copy of your takedown notice.
 The website owner is supposed to remove the challenged material promptly. The owner can then follow up with whoever posted the content on the website to confirm that they have copyright to the work.


If your material pops up again on the website—or if the owner never removes it in the first place—then you can bring a copyright infringement lawsuit. See a lawyer for more information.

