 So many people do this. Pretending that you don't care or aren't bothered about the relationship does NOT help and makes the other person feel a burden and this will NOT work.
 Relationships are hard. Before trying to get someone to fall in love with you, be sure that you are ready for one. If you are too hung up on a past relationship, are more interested in dating someone else, or just not ready for commitment, don't try to get someone to fall in love with you., Consider how you feel about this person. Do you love him or her? You will want to be sure that you feel romantic love for the person and not just the love felt between close friends. It can often be difficult to tell the difference. If you don’t love the person yet, then consider slowing things down. If it is meant to be then you will both develop feelings together.
 Think about why you want to be in a relationship. If you only want a person to love you in order to feel better about losing another relationship or to make someone jealous, then getting that person to fall in love with you is a bad idea. This is inconsiderate towards the very real feelings they may end up developing. If you want someone to fall in love with you because you want to be with someone for a long time and have a mutually supportive relationship, then go ahead., Determine your long-term goals for the relationship. If you can't see it lasting, there isn't much sense in trying to make someone fall in love with you. This is emotionally cruel to both yourself and the other person. There is nothing wrong with casual dating; if you want to date someone but don’t see it lasting, just enjoy it for what it is and don’t try to make it more serious. You don’t need to be in love to keep dating.
 Sometimes we have feelings for someone are not returned. This is okay. You shouldn't feel like it's the end of the world or that there's no one else for you. There are an awful lot of people on this planet, after all. If someone doesn't return your feelings you should understand that it wasn't meant to be and that you wouldn't have been all that happy together. You'll find someone else before you know it and wonder why you ever felt upset in the first place.


Don’t try to be someone you are not to get someone to fall in love with you. Make sure that the person you decide to be with is compatible with you as you are.