 A person’s nose will change shape over time. The support within the nose will weaken as a person ages, and the nose will start to slump. It may look a little longer or larger as a person gets older.No matter how you think your nose looks now, it will continue to change, just as the rest of your body will change.
 This exercise helps remind us what we cognitively think is most important about a person. When we are asked what we like most about ourselves, we often name personality features over physical features. This reminds us that personality and capability are more important than physicality.We are also reminded that we have the power to define our self-worth by our own terms, not by those imposed on us by our culture.


Make a list of your three favorite physical features. You can train yourself to think more positively about your body overall. This might help you accept your nose and see it as beautiful too. List three of your favorite features. For example, you might say, “I like my eyes, I have long eyelashes, and I have nice toes.”
List your favorite parts of your personality. You might say, “I am a hard worker, I’m a good friend, and I have a good sense of humor.”
Put your two lists together and rank them in order of importance. Write one sentence about each list item.
Most people who do this exercise tend to rank personality traits higher than physical traits.
 Write down a few of your favorite physical features again. If you have trouble coming up with examples, think of the ones that bother you the least.Write a positive sentence about each of these features. For example, you might say, “I like my blue eyes because they sparkle in the light.”
Use this information you’ve culled from within to make subtle changes in the way you carry yourself. If you think your eyes are a good physical feature, try wearing clothes that bring out your eye color. Wear makeup that accentuates your eyes.
 Once you identify the sources of your negative thoughts, you can work on changing your thoughts and perceptions of your body. You may find yourself making negative comments to yourself. When you do, take note of these comments. Ask yourself the following questions:Is it a kind comment?
Would I say it to a friend?
Does it make me feel good?

, After you’ve become aware of when you criticize yourself, stop yourself. Replace the thought with something positive.


For example, you might think, “My nose looks like it takes up my entire face.” Stop yourself and think positively: “My nose is unique. Any other nose on my face would look strange. I am a beautiful person.”

, Different cultures value different styles and aesthetics of beauty. While one culture may appreciate small, upturned noses, another culture may appreciate larger, wider noses instead. Beauty is a value constructed by individual cultures.


For example, some cultures have historically valued nose rings and other decorations,which accentuates the nose.

