 There are many color scheme that inspire Christmas, but not all of them might work with your room. For example, if your room has a lot of pink and white, the traditional red and green might clash. Red and white might be more suitable. Here are some common Christmas color schemes to get you started:


Red and green
Red, green, and white/gold
Blue and white/silver
Blue, white, and silver
White/ivory and gold
Red and white/gold
Green and white/gold

, Sometimes, having a set theme can help you choose which decorations to put up. It can also help your room look more unified and less cluttered. As with colors, choose a theme that matches your room. For example, if your room has a lot of heavy, Victorian-era furniture, a rustic or nature theme might clash. Themes that are more Victorian or ornate might work better with your room decor. Here are some common Christmas themes to get you started:


1900s, Charles Dickens, Victorian era, and Vintage inspired
Rustic, woodland cabin inspired, with lots of gingham, knit, wood, and burlap
Nature, with lots of snow, pine trees, pinecones, reindeer, and woodland creatures
Traditional/classic with lots of red and green, snowmen, and Santa Claus
Fancy/royal with lots of silver or gold, ornate scroll patterns, and lots of rich brocade
Winter wonderland, with lots of blue, silver, and white, snow, snowflakes, icicles, and pine trees

, Look at how stores step up their displays. If you see any you like, try to copy them. Take pictures, write down what your see, or make a quick sketch. You don't have to copy the display exactly; you can just use elements from it, such as silver ornaments and glittery snowflakes.


You can also get ideas from a nature walk as well.
 If you have a laptop, radio, or TV in your room, consider playing some Christmas music or a Christmas movie. They might inspire you or get you into the Christmas spirit.
 Sometimes, what you already have in your room might inspire your Christmas decorations. For example, if your room has a lot of wooden furniture in it, you can decorate it with some rustic Christmas decorations to make it look like a cozy, woodland cabin.


Keep the size of your room in mind. If your room is very small and cramped, it might not be a good candidate for a Christmas tree. Some pine garlands, however, would be perfect for it.
 If you don't know where to start decorating, take a look around your room. See if there are any blank spaces or surfaces, and start decorating there. For example:

Is there a bare wall in your room? If so, consider decorating it with some paper snowflakes or Christmas cards.
Is there a blank corner on your desk or dresser? What about on your shelf? These places are great for displaying mini trees, figurines, and scenes.
Curtain rods and doorknobs are great places to hang decorations from.
Windows are great places to hang decorations, such as lights and ornaments, from.

