 While the preventative steps are similar for all types of pests, you will want to focus on removing certain types of food (i.e. ripe melon for fruit flies) or cleaning certain areas (vacuuming the carpet for fleas), depending on the pest. If you decide to use a pesticide, you will need to make sure it is suitable for the pest you are trying to kill.;
, Insects and rodents need water to survive.Keep your bathroom and kitchen areas as dry as possible.
Fix leaking pipes.
Don’t let water collect in trays under plants.
Don’t leave your pet’s water out overnight.
 Food attracts pests. Ripe fruit will draw fruit flies. Unsealed grains will attract mealy moths. Flies and cockroaches will eat any crumbs they can find. A clean kitchen is a key step in ridding your home of pest.


Wipe up any spills with soap and water. A paper towel or dish towel alone may not be enough.Regularly unplug your toaster and remove crumbs.
Store your food in sealed glass or plastic containers. Lids that clamp shut work better than screw-on lids.
Keep ripe fruit,as well as rice and other long-term storage items, in the refrigerator.
Store pet food in a clean, sealed garbage can so that rodents cannot get to it.
Wash dishes daily, or submerge them in soapy water until you can get to them.
Take out the trash daily. Used sealed trash cans and be sure to keep them clean., This will remove hiding places for insects, as well as removing their eggs.


Vacuum regularly. In particular, vacuum the affected areas using a crevice tool. Dispose of the vacuum cleaner bag in a sealed plastic bag, so no pests can escape.
Comb and wash your pet frequently. If it has fleas, talk to your vet about flea medication.Get rid of clutter where pests hide, such as stacks of newspaper, magazines, or cardboard.
Clean appliances by unplugging them and sweeping them out, vacuuming, then wiping down with a damp rag. Make sure to let the appliance dry completely before reconnecting the appliance to the power source.
Store clothing and linens in sealed plastic boxes or bags to protect them from moths and to remove homes for mice and rats.
 Pests frequently enter through poorly sealed windows or doors, or through cracks in walls and floorboards. Removing points of entry is key if you wish to keep your home pest free.


Use silicone caulk to seal any cracks and crevices in baseboards, moldings, cupboards, pipes, ducts, sinks, toilets or electrical outlets.Place screens in front of heating and cooling vents. Repair holes in existing screens.
Install screens and weather-stripping on doors and windows.
Keep vegetation, mulch, stacked firewood, and other debris at least 18 inches (45.7 cm) form your home.
Ensure all cracks, crevices and gaps around pipes and other penetrations on the walls of your home are properly sealed.
 Less toxic pesticides are safer for both you and the environment.


Dust boric acid on cracks and crevices. It is poisonous to crawling insects like ants, cockroaches, and silverfish, but is far less toxic to humans.Try tamper-resistant bait boxes, which are safer than sprays, powders or pellets, all of which spread pesticide residues. Bait boxes are particularly recommended in areas where food, plates, or cookery are stored. Look for bait boxes that use a nonvolatile chemical like boron, and be sure to keep them out of reach of children.Try insecticidal or fatty-acid soaps. They kill soft-bodied insects like fleas and mites on contact, cut are practically harmless to humans and mammals, unless ingested., Avoid frequent application; use them only to target specific threats.Read the label to be sure you have the right pesticide and are using it correctly.


Pesticides labeled “broad spectrum” kill many pests, while those labeled “selective” work only against a few. Read the directions for use to be sure the pesticide will work for you.Start with less toxic pesticides. Check the label for the “signal” word that indicates how dangerous the product is to humans.“Danger” means poisonous or corrosive.
“Warning” means moderately hazardous.
“Caution” means least hazardous.


Never use outdoor pesticides indoors. They last longer and are more volatile. Provide adequate ventilation. Open windows and run fans. If the pesticide requires an unventilated room, leave the house.
Apply sprays to limited areas, such as cracks.
Always remove pots, pans, dishes and food before spraying. Let the spray dry before replacing.
Never dump leftover pesticides in the garbage or down the drain. Check with your public works department about how to dispose of them.
 If preventative measures and over-the-counter pesticides do not work, you may be better off paying for pest control services.

