 Voriconazole fights fungal infections that occur anywhere in the body. It is an effective medication against A.niger, though it can also kill many other species of fungi. It kills fungi by eradicating their fungal cell walls.


The usual voriconazole prescription is generally one 200 milligram (mg) each day, for 7 to 14 days. The length of treatment depends on the severity of the infection., This is another class of antifungal medication that is effective for treatment against Aspergillus niger. It causes the fungal cell wall of Aspergillus niger to burst, thereby killing it. It also deprives Aspergillus niger of electrolytes and nutrients, which can also lead to fungal death.Amphotericin B is usually available in cream and in ointment form. The cream or ointment is applied topically to any wound or cut infected with A.niger.
 This is another antifungal agent that is similar to voriconazole. However, its method of killing the fungus is different; itraconazole inhibits enzymes in the fungus that help it to grow, metabolize, and reproduce, which results in the death of the fungus.


It is available in capsule form. The usual prescription is generally 200 to 400 mg, twice a day for seven days., This sort of ear infection is called otomycosis. Mold grows in the external canal and in the epithelium of the ear. The mold is black in color and easy to spot. Your doctor will treat this infection by first scraping away the mold, and then applying a topical antibiotic.Clotrimazole is generally the go-to topical cream for this infection. It is a 1% otic cream that can be applied to your ear four times a day.
 Onychomycosis, or nail infection, can be also caused by A. niger. Although it is very rare, A. niger can cause a chronic infection that responds poorly to regular treatment. However, this condition can also be caused by other fungi, so it is important to have a fungal culture done to determine which fungus is causing this infection.Topical antifungal treatments include Ciclopirox Olamine, an 8% solution, and difenoconazole, 10% solution.
 Keratitis is a condition in which the cornea of the eye becomes infected by A. niger. This infection can occur after eye surgery and other surgical procedures, though it is a very rare condition.


Treating keratitis caused by this fungus involves topical treatment. Amphotericin B or Natamycin eye drops are generally prescribed for this specific infection. These eye drops are usually administered hourly.