 If your job requires you to look at multiple things at the same time, you may be causing yourself eye strain by shifting back and forth. This is because constantly shifting eyes means your eyes focus and refocus on different reading materials frequently. To avoid this, purchase a stand for your books and papers so your resources can easily be located and placed next to one another. If you work on a computer as well as with books or papers, put your materials on the stand directly next to the screen, so your eyes won't have to shift as much.


When objects are only a few inches away from each other, your eyes don't need to refocus, which lowers the risk of eye strain.Try learning touch typing, which is typing without looking at the keyboard. This helps reduce eye shifting and can cut down on the time you stare directly at the screen, since you are looking at the papers or book instead. This also keeps you from shifting from your reading source to your computer screen.
 You want to create an environment conducive to what your work is. Use incandescent lighting and avoid high-intensity lamps, which cast shadows and create glares on the material you focus on. Place a dim light on either side of your workstation to create equal brightness without dark, shadowed areas.


If you work on a computer, create an environment that has lighting similar to that of your monitor. You can also purchase an anti-glare screen for your monitor. This will cut the glare if you're not able to eliminate harsh lighting or adjust your monitor.
The ideal work space will have soft lights, limited natural light, no fluorescent lighting, and surfaces that don't reflect too much light.
Switching your bulbs and adjusting your window blinds in your office may cut down on your eyestrain., Having the wrong eyeglasses can contribute to eye strain. Make sure your eyeglasses have the proper prescription. You can check with your eye doctor if you are unsure of your prescription. If you wear bifocals, you might tilt your head at an awkward angle when using your computer. If this is the case, talk to your eye doctor to see if progressive lenses may work better.


Ask your eye doctor about computer glasses if you work on a computer for long hours. They work by reducing the amount of accommodation required by eyes to focus on a computer, which reducing eye strain.Also look into purchasing lenses with an anti-reflective coating, which will help cut down on computer glare. There are also plain, nonprescription lenses with this coating available for those who don't require vision correction.

