 Developmental child care emphasizes all areas of a child's development, including physical, cognitive, social, emotional. This is the most common form of child care philosophy currently practiced in the United States. In a developmental child care classroom, you may expect to find a combination of hands-on activities, child-directed and teacher-led activities.Developmental child care is interactive, and has an informal sense.
Learning through play is considered the central focus of the curriculum in a developmental child care program.
The role of the teacher is to provide security, stimulation, support, limits, and affection.
 This child-centered philosophy follows the child's interest and social curiosity. Experiential learning is prioritized over teacher-led learning.Progressive preschools are sometimes termed "Bank Street Approach" due to their initial development at the Bank Street College of Education.
The teacher's role is to facilitate the child's interests and intellectual curiosity.
 Montessori philosophies were developed by Dr. Maria Montessori in her study of child development. These methods emphasize the individual child's initiative and independence. Children move through different activities, called "work", at their own rate of speed. The self-correcting tasks teach the child directly, while observing other children completing a task allows children to learn from each other.Montessori methods use "manipulatives" or small sensory items that the children use to complete a task. Colored blocks, for example, might be manipulatives matched to pictures of colored blocks in an activity.
Montessori classrooms typically contain a range of ages, because each child is encouraged to learn at her own pace.
Some parents choose Montessori methods because they feel it encourages their children to develop leadership skills.
 This child care philosophy uses a combination of developmental and Montessori approaches. It emphasizes creativity and artistic expression, but also collaboration. Reggio-Emilio learning employs group projects based in child-directed curiosity.For example, if a child expresses interest in why a plant grows, a Reggio-Emilio response might be, "Let's learn more about that!" From this child-led curiosity, a collaborative interactive project including study of soil, plants, water, and sunlight might result.
Reggio-Emilio is named after the area of Italy in which this pedagogical approach first developed.
One of the goals of Reggio-Emilio is to use collaborative learning to help a child become a better citizen.
 The Waldorf approach, developed by Rudolf Steiner, is a play-based approach. It's characterized by regular, structured routines. Certain days of the week, for instance, will always include the same activities. Creative activities, such as art, music, dance, singing and acting, are emphasized.The programs are well-known for their refusal to incorporate any media, such as reading, computers, videos or electronics into their curriculum.
There are no grades in a Waldorf program. There are no hand-outs, homework, or tests.
The Waldorf approach emphasized the holistic nature of the child: body, spirit, and soul.
 Parent-cooperative programs, known as co-ops,are formed by parents to offer a shared setting for their children. These programs are created by parents who desire a strong influence in their children's daily activities. The teachers, director and and helpers of the classes are chosen by the parents, and are parents of children in the program.Cooperative learning tends to prioritize values of cooperation and resolving conflicts.
One of the ways in which cooperative learning emphasizes education is that your child sees your participation in the classroom. This allows the child to know that education is a priority for you, and encourages the message that learning is important.

