 These should include:Let the dog come to you rather than going to the dog.
Let the dog smell you before you try to touch the dog because what you smell like is how a dog gets to know you.
Do not pat a dog until you are certain that it full accepts you.Be careful about where you touch the dog (to a dog, vulnerable areas are often the head and the neck).
Respect the dog's personal space. If the dog moves away, don't follow her or him around.
Even a normal calm dog that is being hurt or teased or feeling sick might bite suddenly.;
, It is not advisable to disturb a dog while it is eating, sleeping or caring for puppies.


Do not tease a dog by poking it through fences or cages using hands or objects.
 Here are some key rules:


If there is a baby in a house, never leave your baby unattended and never leave it alone with the dog, no matter the dog's size. Train your dog to stay away from the baby. Dogs will try to assert dominance over the weakest member of the pack, making it risky, so always be with your baby when the dog is about.
Never leave a child under 12 alone with a dog. This includes when visiting friend's houses. Ask that their dog be locked up if the children will be playing without supervision in the dog's backyard space.
Never let the dog snatch food from children. If you see the dog do this, discipline the dog; it would expect as much from a fellow mother dog in the pack and will respect this rule. In turn, do not have children feed the dogs without your supervision.
Stay alert when children play. Even if dogs seem friendly, he or she might play rough by jumping up and knocking a child over.
Always enter and leave through doorways before your dog. This includes children of the house. The dog must be last; it must be admonished if it disobeys this rule and taught to wait.
Only allow older children to discipline the dog (around 12 or over). Any younger and the dog will not respect them, believing them to have no authority over it. Up to that point, the parents must admonish the dog for any bad behavior toward young children.
Children should never walk dogs by themselves. They do not have the strength to deal with difficult situations, such as dog fights, the strength of the dog pulling away from the child and the distress of the dog running away from them without them being able to keep up.
Teach children to respect dogs and all animals. Explain to them that it's wrong to pull ears, tails, fur, etc., to tease a dog or to hit it with anything.
 Have the following safety rules in place:


Teach children how to stay safe around dogs.
Do not approach a strange dog or one that is not attended by its owner. Even then, realize that the owner usually cannot tell whether or not his or her dog will behave with you or your children.
Report any stray dog in your neighborhood.
Stay away from a dog that is tied up unless it's your dog. You don't know why it's tied up or how it will react.
 It is helpful to know what can provoke a dog to bite or attack, in order to avoid being the source of such provocation. Typical causes that lie behind dog biting or attacks include:Fear: When a dog is frightened, it feels the same fight or flight response that a human would feel when scared. If the dog chooses to fight, biting is likely to be used. Once a dog has learned a fear reaction, it may return whenever a trigger occurs, such as a stranger with a certain voice or appearance, a sudden movement or another dog.
Territoriality: Dogs defend their space or area just as human beings defend their own backyard or property.
Food protection: Pushing to get to and guarding food is an instinct from puppyhood, when not doing so may have meant the dog missed out on food. This gets transferred to the human owner unless the behavior is properly trained out of the puppy very early on.
Self-protection: The dog is directly threatened in some way and reacts instinctively. This may be to protect itself or its food stash.
Protection of a pack member, own puppies: If a dog feels that a fellow pack member, dog or human, or its own puppies are threatened, it will bite to protect them.
Illness: Some illnesses can cause a dog to behave erratically and dangerously, such as distemper, rabies and brain tumors. Hormonal fluctuations can also cause problems.
Poor upbringing: An inadequately trained or poorly cared for dog may not learn to socialize properly with human beings and/or other dogs. As a result, it may be easily provoked.
 These include:Dogs growl or bark in the first instance to warn of their intent. However, barking as it runs toward you can indicate that it is alerting its pack or owner, and wants to sniff you.
Have stiff front legs, stretching up to increase height, getting ready to pounce.
Have hair standing on end.
Run with a steady, purposeful gait with their head level, rather than "trotting over" to you with their head lowered.
The tail may be held upright over the dog's back. Note: A wagging tail denotes anticipation, not happiness. The dog may very well wag its tail before an attack, so don't mistake it for happiness.
The ears may be pricked upright.
A dog that is afraid will bare its teeth.
The dog will likely stare at your directly.
 Do not run! It is not possible to outrun the dog, and when it catches you, it will not be possible to defend yourself effectively. Moreover, you'll be tired from running. Do not even back back––any form of movement is an incitement to attack you.
 This means stock straight, not attempting to reach out to or pat the dog.Avoid extending your arms. This makes them more prone to damage and likely to to be bitten. Instead, curl your fingers into a fist and keep your arms by your side. The dog views this pose as neutral, neither aggressive nor submissive.Do not crouch or try to get to the dog's level; that way you offer your face for biting.
Do not make any form of movement, especially not provocative ones.
 This will be treated as a challenging threat. Continue with your non-confrontational and calm posture.
 Since dogs are a pack animal that spends most of its life obeying commands, use commands with force. Keeping an erect body posture, use firmly and harshly spoken commands such as "get down", "bah!" or "go home". Your height and the imposing voice will have an impact on the do. causing it to oblige.


Do not shout or scream. This confirms for the dog that you are frightened. Screaming will not prevent an attack but it can make the dog become more excitable.
 A dog may knock you with its nose as you stand still and tall. It is testing for a reaction. Do not give it one––keep standing still. This confuses the dog and causes it to back off. Another thing it may do is grab a leg. Do not react if this happens; instead, say "bah!" in a harsh voice and wait for the dog to let go.By not moving you show the dog you are not a threat worth continuing with. Once again, the lack of reaction confuses the dog.If the dog tries to attack from behind (the sign of a frightened rather than an aggressive dog), circle on the spot to keep facing the dog, but only as the dog moves.Stay standing upright and have the turning on the spot the only movement you make, then stand stock still again. This prevents a dog that won't attack front on from attacking you from behind., If the dog attacks you, and either knocks you to the ground or you trip and fall to the ground, immediately protect yourself by curling into the fetal position or a ball, and protect your face, throat and chest with your arms.Stay absolutely still––you become harmless to a dog when still. Moreover, by doing this you ensure that any bites you receive will be less likely to be fatal.


Teach children to roll into a protective ball and to go absolutely still should a dog attack them. Due to their height, they will most likely not be able to hold off a dog attack by tall posture, and may also be easily knocked over. Protecting themselves is the best defense that a child has., Remember always––dogs are stronger and fiercer than humans.
 Stay calm and remain firm. A dog's mood is very changeable, within seconds it may submit to you and back down. Once it does so, never take your eyes off it. Very slowly move to safety, such as a car, behind a fence, inside a house, etc. Stop immediately if the dog seems alerted by your movement.
 Dog bites often tear human skin, creating a laceration with a rough ragged edge. A dog bite can be infected with bacteria, a virus, rabies, and so forth. A lot of dog bites can disfigure you, cause permanent damage to skin, muscle and bones and can be life threatening, depending on how badly bitten you are.


A bite from a mad dog causes rabies, which causes hydrophobia.
 To self care a single dog bite if you can't get medical help immediately or at all:


The immediate care of a dog bite is to wash the wound and disinfect. Soak in warm water with salt for about 20 minutes.
Change the dressing daily. Check carefully for infection. Keep the area elevated as much as possible. Apply warmth for 15 to 20 minute about 4 times a day.
 For peace of mind, see the doctor regardless of whether or not you believe self treatment is adequate. There may be bacterial or other issues involved, especially if you live where rabies is common.


If you are in severe pain, you have been bitten severely or you are unsure about your injury, get to the hospital or a doctor immediately.
If a bitten person is in shock or unconscious, consider administering appropriate first aid but get the person medical help as quickly as possible.
Go to the doctor immediately if there is redness around the wound, red streaks, swelling, drainage, fever, tender bumps in groin or armpit or around the wound, or an unexplained in pain or tenderness.
Any child, sick or frail person or elderly person should see a doctor immediately if bitten by a dog.
 If you are bitten by any kind of animal visit doctor and report to city's animal control officer.

