 Once you become a better person then the rest is done. We don’t have to change our parents, your nagging boss or your troublesome friend or child; once you can become a better person then you are on the right path............. Our world is a reflection of who we are, what we want and how we want to live our world. In conclusion, if we want to change the world then we have to change ourselves in the way we talk, eat, mix, and the way we love.;
, Live a life of a true Christian and not that of a hypocrite. Show the people around how to live and let live, your children, family and friends are also your priority so be a good example to them... We all say things we hear from others because we like it. Once people notice a change about you, tardily they too will change the way they do things around you and be cautioned. The people around are being affected with the way we live, especially our young ones, be of a good virtue and they will learn to live that way by learning from you. Be that change you want to see in the world.
 Instead of sitting alone in the room watching 24 hours or Prison Break, call your friends in to watch it with them, definitely argument will arise but don’t take it far, but if argued well y'all have fun without any getting hurt. Remember no winner, so don’t try to prove to them that you know better than them. Play scrabble or a brain challenge game, this makes people feel loved and being cared for. Got a phone, send them a text telling them how you wish them the best of the day.
 What are those good things you don’t need anymore? Give them to someone. ...Give your time, money, clothes, accessories, words of wisdom, to those who don’t have like us. It doesn’t have to be something big, little things count some of the those things you called junks in your house means the core to others, so learn to give from your scratch so it won't be hard when you are on top. Pay a visit to an orphanage home. What are those good things you don’t need anymore? Give them to someone. Don’t just give money, give your time, give your listening ear, and give the Word.
 Learn to be quiet even when the situation demands so much that you interrupt because it’s what you say while you interrupt that you will still say when you listen. Sometimes we won’t even get the whole story if we interrupt people in their talks and learn the language to use if you have to correct them like, if I may get you well, according to what you say, then you talk. Remember some are also shy when it comes to expressing themselves to be able to read between lines and read beyond their lips. Know what their mood says and always ask if you can be of help.
 Instead catch little tips by smiling at the person coming your way or give a wink at others as long as you don’t flirt with married person lol…A lot go about their way frowning for something that doesn’t even worth it and they don’t even have a clue of what they look like in that image. So smile all day, remember a laugh a day keeps doctor away…

, Remember your neighbors also, you can do without friends but not without neighbors and remember they are your first family in case anything happens to you. So pray for your friends, neighbors, families, country and your spouse. Pray for your friends, family, the nation and everything and everyone around you.

