 If you were exceptionally late, you may need to move on to an apology letter or email. Another reason you may want to choose this option is if your lateness caused a big problem for the company, such as losing a client.
 That is, use addresses and a date at the top. Start with your name, address, and email at the top. Underneath that, put the date. Underneath that, add your boss's name, work address, and email., A safe bet for any business letter is opening with "Dear." If you call your boss by her first name usually, it's fine to insert her first name. If you don't, you should use "Ms." or "Mrs."

, Begin by stating why you are writing the letter. Note the date and time you were late, as well as the reason.For instance, you could say, "I want to apologize for being 2 hours late to work on Friday, September 4, 2015. I had a crisis at home I could not avoid. I realize this caused problems with the company, and I would like to say how sorry I am."

, Next, you need to show that you understand why your mistake was bad. Acknowledge what you cost the company.As an example, you could write "I know that my tardiness has cost the company. I missed a meeting with a customer, and though I plan to make it up, I know it has lost the company some credibility."

, End by stating how you plan to avoid this problem in the future. Show you have taken steps to prevent it.For instance, you could write "I know you expect better from your employees, and I have taken steps to make sure this situation doesn't happen again. I've asked another family member to be available should another situation like this one creep up, so that I can be on time in the future."

, Always end with gratitude. You want to let your boss know that you are thankful for any second chances she offers.As an example, you could say "I appreciate the fact that you've been understanding, and I am grateful for another chance to prove my loyalty to the company."

, Sign off the letter with "Sincerely." If you're printing off the letter, leave space for you to sign and then put your name underneath in type. If you're making an email, just put your name in print.