 Find a place where you can be comfortable sitting (or in whatever position you find productive for reading) for long periods of time. You won’t be able to read for very long if you are sitting on a hard chair that makes your back hurt after a few minutes. Keep in mind, however, that you don’t want to get overly comfortable because that could encourage you to fall asleep or become lazy and distracted.


Try choosing a comfy chair that keeps you sitting upright, but allows your body to feel relaxed and comfortable.
Make sure that you have adequate lighting to be able to read. Trying to read in low lighting can cause strain on your eyes over time.
 One of the most important parts of being able to focus on reading a long document is getting rid of distractions. Turn off your TV, computer, and phone. Close the door. Tell your roommates that you need to be left alone to focus. Give yourself every opportunity to focus.Try to find or make a quiet place to read. Retreat to an office, library, or back room.
If you find yourself reading the same paragraph several times over, ask yourself why. Did you miss a word or concept along the way? Are you paying attention to something besides your reading? Is it time for a break?

, If at all possible, get enough sleep before you begin so that you won't be too tempted to nod off when you should be pressing on with the reading. Reading when you are tired can be an exercise in futility because reading often makes people more tired, or more prone to give in to exhaustion.Try going to bed early the night before you know you’re going to start reading the long document.
If you start reading and find yourself nodding off, consider taking a short catnap. Even a twenty minute nap can work wonders to help you stay awake while reading.
 It’s common knowledge that caffeine helps alleviate sleepiness, and one of the most common sources of caffeine is coffee. People often drink coffee to help them wake up in the morning or to give them a boost when they are feeling too tired. If you need help staying awake and focused to complete your reading, try drinking a cup of coffee.You could also try drinking some tea, soda, or another caffeinated beverage.
 If you’re feeling too tired to focus, you might benefit from a quick workout or other activity that gets your blood flowing. Increased blood flow to your body will help you stay awake and maintain your focus.Try to do something cardio-related – like a quick jog around the block or a few dozen jumping jacks.

