 One of the best ways to tell if a guy is obsessed with sex is to examine how he acts when he’s with you. Behavior such as frequently trying to initiate sexual acts or bring a sexual element into situations that really aren’t sexual may be an indicator that he’s focused on sex.


For instance, if he always wants to watch movies or TV shows that have lots of nudity or sex scenes, you might take it as a sign that he is sex obsessed.Or, for example, if every time you’re together he wants to do sexual things, he may be obsessed with sex. Physical affection does not always need to lead to sex, and if he expects physical affection to always lead to sex, then this could be a clue about his attitude towards sex.
 The things that guys talk about with their friends, partners, and other people close to them can tell you a lot about them. Pay attention to how frequently you hear or hear about conversations that he has that are sexual in nature. While some sex talk is normal for everyone, if you rarely hear him talking about anything other than sex, he might be sex obsessed.


Does he, for example, add a sexual comment or joke to conversations that have nothing to do with sex?

, You can tell if a guy is obsessed with sex by watching how flirtatious and sexual he acts around others. Most people flirt occasionally or include sexual innuendos every now and then. But, if he seems to always be flirting or continually bringing a sexual component into his interactions, he may have a sex obsession.


For example, if the first kinds of comments he makes about people are of a sexual nature, or if his value of people is based primarily on their sexual desirability, then this could be another clue.
 Often guys that are obsessed with sex have trouble maintaining relationships because of their focus on sex. They may ruin long-term relationships by cheating or end them because they feel they need more sex. The more you know about why a guy’s past relationships ended, the easier it may be for you to tell if a guy is sex obsessed.


Ask him directly why his previous relationships ended. You might say, “Can you tell me about your other relationships? Did you have any problems with infidelity?”

