 If you are truly striving for classic rock'n'roll sound, it takes research. Lots of research. There are a lot of resources on the internet that can tell you exactly what equipment was used and because of today's high technology, there are pedals and computer programs that can take a music file and process it to sound like the original riff.


To find out about guitars from the experts, go to a guitar show. Most cities have one (or even two) each year. You can have all of your questions answered there and see and test out hundreds of types of guitars to find the best fit for you.
When you really want a sound from before the 1980s, remember the equipment was different. Sound systems were not as clear and amps had tubes in the brain. Modern technology has advantages over old equipment by reliability and reduced weight, but the sound is sacrificed. You can come pretty close with the use of pedals and a great sound man, so you don't need a wall of amps or full band anymore.;
, Guitar legends depend on their amps and equipment, as much as their guitar, for their sound. Face it, you're not gonna get The Who's wall of sound from a single small portable amp. There is a very small battery powered amp that clips to your belt so you can walk around playing through headsets.
 You will need a guitar, but not just any guitar. Get a guitar within a price range of $100 and $500. Anything less than that will produce poor sound and make playing difficult. Guitars like these are destined to collect dust in the corners of a kid's room. Go to a place such as Sam Ash or Guitar Center, where they will let you play their guitars until you find one that's perfect for you.


Hendrix himself played a Fender Stratocaster. If you want to sound similar to him, purchase the guitar of that brand.
 Although Hendrix was most often known for the right-handed Fender Stratocaster played upside-down, 100-watt Marshalls, and lots of pedals, it is not at all necessary for one to clone this set-up. If one has played electric for any time at all, they should have learned that one's sound is everything from the type of picks, strings, pick-ups, cords, petals, amps, tubes, speakers, and cabinets, any one of which can have a profound impact on getting you where you want to be.


Find the correct tuner. There are a lot to choose from and they are easy to use. For about $10 a clip on will be everything you'll ever need. They are small and easy to take along with you. A tuner saves a lot of time and gets you playing fast. With a clip on, leave it clipped to the top of the guitar. You'll use it every time you play. No, it won't hurt the guitar neck.
Get a guitar stand that is easy to fold up, carry around and set up. Take it everywhere.
Shop around to find the most comfortable guitar strap (maybe two, they're cheap!) These should wide enough to distribute the weight of the guitar across your shoulders.
Get a case. One with a hard shell is great but a soft knit bag is fine. The guitar will be dry, cool, and it keeps dents and scratches to a minimum. Remember, every scratch will be there forever.

Guitar picks are optional . The best advice is to find the weight pick that's comfortable in your hand and get a whole bunch. Not sure what feels right? Go to a guitar show and people will give you lots of free picks. Experiment and keep the ones you like. Give away the ones you don't and other players will think you're a nice guy! You don't always have to play with a pick, but have 'em around just in case.
Get a good Marshall amp head with two speakers (cabinets) underneath it. This is referred to as a 'Marshall Full Stack'. Getting an old Marshall that uses tubes will sound most like Jimi's, but they cost more. If you can't afford a Marshall, any other amp will be good enough. Or just get a good cheaper amp, maybe a Fender.
Get a Wah Pedaland a Distortion Pedal which are required if learning Voodoo Chile (Slight Return)' is desired. This can be purchased later as your playing skill become advanced.

