 As harvest time approaches, you'll want to begin reaching into the branches of the live plant and removing all of the dead and dying fan leaves (identifiable by their yellow hue) from the branches. This process allows the plant to focus as much energy as possible on growing healthy leaves, rather than wasting energy maintaining leaves that may die anyway. A gentle tug, sometimes firm, is all that's required to remove most leaves.It is normal for some leaves of the plant to die.
 As branches grow out from the main stalk of the plant, they will in turn develop shoots and branches of their own. However, they will struggle to get enough light and sap energy from the leaves located at the ends of the main branches. Trim these leaves and shoots away., If your main stalk has leaves sprouting straight up and out from it, trim them. This will not only allow the branches to get more light, but will also stimulate new branch growth.Cutting the top of your plant off is crucial if you have limited vertical growing space.
 FIMing refers to the process of cutting part of a recent shoot (known as a "top") from your plant in order to double the number of buds it produces. "Topping" mean to remove the whole shoot down to the base. FIMing also causes your plant to grow out rather than up.


Topping and FIMing produce slightly different results. Research which is best for your setup.
To FIM your marijuana plant, locate a new shoot, then use your shears or other trimming instrument to snip two-thirds of the shoot’s length.FIMing is not without risks. Every time you clip a shoot, you increase the risk that your plant will get a disease.
Your plant’s growth might slow after FIMing. This is normal.
 Super cropping refers to the practice of squeezing a branch of the plant firmly, thereby partially crushing its tissue. This will cause the plant to heal and rebuild the branch more strongly, and allow for more efficient circulation of nutrients and water within the plant.Select an old yet still supple branch, one that is still green, not brown and woody.
Pinch the mid-point of the branch between your thumb and index finger. With your opposite hand, pinch the branch at a point just above the spot your other hand is pinching it.
Bend the branch gently back and forth in an arc. Increase the angle of the arc gradually until you’ve heard the branch crack. You should also be able to see some white discoloration at the joint you’ve been working.
Rest the bent branch on top of or against a nearby branch to support its weight.
 If you see small buds sprouting from the lower portion of your plant, pluck or clip them off. These small buds will only drain energy from the larger and more plentiful buds growing near the top of the plant., After trimming your plant, it needs time to recover and heal. Trim your plant no more than once every three or four days. Often, your plant will only need to be trimmed twice a month. Prune more often during your plant’s early vegetative stage (when it first produces leaves) and toward the end of its flowering (bud-producing) stage.