

Your parents will be impressed if you are polite with them, but they will be even more impressed to see you behave politely with other people, such as grandparents, family friends, etc., It may sometimes seem as though you already know everything there is to know about your mother or father, but you most likely know very little about their lives before you existed. Ask them to tell you about their favorite childhood memories or ask them if they have any hobbies they’d like to spend more time on.
 If you have siblings, do what you can to avoid fighting with them. This can be very challenging, but it is very stressful and even sad for parents to see their children not getting along. This shows your parents that you are maturing.If you can, try having a private conversation with your sibling to explain that you want to avoid disagreement in order to make your parents happy, you may be able to work together to accomplish this step.
 If your parents have given you a curfew, then be sure to adhere to it. If you are going to be late, call them before you are late to explain why you will be late, and what time you expect to be home.

Don’t be late because you simply wanted to stay out longer.
 Your parents will be very worried if they suspect you are doing things that are illegal. They want you to be safe and healthy, but they are concerned because of the potential legal ramifications.

Unless you are of legal age to do so, do not drink alcohol.
Explain to your parents that you are not interested in trying illegal drugs or drinking alcohol when you are underage because you know that it is dangerous and because you do not want them to worry.
 If you do get into trouble, be straightforward and honest with your parents about what happened and why it happened.

Accept the consequences of your actions. Your parents may punish you for your behavior. If they do, accept this punishment without a fight. This demonstrates maturity.
Explain to them how you plan to avoid repeating your mistake in the future.

