 Take it out yourself and hold it facing the audience. At no point in this trick do you see what this card is.


If you don't have a surface in front of you, have them simply take the deck and pick a card. This way then verify themselves that it's not a trick deck, too.
 As you're holding it up, lightly pinch the bottom corner, bending it just slightly. The back of the card is still facing you.


Don't make the pinch obvious to the unassuming eye. It should be something only you can see because you're looking for it.
This works best with a set of cards that has been used before. A brand new fresh pack may make a bend a little too obvious.
 Getting someone else to do the work will make your trick seem more viable. Once the card is back in, shuffle the deck or have them shuffle it themselves.


If someone else is shuffling your cards, have them hand them back to you when they're finished. Any direction is fine.
 Scan the cards or fan them out, telling your audience you need to get a read on the cards. Ham it up, making the trick truly entertaining. You have a couple options from here:


Find a way to get that card to the top of the deck. You can then put the cards back in the package making sure the top card is between the box and the closing flap so you can pull it out.
Start throwing out the cards that aren't theirs. Pick them up acting like you're going to say, "This is your card!" but then at the last minute you change your mind and say no. This can be done half a dozen times before you actually approach their card.
Make it so the card is on the bottom. Than you can pretend to be frustrated as you go through the deck, not seeing their card. At the very end, there it is, waiting to amaze your friends.
 Whichever method you choose, make a show of it. Grin smugly, knowing that you just fooled them with simple magic. And remember not to reveal your trickery!


The traditional pickpocket method is to place the packet in your pocket or in a spectator's pocket and amaze people by pulling out the specified card on top of the deck when the packet is reopened.

