


The most common restriction regards who may bless or anoint the oil. In some denominations, only a priest or similar clergyman can bless the oil. Some denominations even limit which clergymen are authorized to consecrate oil.
It is also important to note that some denominations also have guidelines and laws concerning how the oil should be consecrated and how it can be used afterward.
Other possible rules may include those governing how the oil is obtained and the oil you are allowed to use.;
, You can use plain or scented olive oil, but it should be olive oil either way since it has greater traditional and biblical significance than other types of oil.


Unless you are told otherwise by a religious authority, it is not necessary to buy special oil for anointing.
Extra-virgin cold-pressed olive oil is the purest variety available, so many people prefer to use that when shopping for an anointing oil. You can find this oil in the vast majority of grocery stores.If desired, you can buy scented olive oil from a religious or secular store. Oil that has been perfumed with frankincense and myrrh is both popular and spiritually significant.
 Find a small vial, bottle, or other container with a tight lid that does not leak. Pour a little olive oil into this container. The sample in this container will become the anointing oil.


You can buy a special oil stock at a religious bookstore or online, or you could use any small bottle.
The most common vial is a short metal container with a screw-on lid, with a sponge placed inside to help hold the oil in.
Less expensive plastic oil stocks are also available.
Even a "travel size" plastic shampoo bottle could be used.
 As long as your denomination does not prohibit it, you can usually pray a blessing over the oil on your own and without the help of a religious authority figure. The prayer should be firm and one made in full faith.


The prayer you use must ask God to bless and cleanse the oil, so that it can be used for the sake of God's glory.
For instance, the prayer might be something like, "God, I pray that you anoint this oil in Your heavenly name. I pray that You cleanse it of any defilement in it or upon it, and that You make it holy for the work of Your glory. May this be done in the name of the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit. Amen.", The best way to keep the oil fresh is to store it sealed and at room temperature. Refrigeration is not recommended.


If you refrigerate the oil, it will start to look cloudy. This is not harmful, though, and the oil can still be used even if it has gotten cloudy.
 There is nothing mystical or magical about the oil itself, even though anointing oil can be a powerful tool of the faith. As with all other spiritual tools, the real power comes from God.


Anointing oil is a symbol of your faith in God and of God's ability to cleanse and make things holy.
Without faith, anointing oil will not have any positive effect. You can use oil to help strengthen and demonstrate your faith, but you cannot use it to replace faith.
 Among other things, you can use the oil to anoint yourself when you pray, when you are troubled, or when you are sick.


While there are different ways to anoint yourself, the most common is to wet your right thumb with a little of the oil and make a Sign of the Cross on your forehead; draw a cross on your forehead while saying, “In the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Spirit. Amen.”
After anointing yourself, you can continue with your prayers as you usually would, regardless of whether it is a prayer for healing, repentance, thanksgiving, or anything else.
Alternatively, if you are injured or ill, you could cross yourself with the anointing oil over the damaged area of your body while praying for healing.
 Just as you can use the anointing oil on yourself, you can also use it to aid others who are troubled or ill. Pray over the other person as you anoint them with the oil.


When anointing someone else, wet your right thumb with a little of the anointing oil and use it to draw a cross in the middle of the other person's forehead.
As you draw the cross, state the person's name and state, "I anoint you with oil in the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Spirit."
Follow this with any prayers that are appropriate to the specific circumstances. This includes prayers for physical healing, spiritual healing, consecration, and general blessing.
 Anointing oil is commonly used when blessing a new home or a home that has faced some form of spiritual threat.


Remove anything from the home that may have any evil roots.
Walk around your home anointing the frame of every door in every room. As you anoint each frame, pray that God fills your house with the Holy Spirit, and that everything that happens in the house will be done in according to God's will.
The idea behind anointing your home is that you are turning it into "holy ground" for God.
 While some of the more traditional uses are rarely applied nowadays, it is still worth noting what some of those uses were.


Anointing the body with perfumed oil was once used to refresh the body. If done to someone else, the act was considered one of hospitality.
The Ancient Israelites once rubbed consecrated oil on the leather of their shields to prepare for war.
Some anointing oils were used for medicinal purposes, while others were used to prepare bodies for funerals and burials.
Some oils were also used to purify the body or consecrate an individual for a specific purpose or calling within God's plan.

