 Sometimes, it is just not possible to move to a new place, change schools, or find a new job. By picking up things like hobbies, however, you can mentally escape from your life, at least for a little while. This section will give you a few ideas.
 Fictional stories can help distract your mind and make you forget the world around you for a little bit. You may find yourself relating to the characters, and their problems may help you forget your own.


Children's classics are a great choice. Their worlds are often idealistic, and pleasant to read about. They can provide a great escape., Much like books, the storylines in many games can distract you from all the bad that is happening around you. The action and puzzles can also keep you busy and help you not focus so much on all your troubles.


Try out a few mmorpg games. They have endless levels and places for you to explore, and many of them are constantly updating with new levels and lands.
 Not only will they keep your mind off of things, but each week, you will have a new episode to look forward to. The anticipation and excitement may also help distract you from the world around you to some extent.
 Music can help you relax when you are feeling stressed. It can also help distract you from your problems for a while.
 Knitting, drawing, martial arts, or playing an instrument may not help you physically escape your life, but they can help provide a mental escape. You will likely by so busy participating in your new hobby that you will not have the time to focus on the world around you. Keep in mind that this likely won't be constant; most hobbies can only provide an hour or two of relief.
 Doing the same thing every day can make feel tedious. This can lead to boredom or depression. Switching up your daily routine can divert and distract your mind. It will help you feel refreshed, and make life seem less tiring and mundane. You don't have to change everything in your life, however; even switching up one thing may be enough.Here are some ideas to get you started:


Treat yourself randomly to a special dessert.
If you go to the same cafe every day, try to order something new.
Meet a friend for lunch or go to a movie. This will help split up your week and it seem less monotonous. If you have the meeting on the same day each week, it may give you something to look forward to.
Try taking a new route to work or school. The same, old scenery may cause you to dwell on how dull and boring your life is, so it may be a good idea to take a different path every once in a while. The new sights, sounds, and smells may be enough to take your mind off of other things.

