 You'll want to choose colors with projects in mind. Polymer clay blends very well, so keep in mind that you can mix colors.


There are several different brands of polymer clay available. You may wish to purchase more than one brand to see which one you like best. Some are softer than others. Remember, however, that different brands may have different baking directions, so you may not want to mix them together.
You can also make your own polymer clay at home.
 You will need to plan what type of pendants you want to make. For a necklace pendant or several hanging earrings, you will need to purchase an oven-proof band holder. This is basically a piece of wire that you can stick into the clay before it is baked that is made to withstand the heat of the oven. This wire will have a loop the sticks out of the pendant, that way you can attach the pendant to a necklace string or chain or to earring wires.


You can find a wide variety of jewelry making tools and accessories at any craft store.
 Pick your favorite colors and blend them together just enough so that they create a marbled effect.









You can also mix colors together completely in order to make a brand new color. It might be fun to only buy red, yellow, and blue polymer clay and try to make other colors yourself by mixing them together.
 Using your fingers alone you can sculpt pendants, figurines, or beads. Begin with simple shapes, adding small pieces of clay on top of that to create a pattern.


Make unique shapes. There are no limits to what you can do with polymer clay. Try to make an abstract shape out of a variety of colors or a tiny version of your favorite animal. The options are endless on what you can make.
Try covering a square or circle of polymer clay with small dots of other colors of polymer clay. Once covered, smooth out the surface gently or leave it with a textured surface.
If you run out of ideas, try looking online for inspiration. There are a wide variety of websites that can give you ideas to start from.
 There are some accessories that need to be baked into the piece. Be sure anything you put in the oven is oven-proof.
 This protects both the pan and the back of the jewelry pieces.
 Most clays are baked at 275 degrees F (135 degrees C) for 20 to 25 minutes.
 You can lightly sand with extra fine paper if needed. If you are making a necklace, thread your necklace string or chain through the wire loop on your pendant. If you are making a pair of earrings, simply attach the earring wires you purchased to the loops coming out of the pendants.

