 Go somewhere outside of your town, state or even your country and experience how other people live first hand, as this is the best way to learn about other cultures. That said, not all travel experiences lend themselves to cultural immersion, and some options are better than others:


Volunteer trips frequently stick you right in the middle of the "action," allowing you to get to know locals.
Pre-planned trips can be very touristy, but many of them allow "home-stays," where you get to live with a local family.
The longer you spend in a town, the more of their culture you can begin to appreciate., It is irresponsible, in many ways, to arrive in a new country or state without knowing how things usually run. It is also the best way to get immediately shocked upon landing, which can make it harder to accept the culture later on. Read online, check some books, and generally arrive well-informed. That said, be ready for some shocks or changes in the real world -- but at least having some knowledge beforehand will help with any culture shock. Check especially for:



Culturally Unacceptable Practices: In some cultures, men and women should never touch in public. In some places, a thumbs up gesture is considered rude. If you want to truly understand a culture, you can't accidentally offend it.

Necessary dress and clothing: While shorts are acceptable across America, they are frowned upon in some places. Women, in particular, should pay attention to cultural fashion norms, as they may be strict.

Common greetings and phrases: Even if you don't learn the language, simply greetings can do wonders and open doors to all sorts of cultural experiences., The best way to understand and admire cultural differences is to make yourself a part of them. Help cook meals, go to the local watering holes and join the people at the bar, and take public transport. The longer you give yourself in the culture, the more you will learn and grow. At the very least, make a few friends wherever possible. You'll be surprised how much most people want to meet and talk to foreigners.


Don't try to impose your own culture on others, or try to replicate your culture while abroad. This is the time to go with the flow, becoming a part of the culture instead of trying to stick out of it.
 Culture shock, or the sudden anxiety and worry about being in a completely new place and culture, affects even seasoned travelers. The good news? It is almost always temporary, and the best way to beat it is to push through it. It is natural to feel nervous in a new place, but keeping yourself moving, talking, and learning is the best way to show yourself that it is not so bad. Don't let the first few attempts at understanding deter you -- the difficulty will pass.
 One of the best things to bring while traveling is a set of photos from home, allowing you to bring people into your own life and culture from anywhere. No matter where you are, giving a little bit of yourself is the best way to learn a little bit about others. And learning is the key to understanding and, ultimately, acceptance.