 Testosterone must be prescribed to you by a licensed physician. This hormone is often abused and can be purchased on the black market, which is extremely dangerous. There is no way to verify the product you receive illegally is safe for you to take, or verify the quality, sterility, and purity of the product., Intramuscular testosterone (IM) is an intramuscular injection. The dose usually varies from 200 to 400 milligrams. It can be given every two, three, or four weeks, usually injected into the thigh muscle. The testosterone seeps out of the injection site into the body. The injections may be given in an office, though self injection is often possible, depending on your physician. This approach usually is the least expensive, though you have to get a shot every few weeks.This method does not mimic a dose that would normally occur in the body. There may be times, like right after injection, when the levels of testosterone are higher than normal, and times between injections when the levels of testosterone are lower than normal. This is called a roller coaster effect.
 Find a clear, comfortable place to set up where you can place everything you need. Remove the testosterone from the refrigerator and allow the testosterone to come to room temperature.Make sure you know what dosage you need to administer for yourself.
Wash your hands before beginning.
 Insert the needle straight down through the center of the rubber stopper of the vial. Push the plunger of the syringe down, pushing the air from the syringe into the vial. Keep the needle in the vial and turn the vial upside down. Make certain the liquid in the vial is covering the tip of the needle. Keep the vial upside down and slowly pull back on the plunger to fill the syringe with the medication to the dose that matches the dose your doctor ordered.Do not put the needle through the rubber stopper more than once.
While keeping the needle in the vial, check for air bubbles. If there are any air bubbles, gently tap the syringe with your fingers until the air bubbles rise to the top of the syringe. Slowly push the plunger up to force the air bubbles out of the syringe without removing the needle from the bottle.
 Remove the syringe needle from the vial. Make sure you do not let the needle touch anything. Use an alcohol wipe to clean the injection area.The injection site is generally the outer middle third of your thigh, but follow your physician’s instructions.
 Form a "V" with your first and second fingers. Place the heel of your hand near your hip and gently spread the skin on the outer middle third of your thigh. The injection site will be between the knuckles of the V formed by your fingers. Use a quick, firm, and single motion to insert the needle. If there is no blood, gently, slowly, and firmly push the plunger to inject the testosterone.Pull back on the plunger just a bit to check that there is no blood. If you see any blood in the syringe, do not inject.
 Remove the syringe needle and clean the area with the alcohol swab once again. Dispose of used needles in an appropriate sharps or biohazard waste container.Apply pressure if needed to stop any bleeding.

