 Slander is a type of defamation. Defamation is the communication of a false statement that harms a person’s reputation, decreases respect for that person in the community, or induces people to have negative feelings against that person. Defamation encompasses both spoken and written statements. Most states incorporate both slander and libel into "defamation" suits, so you will probably be filing your suit under the tort of defamation.Libel is defamatory information that can be seen. This could include the publication of photographs or written material. Statues, movies, effigies, and other visual media may also be libelous.Slander is defamatory information that is spoken and heard. This could include untrue accusations and false statements spoken to someone else.Defamation spoken over broadcast media, such as TV and radio, is generally treated as libel because broadcasting reaches a much larger audience and thus has a larger impact.;
, No matter how awful or mean, a true statement cannot be slanderous. You must be able to prove that the statement is false. Slanderous statements are statements of fact that can be proven or disproven, not statements of opinion.For example, if someone says “That restaurant is the worst restaurant in the history of this town,” that statement will not be slander, because there is no way to prove that the statement is false. The statement is an opinion, and is not objectively based on facts.
However, if someone says “I found three roaches in my pasta at that restaurant,” that statement could be slanderous if it was untrue. This statement makes a claim of fact, unlike the previous statement. You could determine through investigation whether there were actually roaches in the pasta. For example, you could take statements from others eating with that person, as well as from the chefs who prepared the pasta.
It is a good idea to include evidence of falsity in your initial complaint. This will make it more difficult for the speaker to bring up the truth of her statement as a defense.
 In the United States and many other countries, people have an absolute right to state opinions as long as they are clearly stated as such. This also applies to clear rhetorical ploys, such as obviously false or hyperbolic statements.For example, “I think Jack is a woman-hating jerk” is an opinion, not a statement of fact. It cannot be considered slanderous.
However, the statement “I think Jack abuses his girlfriend” implies a more serious allegation. Even though the words I think are still present, the seriousness and specificity of the allegations might give grounds for a slander suit if the statement is proven false.As an example of rhetorical ploys, someone stating that a political figure is a “terrorist” for raising taxes will not likely make the speaker liable for slander. It is obvious that the speaker did not literally mean that the politician was a terrorist, and it is reasonable to presume that anyone who heard the statement would understand that., To prove that you have been defamed by a slanderous statement, you must prove that the statement was “published.” This means that a third party other than you and the person who spoke the statement must have heard the statement.


A statement does not have to be published in a book or magazine to meet this requirement. A statement that is spoken on television or a radio show, or is said in a speech or even in loud conversation, will qualify as published because someone else heard it.
 Laws against defamation are intended to protect people from the effects of false statements. In order to win a slander lawsuit, you must show that you were injured by the false statements.Courts do not usually presume damages from slander as they do with libel. The suing party (you, in this case) must prove that actual, quantifiable damages occurred.To show that your reputation was injured by the false statement, you must have evidence. For example, you could show that you lost your job or were treated badly at work because of the untrue statement. Or you could demonstrate that your friends and family would no longer associate with you after hearing the statement, or that you were harassed by the press. To prove mental anguish, you would likely want to have the testimony of a physician or mental health professional.However, if you already have a bad reputation, it can be difficult for you to prove that the statement you're alleging as slander caused you any meaningful damages. Asserting that you already had a bad reputation is a common defense in slander lawsuits.A statement that embarrasses you is also not likely to be found as slanderous. To count as slander, a statement must cause you serious, actual damages. Embarrassment does not usually do this.Some states consider certain allegations of slander per se, or inherently slanderous. For example, accusations that you committed a crime, had an infectious or loathsome disease, or are unable to perform your job are generally treated as slander per se because they show a clear intent to cause harm. In these cases (in states that allow per se consideration) you do not have to prove injury to make a valid claim., To qualify as slander, the statement must be “unprivileged.”This means that in some situations, even if someone makes a false statement about you, you cannot recover against them because that statement is privileged, or protected.


Legislators who make statements within the performance of their "legislative activities," i.e., on the floor or in committee proceedings in the US Congress or state legislatures, are privileged. They cannot be sued for slander for statements made in these situations.There are some situations where lawmakers and courts have decided that the First Amendment principle of freedom of speech protects slanderous statements. These situations may involve court proceedings. If witnesses and parties to lawsuits could be liable for the slanderous comments they make while on the witness stand, they might be unwilling to testify.
For example, witnesses who make false statements at a deposition -- a type of court proceeding -- cannot be sued for slander. However, they may be criminally prosecuted for perjury.If you are involved in a lawsuit and the opposing party makes false statements about you during a deposition given in connection with that lawsuit, you will not be able to sue them for slander even if you can prove that the statement was false, was published, and injured you in some way. This is because the statements given during a deposition are privileged.
 Under the US Constitution, the public has the right to criticize the government and other public figures. Therefore, it is very difficult for public figures to recover for defamation.For a public figure to prove defamation, s/he must prove all of the elements above. In addition, s/he must prove that the person who said the statements said them with “actual malice.” Actual malice means that the person who made the slanderous statement knew the statement wasn’t true, didn’t care whether it was true or not, and acted with reckless disregard for the truth.People who are not elected officials but are influential or famous, like movie stars, must prove that whoever made the slanderous statement about them spoke with actual malice in order to recover for slander.
 In many US states, there is a statute of limitations for defamation suits. In other words, there is an “expiration date” past which you cannot sue for slander or libel, even if you can prove the statements were untrue, published, and caused you harm. Check your state or jurisdiction’s regulations regarding this limit.


For example, in the the state of Georgia, the statute of limitations is one year.In Massachusetts, the statute of limitations is three years.Findlaw has a list of each US state’s statute of limitations., Defamation suits are very difficult to win. Because of this, you will want to hire an attorney who is experienced in civil litigation to help you with your slander suit.


If you have low income, don't despair. Many attorneys offer pro bono services to low-income applicants.
Because most defamation suits are contracted on a contingency basis, meaning the attorney takes his/her fees out of whatever damages you are awarded, an attorney may be willing to work with you even if you cannot afford the fee upfront., In most cases, you will file your slander complaint in the state district court presiding over the location where the statements were said and heard.(There are some exceptions, which will be covered in the next part.) There are many ways to locate an attorney.


The American Bar Association maintains a database of local bar associations.These bar associations usually have free referral services.
Your state's Bar Association website will likely have a directory of licensed attorneys. In many cases, such as Ohio's State Bar Association, these directories are searchable by location and specialization.If you have low income, try using a public interest website such as LawHelp.org. They focus on finding attorneys for people with low incomes.There are many online directories for attorneys. For best results, use more than one. Popular directories include Lawyers.com, LawInfo.com, and FindLaw.com., Friends and family are usually the best place to start when researching attorneys, because you can ask them about their personal experiences with the attorney.Ask about specifics of their experience. Was the attorney upfront and clear about fees and services? Was the attorney on time and prepared for appointments? Was the attorney or someone involved in the case available when you had questions? Was your friend happy with the service s/he received?, Several websites offer reviews of attorneys. It's a good idea to check these reviews for any attorneys you may be considering. Don't rely on this information as your only source, but it may be helpful in making your decision.


Websites offering attorney reviews include Avvo, FindLaw, Lawyers.com, and Martindale-Hubbell®., Once you've narrowed your list of candidates down to two or three, using referrals and reviews to guide you, check their disciplinary records. You don't want to hire an attorney who has been found guilty of malpractice, disciplined for ethics violations, or had his/her license suspended.For most states, you can check an attorney's record with the State Bar Association. In some states, you will go through the state Supreme Court's disciplinary board or commission. You can find a guide to where to search for an attorney's record on FindLaw.Some disciplinary actions are fairly minor, such as the attorney failing to pay bar fees on time. It's up to you to decide whether a disciplinary action is sufficient for you to disqualify the attorney from consideration. You should not hire an attorney who has been disciplined for anything major, such as ethics violations or malpractice.
 With all of this information in hand, choose 2 or 3 top candidates and call their offices. In many cases, they will offer a free preliminary consultation via phone. Many will also offer free in-person consultations. Start with the telephone consultation and ask the following questions to determine whether to proceed with a formal interview.What does the attorney charge for consultations? Be wary of attorneys who charge for an initial consultation. This is a sign they charge hourly, which is not a desirable situation for a slander case.
What percentage of damages does the attorney take if you win the case? Contingency fees vary, but usually range between 30-40%.How many similar cases has the attorney handled? What were their outcomes? You want to know that your attorney has experience in your type of litigation.
Can the attorney provide you with references? Be aware that the attorney must get permission from former clients before s/he can give you references, so you probably won't get these immediately.
What type of information will you need to bring to an in-person meeting? Having a list of documents the attorney will need will be helpful.
 If you're satisfied by the answers to your telephone questions, schedule an in-person interview. This is very important. You need to feel comfortable working with your attorney. Trust your "gut" here. If you're uncomfortable or feel pressured to agree to a contract (which is unethical), look elsewhere.Ask about the attorney's qualifications. Basic information can be found online, but asking this in person allows you to gauge your attorney's confidence and forthrightness.
Ask about fees and costs. Be very leery of civil litigation attorneys who charge by the hour. This could be a sign that they aren't confident in your case. A contingency arrangement is by far the most common in defamation suits. Make sure that you are absolutely clear on what costs you need to pay up front and what percentage you can expect your attorney to take home if you win.
Ask about the attorney's experience working in similar cases. Does the attorney have a good record of winning similar cases? Does s/he sound confident about yours? What advantages does this attorney offer that her/his competitors may not? How, specifically, does the attorney plan to achieve your objective?

, Once you have interviewed your candidates and chosen an attorney, listen to him or her. S/he will understand the litigation process and will walk you through it. An attorney is ethically and legally obligated to pursue your best interests. Trust that s/he knows what s/he's doing.This doesn't mean you shouldn't ask questions. Whenever you're unclear, ask! Your attorney should be responsive and informed. If your attorney doesn't answer questions for days or weeks on end, this may be grounds for breach of contract and you can find another attorney.
 Because slander suits are so difficult to win, it's a good idea to have an attorney assist you in preparing and filing your complaint.
 To sue someone for slander, you must prepare a document called a complaint that you will file with the court.


You can model your complaint on existing examples. However, you must make sure that you check in the state where you will file your action for any specific formatting requirements. To find out about specific state rules, look online or call the clerk of court.
The complaint includes the grounds or cause of action for you slander lawsuit.
Many states have downloadable PDFs of defamation forms available on their court websites. You can use these as a template to prepare your own complaint. Check with your state's website to find the forms used in your state, if possible. For example, California provides these forms here.
 The cause of action includes the false statements said about you, and any injury you suffered because of the statements.


For instance, in the earlier example, the cause of action would include the false statement: “I found three roaches in my pasta at that restaurant.”
The injury you suffered might be a statement such as “after the roach comment, the restaurant lost $10,000 worth of business.”

, It is a good idea to provide evidence that shows the statement was untrue. Any evidence you can provide to show the damage you have sustained should also be included.For example, to use the “roach in the pasta” example, you may have taken written statements from a fellow diner who heard the roach complaint and from the chef at the restaurant who states there were no roaches. Include copies of these statements to show that the statement was published (a third party heard it) and that it is untrue (the chef says there were no roaches).
If you have lost business or money or your job because of the false statement, provide evidence for this. For example, you could bring bank statements or receipts showing that your restaurant has made less money in the month since the roach statement was made.
 Usually, you will need at least three copies: one for yourself, one for the defendant, and one for the courts. Contact your local clerk of court to make sure you have the right number of copies.
 The state district court presiding over the location where the statements were said and heard is the proper place to file the lawsuit.For example, if a news anchor in New York City made a slanderous remark about someone who lived in Wisconsin, a New York court would have jurisdiction over the complaint.
However, the court in Wisconsin could also have jurisdiction over the complaint if someone who lived in Wisconsin heard the statement (for example, via a phone conversation or on TV).
Think carefully about where you file the complaint. Slander suits may also be filed where you live or where the defendant lives. However, if you and the defendant live in different states or jurisdictions, the defendant may be able to require you to attend a federal court close to them. (This precedent was established in International Shoe v. Washington.), Make sure that you have filled out any required forms and cover pages. If you are not sure what your court requires, contact the clerk’s office or look on their website.


Some states require that all civil suits filed begin with a “cover page” that is specific to that court.
If you are required to submit your suit with a cover page, you may be able to print the page from the court’s website. You can also get a copy at the courthouse.
 You do not need to make an appointment with the clerk, just make sure that you go to the courthouse to file your complaint during its regular business hours.


You can find the regular hours of your court on its website or by calling your court clerk’s office.
The clerk should also be able to answer any questions that you may have about local court rules or procedures.
Ask any questions before you file the complaint. This may save you from costly mistakes later.
 A filing fee is required in order to file your complaint. Filing fees vary in amount based on the state, but most are between $100 and $300.The fee may also vary depending on the amount of damages you are seeking.
If you have low income or are indigent, you may qualify for a fee waiver. Typically, you will have to file a form with the court to see if you qualify. Requirements vary by state and jurisdiction. For example, in California, you may be eligible to file for a fee waiver if your family income is less than $1,226 for a household of one, $1,659 for a household of two, etc.Even if you qualify for a fee waiver, you may be required to pay fees later if your financial situation improves during the case, or if you settle your suit for a certain amount or more.
 Ask the clerk to give you a “stamped” copy of your complaint once it is filed. This is verification that you filed the complaint on the day you did, and should be kept for your records.


The complaint could be referenced in later proceedings, so it is important to keep a copy available.
 As a party to the lawsuit, you cannot personally serve the defendant with a copy of the complaint. You can choose from several options. Usually, the court will facilitate the service for you. Your options may vary depending on your location. Ask the clerk of court for your options.


Serve the other party using certified mail. You can ask the clerk of court to send the complaint by certified mail with a return receipt. There is usually a small fee for this service, around $10. Remember that you cannot mail a copy of the lawsuit to the other party yourself.
Serve the other party using personal service. Personal service means that a third party will hand a copy of complaint to the defendant in the suit. Usually, the sheriff in the county where you file the suit will personally serve the defendant for a small fee. When you file your complaint, tell the court that you want “sheriff service” and the clerk will facilitate the service.
Serve the other party using a private server. In most states, you are also allowed to hire a third party to serve the other person with the complaint.
Serve by publication. This type of service is only available by permission of the court if you are unable to locate the defendant’s address. In this type of service, the court publishes notice of the lawsuit in the local newspaper for a specified period, usually a couple of weeks. The service is valid whether or not the defendant actually sees it.
You can discover other serving options in the United States on the US Marshals website.One of the most common reasons for civil complaints to be dismissed is “inadequate service,” or a failure to give the other party adequate notice and a chance to respond., After you file your lawsuit and serve the defendant, the defendant usually has 30 days to respond to the suit. If the defendant responds with an “answer,” the suit will continue to go forward.When the defendant files their answer, the court will mail you a copy of the answer with instructions on how to proceed.
You automatically win the lawsuit if the defendant doesn't file an answer with the court clerk. This is called a default judgment., To win a slander lawsuit, you must prove that you were damaged as a result of the slander. During the discovery process, your claims will be investigated. Keeping records of the damages will make this process go faster (and thus, be cheaper).Keep a record of any damages to you. For example, if you lost your job because of the slanderous statements, keep a record of how long you were out of work. Note the salary you were making when you lost your job. Keep track of any additional expenses, such as gap health insurance, that you had during this time.If you had to seek medical or psychological treatment as a result of the slanderous statements, keep all of your medical records and doctor bills.
Keep a list of people who could serve as witnesses to the damages you experienced.
 Discovery is when investigation into the facts of the case occurs.Both parties will exchange their documents and ask written questions through their attorneys. These are called interrogatories.Interrogatories are answered under a sworn oath. You must be truthful. You will probably be asked about your own statements, your witnesses and their statements, as well as any other facts related to your case.
The other side has the right to examine any documents you plan to use in the case. Your attorney will handle these document requests.
 Once interrogatories and document exchanges are complete, you will have to give a deposition. A deposition is a statement, sworn under oath, that is given in front of a court reporter who records everything you say. Depositions are always "on the record." Your attorney will help prepare you for your deposition. In general, though, there are two rules to remember:Don't guess at anything. If you don't know something, just say "I don't know" or "I cannot speculate about that." Guessing in a deposition can get you into trouble.
Never give more information than is asked for. It's tempting to launch into a long-winded defense of yourself. However, this is generally a bad idea, as it's a prime way for the other party's attorney to try to trap you into a contradictory statement. Answer questions with only the information requested. Don't volunteer more information than is asked for unless your attorney has coached you otherwise.
 If the defendant contacts you or your attorney and asks to resolve or settle the matter, consider your options. Talk with your attorney about your chances of winning the suit, and the possibility of obtaining a settlement from the defendant that you are happy with.Going to court can be very expensive. Sometimes the jury does not decide in your favor even if you are the correct party.
Additionally, sometimes the money that you are awarded by a jury is less than you wanted or expected.
Generally, settle the case if you can to save time and money. You'll have a better chance of recovering monetary damages.
 ADR involves any method of resolving a legal dispute other than litigation.The two most common forms of ADR are mediation and arbitration.


Mediation uses a trained individual to mediate negotiations between both parties. It can be very successful and is widely used to work out settlements amenable to both parties.Arbitration is a simplified version of a court trial. Rather than a judge or jury, your case will be decided by an arbitration panel, who are chosen by both parties. The process of discovery (investigation) and evidence presentation are streamlined. These hearings usually only last for a few days or weeks., If you decide not to settle, mediate, or arbitrate, you will have to proceed to a court trial. At trial, both parties will present their evidence to prove their case. The ultimate decision will be up to a judge and/or jury.You may have the option to choose between a bench trial and a jury trial. In a bench trial, only a judge hears the evidence and makes a ruling. In a jury trial, the jury is responsible for making the decision.
A judge or jury can decide a slander suit based on many factors. However, because slander cases involve spoken statements, courts are likely to be very protective of the defendant due to a concern to preserve First Amendment free speech rights., Your attorney should have the expertise you need to win your suit. Defamation suits involve a lot of investigation, as well as other things such as jury selection. Allow your attorney to do his or her job.
 If your case goes to trial, you should be prepared to testify to your side of the case in court. Your attorney will prepare you to testify.


Don't guess about information.You are under oath to tell the truth, so don't speculate. As in the deposition, say you don't know if you're asked a question you can't answer.
Don't give your opinion of the other party. This can damage your credibility and could even the other party grounds for a defamation suit of their own. Stick only to the facts.Keep calm. You may be very angry, but keep your cool while testifying. Outbursts or retaliatory statements can convince the judge and/or jury that you should not recover damages.

