 There are some extras called 'Stamps' that you can get while you are there. The program is 9.3 megs and the 'Stamps' are 27 megs. For a dial-up, this is a substantial time commitment. You can start it at night so that you can download it while you are sleeping.


There is an *.exe file that you can download and a *.zip file. Choose whichever you prefer.
While the software is free, the website is set up for donations, if you are so inclined.;
, You will want to decide how and where to save them (the program saves the files as *.png), among many other things.
 The icons in this program are intentionally large to make it easier for children to use.
 The 17 colors on the bottom are for you and/or your child to choose from. If the color you desire is not showing, you can click on the 18th color (surrounded by a spectrum of colors) and choose a color from there.
 On the right side of the desktop, you will see a pink bar with an arrow in it. There are more tool options to be found when you see that.


Paint

Make sure that you have the color that you want and then pick out the brush that you want. Then start coloring in the open area with whatever you have chosen.


Stamp

The stamps that are contained in the add-in are extensive and very high quality. Basically, with stamps, you are painting with pictures, and this alone can keep a child very amused!
There are quite a few stamps that come with the stamp add-in. However, this program gives you the opportunity to make your own stamps out of photographs that you might have.There is a 'function' on the lower right of the desktop, above the colors that looks like a volume display. That will increase and decrease the size of your stamps.
With some of the stamps, the program will say the name of the stamp.


Lines

The lines work by clicking on one end and then clicking again where you want it to end. As per most of the tools, you can change colors at any point.


Shapes

There are eight shapes to choose from and two forms of each. The outline of the shape and a filled in version.


Text

Click wherever you want the text. By clicking on the pink bar, you can see smaller and smaller size and types of fonts. Try experimenting with them.


Magic

This is one of the functions that provide some fun. There are many functions on this tool, a total of 29. Things like rainbow, light, grass, and the most fun of all, the kaleidoscope. You may find yourself kicking the child out of the computer chair!
Another really fun 'thing' that you can do with Tux Paint's Magic is 'grow flowers'!


Undo
Redo
Eraser
New
Open
Save

Your file is saved to the /Application Data/Tux Paint/ folder in Windows.


Print

You can print to your computer, or even put them on some type of portable media, and have a picture printed out at any of the media developing places that you will find. Target, Walmart, Kmart, just to name a few.


Quit

,