 The Gospel is not some interpretations of modern thought formed to fit some ones opinions about the truth, without really believing the essence of it.


This does not imply that any one certain denomination or church is more desirable or more needed, but be sure that they teach the truth without avoiding some important, biblical doctrines, ignoring or denying them.
They may believe that it is good to present the teachings of Christ as ideals (goals) and present in the fatherhood of God or the brotherhood of believers with Christ as nice axioms and patterns for conduct, but do not believe that God is real.
 Of course, this requires that you are able to decide as:


the individual parent being responsible for your children,
or that you have attained the age of responsibility for your own conduct, to and for the Gospel.
 It matters little if they may be virtually untrained and may be natural leaders, or trained teachers, counselors or psychologists; none that is crucial.



Do not be surprised if Satan may appear in the guise of an "angel of light",(2 Corinthians 11:14) to mislead/lead believers and unbelievers, an impostor (assumes an identity or title for the purpose of deception) with bright ideas that come from misunderstanding or twisting the Bible and teaching a new gospel.
The more skilled they are in training or leadership skills--then the more easily they may just adapt the teachings of the church to be a livelihood, as an occupation, much like teaching or being a helper type without depth of profound belief.
 The Bible says from such ones turn away. So are you aware that some are nominal "Christians" (in name only; it is good, but is not Truth to them).


Such people may not be Christians in the sense of believing in salvation and then do not believe in the "Death and Resurrection of the Jesus" for example.
One idea is to see whether they believe in being "born again as Christians." That is biblical. Jesus said, "You must be born again." That is meaning that God gives you a new understanding and a new life as part of the Gospel.
The Bible describes persons who oppose the teachings of the Gospel, as presenting a different Gospel, and the Bible says if they change the Gospel to a lie, then let them be accursed. You don't curse them.;
, A church does not need to be large. Jesus said, "Where two or three gather in my name and agree then there I will be in their midst."

, The works of Satan include confusion. Avoid arguments that you can not win at the unsatisfactory church, but find a biblical teaching church.
 Rebellion against the Truth of the Gospel as found in the Bible is described in the Bible as a form of "witchcraft." They may use tricks of persuasion, or seemingly special understandings of ideas, to lead people into something other than the Gospel of the Bible. That is rebellion in this sense.


The communal style of life was not practiced in the cities of the early Christian world other than Jerusalem where they decided to stay together to support each other, and to be safe. The early Christians in Jerusalem banded together and had all things in common. The other cities of the Christian world kept a more regular form of existence and met publicly or in secret if necessary...
Some people use the Jerusalem church as a reason and example to preach and establish "Christian" communes, and they may end by forming some off-branch or off-shoot off Christianity or a messianic kind of leadership within a cult. Why -- because such leaders don't integrate traditional Christianity with their socialism.

Read about or remember the Jim Jones cult lead by a "rebellious" preacher who went so far as to leave the USA to lead his cult. They adopted a communal way of life in which he could and did control their welfare and retirement income. He regulated children, husband and wives. He did not conserve and keep the Gospel simple.
 Also of yourselves shall men arise, speaking perverse things, to draw away disciples...(Acts 20:28-30).
 Until recently babies in the womb were known as just that: babies... But church leaders who do not keep traditional family sacred include those e.g.:


redefining the family and in a sense using it as a convenience for promoting their nontraditional interpretations and
redefining the traditional marriage from that which has been recognized for thousands of years, plus
advocating destroying the unborn child as a form of birth control called a woman's right of choice or abortion (killing unborn babies in the womb or even halfway birthed, called partial birth abortion) which may be "liberal court ordered law, so that they legalize terminating the life of the unborn."(Roe v. Wade)

, (Hebrews 2:8-10) Also we are instructed to be baptized which is celebration and a symbol of death and your rebirth in Christ, and Christ in you.

