 Are you homophobic and that is why you are having a hard time with your friend's sexual orientation? Are you afraid of being made fun of for having a gay friend? These are all questions you need to contemplate in order to continue your friendship.


One of the central questions you need to ask yourself is: Do you care about your friend to the point where you value your relationship? If the answer is yes, then it is important for you to continue working on your relationship.
Sometimes straight people who have a friend of the same sex who comes out as gay are worried that their friend will now be attracted to them. Realize that this is the same as having straight friends that are members of the opposite sex. Not every gay person of the same sex will be attracted to you, just as not every member of the opposite sex will be attracted to you.
 It is not your friend's job to educate you about the issues you are facing. She has enough on her plate dealing with the effects of coming out.


You should seek out information on reliable sources on the internet or in books on the subject.
You can also talk to other people who have dealt with the same issue.
 You should not force your friend to help you accept him. He has enough to deal with already. Instead, see if there's a local chapter of PFLAG (Parents, Families and Friends of Lesbians and Gays), which may help you find answers and other people with gay friends or family members.You may also wish to talk to a professional counselor or therapist or someone that you trust. If you choose a mental health professional that is accepting of LGBT identity, they can help you understand and move through your feelings. They may even be able to help you accept your friend's sexual orientation.


If you choose a mental health professional that is accepting of LGBT identity, they can help you understand and move through your feelings. They may even be able to help you accept your friend's sexual orientation.
You can also talk to your religious leader or others who share your beliefs. This can be especially helpful for someone who is having a hard time keeping their religious faith while also supporting their friend.
 Just because your friend is attracted to people of the same sex does not change your mutual interests or the memories you've shared. It's important to keep this in mind when working to keep the friendship alive and when reassuring your friend that your relationship is still important and strong.
 Is your friendship worth potentially being made fun of? Are you willing to stand up against someone bullying your friend? Are you confident enough with your own sexuality to have a friend whose sexuality is different from you? If your relationship is important you will need to do some work on yourself in order to keep your friendship strong during this new phase.


Consider making a pro and con list. Just write down everything you're afraid of for the cons, and everything good that would happen for the pros. Discuss this list with your therapist or counselor so that each issue can be addressed individually.
If you are having a hard time accepting your friend's sexuality then this may just mean that you stay friends by you keep your distance. If you love your friend but you cannot accept her sexual orientation then you should probably just keep your thoughts to yourself.

