 Before you give any medication to your cat, you should talk to your veterinarian first. Your veterinarian will examine your cat and determine the best course of treatment for his/her condition. If medication is required, your veterinarian will prescribe it and explain how to administer it to your cat. Ask if you are unsure about any of the instructions.Ask your veterinarian for a demonstration. If you will be giving your cat pills without food, you may benefit from a demonstration by your veterinarian. Before you leave the vet’s office, ask if he or she can demonstrate how to give the medication to your cat. That will allow you to see the process and ask any questions that you have at the time.
If your cat is sick, do not attempt to diagnose your cat yourself. Take him to see a veterinarian as soon as possible.
Never give medicine to your cat that was prescribed for a human, a different cat, or another pet.;
, Before you administer the medication to your cat, read the instructions carefully and make sure that you understand them. If you have any questions or concerns about the medication, call your cat’s veterinarian.Some questions you may want to ask your veterinarian include:


What time should the medication be given?
Should the medication be given with or without food?
How should the medication be given? By mouth? By injection?
Can I crush the medication?
What are the potential side effects of this medication?
How do I keep myself safe when administering the medication? Should I wear gloves?

, Before you give your cat the medicine, make sure that you are clear on the best way to give the medication. If you are able to give your cat his medicine with food, that will be the easiest and most pleasant method for both of you.With Food If the medication can be taken by mouth with food, then your best option is to use Pill Pockets or another type of food that your cat likes. You may need to experiment with different types of food before you find something that your cat really likes.

Without Food If your cat needs to take his medication on an empty stomach, you will need to use a pill syringe or carefully place the pill in your cat’s mouth while you restrain him. If you need to administer a liquid medicine, you will need to use a medicine dropper to put the medicine into your cat’s mouth while you restrain him.

