 No one can tell you how many times an airsoft sniper will go head over heels on his role, knowing nothing about it, and end up getting frustrated, and either leave airsoft entirely, or get a new weapon. Try using an AEG on semi auto only for a while, see how you like it, and if it suits your play style more, then maybe look into buying or making a ghillie suit, and switching to a rifle such as a Maruzen, Tokyo Marui, or Tanaka. Clones (UTG/WELL/BE/AWP) more than often are made in such mass produced numbers that quality will almost always lack, and the 470 FPS that you see with a .2 will wear down to around 410 FPS with a .2 after around 500 shots. Visit online forums for more information on upgrades.;
, They cost about 25-100 dollars. You might want to invest your money in a sidearm as they generally do not cost much and are very handy when you get into a cornered up situation. Nothing is worse than having your position recognized and get charged by the enemy with nothing to defend you but your rifle. A pistol and a holster are recommended. While spring is better for a sniper rifle a side arm needs to be at least semi-auto. If your side arm is a fully or semi automatic then you need to bring an adequate amount of ammunition (Usually 2-3 magazines depending on magazine capacity) with you and still have enough for your rifle. This is because it is embarrassing to have all of your side arms filled and ready, wait two hours, see your target and pull the trigger, then hear the always glorious sound of nothing but air come out of your rifle.
 FPS is not very important, as long as it is at least has 300 FPS. Its not bad to have a high FPS though. You should get airsoft bbs, depending on how many FPS your sniper rifle has. Normally heavier bbs are better than light bbs, due to the fact that heavier bbs will give you more accuracy in normal weather and windy weather.
A spring pistol with at least 275 FPS is good with .20 gram bbs since you'll use them at close range.
 Research your gun's statistics as much as possible. Spend a good amount of time getting to know your gun, and how the shots react under different conditions (wind, temperature etc). Fiddle with the hop up setting on your gun (if it has one) and find where you like it positioned most. Take a while to get to know your guns' unique shots and practice with them all the time. Learn your gun's maximum effective range; that is, the range it'll still be accurate at.
 Usually all airsoft snipers think that they'll be getting more kills than anyone on the field, when in reality, they usually get the least. Also, sniping might sometimes even be boring. Often, you find yourself sitting under a pile of branches and waiting for an enemy to show up (depending on the game). Know that observation and sabotage are your main friends in the field, your rifle only serves as a tool to help you in your various roles needed on the field as directed by your commander or squad leader.
 There are literally thousands of aftermarket parts for airsoft sniper rifles. Depending on your rifle there could be hundreds of upgrades you could do. Some upgrades can include getting a more powerful spring, getting a better scope (if you choose to have one), or even simply a paint job to help it better blend in to your surroundings.
 The bb of choice should also have a heavier weight than most (such as a .43g bb). Brands such as Bioval, Maruzen, Madbull (heavies), and Goldenball are ideal.
Components that help improve your compression are next up. To start off, test your compression by placing your finger over the nozzle of the cylinder head. Fire the action and if the air leaks out, you need to improve compression. Start off fixing your compression by adding teflon tape to the threads of your cylinder head. Next, replacing your piston with one from a reputable brand will help. Other things to help compression is wrapping teflon tape between your bucking and inner barrel. There are also custom made rings that go over the bucking to provide 100% airseal. Contact Noobie and ASR for more information.
Replace your stock barrel with a precision inner barrel. This should be done before any fps mods or upgrades are done. Brands such as Laylax, EDGI, and PDI are regarded as the best. If available (as it is for the vsr-10), replace your hopup bucking.
Reinforcement. This should be done with major fps upgrades. Reinforcement parts include bolt handles, new cylinders, retaping screws, and new screws.
 Leapers(c) make decent entry level airsoft scopes (Remember in airsoft you don't need and $1200 tactical scope). A 3-9x40scope is a classic choice at around $40. But, keep in mind that many actual snipers only use a 4x32 scope, and try to get a scope with adjustable parallax.The more you zoom with a scope, the less accuracy you will have. Bipods are extremely helpful in assisting with accuracy and also they are great for sustaining a stable shooting position for long amounts of time. You can also make field expedient bipods/rests from branches, sticks and other natural features.
 This will hide you from enemies and opposing snipers. Make sure it is comfortable because you will be wearing it for a while. A ghillie suit should be made of generic colours, brown, lighter brown, some green might help. The long strips are handy for tying in natural elements of your surroundings. For instance, if you are in the woods, pick up some sticks and leaves from the forest floor, and tie them on to your suit (the webtex concealment vest is perfect for natural camo). Use enough that you will blend in, but use variety. Also, try to stay in the same type of terrain from your start point to your objective ,otherwise, you must adapt your camo to your changing surroundings.
 Only high-polish BBs will do, others will ruin high-performance sniper rifle barrels and internals. Biodegradable BB's are expensive, and are usually lower quality than normal BB's. Your ammo should weigh at least 0.25 grams, .30 gram or heavier is recommended for maximum accuracy. Remember: Higher weight equals higher accuracy and lower FPS, but heavier BB's carry more kinetic energy for longer distances.
 We suggest practicing the art of stealth at night with your friends(teammates) by trying to sneak back to safe zone undetected. If you are caught you have been captured, therefore you are finished. Alternate between teams, once you are familiar with your guns. Move slow and be sure to watch the enemy. This is the most important step! You must take the time to study your environment. Instead of seeing things as trees or bushes, think of them as a good hiding place or a fallback point. Also, watch which way the wind is blowing. If you are in a grassy field and the wind is blowing south, move south. It will better camouflage your movements. If you are leading a large or maybe a even small group of snipers make the escape route known to all members of the group.
 You may not always get along with your comrades, but when you see one in trouble, help out unless you are in a key position and firing will reveal your location.
 You must know how to snipe in woods and open fields. When you are going to wait for a long period of time, make sure you are in a position that doesn't put much strain on individual muscles. It is not worth it to be detected just so you can stretch your arms or legs. Also, become familiar with changing your ghillie suit to adapt to terrain.  This means it would help making your own ghillie suit and before you start grab some of the terrain from the field.
 Make mental notes of good sniping positions, good observation points, and well covered areas for a retreat, this is very important.
 Nothing is more frustrating then realizing you’re going to be overwhelmed because you had no idea how big the other team was. More than likely you will see them in the safe zone. Use this time to find out more about them.
 Be patient. You may only be able to move a couple feet a minute. Set up an ambush or pick off advancing enemies. The best position for a sniper is the prone position, which keeps you hidden the most. However crouching is an alternative in very dense areas. Standing up is when you are a more obvious target. Don't reveal your whole silhouette, profiles are harder to see.


Don't be afraid to get dirty! Lay on your belly under a bush or crouch on a low hanging branch with lots of leaves. Poke your gun out of the bush. It is better to have some cover rather than none.
 If you are on a deep strike mission (picking off an enemy commander from behind their lines), always know your way out. If you don't, the enemies will hear your shot and hunt you down. (They might not, because this is airsoft). When you set up an area to shoot from, try to have at least two routes of escape. Make sure both have cover should your opposition catch up.
 Take one or two shots and then move on. NEVER STAY IN ONE POSITION FOR A LONG PERIOD OF TIME unless you are waiting to ambush or trap. But again, stay low on your belly. A sniper should only move when there is assurance of no hostile operatives in the area, and even when he moves, he should move avoiding any detectable changing of position. Crawl with your fingers and toes, not elbows and knees, or any way you see fit. Be patient this might be painfully slow. When you crawl, keep your heels together, and move your toes to go forward. This is known as the sniper low crawl. Never use a crawl higher than the infantry mans low crawl

, When you see something that wasn't there before, get down, pull out your binoculars(if you have any), and take a closer look.
 Learn which shots to take. For instance try to take out high priority targets such as Commanders, VIPs, etc.
 Silicon spray is useful for a full on clean, don't just spray it down the barrel. After you finish spraying, use a cleaning rod and cloth to clean it off. Using rubbing alcohol will also clean out your inner barrel more effectively than silicon spray.
 Remember to know your teammates and what position they are. Nothing is more embarrassing than taking out your own teammate because you thought that you didn't have a support gunner.
 Keep a close eye on your prey and remember the rule of the sniper is to spot them before they spot you.
 Few airsofters realize the importance of stealth when returning from a mission. In airsoft, there is no such thing as a safe zone. Everywhere is a hostile situation, and should be treated as thus. As a sniper, no shot is easier than enemy units returning to their home base (Note that this is two way. While you want to avoid being an easy target while returning home, try setting up near an enemy base, and shoot the patrols as they return)., When in the safe zone, look for important targets and memorize what they are wearing, what gun they are using.
,
Be careful to not move because it is very easy to spot a moving sniper or walking bush. Remember you need patience.
If you need to move, move slowly. About a foot per minute.

If you only spot one target, wait until you have a clear shot and take him down.
,
If they are more than 100 feet (30.5 m). away try to quick hide after going around a corner and take out your pistol.
If they are closer try to escape them by running around a lot of corners and going over obstacles to try to slow them down.
,