 Mapping is the method used by experienced players to explore the area using multiple maps and Item Frames to mark and record their surroundings. On the PC, this method tends to use up a bunch of Redstone and Iron Ingots in the process to make the maps, which means you need to have a stockpile of both resources ready before attempting this.
 This is a very useful feature currently available only in the PC edition. Zooming out your map gives you a wider scope of the area around you for less resources. You can zoom out a single map four times, for a total of 40 sheets of paper and a total area of 2048 square blocks (128 chunks).


To zoom out your map, place it in the middle of the crafting table’s grid, then surround it with Paper. You can repeat this three more times for a single map.
 Since you can use multiple maps on the PC and you can’t map out the same area using maps with different numbers, once you reach an area outside the “borders” of your first map, you can just use another map to help you scout out the area. Since there are no map overlaps, this is pretty convenient, as long as you remember what order your maps are arranged in.
 When you place a map in an Item Frame, the location of the frame is marked out in green in a map of the same number you’re holding and its counterpart in the frame. This can be used both in the console and PC edition, but is more useful for the PC when you have multiple maps.


The Item Frame is made with 8 Sticks and 1 Leather on a crafting table. Place the Leather in the middle of the grid then surround it with the Sticks. Any item can be placed into the Frame, normally as a display.
Items placed in the frame can be rotated manually by pressing right-click or LT/L2, or via timed redstone signals.
You can only “link” one frame per map, meaning you can’t have multiple frames of the same map in the same world.
 This is an extension of the Item Frame step and is dominantly a PC-only method, due to the Console’s inability to let you generate multiple individually numbered maps. Basically, you lay out an array of framed maps in order into a dedicated wall of your base’s room, and slowly add to it the more areas you explore. You can also note some noteworthy finds or locations on a sign below or beside each map in your base.


You can do a modified version of this method in the console by simply placing signs with some noteworthy details and locations surrounding your singular framed map.

