 Liz has very layered hair that is straight yet a little wavy. Some good advice is to take a picture of her to your hairdresser and get it cut that way. You don't have to dye your hair dark red like hers. Remember, no one said you had to look exactly like Liz, you could dye it light brown maybe or auburn if you wanted, or just not even dye it at all. Try wearing really really sloppy ponytails and buns, but it'll take time to perfect the Liz sloppy ponies!;
, Liz wears very natural colors except for lipstick. Try browns and greys, but she does sometimes wear light pink and gold. She also wears her glasses. So, if you have bad vision but you never wear your glasses, try wearing them a little more.
 Liz always seems to have on a pair of Nike high and low dunks all the time. Now, for some reason these shoes are insanely expensive so try getting a couple pairs that are on sale. And try to get a pair of moccasins, too. She is somewhere between indie, tomboy, and a hint of girlie so get a pair if you want. And Liz hates high heels. She once said in an interview that she thinks their torture and would never do that to herself. But you aren't her, so add anything you want to your new style because remember Liz likes to be different and unique, too.


Center of outfit. Liz said in an interview that she centers her outfits around her shoes. So if you have purple shoes on one day, center your outfit around the color purple!

, Now, Liz doesn't like to buy things expensive so she has said before she mostly shops and thrift stores and at smaller stores that you will find in the mall and have lots of accessories and jewelry.
 Liz wears necklaces that are knotted and she has a cute little golden locket she wears and sometimes even lets it hang open. She doesn't wear earrings a lot but when she does she wears these silver dangly ones that look like leaves. She has two pairs of Ray Bans sunglasses, she has a red pair and a yellow/white pair. She also has those beanies that slouch in the back and she has a bright yellow flat bill hat.
 Now, Liz is really skinny. But she's not anorexic. She probably just has a high metabolism and a small bone frame. If you think you're too big, go on a diet and exercise. But you don't have to, if you like your body the way it is then don't go on a diet. Try doing things that no one does, like wear your jacket around your waist or not use like in every sentence! She is very different and cute.
, Liz seems to layer almost every outfit! She wears vests over t-shirts and one time in an episode she was wearing a sweater vest over a plaid shirt. Try to think outside the box with what you pick to wear. Also try different color combinations, like orange on top of purple or blue and green...things that pop.
