 Cramps are caused when blood vessels constrict and the muscles of the uterus tighten, and heat helps alleviate both of those problems.Place a heating pad or hot water bottle over your lower abdomen. You can also take a hot shower or soak in a hot bath.


A nice hot bath is a good time to use aromatherapy or essential oils for added benefit.;
, Getting physical can ease menstrual cramps by improving blood flow and releasing endorphins, your body’s natural “feel-good” chemical.Really intense exercise may be overdoing it if you’re cramping, so try a light activity like taking a brisk 30 minute walk daily, doing a light jog or bike ride, or trying dance movement therapy.People who are generally more active can probably tolerate more intense exercise like longer runs, or HIIT (high-intensity interval training).Listen to your body and push yourself as far as is comfortable for you.
 Due to hormones that your body releases when you’re really stressed, emotional and mental stress may actually worsen cramps.Relaxation techniques can help you to feel calmer, reduce those stress hormones, and ease menstrual pain. Try meditation, deep breathing exercises, mindfulness, journaling, listening to music – whatever helps you relax.


The pleasant scents of aromatherapy and incense can have a calming effect, and certain scents like lavender, evening primrose, German chamomile, fennel, and marjoram can be good choices., The mind is notoriously bad at focusing its full attention on more than one thing simultaneously. Rather than lying in bed fully focused on your discomfort, give your brain something else to do. Read a book, do a crossword or Sudoku, work on a jigsaw puzzle, color, get homework done or get ahead for your next work-week. Do something that requires concentration, and your brain will notice your pain less.
 Having an orgasm increases blood flow to the uterus, which helps to diminish cramps. Orgasms also cause your body to release a flood of endorphins, which improve both mood and pain and aid in relaxation., When lying down, prop several pillows or cushions under your knees and ankles to elevate your legs and feet. This will alleviate low back tension and promote blood flow to your abdomen.


You can also lie in “fetal position,” on your side with your knees drawn into your chest. This pose also helps with low back pain, and gently massages your abdomen and internal organs.