 shoulder-length, wavy (blue) hair.


If you have naturally wavy hair, your hair already resembles Michiru's. If your hair is a different style, you may want to curl it with a curling iron, wear curlers for the night, or sleep in braids or a bun.
Take care of your hair, though! Michiru's hair is smooth and soft - be careful not to dry out your hair or make it too greasy with products. Stay as natural as possible.
Michiru often wears a plain dark headband in her hair. When she swims, she ties her hair back into a loose bun with a ribbon. If you like hair accessories, you may want to invest in simple headbands and bobby pins and maybe ribbons.;
, She is nearly always seen in flowy dresses and pleated skirts, the hems of which strike just above or on the knee. She wears headbands in her wavy hair and ribbons when she swims. She owns an elegant white trench-coat, and several different feminine bathing suites.


Choose feminine pieces. Wear light, flowy, knee-length (or slightly above-the-knee, but definitely not too revealing) skirts. Michiru wears skirts of a solid print, but wear whatever print you like, as long as it compliments you and your outfit. Wear clean and pretty blouses.
Invest in a coat that you like. Michiru owns a classy white trench coat.
Michiru wears elegant black flats, small heels, or lace-up sandals with solid-coloured tights or light socks.
When she swims, Sailor Neptune wears one of her several girly one-piece swimming suits. Some are frilly, while others hold a more strict but equally feminine and pretty design. Invest in a bathing suit you like.
Overall, Michiru's style is very pretty, elegant and modest.
 This of course means that she maintains great grades. Study hard for exams, complete homework, and make good grades! Read interesting, intelligent books, and take interest in many things. Michiru is obviously very well-read and intelligent. In one episode, she told Sailor Moon of an interesting historical fact and in another she explains who Mozart is. Each time, she shows great knowledge of dates and facts. Take note of things you learn that interest you.
 She plays the violin in many concerts and her paintings are exhibited in museums. Most importantly of all, she holds great passion for these arts, and pours her heart and soul into her work. If you love art, sketch, paint, and draw. If you love to dance, put your effort into that. Practice and do your best to achieve success. Expand your artistic side and show dedication in what you love, be it music, art, dance, writing, or theater.
 She has a very serene and kind soul, and shows great care for the people she loves.


Be kind to your friends, parents, and anyone else you encounter. Take care of the people you love.
Be sensitive and consider how others feel. Michiru is very insightful and considerate: think about other people and analyze situations.
Michiru loves children and younger kids. She thinks them cute! Show affection for little children, and take care of them. Michiru is very maternal and kind. She always smiles and comments on how kind people. And she gave away a goldfish she caught to a little kid.
 However, always try to maintain her serene personality and keep your cool.
 Maintain an air of lightness and serenity.
 Indulge in intelligent and interesting things. Sailor Moon things Michiru is almost princess-like!


Try to learn about classical music and famous artists and painters.
Attend classical concerts and go see exhibits that you find interesting in museums.
Read interesting books on different subjects by good authors.
Develop your own personal taste by learning about different things.
Maintain good manners and stay polite and friendly.
Keep a good posture.

