 Cut out four bunny ear shapes. These will form the arms. Sew two pieces together using a machine or a basic stitch of your choice to form each one of the arms. Leave a slit at the end open for stuffing.
 Repeat the previous step bit with slightly larger shapes to make the legs. You can adjust the shape of the leg to get your bear to look or sit differently.
 Draw a profile (side-view) of the head that you want for your bear. Cut out two pieces in this shape. Next, stitch them together from the neck up to the nose.
 Cut the gusset, or middle piece, to go between the two head pieces you already cut and sewed. Draw out a shape like a men's tie and make it long enough to reach between the point of the nose, all the way around to the back of the neck. You will need to line it up at the neck and pin it in place before sewing.
 Once you've drawn and cut out the shape, sew the gusset into place between the existing head pieces.
 Now you'll need to make the body pieces. Start with two pieces of fabric cut into rectangles. Now, make rounded cutouts at each of the corners. Sew the sides together, along the long edges, so that you end up with a sort of tube. Now, sew one of the short edges closed, leaving the circle cutouts open. The arms and legs will be joined to the body at the circles.
 Using a pencil can help. Turning the pieces hides the seams you made.
 Pre-stuff the head and sew it to the top of the body piece, at the open, short end.









Some stuffing may leak out into the body. That's okay.
 Now, sew on both of the arms at the upper circular cutouts. Attach one of the legs in a similar way, but leave the last leg off. Stuff the bear with filling and then sew on the last leg.
 Cut ears out, making a shape like a half circle. Fold the shape in half and then attach the ears to the head.
 Add facial details (like a nose and mouth) with embroidery floss or buttons.
 Now you can sew on his eyes. Use buttons if you want to or buy stuffed animal eyes from your local craft store.









Embroidered eyes are better for smaller kids who tend to put every thing in their mouth.
 Have fun taking care of your new stuffed animal or give him to someone you love as a gift.








