 Many people give up alcohol in January to shed some weight and improve their overall health. If this is part of your dry January goal, give yourself some physical challenges. Having physical goals will distract you from drinking and the endorphins you gain from exercise can help replace the high you feel from alcohol.Set a goal beyond your current fitness abilities. For example, if you can run about 10 minutes without getting winded, try increasing your running time to 15 minutes, then 20 minutes, and so on.
If you're dedicated to a fitness goal, your energy will go towards that. This will make it easier to avoid thinking about alcohol. You will also have less desire to drink, as you likely won't want to sabotage your fitness goals by overindulging in booze.;
, Many people enjoy the taste of a particular type of alcohol or cocktail. You do not have to go back to alcoholic beverages to satisfy cravings. Look in to making your own alcoholic cocktails or ordering alcohol free beverages at bars.You can mix things like juice, bitters, and seltzer water to create imitations of drinks like Old Fashions and Gin and Tonics. Think about what flavors you crave and try to replicate them. For example, if you love mimosas for brunch, try mixing flavored seltzer water with orange juice to satisfy the craving.
You can purchase alcohol free wine and beer at the grocery store.
If you're going out to a bar for a social event, plan your drinks in advance. Many bars have menus online that list alcohol-free drinks or cocktails. Find something you can treat yourself to that does not contain booze., Many people lean on alcohol for entertainment. If you often have a few drinks to pass the time, find other ways to entertain yourself.Join a class. You can try a cooking class, improv class, painting class, or another class that interests you. The money you'll save on alcohol can be put towards educating yourself.
Take up a hobby you've neglected. If you used to sew but don't anymore, get back into that.
 Many people enjoy seeing all the Oscar nominations before February. Try to focus your attention towards seeing plenty of movies in January. Instead of gong out to the bars with friends, plan a movie night.Keep in mind, some theaters do serve alcohol on certain nights of the week. Try to avoid these kinds of theaters to stay on track with your goals.
 Staying busy can keep you away from alcohol. Many people see January as a time to reorganize and change their lifestyle. If there are any projects or errands you've been putting off, indulge in these instead of drinking.Think about anything you've been meaning to do but haven't. Maybe there's a drawer in your bedroom that needs reorganizing. Maybe you've been meaning to finally figure out a budget to pay off your credit card.
Use January as an opportunity to sit down and figure out these things instead of indulging in alcohol.

