 Open your Internet browser, click the search link, and type in www.gmail.com then press Enter on your keyboard. This will bring you to the Gmail home page where you will be asked to sign in.;
, Click on the e-mail address box and enter your e-mail address; click on the password box below it and enter your password. After entering both information, click on the “Sign In” button located below your information.
 Once you are logged in, you will notice the word “Google” at the top left of the screen. Below that is the word “Gmail”; click on it to make a three-item drop-down list appear. The second option down is Contacts; click this option.
 Your list of contacts should now be shown. Scroll through your contacts until you find the one you want to add a picture to. Click on the name and a new screen will pop up.
 On top of this blank picture is the caption “Add a picture”; click on this to continue.
 Once you click on “Add a picture,” a window will pop up. You now have 4 different options for the profile picture of your contact:


The first option is “Upload.” This is how you upload a picture from your computer. You can either drag the picture from a folder directly onto the screen to add it or click on “Select a photo from your computer.” Selecting a photo from your computer is as easy as clicking the button, browsing your files until you find a picture, and clicking on it.
Option two is “Your photos.” If you click on this, all of your current photos will pop up. You can click on one of them if you want to use it as a contact photo.
The third option is “Profile photo.” This option will mirror their contact photo to that of their Google+. You can select this option by clicking on it. If they do not have a Google+, it will tell you so.
The final option is “No photo.” This is for if you do not want them to have a profile picture at all. Simply click on the option if you do not want your contact to have a picture.
 When you are finished, click the blue “Set as contact photo” button on the window with the options; it will confirm the changes and save.


This is all you need to do to change your contacts profile picture!

