 Standing tall with your arms and legs spread out wide will help you to feel more confident. This type of dominant pose also reduces cortisol and increases testosterone, which will add to your confidence. Take a moment to duck into bathroom stall or empty room and power pose for a minute before you need to walk confidently., Occupying more space will make you seem larger and more confident to others. Use your arms and legs to claim more of the territory around you.When you are standing, place your hands on your hips and stand with your legs about shoulder width apart.
When you are sitting, lean back and stretch your legs out in front of you and rest one or both arms on the backs of the seats next to you. If there is a table or desk in front of you, you can place your arms on the table and spread them out and away from your body., A hunched appearance projects a lack of confidence. Instead, walk straight and tall to seem confident. As you walk, keep your shoulders back and lift up your chin slightly.


Test your posture by holding a pencil in each hand and making a fist. Let your arms fall loosely at your sides. If the pencils face inward (towards you), then you are hunching your shoulders. Shift your shoulders back until the pencils face forward to see how your ideal posture should be while you walk.
 Directing your body towards the person you are talking to demonstrates your respect for them as well as interest in what they have to say, but it also contributes to an appearance of confidence. People who lack confidence may find it harder to face other people directly during a conversation., Fidgeting makes you look nervous and uncomfortable, which makes you seem like you lack confidence. Train yourself to keep still when you are standing or sitting.If you are standing, place your hands on your hips or hold something in one or both of your hands. You can hold a mug, clipboard or notepad, a pen, or something else that is appropriate for your situation. Just make sure that you don’t fidget with the object.
If you are seated, firmly plant your hands on the arms of a chair or on top of a table. Just remind yourself not to tap your fingers on the table.