 A song has more potential for popularity if it has multiple people working on it, probably another member of the band. This will help knock down bad ideas before the audience does, and will start the song out already having multiple fans. Also, band members will be more excited about playing the song if they had a part in its creation and were able to contribute their own unique musical inclinations.
 Focus not on a general message, but on a nebulous theme. Although it may sound ridiculous, many hit rock songs do not have clear messages or meanings to them. Think of five famous rock songs. At least one of them probably does not have a point or clear meaning. For three famous examples, Bohemian Rhapsody, Bold as Love, and Stairway to Heaven. All of these were hit songs, yet the message is very unclear, vague. This is an important part of writing the lyrics to the song, so that listeners may interpret the meaning to fit their own contexts. Letting listeners use their imagination and think while they listen is great. Use words that people like to hear, cool words eg."Love", "Colors", "Heaven", and "Nothing really matters", "Dust in the Wind", "Ocean Waves". Talk about someone you knew, talk about how you met them, and make it crazy. Talk about how it's going now. But make the whole thing up. If you are writing a hit song, you should know that most listeners will not focus on deep meanings but simply on words or phrases they can sing along too. Be different. People don't like to listen to the same recycled guitar riffs and drum sets, break the barrier, and make music worth listening!

, This doesn't mean the song needs to be fast or slow, but whatever it is, the rhythm needs to be immediately apparent to the listener. Ask any music buff, and they'll tell you that the 3rd verse is where a song changes. If you have 1verse-chorus-2verse-chorus, then people are going to expect something different, or they might change the song! Change it up a bit on the 3rd verse; maybe do a falsetto, or acapella, or a guitar solo, then go back to the familiar chorus. Make is easily recognizable, so when someones hears a friend singing it or it starts on the radio, they will say "Oh! That's ! I love that song!" Boom. Instant, free, advertising. Avoid excessive repeated notes in the melody line. Hit melodies often are sung higher than most people's ranges. The style of the song should be fitting with the band's general style. As far as chord progressions go, you don't need to be creative. Most hit songs do not use creative chord progressions. Two very popular chord relations are I IV V IV and I V VI IV. There is nothing wrong with using these progressions; just make sure you are writing your own song and not copying someone else.
 This is a very important part of the make up of a song, but often overlooked by eager song writers, who might want to play the song without backup. Make sure there is a clear solo instrument that listeners will recognize, such as electric guitar or piano, or even something like whistling or a tribal flute. There should be backup which is always present, but never overpowering. Drums, bass, keyboard, and guitars should all come in at some points in the song, but should never be confused with the solo instrument. If there is too much going on, or multiple instruments soloing, this will confuse and distract listeners, who don't really want to think about the music. Diversify with dynamics, tempos, rhythmic flavors, and reprises. Keep the chorus or tag of the song somewhat consistent throughout.
 Now that the song is written and arranged, it must be practiced to consistency and perfection before it can be introduced. Try out different things, and make sure the band enjoys playing the song. Allow sufficient time for the song to mature.
 In spite of your excitement about your up-and-coming hit song, the time might not yet be right. Maybe the world isn’t ready for genius, or won’t recognize it. Talk with the band’s producer/manager about strategies for making the song come in with a bang. Plan a strategic time during a big home concert to introduce it, and be sensitive to the audience.
 Hand the CD out free at grocery stores, football games, anywhere. Or maybe charge $2.50 so people think your more official than some band that hands out free CDs. Get radio deals. Songs do not become famous by accident. Fame is a result of lots of hard work. Make deals with a label. Make sure fans have access to it. Put it on a Myspace music site, use sites like ] TuneCore to put it on places like iTunes, hand out CDs of your band at Halloween instead of candy, pass out CDs at school, a great thing to do would be to talk to your principal to let your band play at a sporting event like a football game, or at a school assembly. That would be great exposure!

, It won’t become a hit overnight. Be persistent, and if your song doesn’t turn out to be a hit, better luck next time. Record videos of your band performing, and just hanging out and partying. Then release it as a podcast on iTunes or other podcasting services, and tell people about it!

