 Spend some time planning out your meals with a parent or guardian to ensure you have three meals a day, every day. Focus on lunch meals that are easy to transport, pack well, and are filling, but still healthy.Get a dry erase board or use a word processing program to make a grid for Breakfast, Lunch, and Dinner. Then, write the days of the week that you go to school, usually Monday-Friday.
Work with a parent to come up with basic meals for a quick breakfast, a healthy and easy to carry lunch, and a filling dinner.
You can also use an app on your phone like ZipList, Evernote, and Pepper Plate to create a meal schedule and a shopping list for the grocery store., Making your lunch the night before should be part of your routine, and shouldn’t take longer than 30 minutes. If a parent usually packs your lunch, get involved and help him organize the meal and put it in containers or resealable bags.


Use leftover food from dinner or from a big batch of prepared food in a different ways, such as leftover BBQ chicken in a wrap or leftover vegetables on whole wheat pasta.
 Choose restaurants with quick and healthy options. Avoid most fast food restaurants or choose the healthier item if you find yourself at one. Choose salads, wraps, or deli sandwiches.


If your friends have a soft spot for fast food, look for the healthier food choices on the menu, like the vegetarian option or a sandwich with a side of salad instead of french fries.
 Skipping meals signals the metabolism to slow down and burn fewer calories. This is not ideal during a long day of sitting in a classroom. The ideal situation would be to signal the body to ramp up the metabolism and keep it high with healthy, timely snacks throughout the day.
 Get involved in preparing food and working with your parents in the kitchen. Learn how to cut vegetables properly and how to treat raw food. Ask you parents questions about cooking and preparing food so you can practice your cooking skills.As you help prepare meals, think about healthier ways to make certain dishes. For example, baking or steaming fish instead of frying it, or replacing red meat with other protein options like baked tofu.
Helping to cook meals will also allow you to control the portion size on the plates. Limiting your portion sizes to no more than a handful of each dish or type of food will ensure you do not overeat.

