 Water consumption plays an important role in your ability to defecate. When you drink enough water, you will be able to avoid passing stool that is hard and dry, which can make it easier to defecate. Drinking a lot of water also helps to move your stool along the large intestine.


While everyone has different drinking requirements, the average adult woman should try to drink at least 2.2 liters (0.6 US gal) of water a day, while the average adult man should try to drink 3 liters (0.8 US gal) of water a day.;
, Fiber can also be helpful when it comes to treating severe constipation. Fiber helps to bulk up your stool, thereby making it easier for your large intestine to move the stool. Fiber can also help to soften your stools. Try to eat at least 14 grams of fiber for every 1,000 calories of food that you eat.For many men, that means trying to eat at least 30 grams of fiber a day, while women should generally try to eat between 21 and 25 grams a day.Foods that are high in fiber include:


Legumes: Lentils, black beans, lima beans, and split peas.
Vegetables: Green peas, artichoke, turnip greens, broccoli, sweet corn, carrots, and Brussel sprouts.
Fruit: Raspberries, apples, bananas, pears, oranges, and raisins.
 As mentioned in the previous step, eating high amounts of fiber can help to relieve constipation. In particular, prunes are very high in fiber and are often recommended for people who are dealing with constipation because they contain sorbitol, which acts as a natural laxative.One cup of uncooked prunes contain about 12 grams of fiber, while three dried prunes contain 3.9 grams of fiber., Caffeine, which is found in coffee, has bowel-stimulating properties. Drinking a cup of coffee can help you to pass soft and moist stool because coffee increases peristalsis, which prevents the reabsorption of water in fecal matter.This means that your stool is kept soft and well-formed.


Try to drink one cup (eight ounces) of coffee a day, unless told otherwise by your doctor.
 If you are constipated, it is important not to miss the opportunity to pass out stool, if the opportunity arises. If you feel the urge to go to the bathroom, drop everything and go.If you hold your stool in, the large intestine will withdraw more water from the stool, making it hard, dry, and more challenging to pass out.
 Rest both of your feet on this footstool. Doing this will help to elevate your knees above your pelvis. This position helps to facilitate the evacuation of fecal matter by relaxing and opening your anal muscles.
 Having a regular daily pattern may help to prevent and relieve constipation. Try to defecate every morning; take your time and do not rush yourself when sitting on the toilet.
 Exercising may help to relieve and prevent constipation by increasing your intestinal mobility, which means that it helps to stimulate your large intestine to push out stool. Exercising can also help to increase your metabolism, thereby making your digestive system more efficient.If possible, try to exercise 30 minutes a day, five days a week. Exercising can include jogging, swimming, bicycling, rock climbing, and lifting weights.

