 EU countries do not require people from other EU countries to hold a special work or travel visa. Go to eucountrylist.com to double check whether you have an ability to move to the UK without a work visa.;
, Associations like BUNAC sponsor students who are accepted into internships in the UK. They help European, English commonwealth and American workers get set up for a short period of work.


You must be at least 18 years of age and hold a valid passport.
You must be a student. You can be either an undergraduate or graduate level student who has completed at least 1 year of study. You cannot take the internship beyond 12 months after your degree completion.
You must have between $3,000 and $4,000, depending upon if your internship is paid or unpaid, respectively.
Look on the BUNAC website's internship directory, or try to find 1 on your own. If you find an internship, then you should apply for a BUNAC sponsorship. They take applications on their site all year round. Once you secure a sponsorship, they will help you to get the appropriate visa and insurance.
 Go to your IAESTE national office to inquire about open exchanges. This program works similarly to the BUNAC program, except it is sponsored by the British Council.
 If you are from a country outside of the EEA, this Tier 2 visa is the best way for you to secure long-term work in the UK. Once you find a UK job from an international company or online, the employer must be able to prove that they could not find a local candidate.


To prove that they couldn't fill the job domestically, it must have been advertised for at least 28 days in the UK. The employer must prove that UK workers were given first opportunity to fill the job, but they were unable to find a suitable candidate within the country.
Alternatively, the job can be listed on the UK shortage occupation list. This list includes, but is not limited to, engineers, social workers, musicians, chief executives, biological scientists, chefs, nurses and physicists. Visit ukba.homeoffice.gov.uk/sitecontent/documents/workingintheuk/shortageoccupationlistnov11.pdf to peruse the complete list.
This type of visa also applies to inter-company transfers and sportspeople.
 You can live and work for up to 5 years, if you are able to successfully prove this connection. You should apply from outside of the UK and include parent or grandparents' birth certificates, marriage certificates and other documentation in your application.


If you have this history, you should apply for this type of work visa immediately. You will not be able to switch from a different type of visa application to this.
 There are a very limited number of applications granted for industry leaders, investors and other specialized workers. Apply for this visa within the specified deadlines at the UK Home Office website.


Each type of Tier 1 visa requires a different amount of personal funding. Entrepreneurs and investors are required to show proof of a set amount of money in their account.
 A limited number of visa applications are granted for people who want to register a UK branch or work for a broadcasting or newspaper company.
 Depending upon your nationality, you may be able to travel in the UK for 3 to 6 months. You may be required to show you have adequate funds in your account, return ticket and a place to stay.

