 It is an affordable, safe way of travelling, not to mention that it is also a better way of getting in touch with the local people, learn about their way of life and make yourself useful while enjoying a great experience.;
, You are a student or you have just graduated, but you don’t have yet a job? Apply for internships in the country you love. This is a great way of acquiring knowledge, gaining work experience and visiting the country at the same time.
 This is also another affordable way of getting to China and learn about their lifestyle and customs, exchange outlooks with people of your own age.
 Invite people to join you in the trip. Travelling in groups its cheaper and this way you have the chance to meet new and interesting people from all over the world. However, travelling with strangers you know nothing about can be extremely dangerous so think this through before making such a decision.
 What better than making your own arrangements and personalize your trip? This may be a trip you can do once in your lifetime and you should take the most of it.



It can be obtained personally from the Chinese Embassy or Consulate General in your country/area. If you can't do it yourself, you can entrust someone to do this for you. Likewise, travel and visa agencies can handle the visa process for a fee.
There are different types of visas, depending on the purpose for which you want to go to China. There are different visas for the purpose of visiting, working, studying, etc .
Another aspect of the visa is the number of entries: this means how many times the visa bearer can enter to China during the validity of the visa. There are single-entry, double-entry and multiple entry visas.
An extension of the visa can be obtained from local public security authorities above the county level before the duration of stay expires.
, For some areas in China you’ll need a special permit without which you won't be able to get in. Not having one or the wrong one may result in your arrest or deportation out of the country.


A student or work visa bearer must apply for a residence permit at the local public security authorities within 30 days of entry into China.
 If you don't like planning, then let a travel agency do it for you; they usually do all the preparations needed from booking flights, rental cars and hotels, guiding to preparing events.
 If you decide for your personal plan, you have to do all the things above by yourself, which means that you must inform yourself on every aspect of the trip so you can be prepared for any inconveniences that might occur along the way.
 There are several means of transportations you can take to get to China, from planes, trains, busses to waterways. However, for remote travelers, the only way to get there is by air.

