 Once you've mastered the name of the label itself, try teaching yourself how to pronounce some of the tongue-twisting French names of its products. For starters, try pronouncing "Damier." The first syllable is easy: "dahm" rhymes with "bomb." The second is a little trickier: "myay" rhymes with "play." Don't forget to sound out the I in the word — it's "DahMYAY," not "DahMAY."


Keep in mind that, in French, the "-ier" ending almost always has a silent R sound.
 To pronounce this bag's name, you have to use long vowel sounds for every vowel you encounter. The first syllable, "mool", rhymes with "pool". The next, "tee", is pronounced how it sounds. The third syllable, "col", sounds like "coal." Finally, the ending syllable sounds like "lore", only with a light, delicate R sound made by pressing the back of your tongue against the top of your mouth.


Don't forget that, in French, I usually has an "ee" sound (not an "eye" sound). Thus, you would never say "mult-EYEcolor."

, The tricky part of pronouncing "Tahitiennes" is ignoring the way it's spelled, which can cause problems for English speakers. Simply sound out the first three syllables, "tah," "ee," and "tee". The last two are a little trickier — they're pronounced "enn-uh", with no S sound, even thought there's an S at the end of the word. Don't forget the final "eh" or "uh" syllable. It should be delicate, but audible.


Note that the French H sound here is very light or silent. The word doesn't have an audible "hee" sound as in the English "Tahitian."

, It can be tempting to pronounce this word "Poppin Court," but resist it! Instead, say "pope," then "in", then "cohre" (rhymes with "bore"). Use the same light, delicate R sound as in "Damier" to end the word, rather than a hard English R.


Don't pronounce the T at the end of the word — once again, the final consonant is silent here.
 In French, the "gn" consonant pair makes a "nyuh" sound like the n in "habañero." With that in mind, pronounce "Batignolles" by sounding out the syllables "bat", "een" (rhymes with "mean"), "yol" (rhymes with "role"), and "eh". As with Tahitiennes, the final S is silent, but there is still a very light fourth "eh" syllable.

