 Often, the hardest part about opening up to your parents is starting the conversation. Take some time and decide what you want to say. You might even want to write down your thoughts so that you can communicate them clearly. When you’re ready to talk, make sure you and parent or guardian have time to talk without rushing off to something else. Keep distractions minimal so that you all can focus on the discussion.


When you’re ready to talk, open with something like, “I need to tell you about what’s going on with me because I want to keep you clued in. I’m struggling, and I think a therapist could help me.”;
, Let your parents know what’s going on with you. If you feel depressed, say so. If you’re struggling with anxiety, be brave enough to admit it. Maybe you think you have ADHD or are struggling academically. If your parents are getting a divorce or you’re being bullied at school, this can impact you greatly and it’s hard to cope on your own. Being open with your parents can clue them in as to how you’re doing and open the lines of communication.For example, say, “School has been really hard because I’m being bullied. I wish it didn’t affect me so much, but it does, and I think I’m depressed.”

, Tell your parents what you need, both in general and from them. If you’re asking them to see a therapist, say so. If you’re asking for ideas, say that, too. For example, if you want to see a therapist and you need your parent’s insurance to cover it, make a request. Be reasonable and realize that your request is valid and important to you.For example, you can say, “I want to talk to a therapist, and I know that means I need to ask you to use insurance to pay for it.”

, Ask your parents to support you both in the struggles you’re going through and in seeing a therapist. Some parents might view seeing a therapist as giving up or not being strong enough on your own. If your parents respond this way, don’t give up hope. Share why you want help and recognize that asking for help is a sign of strength, not defeat.


If your parents are skeptical or uneasy, say, “I know this is strange, but please give it a chance. I want help and I want your support.”

, If you’re ready to find a therapist, start the search for someone near you. The internet provides several ways to find a therapist near you who is qualified and can help you. You can also ask your friends or family for a recommendation. For example, a friend may see a therapist and say nice things about them.Look for someone who specializes in working with teens.


Decide whether a therapist’s gender matters to you. You might want to see a man or a woman, depending on your preferences and the issues you want to discuss.
Look for someone who is covered by your family's insurance plan or accepts patients on a "sliding scale." This means that they offer their sessions based on what you can afford.
 When you’ve found one therapist (or maybe a few therapists) you’re interested in, call them. Ask to speak to them directly and take note of how you feel talking to them. Once the conversation is over, notice if you felt comfortable talking to them and want to build a therapeutic relationship with them.Ask any questions you might have. For example, if you’re depressed, ask them if they work with teen depression.
 For your first appointment, you'll want to assess the professional to see whether you seem to be a good fit. Ask any questions you have about the therapeutic process. Find out whether this person feels right to you and whether you want to go back and see them again. Most first appointments serve as an intake, and the therapist will gather information about you and create a plan with you to reach your therapeutic goals.If you do feel comfortable and think they can help, schedule a second appointment.
 Ideally, it's good to see a mental health professional weekly, or more frequently if you have very serious problems. You may only need a few sessions to learn some useful coping strategies, or if you find that therapy is having a positive impact in your life you may want to continue long-term.


If you’re having money problems, consider seeing an intern. They often have reduced rates, yet still offer quality services.
 You might not feel comfortable talking to your parents or guardians or you might want to talk to someone else first. You might confide in a teacher, coach, spiritual mentor, or relative. Find someone you trust and let them know what’s going on. You might even want the support of another adult to back you up if you do talk to your parents.Opening up to someone is a good first step. They can help you talk to your parents, find a therapist, or help you take steps to move forward.
 Most middle and high schools have school counselors who are available to talk to. They can help you talk through your problems and help you navigate what to do next. The nice thing about going to see a school counselor is that you can talk to them during school hours. You might need to make an appointment or you may be able to walk in.Going to a school counselor is a great place to start. If you need more help, they can refer you to a therapist or someone else to talk to outside of school.
 If you are enrolled in a university or college, many campuses offer free or low-cost therapy sessions that are confidential. These are regular therapy sessions with trained therapists. They can help you with multiple mental health and emotional health issues such as breakups, family problems, academic problems, and mental health diagnoses.One benefit of going to a university counseling center is your privacy, because you don’t have to share your counseling experience with your friends or family.
 Often, people self-harm as a way to cope with emotional pain, and it can be anything that purposefully hurts your body. This might be cutting (using a razor blade against your skin), pinching yourself, burning yourself (with cigarettes, lighters, or flames), pulling out your hair, breaking your bones or bruising yourself. Therapy can be helpful in working through these difficult emotions and experiences.Say, “I’m having a hard time getting through, and I’ve been hurting myself. I need help because I can’t do this on my own without hurting myself.”

, If you feel suicidal, tell someone. Whether you tell a guidance counselor, parent, friend, or teacher, it’s important that you let someone know what you’re thinking and feeling. You don’t have to suffer alone.If you’re seriously considering ending your life call call emergency services. You can also call a suicide hotline. In the USA, call (800-273-8255). In the UK, call +44 (0) 8457 90 90 90, and in Australia call 08 93 88 2500.

