 The fact that a lawyer does trial work doesn’t mean that he or she is able to handle every type of court case (litigation). For example, some lawyers who specialize in personal injury law may not be qualified to try a case that involves a complex business issue. So look for a trial lawyer with a practice that encompasses the kind of case you’re involved in.;
, There’s a wide variety of these services available, both online and locally. But you need to check to see what the referrals are based on. For example, some may carefully screen the lawyers—only listing those with certain qualifications and experience. Others will list any lawyer who has liability insurance and is in good standing with the state organization that oversees lawyers. Some lawyer referral sources are:



The American Bar Association. This is the national organization that represents lawyers.

Martindale-Hubbell. This publication has been in existence for many years, and provides a comprehensive search engine.
State and county bar associations. Both of these probably have their own websites, and will try to match you with a lawyer who specializes in your type of legal matter.
 If you’ve been involved in litigation before, and were comfortable with, and confident in, the lawyer who represented you, you’re one step ahead of the game. The rapport between lawyer and client is an important factor in getting through what is usually a very stressful time. But, again, make certain the lawyer is up to handling your specific type of litigation.
 Pretty much everyone these days knows someone who’s been involved in a lawsuit. Having a person you trust give you a referral is definitely a plus. But make sure the person you speak with has had first-hand dealings with the lawyer. If you’re getting information passed on to your friend or family member by a third party, you need to speak directly with that third party.
 If your case involves a commercial (business) matter, or even something like a municipal zoning dispute, you may be able to get a lawyer referral from some of the local business owners, or your town’s Chamber of Commerce.
 Once you’ve gotten a few names, you’ll want to see how the lawyer’s credentials stack up. Hopefully you’ve eliminated some of the guesswork through your referral sources, but it’s a good idea to dig deeper. One of the oldest and most well-recognized rating sites is Martindale-Hubbell, the publication referenced above. Here, lawyers are anonymously rated by other lawyers and judges, both as to competency and ethics.You should also look for membership in the in the American Association for Justice.
 Someone may be a talented trial lawyer, but if he or she has certain ethical deficiencies, you’re probably going to want to think twice about hiring this person. Most states have public lists of lawyers who have been disciplined for ethics violations. You can usually find this information on your state’s website.
 These days it’s probably more common than not for a lawyer to have a website. Here you can usually learn more about the lawyer’s background (such as education) as well as his or her areas of practice.If the website doesn’t mention that the lawyer does trial work, or more specifically reference the type of litigation you’re dealing with, it’s very possible this individual won’t be a good fit for you.
 This is a good way to find out if there’s anything in particular the lawyer may be involved in that’s made news—good or bad. It’s also an ideal vehicle to find:


Any articles, white papers, or other informational pieces the lawyer may have written about the type of litigation you’re involved in, and
Whether the lawyer participates in any online chats, blogs, or discussion boards regarding your type of case., This could be a little difficult to arrange, since most trial lawyers actually aren’t in court every day. But try calling his or her office, telling them you’re thinking about possibly hiring the lawyer, and asking if there’s any way you could watch him or her in a courtroom setting. If you’re able to, you can see first-hand how the lawyer relates to a judge and/or jury. Friendly and easygoing is a plus. Abrasive and arrogant isn’t.
 Avoid basing any hiring decision solely on television commercials or print advertising. That’s not to say that some lawyers who advertise aren’t extremely qualified. But the reality is that all you’re seeing is an orchestrated pitch for your business. Finding someone to represent you in a potentially life-changing event deserves and requires a deeper inquiry than that.
 If your quest for the ideal trial lawyer leaves you with a few possibilities, don’t have any qualms about speaking with some or all of them. Many lawyers won’t charge a fee for a short initial consultation. And even if he or she does, it may be worth it if you’re impressed with the information you’ve obtained on this individual.
 Don’t communicate with the lawyer exclusively by phone or email. There’s really no better way to determine if this person will be a good match for your needs than by sitting across from him or her. As mentioned above, don’t underestimate the importance of the rapport between a lawyer and client, especially in litigation matters.
 It’s easy to equate experience with competence. But in the law—as with so many other professions—that’s not always the case. Someone can be practicing law for 20 years, and still be mediocre. While another individual, just a couple of years out of law school, can be a very competent practitioner.That’s why you shouldn’t hesitate to ask the lawyer about his or her successes with your type of litigation.
 If the lawyer you’re interviewing is in a firm with other lawyers, find out who will actually be in charge of your case. With large firms especially, you may meet with a partner, but your case will then be handed off to an associate. The associate may be very skillful as a trial lawyer, but you’ll need to meet with this individual, and also do the same background check you did on the person to whom you were originally referred., Once you’ve exchanged pleasantries and talked with the lawyer about the facts of your case, the discussion is going to turn to money. You need to know how—and how much—the lawyer is getting paid. There are three main types of legal billing methods:


Hourly fee. Here the lawyer bills you at an hourly rate for all work done on your behalf.

Lawyers will normally bill a minimum of 10 or 15 minutes for any work they do.
With an hourly fee arrangement, you’ll usually receive a monthly bill for the work performed during that time period.


Contingent fee. In this situation, the lawyer doesn’t get paid until the case is resolved. At that time, he or she receives an agreed-upon percentage (usually one-third to 40%) of whatever amount is awarded to you as a settlement of your case, or by way of a verdict after a trial. This is most commonly seen in personal injury. Worker’s compensation contingency fees, on the other hand, are substantially less than 1/3 of the settlement (set by state statute). If you get nothing, the lawyer gets no fee.
Flat fee. With this fee arrangement, the lawyer charges you a set amount of money for handling the case, usually payable at the time you retain his or her services. This is frequently used in criminal cases, and with some matrimonial cases (usually uncontested divorces)., Primarily in hourly-rate fee arrangements, you’ll pay the lawyer an up-front amount, called a retainer, which is normally used to pay your monthly bills. (There’s no standard amount for a retainer. It really depends on the lawyer.) If and when this amount is used up, you’ll deposit another retainer, and so on.
 This is particularly relevant in hourly fee arrangements. Sometimes there may be certain aspects of a case that you can handle:


Ask if you can contribute by doing such things as gathering information (like sifting through and collating financial records), handling some non-legal research (for example, finding public records like a deed or a company’s business filings), or even hand-delivering documents to the court or another lawyer’s office.
Anything that can save you money helps. If your lawyer isn’t receptive to having you pitch in where you can, it doesn’t mean you necessarily need to find someone new. But expect higher legal fees.
 When you finally find the right lawyer for your needs, hiring that lawyer amounts to entering into a contract. And as with any contract, it should be in writing. This goes a long way to avoiding problems down the road if there’s ever a disagreement about the details of your arrangement. Many states require written fee agreements in certain situations, such as when employing a contingency fee., Don’t sign a fee agreement at the lawyer's office if you’re seeing it for the first time. You may feel pressure to sign it right away, even if that’s not the lawyer’s intention. You don’t want to sign something, and then later realize you have questions. Study the agreement in a more relaxed atmosphere. It might be helpful to have a family member or friend look at it with you, in case he or she sees something you may have missed.
 The fee agreement will probably contain quite a bit of information. But there are some major elements you should be on the lookout for:


The agreement should make clear if the lawyer will represent you in all legal proceedings, up to and including trial. For example, if there’s an allegation of domestic violence in a matrimonial case, you need to know if the lawyer will handle the separate domestic violence hearing.
The document should confirm who’ll be handling the majority of the work on your case, which legal procedures that lawyer will handle personally, and which tasks will be delegated to other lawyers in the firm.
Whether the fee arrangement is hourly, contingent, or flat fee, it needs to be spelled out. The agreement should also state if the lawyer charges interest—and how much—on overdue bills.
Clarify who’s responsible for out-of-pocket costs. Most of the time that’s your obligation, even in contingent cases. Some of these costs may be for things such as court charges (like document filing fees) or expert and consultant fees (such as doctor opinion reports).
The responsibility for making decisions during the litigation process needs to be addressed. Many times the lawyer will retain the sole right to make determinations on trial preparation and strategy. Decisions involving large out-of-pocket expenditures, or whether or not to accept a settlement offer, should require your authorization.The agreement should specify how you or the lawyer can terminate the agreement. It should state whether the lawyer can stop representing you at any time, or whether this can only occur in certain circumstances (such as failure to pay overdue legal fees). You should have the right to end the relationship at any time.
 Once you’ve had an opportunity to thoroughly review the agreement, schedule an appointment with your lawyer to discuss it. Ask any questions that you may have thought of during your review.


Even if you had no questions, have the lawyer go over all the terms of the agreement with you, in case you may have misinterpreted something.
If there are items that you believe should be in the agreement, but aren’t included, ask the lawyer to add them. If the lawyer refuses, you may want to consider finding someone else.
 When you’re sure that all your questions have been answered, and you’re comfortable with the terms of the agreement, you can sign it. Make sure the lawyer signs it as well, and that you get a copy of the agreement with original signatures.

