 Boys like girls who dress with meaning and look like they're ready to have fun. Try wearing a white crossbow and sparkly earrings, or maybe a baseball cap with a matching tail armor - whatever you do, show off your style in it!


Avoid designer skirts, tiaras of any type, and high heels.;
, You want the person who likes you best to know who you are, and what you like. If a boy makes you feel like you need to change for him, then he's not worth your time.
 Show him who you really are.
 If you don't really have an exact personality, just dress up how you like. But don't ever fake, because if you end up in a relationship through faking, it may get too tiring, and you won't feel happy around him.
 This will make the people that are interested in you say "hey". You may get a few people to say "hey", so you have a few to choose from.
 If there is one guy, he is your new guy, but only if you like him. If you don't like him, stay in the friend zone. If you get more than one, do a quiz.


Your boyfriend should be most like you.
 Don't give up if you can't find a boyfriend after 20 to 30 minutes. It's totally normal that you can't find a boy because not many of them are into dating until they get older (which really is as it should be). Eventually, you will find a guy.
 Ask questions like "what is your favorite ______?" "What do you do in your free time?" or "What do you like about me?" Now determine who you like best. If they don't want to be your boyfriend, choose your second favorite guy.
 If you see a guy you like, don't just run up and be like "Hey wanna d8?" because he'll be really confused.
 Everyone is nervous when it comes to dating. But don't let it get to your head. Force yourself to say the words. Don't mumble on purpose, and if your mind is blank, say something like "How's it going with you?" or something related.
 If he ends up being rude, then you can always un-buddy him. But don't get desperate! Only buddy someone if you really and truly like them. Don't rush into anything, just keep it moving slow n' easy.


Give him a few little hints that you like him, but don't be too specific. Just say stuff like "So, when can we meet again?" or "Let's be buddies, you seem cool".
 You could plan a marriage ceremony, invite friends only, or have the wedding be open to the public. You may get to adopt a child in the pillow room, too.
, or "Dance party at my den!"

, If not, go to another world and repeat the search.
 If you see one, walk over to him. If not, keep looking.
 If he says yes, move closer to him and start dancing. If he says no, keep asking.
 If he says yes, buddy him and say, "Let's go see it now," and then go to one of the theaters. If he doesn't come, un-buddy him and keep searching. If he says no, walk away.
 Kisses". This means that you pretend to kiss him.
 then un-buddy him. Look anew. If he says "Kisses" back or "Bye!" or nothing, and leaves, then you have a boyfriend! Wait a while and ask him out (in a Jam-a-Gram) again.

