 It's the white ghost outline on a yellow background.

If you aren't already logged into Snapchat, tap Log In and enter your username (or email address) and password.;
, This will open your profile., It's in the top right corner of the screen., You'll find this in the "Additional Services" section., It will turn green. Now you'll be able to use filters in your Snaps!

If the switch is green, filters are already enabled.
 Do so by tapping the back button in the top left corner of your screen until you reach the profile page, then swiping up on the screen., After a brief moment, you should see icons pop up to the right of the camera button.

If your camera isn't already facing you, tap the camera icon in the top right corner of your screen.
If you’re applying the face filter to yourself or a friend, tap on the face to which you want to apply the filter.
 Once you settle on a filter, you'll be able to record with it enabled.

Some effects will change your voice if you speak with them enabled. These effects will briefly display "Voice Changer" on the screen when selected.
 Doing this will record a video. You can record up to 10 seconds of video with Snapchat., This will apply filters to your snap., If you're using filters for the first time, you'll likely be prompted to allow Snapchat to access your device's location. Location access is required to be able to see any available geofilters in your area., The color filters can change the emotional feel of your video.

For example, using the black and white filter can add some nostalgia to the video.
You can usually swipe the screen left to quickly access the color filters.
 Geofilters are location-based filters created by the Snapchat community. Many towns and cities have several geofilters to choose from, and you can find filters for landmarks and other locations as well. You can find the geofilters quickly by swiping from left to right after recording your video Snap.

If your town doesn't have a geofilter yet, you can create and submit one yourself.
 This will play the video backwards allowing for effects like impossible catches., This filter has a picture of a rabbit, and will speed up the entire video to twice the original speed. You can use this to make a funny sped-up video, and is great for taking videos of your pets., This filter has a picture of a snail, and will slow down the video. One of the best uses for this filter is bypassing Snapchat's usual ten second limit on Snaps. By recording a full length, ten second video and applying the slow-motion filter, you can send a 20 second video Snap., Press and hold a filter and then swipe with another finger to combine two filters. You can combine many of the filters, such as the reverse filter with a geofilter, or the fast-forward filter with the black and white filter.

You can't combine two filters that both have text in the center, such as the time and the speed filters.

