 If you want to figure out what a particular dream means, you should keep a dream diary. Recording your dreams on a daily basis can help you remember details that are key to proper interpretation.


Try to write down your dreams first thing in the morning. People tend to forget dreams quickly as the day goes on. Have a pen and notebook near your bed so you can record your dreams as soon as possible in the morning.Write down as many details as possible. Where were in the dream? Were you yourself or a character or person? Where did red show up in your dream? What other colors were present besides red?;
, When it comes to dream interpretation, feelings are just as important as details. When you're recording your dreams, try to keep track of how you felt during the dream.


Many psychiatrists and psychologists who study dreams believe the feelings experienced during give clues to its meaning. Try to remember how you felt during the dream. If red played a particularly large role, pay close attention to how you felt in the presence of red.Were you sad in the dream? Happy? Remorseful? Frightened? Dreams can provoke a variety of feelings. You may even experience contradictory feelings during the course of a dream. Try to be as detailed as possible when transcribing your feelings during a dream., Even a mundane dream can give you insight into your personal life. When recording your dreams, question every detail.


Say you dream you were sitting in a red tent petting a cat. Were you otherwise alone in the tent? Was the cat just a random cat or a friend's cat, your cat, a cat you had in childhood? What associations do you have with cats? Do cats remind you of any friends or family members? Do tents and camping have any particular associations?Dream interpretation requires a lot of self-questioning. Push yourself to pause and ask questions about every detail of your dream., Dreams provide insight into your thoughts and feelings. Your dreams may be an expression of how you feel, unconsciously, about a certain aspect of your day-to-day life. If you've been having recurring thoughts about, say, your job, your dream may be a reflection of this.