 Transitions between activities can be especially challenging for children. For example, it can be hard for a child to adjust to moving from a structured school environment to the more relaxed and independent environment at home, and vice versa. Your child may act out as they struggle to adjust. Set aside 10-15 minutes during transitional moments for you and your child to take a quick break, or talk through whatever your child needs to do next.

Giving your child short transition breaks will help them learn to respect their own and others’ need to rest and have a little personal space before moving from one task, activity, or environment to another.;
, If your child feels rushed or pressured, chances are that this will negatively influence their focus. A child may be able to focus for longer periods of time if a task if fun and engaging. If the task seems dull or boring, it’s likely your child will engage for less time.Allow plenty of time for your child to work on difficult tasks.


Younger children tend to be able to focus for less time than older children. For example, a child aged 4-5 can likely maintain attention for 5-20 minutes per activity. Keep this in mind and don’t expect your child to concentrate for longer than their developmental range.
 Allow your child to run, jump, skip, and move before setting them down to work or study. If you’re having problems with your child completing homework after school, enroll your child in a sport or activity to do first. Or, if your child has difficulties once at school, encourage your child to walk or bike to school.Allow your child to run, play, do sports, and get their wiggles out so they don’t feel antsy when work needs to be done.


Find an activity that your child enjoys that includes movement. This might be dance, karate, skateboarding, hockey, or gymnastics.
 Create a workspace for your child. This can be a desk, a beanbag chair, or a corner of their room. Keep the space clean, uncluttered, and free from distraction. It should feel calming and quiet.Keep this space separate from a time-out space or other area that may be used for discipline. Enlist the help of your child to help decorate the space and make it soothing and comfortable.
 Start each task by settling down and preparing to focus. Get your child to engage in belly breathing to calm nerves, relax, and approach the task with confidence. Especially if you notice your child avoiding the task, take a pause and practice some deep breathing. This can help get them on track and feeling good.Practice with your child to start out. Begin by taking 5 big breaths. Count 5 seconds for the inhale and 5 seconds for the exhale. For more exercises, check out How to Breathe Deeply.
 Help your child use good habits to focus better. Start by encouraging your child to healthy foods and to get plenty of sleep. The foods you eat can affect your abilities to attend to and remember information.Not getting enough sleep can hinder concentration and attention, so make sure your child sleeps at night.Limit caffeine and sugar and encourage a healthy diet. Add healthy fats (like avocados and nuts) and don’t let your kid skip breakfast.It’s recommended that children ages 3-5 receive 10-13 hours, school-aged children sleep 9-11 hours, and teenagers 8-10 hours of sleep per night., Music can help to increase focus, motivation, and productivity.Music can aid in learning and create a fun environment for your child. Find music that aids in your child’s attention and doesn’t distract your child from their work.


Consider music that doesn’t include lyrics your child may find distracting. Play classical music or relaxing, ambient music.
Use headphones to help drown out other noises in the home.
 Dancing is not only fun and a great bonding opportunity for you and your child, but it can help improve your child’s focus, processing speed, planning abilities, and gross motor skills. It’s also an excellent way to incorporate exercise into your child’s routine. Do creative, free-form dancing, or play dancing games with your child.

Try traditional dance game favorites like “The Hokey Pokey” or “Ring Around the Rosie,” or try one of the ideas listed here: http://www.nhs.uk/change4life/pages/dance-steps-games.aspx


, Place clocks throughout the house to keep your child aware of the time and allow for enough time for each activity.Use timers for activity transitions or to encourage completing homework. This can help your child begin to build reference points and transition into a different mindset, from play to work or from home to school.


For example, tell your child to work on homework for 20 minutes, and when the timer goes off, they can have a break. Or, tell your child you will set the timer and when the timer goes off, they need to start their project.
 If your child struggles to focus due to feeling distracted, cut down on potential distractions. Turn the television off and keep cell phones and other screens away.Power off computers, tablets, or anything else that may distract your child.


If the television is on, keep it far from your child’s workspace. As much as possible, set a good example for your child by not playing with your phone or watching television while they are working.
 Story games can help boost your child’s concentration and working memory. They can also help develop your child’s ability to use logic, analytical skills, sense of humor, and imagination. Tell a story and read a book with your child, and then encourage them to think about and engage with the story. You might try one of the following:

Read a story with your child, then give them a “pop quiz.” What were some things that happened in the story? Who were some of the characters? What was the main message of the story?
Read a couple of pages or paragraphs, then ask your child what they think should happen next. For example, “So the wolf huffed, and puffed . . . and then what do you think happened?” Brainstorm with your child and exchange ideas, and then compare what you came up with to what happens next in the original.
After reading a book, act out the story, or parts of the story, with your child. Encourage your child to improvise and take it in their own direction.
 While it’s important to remove distractions from the external environment, children can easily become distracted by internal things as well, such as remembering a fun memory, peeling a scab, or wiggling their toes. Practice observing a single thing in the moment together by playing “I spy” or paying attention to specific sensations in the body. This will help your child to build concentration and focus on one thing.For example, take turns describing simple objects in great detail. If you notice a book, say, “This is a book. The cover is green and the pages are white. The pages are crisp and not bent. There are lots of pages, so that means it’s a long book.” Observe common objects and spend time observing them in detail.
 Sit down as a family and establish some basic expectations for what you will accomplish every day. Come up with a daily schedule and a list of responsibilities for each member of the family. When you’re done, write down your list and post it somewhere obvious (like on the fridge) as a daily reminder for everyone in the family.

For a child, daily responsibilities could include things like putting their backpacks away as soon as they get home, picking up toys when they are done, and doing their homework at a specific time each day.
 For example, you might explain to your child that they can’t watch their favorite TV show if they don’t get their homework done. Make sure everyone in the family is on the same page, and that consequences are used consistently., While multitasking is often a respected way of doing things, it isn’t good for focus. Have your child work on one task at a time. Instead of designating one hour for “homework time,” consider having 15 minutes for math, then moving onto 20 minutes for reading and so on.Focus on one thing at a time without jumping ahead.


For example, if your child has 15 math problems to complete, cover up the unfinished ones and work on one at a time.
 Children need breaks frequently and having breaks can improve concentration. Depending on your child’s age, take a 5-minute break every 10-20 minutes of work. Let your child get up, move around, grab a drink or a snack, and then get back to work.Have structured activities your child may choose from during breaks. For example, they can jump on the trampoline, play a game, or color.
 Feeling overwhelmed can inhibit focus and make your child feel like nothing can be accomplished.Work on one thing at a time to decrease these feelings. For example, if your child is learning how to draw an animal, focus on drawing the outline first, then work into more and more detailed parts.


If your child is working on a project, do one thing at a time. For example, focus on one task each day that can be realistically accomplished. If your child is writing a paper, have them write one paragraph each day for one week.
 If you’re having a hard time getting your child to meet expectations, it can be helpful to create a predictable and structured routine. Create a sense of predictability for your child by having rituals for meals, waking up in the morning, doing homework, and going to bed.Knowing what to expect can help your child transition to the next task more easily. Create a daily schedule for your child so that they know what to expect each day.


Children focus best and are better prepared to manage their lives in the long run when you help them establish a routine as early as possible.
Remember that different types and levels of structure work best for different children and families. Take your child’s individual needs and personality into account when developing your routine.
For example, if your child focuses best after dinner, set aside that time for homework.
 For example, if you want your child to focus on reading each night, have a picture of a book (or have your child draw one) to represent reading time. This will help cue your child for what comes next.