 With your trainer's help, determine which competitions would be good for you to compete in and steadily build up the number of fights you enter per month. The more fights you win, the more you'll get noticed by scouts for sponsors., It would be great if a sponsor noticed your skills in the ring and offered you a contract to become a professional fighter, assigned you to a team, and hired you a new manager and trainer, but the truth is you'll have to do most of the work to get noticed. At conventions and big fight nights, tell everybody you meet you're training to become a professional fighter. Profiling yourself as a dedicated and skilled fighter with a number of amateur titles under your belt will win the interest of sponsors.Join fighting-centric websites and message boards to make connections on the Internet. Use as many resources as you can to build a name for yourself. Use social networking to market yourself as the next big thing.
 Approach management companies like Fight Tribe or Made to Win, that have a proven track record of managing fighters and negotiate a management deal with them.


By calling the shots yourself, you'll stand a better chance of determining who your team will be. However, it's important to understand that most management companies will only be interested if you have proven to be an interesting investment in the ring by winning a number of key fights against strong opponents. Keep winning to give yourself the best possible chance.
 "Iron" Mike Tyson used to come to the ring without the gym robe traditionally worn by boxers, and was surrounded by police officers, accompanied by the sound of chains clanging and a siren going off. It was beyond intimidating and instantly iconic. Kimbo Slice's prison tattoos, gold teeth, and giant beard made his YouTube bare knuckle fights all the more memorable and striking. The more savage and flamboyant your reputation, the better chance you'll have getting noticed and becoming a professional fighter.


Earn a nickname and use it to market yourself. Make it scary.
Use your background to create a story for yourself to give people something to relate to. If you're a veteran, use that image to appeal to people's patriotism. If you've served time in jail, use that. Even if you're the wealthy child of an insurance executive, cultivate a killer Wall Street persona to stand out from the crowd.

