 Shower every day. Whether you decide to go clean-shaven or wear a beard, make sure it's tidy. Wear a small amount of cologne and always make sure your clothes are clean and neat.;
, Basic etiquette rules: pull out her chair, and open the door for her. Say please, thank you, and you're welcome. Remember these rules at all times!

, Become a good flirt. Smile at girls and give them compliments; make them laugh. Break the touch barrier gently- a touch on the arm or shoulder. Flirt just enough to make them hope for something more.
 You want to target one specific woman at a time- you don't want to be labeled as a man-whore by messing around with multiple women. Women should also think that you're serious about them. Select a woman who you think is well-suited to you and has been responsive to your flirting.
 The process is more complex than one would believe. Buy her six or a dozen red, purple, or pink roses. Red roses symbolize passion, desire, and love. Pink roses symbolize poetic romance, and purple symbolizes eternal love (lighter shades of purple represent first love or love at first sight.) DON'T buy her yellow roses, which symbolize friendship, or black, which symbolize death. the number also matters: six is infatuation, a dozen shouts "be mine!"

, This part is easy! Find out what she likes- white chocolate? Dark? Milk? Is she allergic to nuts? Coconut? Once you know, buy her a nice box of chocolates in a simple, not cheesy, box.
 DON'T deliver them to her house unless you have a legitimate, not-creepy reason to have her address (it was in the work directory, you went there once for a party, etc.) Include a small, sweet note: "I was thinking of you. From, your secret admirer." "I'm falling for you. Signed, your name."

, This is in preparation for the big date. Save up some money for an expensive restaurant or a date to a drive-in movie and coffee after.
 Don't be clumsy about it. Avoid tripping over your words, stammering over her name- you want to look very confident. Practice saying it aloud a couple times. Go up to her at a time when she isn't busy and the environment is quiet. Ease up to it: "I heard you talking about that bistro earlier. I happen to know another really good bistro. Do you want to get dinner there sometime?" is better than "Wanna go out to dinner with me?" Great lovers do NOT ask women out to coffee for the first date.
 A single rose says, "I'm infatuated with you."

, Play a little footsie under the table; hold her hand on the arm between the theater seats. Brush her hair away from her face- that kills women like you would not believe.
 Lean in; act like you're drinking in every word she says. She'll love the attention.
 If it feels right, move onto the lips.
, Be madly flirtatious, lavish her with gifts, respect her, and treat her like she's heaven on earth. She'll LOVE it.

