 The size of the visor will need to vary depending on the circumference of the wearer's head. The gauge is 4 single crochet stitches = 1 inch. These instructions are for heads measuring 19 inches (48.26 cm) in circumference, with additional instructions regarding how to scale the size of the visor up or down as needed for larger or smaller sizes.









To measure your head circumference, wrap a flexible measuring tape around the head, placing it just above the top of the ears. The tape should be gentle and flat. Make sure that it it centered over your occipital bone, or the bump in the middle of the back of your head.It is generally a good idea to measure your head size several times for the sake of accuracy. If you can look in the mirror or have someone else help you measure, the results will generally be even more accurate.;
, Use a standard slip knot to attach the yarn to the crochet hook.
 Chain stitch 52 times. At the end of your chain, slip stitch the first and last chains together, forming a ring.








Increase or decrease the chain amount by four chain stitches for every 1 inch (2.5 cm) of head circumference. For example, chain 48 for an 18 inch (45.72 cm) head or chain 56 for a 20 inch (50.8 cm) head.
Make sure that the chain does not twist when you join the ends together.
 Chain one, then single crochet once into the first chain and once into each chain around the entire ring. Join the last and first single crochets together with a slip stitch.









Do not turn the band at the end of the round.
The number of single crochet stitches made in this round should match the number of chain stitches made in your foundation ring.
 Chain four, then treble crochet once into the next stitch and once into each stitch of the previous round. Join the last treble stitch to the base of your chain-four with a slip stitch.









Note that your initial chain-four counts as your first treble crochet. Including this chain-four, you should have the same number of treble crochet in this round as chains in your original ring.
Do not turn the work over at the end of this round.
 Chain one, then single crochet once into the first stitch and once into each of the treble stitches in your previous round. Join the last and first single crochets together with a slip stitch.









The number of single crochets in this round should match the number of chain stitches in your foundation ring.
This is the final round needed for the band of your visor.
 Cut the yarn, leaving a tail of 2 inches (5 cm). Pull this tail through the loop on your hook to bind off and secure the yarn.









Weave the excess tail into your stitches to hide it.
Look at both sides of the band. Determine which looks best, then turn the band so that this "right side" faces you.
 Use a slip knot to attach a fresh strand of yarn to your crochet hook.









If you want the brim and band to match, use the same yarn for both. You can also switch yarn colors at this time to make a two-toned visor.
 Join the brim yarn to the band using a slip stitch. Count 21 stitches away from the beginning of the round and place the joint there.









Add or subtract one stitch for each 1 inch (2.5 cm) of head circumference. For an 18 inch (45.72 cm) head, join at stitch 20 of the band. For a 20 inch (50.8 cm) head, join at stitch 22 of the band.
To join the new yarn, insert the hook into the indicated stitch, yarn over, then pull the yarn-over through the stitch and the loop on your hook in the same motion., Chain one, then single crochet twice into the stitch you joined the yarn to. Single crochet twice into each of the next 11 stitches, as well.









Decrease or increase the stitch count by two for each 1 inch (2.5 cm) of head circumference. Work into the next 9 stitches for an 18 inch (45.72 cm) head or the next 13 stitches for a 20 inch (50.8 cm) head.
Turn the work over at the end of the row.
 Chain one. Skip the first stitch that follows, then single crochet once into each of the remaining stitches of your previous row.









Work in the back loops only for this row.
At the end of this row, half double crochet into the next stitch of the last round of the band. Slip stitch once into the next two stitches of the band, as well.
Turn the work at the end of this row.
 Chain one. Skip the first stitch of the previous row, then single crochet once into each of the stitches of the previous row, working in both loops.









At the end of the row, half double crochet once into the next stitch of the last round of your band. Slip stitch once into each of the two stitches of the band after that.
Turn the work over after finishing the third row.
 Work rows four, five, six, and seven using the same procedure followed for the third row.









After completing the seventh row, the brim of the visor is essentially complete.
 Cut the yarn, leaving a tail roughly 2 inches (5 cm) long. Pull this tail through the loop on your crochet hook to securely tie off the yarn.









Weave the remainder of the tail into the stitches at the underside of the brim to hide it.
 Your visor should now be ready to wear!








