 Launch your device browser and type m.badoo.com on the address bar up top to access Badoo’s mobile website.;
, Tap on “Sign in with Badoo” at the bottom then enter your email address, or phone number, and password in the required fields. Tap on the “Sign in” button to log into your Badoo account.


After logging into your account, Badoo may prompt you to share your location. Tap on the “Share location” button or “Decline” button at the bottom of the page to accept or deny this option.
If you prefer, you can log in using your Facebook account. Instead of selecting “Sign in with Badoo,” tap on the “Facebook connect” button. Use your Facebook email address and password in the required field to access your Badoo account.
 Once on your Badoo account home page, you will see tabs for “People Nearby,” “Encounters,” “Profile,” “Messages,” “Visitors,” “Like You,” “You Like,” “Mutual,” “Favorites,” and “Blocked.”


Tap on the tab of the section you want to browse. When you want to go back to the home page, tap on the home icon found on the top right side of your device screen.
 Tap on the “People Nearby” tab to find other Badoo members nearest your current location. You can personalize the search results using the Filter option.


Tap on the “Filter” link at the top of the screen, and set your preferences for interest, gender, age, and location of users by tapping on the radio button next to each option. Hit the “People Nearby” button at the top of the screen to start searching according to your filter preferences.
Tap on “Advanced Search” on the filter box to modify your search results even more. You can set more filtering options such as “Spoken Languages,” “Body Type,” “Height,” “Weight,” “Hair Color,” “Eye Color,” “Sexuality,” “Status,” “Children,” “Education,” “Star Sign,” and so on using the drop-down menu under the three fields in the Advanced Search section.
 Tap on the profile picture of a user to access to his or her profile page. You can like, favorite the selected user, or chat with him or her by sending a message through the profile page.
 Tap on the “Chat now” button at the top of the user’s profile page to start chatting with the user if he or she is online. If you see a green radio button next to the user’s profile picture and name, it indicates that the user is online and can start chatting instantly.


A message box will appear on your screen after tapping on the “Chat now” button. Type your message in the field under the “Write a message” heading. Tap on “Send” under the message box to send your message to the user as an invitation to chat.
You can attach different emoticons to your message by tapping on the emoticon icon on the right side of the message field.
 If the radio button next to the user’s profile picture is gray, it indicates that the user is offline, but you can still send him or her a message using the same chat option. Tap on “Chat now” and type your message in the field then send your message by tapping on “Send.”


The user will see your message when he or she logs in.
Remember, you cannot send more than 2 messages if the user does not respond to your message. You’ll be able to send more once the user replies.
 Tap the “Encounters” tab on the features list to start the game. You can browse the images and profiles of new people, and express your intention of meeting each of them. Badoo will then show different users’ photos one by one. You can express your intention of meeting these people by pressing the “Yes,” “No,” or “Maybe” button.


Use the “Filter the encounter” option so that you will only encounter those that fall within your preferences. Tap on the “Filter” link at the top of your screen, and choose the interests, age range, and gender type that you’re interested in.
 Tap on either the “Like you” tab or the “You like” tab to view a list of your liked people and the people who liked you during the Encounter game.


To see the most recent likes, you need to play Encounter or enable Superpowers, a paid feature on Badoo.
 Tap on the “Profile” tab at the left corner of your device to open the profile-editing page; here you can edit your information and settings, as well as add images.


Set your profile name and preferences by tapping on the “Edit” link next to each section and entering the information: Interests, Location, Profile Essay, Relationship Status, Physical Appearance, Living Situation, Children Status, Smoking Preferences, Drinking Preferences, Education, Languages, and Career.
Some preferences may be specified with just the use of radio buttons.
Tap on the “Photos” tab at the top of your screen to add new images to your profile. Press the plus (+) sign to upload them either from Facebook or from the device storage.
Tap the “Settings” tab at the top right corner of your device screen to edit and update your profile, privacy, password, payment, and notification settings.
 Tap the “Message” tab to view and manage all messages received, sent, unread, and stored. Reply to or chat with Badoo users through the instant messaging feature.


You can also reply to the users by tapping on the user’s profile name listed on the “Received” message section. After tapping on the user’s name, you will see all the messages between you and the user, and whether the user is online now or offline. If the user is online, you can start chatting with the user instantly, but if he or she is offline, just leave a reply to his or her message. Write your message in the message field and tap “Send.”
To delete a message from your inbox, tap the “Edit” tab, tick the check box next to the message, and tap on the “Delete” button.
 Tap on the “Visitors” tab to browse the profile of Badoo users who have paid your profile a visit. You are allowed to message, like, make favorite, or report people on this visitor list.


To delete a Badoo user from your Visitors list, tap the “Chat” tab found on the right side of your screen, and select “Delete” from the drop-down menu. If you do not delete users manually, Badoo will delete the list automatically after a month from your profile.
 Tap on the “Mutual” tab to open a list of users who have liked you and you have liked back during the Encounter game. You just might really hit it off with someone on this list!


The Mutual list appears on your profile, as well as on the profiles of those who have liked you.
 Tap on the “Favorites” tab to view the profile list of the persons you have favorited on your profile. It is advisable that you save the profiles of people you share interests with so that you can chat with them whenever you have time.


Tap on the “Profile” link to view the profile information of any person on the Favorites list, and to send a message.
 Tap on the “Blocked” tab at the bottom of the features list on Badoo’s home page. These are people who, for one reason or another, you have prevented from accessing your profile or sending you a message.
 You must head to your Badoo profile page to sign out of your Badoo account, since the “Sign out” button is not available on all pages of the Badoo mobile site like the computer website.


Tap on the home icon at the top right corner of your device screen. Then, tap on “Profile” on the menu to access your profile page. After that, tap on the “Settings” tab at the top right corner of your profile page.
Scroll down the Settings page and tap on “Sign out” to log out of your Badoo account completely.
Signing out of your account will keep your account safe.

