 People are never happy when they feel taken advantage of or undervalued. If these are the reasons that you hate your job, you should come up with a plan to negotiate changes. Sit down and make a list of the changes that would make you happy in the position you hold. This will distract you from your current circumstances, as well as paint a picture of better working conditions. Approach your boss and suggest the changes. Even if they aren’t implemented, the meeting will get you away from your normal work for a bit.For example, you could set up a meeting with your boss and start off by saying something like “I appreciate all of the opportunities that the company has given me over the past two years that I have been an employee. Having taken all of those opportunities enthusiastically has allowed me to build my skill set and handle more responsibility for the company. Unfortunately, I do not feel like my pay has raised appropriately to reflect the job that I now do.”

, Keep in mind that your job does not have to be permanent. Fantasizing about a better position can keep you distracted from the work that you hate. Another approach is to channel your attention away from “what” you are doing and into “how” doing it will get you a better job.New positions often come with more responsibility. To show that you are ready for such responsibilities, volunteer to take on projects or help someone who is struggling in your department. This will stand out to your boss and show your ability to be a leader.
 Being underchallenged day in and day out is enough to make anyone hate their job. Push yourself to take on a new project, or complete your current projects in a more effective way. This will make you think critically and creatively, and distract you from the boring ins and outs of every day. It will also build good habits for your future employment.For example, if you create spreadsheets to list businesses’ contact information, push yourself a step further and hyperlink out to their websites, or to other relevant businesses within the spreadsheet.
 You likely know the saying “When in Rome, do as the Romans,” or some version of it. While this holds true to some degree in the workplace, you should still be yourself. Put your personal flare into your work and distract yourself from the monotony of the work.For example, if you design a flyer for your company, you should look at it not only as an employee, but as a person as well. This will allow you to understand how the flyer “feels” to people like yourself, and give you the insight to tweak it into being more appealing.

