 Attending a meeting or support group immediately before the wedding can help you voice any concerns you have about the event.You can ask for advice on how other people have handled social events like weddings. Ask for support and encouragement from your group.


You may also want to attend a meeting immediately after the wedding to check in, especially if the experience was a bit shaky.;
, If you can bring a friend or date with you, take someone who is willing to be sober throughout the event. Having someone who also is not drinking can make you feel more comfortable. You can support each other in having fun while sober.Having a sober person with you can help you stay accountable and bring you sober companionship.
 Before attending the wedding, make sure all of your basic needs are met. Get a good night’s sleep, eat healthy and nutritious foods, exercise, and spend time with loved ones.Take care of your emotions, too. If you’re feeling on edge, don’t meet up with people you know may cause a stir.


Consider taking some time for yourself to mentally and emotionally prepare yourself for the event.
Also, make sure you have something to wear to the wedding that helps you feel confident, like a new dress or your favorite suit. Groom yourself nicely so that you're at your most comfortable and not feeling insecure.
 If you’re worried you might slip up, think about the consequences of that decision beforehand.If you drank, how would you feel the next day? You might stay or do something to seriously embarrass yourself or the bride or groom. Think about the consequences of drinking before you attend the wedding and opt not to endure harmful consequences.


After you’ve thought about negative consequences, think about positive consequences of not drinking. Try to visualize yourself having a great time while sober and making fun memories. How do you feel the next day? What memories can you reflect on?

, When you’re at the wedding, communicate your sobriety or desire not to drink to someone. This might be a friend, table guest, or the bartender.Letting the bartender know can help to create an alliance between you so that they know not to serve you alcohol.


Having someone know of your sobriety can help you stay accountable at the wedding. This person can also support you if you start to question your decision.
 Arrange with someone prior to the wedding to be your “on call” person. This can give you peace of mind knowing that you always have support ready.


Choose someone from a support group or another supportive, sober person.
 Is there a shuttle to the hotel? Can you call a taxi? Are you leaving with friends? If you’re counting on other people to leave with, have a backup plan in case you need to leave earlier. Recognize if you’re feeling tempted and make an escape.


Have a taxi number on hand that you can call so you know you can leave when you want to or need to leave.
 If you might be tempted to drink, don’t bring any cash with you, or just bring enough for a taxi ride home. That way you cannot purchase a drink or leave a tip. This can help you keep the temptation away in a very physical way.
 Avoid hanging out near the bar and instead, hang out on the dance floor. Being active and engaging with other people can help you keep your mind off of alcohol and help you have fun.If the wedding has games, participate in the games and activities.


Have fun, get to know people, play with the children, and remember it can be fun without alcohol.
 You might feel more comfortable if you have a non-alcoholic drink in your hand. That way, if someone asks, “Would you like a drink?” you already have one.There’s no need to say whether it’s alcoholic or non-alcoholic.


Having a drink in hand can be a social norm at weddings. If you’re worried about drawing attention to yourself or feeling out of place, ask for a seltzer water and lime, cranberry and soda, or other drink you enjoy.
 When you’re at the reception, look around and see if there are other sober people and go make their acquaintance. Whatever their reasons for being sober, they can help you have a good time and enjoy yourself without drinking. Sometimes people don’t enjoy alcohol but can still have a good time at social events. Make friends with these people and use them as inspiration.You might ask to sit at a table with other sober or non-drinking people.
 People may ask why you’re not drinking, and you might want to prepare yourself for that question.You don’t owe anyone an explanation, but you also might want to feel prepared if the question does come up. Have some responses ready ahead of time for particular questions or comments.


For example, people may say, “Just have one!” or, “Loosen up and have some fun!”Say, “This is a choice I’m making that’s best for me” or, “I’ve struggled with addiction in the past and I can enjoy this wedding without alcohol.”

