 You can also make a fireball using a cotton shirt as a base, which will make a bigger flame. First, cut the cotton T-shirt into a 2 x 4.7 inch(5 x 12 cm) strip.Make sure that you are using a T-shirt that is 100% cotton. If you use a shirt that is only partly cotton, it will melt instead of burn.
 After you cut your strip, roll it to create a ball. Try not to roll it too tightly, or else the rubbing alcohol will have a hard time soaking into the fabric. Also try to tuck in any loose ends or edges to make a more regular ball.Keep holding the cloth ball in your hand after rolling so that it doesn’t unravel.
 Thread a large, sharp needle with cotton string. Then insert the needle into the cloth ball, piercing it all the way through the ball from one side to the other.Make sure that the string you are using is 100% cotton.
Hold the ball while you pierce it with the needle to make sure it stays together.
 After you stitch through the cloth ball, tie the cotton string at both ends. Stitching through the ball helps the cloth ball to keep its shape.Don’t break off the string, as you will keep using it.
 After you have stitched through the middle of the ball, take the cloth thread and wind it around the ball to help hold it together and keep its spherical shape., After you have wound the thread around the ball, insert the needle back into the ball and pull the string through the other side. Then cut the string and knot it so that it stays.
 Pour around ½ cup (125 ml) of rubbing alcohol into a bowl large enough to hold the cloth ball. Then take the cloth ball and place it in the rubbing alcohol, allowing it to soak for a few seconds. Use a spoon or other object to turn the ball over in the alcohol so that both sides absorb some of the rubbing alcohol.Do not get any rubbing alcohol on your hands or clothes.
 After you have soaked the cloth ball for about three seconds, use a pair of tongs or tweezers to transfer the ball out from the bowl with the alcohol to a new, clean bowl.


Make the transfer after only a few seconds so that the cloth ball doesn’t soak for too long. If the ball absorbs too much rubbing alcohol, it will become soaked and start dripping. This can be dangerous when you light it on fire.

