 Deep breathing is one relaxation technique that can help reduce stress.Learning to relax may help decrease pain.Lie flat on your back. Use pillows under your knees and neck to make sure you are comfortable. Put your hands palm-down on your stomach, right below the rib cage. Place the fingers of your hands together so you can feel them separate and know you are doing the exercise correctly. Take a long, slow, deep breath through your nose by expanding your belly. This ensures that you are using your diaphragm to breathe rather than your rib cage. Your fingers should separate as they lie on your belly. Exhale through your mouth. Do this as often as you can.Use a variation of a Chinese Qigong breathing exercise. Sit down comfortably. The lungs' natural rhythm will take over immediately. Take three short inhalations through the nose. On the first intake, lift your arms, reaching in front, keeping the arms at shoulder levels. On the second intake, move your arms to the side, keeping the arms at shoulder levels. On the third intake, lift your arms over your head. Repeat 10 to 12 times.
If either exercise causes any dizziness, stop. Do these exercises as often as you need.
 Another way to decrease stress and cope with pain is through progressive muscle relaxation.Start with your toes. Tighten them by curling them under your feet. Hold for five to 10 seconds. Then slowly relax the toes.


Move on to the feet next. Tighten all the muscles in your feet and hold for five to 10 seconds. Then slowly relax the feet.
Move up through your legs, thighs, abdomen, arms, neck, and face, tightening the muscles in each area. Relax slowly every time.
 Positive visualization can be a form of meditation. Positive visualization and meditation can help relieve stress, which can help ease discomfort and lessen pain.Pick a favorite spot and get comfortable. Remember a favorite place. Close your eyes and picture that place. Keep the image in your mind.
Breathe deeply as you keep the picture in your mind. Don’t worry if you lose the image. Just take a breath and start again.
Until you have some practice, you may need to start again a few times.
Try and make sure you do this during a time that you are least likely to get interrupted.
Look into doing guided imagery through YouTube videos or apps.
 Using positive affirmations may be effective in helping change your mentality about the pain and lift your mood.Publically say positive things about yourself and your pain. Positive self-talk can help boost your mental perception of the pain. Some people write down their positive affirmations on sticky notes and post these notes everywhere they can. Use the present tense and repeat as often as you can. Examples of positive affirmations are:


Yes, I can.
I can get through the pain.I am getting better.
I feel better every day.
I can control my pain.

