 A trifle doesn't need to be cooked and requires little hard-core cooking skill to put together. It can be made well in advance and is particularly adaptable if you feel like new flavors. When considering your trifle, know that you have some options:



Fruit: As long as it is bite-sized, anything goes. In general, softer, sweeter fruits that pack a lot of juice do best.

Custard: Pick a custard or pudding that matches your fruit, or use a vanilla flavored custard that will go with just about anything.

Jelly or Jam: Again, pick something to complement your fruits, but know that jelly isn't the only option. Adventurous cooks might use some honey, or even a chocolate spread like Nutella.;
, You can use any fruit you want, as evidenced in a later section, but for the typical English trifle you'll want to stick to the colors of the Union Jack -- white, red, and blue., Ladyfingers are the classic choice because they're already in strips and will soak up the liquids for the berries and liquor quickly. That said, a 1/2" thick white cake makes an excellent substitute, so long as it is chopped up to easily placed pieces.


Angel food cake and pound cake also make wonderful substitutes, so long as you cut them with a serrated knife to roughly a 1/2" thickness., Of course, you can skip the liquor for a youth-oriented dessert, but you should know it is a mainstay of the classic trifle. The usual choice is a cream sherry, which will go well with just about any filling or fruit, but you can mix it up depending on your toppings. Orange and lemon liquors, in general, go particularly well with most trifles.
 Try out a three-berry jam or raspberry if you're following the "classic" recipe, but remember that this dish is meant for experimentation. Slather the tops of the cake or ladyfingers with a generous helping of jam.
 They don't have to interlock like puzzle pieces, but try to keep them close together. Some people even start with a light layer of custard to help keep the cake in place as you're setting up. Cover the entire bottom of the bowl., Lightly mash the fruit, which unleashes juices that will drip down and soak into the cakes deliciously.
 Don't worry if some of it drips through or clumps, you just want enough of it so that all the fruit is covered. If you want to impress some party guests, take a look at the side of the bowl and work on getting nice, even, visible layers between the cake, fruit, and custard.
 This optional, and is best if you're using a flavored, and not vanilla custard. Still, the difference in textures between a thick, silky custard and light, airy whipped cream is a wonderful surprise, so feel free to use a little of the whipped stuff no matter what your recipe.
 Depending on the size of your trifle dish (or plain glass bowl), you may need to ration out your supplies wisely to make sure you have enough for even layers. That said, a little unevenness is somewhat inevitable, so don't worry about it too much. The final dish should have distinct, colorful layers visible.
 You can crumble op graham crackers for a bit of crunch, layer the top alluringly with fruit, or even dollop another layer of jam on top. Or, simply leave the top covered in whipped cream -- it's up to you!


A dash of cinnamon or candied ginger, with the right recipes, is heavenly.