 Some ezines reduce rates if you sign an advertising agreement. The terms and conditions of the contract can vary from one publication to the next. For example, some will restrict your ads to a certain location on the newsletter. Read the fine print and compare different offers before selecting the ezine that works the best.If you plan to advertise via other mediums, such as a print newspaper, make sure that the contract does not limit these activities.
Be careful signing up for a long-term (multi-month or year) contract if your business is new and unproven. If you fail to bring in adequate revenue, you will still be held to your contract.;
, A joint venture is when two businesses decide to work together on a project. These arrangements can be for the long or short-term. You will (most likely) release partial control over advertising, but in return you will see a reduction in upfront cost.You may be able to give the ezine publisher a commission of any sale made from the ad. If you want to use this method, you will need to keep detailed records for sales in case the publisher requests an audit.
Some publishers may be willing to exchange advertising space. If you have a popular website or blog, you may be able to put an ad of equal value on your website in exchange for an ad in the ezine.
To successfully pitch a joint venture, make sure that your business or idea fits within the overall theme of the ezine. For example, if you sell specialty dog treats then an agreement with a kennel club ezine makes business sense., Write articles or reviews in your area of expertise and then give them out to ezine editors to use as free content. Request that they attach your website and a one-line description of your services to the bottom of each piece. This is a way to gain the interest of readers and publishers alike.Acceptance of a free piece is not a sure thing. So, keep your content engaging by commenting on recent controversies or penning an interesting story. For example, if your product is a new type of ATV tire, you may want to pen a narrative about an off-road adventure., Start by buying a small ad and evaluating the service based on this purchase. Then, if you receive a sufficient return on your investment, you can up your investment and purchase additional ad space.Be aware that certain ezine publishers do have a minimum ad purchase limitation in place.

