 Lures are great for beginners because they are less messy than live bait. They also cover a lot of water and are more efficient when targeting specific types of fish. While lures can get caught on debris and be relatively expensive but should be used depending on the type of fish and water conditions. Choose the type of lure based on these basic principles:


Jigs are the most versatile lures. They require the most skill as you must cast it out and wait until it falls to the bottom of the water before retrieve it to induce a strike with its movement. Feeling the strike can be difficult as jigs may get caught on debris or just feel like their moving along with the current.
Spinners are also great for beginners because you simply have to cast and retrieve. They are designed to create a spinning action that can vibrate through murky water and entice a bite.
Spoons are designed so that they create a side-to-side wobble upon retrieval that mimics injured prey fish. You can vary the speed of the wobble by slowing down your retrieval.
Soft plastic baits are meant to mimic live bait. They will resemble critters like worms, crawfish, or frogs. Depending on the type of plastic bait, simply mimic the movement of the critter that it resembles.
Flies are exactly as they sound. They are meant to mimic insect hovering at the surface of the water. They require quite a lot of skill to produce a natural movement that fish will be attracted to.;
, Tie your line to your reel using an Arbor knot. Tie your lure, hook, or fly using either a Unit knot, Improved clinch knot, or Palomar knot. You may also try a Surgeon’s knot to tie two lines together or a Surgeon’s End Loop to add a pre-made snelled hook.Tie an Arbor knot by using the tag end of your line to wrap around the arbor end of your spool. Then take the standing part with the tag end and tie an overhand knot, much like you would when starting to tie a shoelace. Move a couple inches and tie another overhand knot from the tag end. You want the first knot to slide down to the spool as you pull the standing part of the line to butt the second knot against it. Close the tag end by trimming the line.The Uni knot is the easiest tackle knot. Thread your line through your hook and make sure it is parallel to the standing line as you double back. Lay the tag end over the double line to create a loop. Take the tag end around the double line six time and through the loop. Pull the tag end to ensure the turns are snug. Push the knot down towards the eye to finish.The Improved clinch knot is the most popular knot used to fish. Place the line through your hook and create 5 or more turns as you double back around the standing line. Take the end of the line and thread it back through the first loop behind the eye of the hook and thread it through the large loop you just created. Tighten the coils by pulling on the tag end. Push the knot tight against the eye and snip the tag end closed.The Palomar knot is considered to be the strongest knot. Fold 6 inches of line to create double the thickness and thread the loop end through your hook. Tie an overhand knot loosely keeping the hook at the bottom, letting it hang. Use your thumb and forefinger to hold the knot as you pass the loop over your hook. Move the loop so that it is above the eye of the hook. Simultaneously pull both the tag end and the standing line to tighten the knot onto the eye of your hook. Trip the tag end closed., Choosing live bait will depend on the type of fish. The size of your hook will also be determined by the size of the fish that you’re to catch. Basically, thread your hook through your bait at 2 points to secure it from falling off or at the thick portion closest to its head. You want to place your hook at the head and through a thick portion of the body. For example, if you are using a worm thread your hook close to the head and tail.


If you are using fish as bait, make sure that the hook goes through the head and jaw because that will be the primary strike point of your fish.
Choosing a good bait depends on the type of fish and type of water. For example, if you’re fishing for freshwater fish in rivers, crawfish and worms may be a good choice for bait.
 Casting can be done depending on the weather conditions and the location. While there are a variety of techniques, it will take practice to get your cast efficient and consistent. Choose these methods based on the distance you’re hoping to achieve:


An overhead cast is best used when you want a lot of distance. Hold down the button for the casting reel with your thumb as you bring the rod back. In a single motion propel the rod forward and release your thumb. Push the button again to prevent your line from tangling by slowing down your spool.
Pitching should be employed when you are trying to cast close at about the 10 yard range. Let out some slack line by holding your rod up and making the lure move down to meet the reel. Using your non-dominant hand, grab the lure. Use your dominant hand to press the button on your reel. Keep your line taut as you bring the lure back and drop the tip of the rod. In a single swooping motion, raise the tip of the rod to pull the lure from your non-dominant hand. Use your thumb to slow down the line to ensure you don’t go past your short distance.
 There are a variety of different reels that you can purchase but the 3 basics are the spincaster, baitcaster, and spinning reel.Most people start with the spincaster. It is a push-button reel that is simple enough to let you focus on casting technique.Baitcaster is also a push-button reel but gives you more control as the button locks in place once pushed down. It requires you to use your thumb on the spool to control the speed of the lure. This reel works well when trying to get fish out of thick water.Spinning reels have an open-face and the rod will be parallel to their spools of line. These work well when casting light crankbaits, drop-shot rigs, jerkbaits, and weightless soft plastics.