 This dance is done with a partner, so you need to find someone to dance with. Your partner, boyfriend, or girlfriend is a great choice, but if you're single, ask someone at the club to dance with you.While this dance isn't always done with a partner, it often is.;
, Yiking isn't exactly a hands off dance, so if you're going to yike with someone, make sure it's someone you don't mind getting up close and personal with. It involves some grinding and touching of each other's bodies, so make sure you're comfortable with that., If you know what twerking is (moving your butt up and down to the beat), yiking takes it to the next level. Partially, it's more intense because it involves a partner, but you also include more movement (side-to-side)., Start by bending over a bit and sticking your butt out. You can place your hands on your knees if that helps. Also, try to arch your back a bit so your butt sticks out. Your legs should be about shoulder-width apart.With a partner, your butt should basically be up against the other person's front.
 Once you get in position, it's time to swing your hips to the beat. Lift your right leg up and step out a bit, though don't actually move over. Swing your hip to follow your leg, with your butt swinging out. Next, swing your left hip out, though don't step this time. Just move your hip and butt out to the left.Your butt should follow your hip, not lead., Once you've swung right and left (to the beat), move your butt back to the center. Make a wave with your body. Dip your head down and bring it up. As you move, bring the wave along your back and up through your butt. The final point of the move is bringing your butt up., If the music goes faster, you may not be able to dip fast enough to stay in time with the beat. If that's the case, you can change to the tic toc. With your butt still out and in the center, shift your weight back and forth by bringing each knee slightly forward in turn. That will shift your butt back and forth behind you.Don't step forward, just shift your weight.
 As you're swaying, you can also bring it down to the floor. You want to keep your butt in the air, but you'll have your knees almost all the way to the ground (not on the ground) and your hands on the ground. Keep swaying your butt back and forth.Either person can do this move!

, To move to a yike stand, you need to have your forearms on the floor. However, instead of your knees close to the floor, you'll keep your legs straight, lifting your butt into the air towards your partner. You'll continue to sway in time to the beat.You should pivot on the balls of your feet to move back and forth.
 To be on the back end of the yike, you start out with your legs apart, about shoulder-width. With your hands out in front of you, hold on to the other person's waist, at least to begin with., Step out with your right leg, but don't move outward. You're basically stepping into the same place. Follow your hip with your butt. You should be leaning into the person in front of you, not sticking your butt out as much., When your partner dips, dip your hips into it as well. You want to stay connected with your partner through the whole dance. When your partner tic tocs, you don't need to tic toc at the same time, but you should still have your hands on the person's hips or butt to move along with them.You can also add your own moves while your partner is dipping, such as dipping your shoulders or bringing a leg up.
 When your partner goes into the yike stand, the person's legs should go between yours. You should have your legs spread out over your partner, moving your hips along with theirs. Keep your hands on their hip so that you can help keep both of you moving together.