 During the work week, you probably do some morning preparation before getting out of bed. You should do the same thing on the weekend. This can help you get on a regular schedule. Simply having your clothes laid out can change your mentality, as you'll feel like you'll have something prepared for the morning.In addition to laying down your clothes, do other small things to prepare. If you drink coffee, for example, try setting up the coffee pot the night before.;
, A bedtime routine is important, even on the weekends. This will alert your body that it's time to wind down and go to sleep. You should have a regular bedtime routine, even for the weekdays. Quality sleep will make your morning better.Do something relaxing before bed. You can read a book, take a hot bath, have a cup of tea, or engage in another soothing activity.
Stay away from electronic screens right before bed. The blue light emitted from these kinds of screens can interfere with your ability to sleep.
 Before going to bed, set an alarm. Make a decision about when to get up. While many people enjoy sleeping in on the weekends, your body has a natural clock that thrives with a regular sleep/wake cycle. If you wake up at roughly the same time each day, including weekends, you will sleep better overall. Your weekend morning routine should not throw off your sleep cycle too much.Know how much sleep you need. Most adults need between seven and nine hours of sleep a night, while teens and kids need even more. You should have a sense of how much sleep you need to function without feeling overly groggy when you wake up in the morning.If you want to sleep in on the weekends, do not overdo it. It can be nice to stay in bed a little longer, but stick to about an hour or half an hour of extra sleep rather than sleeping until noon.
 Most people do better when they wake up with a sense of purpose. When you wake up during the workday, you often have an idea of what to do during the day. The weekends, however, are different, as you often don't have anything that absolutely needs to be done. However, it is a good idea to make a plan for your weekend and to do things you would not normally do during the week. This will help to motivate you. Before going to bed, try to think of exciting reasons to wake up the next day.Think about waking up as the moment you make a choice regarding the day ahead. You're either going to let the day pass by unnoticed, or take advantage of the daylight hours.
You don't have to have exciting plans every single weekend. However, you should have some motivation to get out of bed. It can be something small, like the ability to stay on your couch and read for the morning.
 The moment you wake up sets the course for your day. If you want to stick to a winning routine, avoid the temptation to press snooze. While the extra nine minutes of sleep may sound tempting, the sleep you get during this time is not quality. When you disrupt your sleep schedule, you end up more groggy than you would have been simply getting up. Set your alarm for the time you actually want to get up and get out of bed as soon as it goes off., Get in the morning with a sense of excitement. As weekends are less directed, sometimes you don't have feel the same push to go through your regular routine. A little excitement about the day goes a long way towards developing a solid morning routine.Avoid going on autopilot. When you get out of bed, you may simply start going through the motions without much thought.
Instead of this, think to yourself, "Why did I get up this morning? Why am I on this routine?"
The answers will be different for different people. Maybe you want to be on a routine so you don't let the weekend slip by unnoticed. Maybe you're working on a project and need a solid morning routine to help you focus. Whatever your reasons, think about them as soon as you get out of bed.
 Natural sunlight can help you wake up in the morning. If you're feeling groggy, open the curtains right away. This will help energize you for the coming day.If you don't have to be anywhere for the weekend, try going for a nice walk outside. This can be a pleasant morning activity that helps wake you up and getting out in nature is a great way to start your day.
 A healthy breakfast is important for any morning routine, including the weekend. For many, eating habits become a bit unhealthy on the weekends. In order to resist the urge to eat junk food, work on having a nutritious breakfast shortly after getting out of bed on the weekends.Make something with fruit, vegetables, lean proteins, or complex carbohydrates.
You could, for example, have a green smoothie with whole wheat toast. You could also have a bowl of oatmeal with fruit.
 Exercise dwindles on the weekends for many, but a little morning exercise can help wake you up. This can help you start your weekend with a good energy, allowing you to make the most of your time off.If you want to ease up a little on the weekends, don't bother doing a full, intense workout. Instead, you can do something light and relaxing, like an easy yoga routine or a long walk.
 For many, the weekends are long and aimless. However, having a small project can give you something to do, even when you have no external routine. It does not have to be something huge, but having a small hobby you engage in on the weekends can help you stick to a routine, such as going fishing or working on an art project.


Try writing something every weekend morning. It doesn't have to be something big. If you have a blog, write a blog post. If you like to journal, write in your journal.Do you have any hobbies you love? Maybe you can make time on them during the weekend. You can, for example, sit down with a sewing project every Saturday morning.
You might even look into joining a local group, such as through Meetup.com, to get involved in a group project.
Look into local community events as well to get involved in groups and other activities that could become a project for you.
 Weekend routines should be fun, as weekends are a break from the busy work week. If your routine is too stringent and work-related, you're likely to burn out and abandon it. Get into the habit of treating yourself every weekend. This will help motivate you to get out of bed and get moving.A weekend treat doesn't have to be anything big. You can do something small for yourself, like go to the local farmer's market, watch a television show you like, or take a warm bath in the morning instead of a shower.
 Motivation is key to stick to any schedule. If you're struggling to stay on your weekend routine, remind yourself why weekends are important. You want to be aware of your day off so you can enjoy fully. If you stick to a weekend routine, you're less likely to get the weekend go by unnoticed., If you're struggling to stay motivated, remember that your weekend schedule will make your work week easier. Waking up at roughly the same time each day will help you sleep better overall. While it may seem like a drag to get out of bed early Saturday, remind yourself that you'll thank yourself for this on Monday morning., If you find that you are constantly struggling to make a morning routine on the weekends or to figure out what to do with your free time, then it could be an indication of a larger problem. For example, it may indicate that you are a workaholic or that you are trying to avoid some type of distress. Think through your reasons and consider consulting with a mental health professional if this continues to be an issue for you.