 Some stores have a grocery cart that includes a seat for your toddler. However, these seats are not always considered safe. As an alternative, you can buy a seat insert that will hold your child securely and comfortably.


Children should not push carts by themselves unless it is a child-sized cart. Some grocery stores have mini-carts that your child can push behind you while you shop. Giving your child this responsibility of pushing his own cart may help him to behave properly.
 Make your child feel like he is helping by involving him in the shopping process. Doing this will make the time go faster and can become a valuable learning experience for your child.


Make a shopping list for each child and have them cross off items as they are placed in the cart. For younger children sitting in the cart who cannot read, this can be as simple as printing or drawing pictures of a few basic grocery essentials, such as milk, bread, or apples.
Older children can write out their own list and cross things off as they are found.
 If you are comfortable letting an older child out of your sight, consider having them find a few items on the list by themselves.


The safest way to do this is to stay on the same aisle as your child, but to have him look for a specific brand or ingredient. This not only keeps your child entertained but also teaches reading and learning skills.
Make sure you are very specific with your child about what ingredient you want him to find, otherwise your trip could take much longer as you replace everything your child found.
 Put your child in charge of something, such as the coupons or the shopping list. This will give him a sense of responsibility and will help your trip to stay organized.


Use your judgment to give your child a job that he can manage. If you are shopping with multiple children, have an older child be in charge of a younger child by making sure they are behaving and helping them if they need anything.
 You can turn the grocery trip into a learning opportunity by playing games around the store. For example:


Have your child count the number of bananas in the bunch, play I Spy to have him search for letters or words, or have him identify the colors of certain foods.
Older children can help with the math and can add up the cost of certain items or figure out which item is least expensive. Tailor the games to your child’s learning levels and interest.
 As stressful as a shopping experience is for a parent, it can be even more stressful for a child. If your kid did a good job, be sure to praise him and perhaps even give him a reward.


Praising your child for a job well done will boost his confidence and make it more likely that he will behave well during the next shopping trip.
Possible rewards could be picking out a favorite treat to take home, or rewarding him with extra play time when you get home. Use your judgment to decide what will work best for your child.

