 During your studies, you will learn about the many different locales that speak Spanish. Be sure that you would prefer to do an exchange in Spain rather than Central or South America.;
, Most exchanges take a year or more to plan, and you should be conversational in Spanish before you go. For many teenagers, this also means leaving their friends and family to go on a solitary adventure, which can be emotionally trying.


If you are not sure that you are emotionally ready for an exchange when you are in high school, many colleges and universities offer study abroad programs at universities in Spain. You can choose to wait 2 to 4 years and do it when you feel ready for the adventure.
 Most exchanges happen between the ages of 15 and 18, so you will most likely need your parents to sign approval forms, help you apply for your passport, and, possibly, pay for the program. Discuss when, where and why you want to do an exchange so that they understand its importance to you.
 If not, the teacher may have connections to other programs or schools in Spain that would be willing to host an exchange.
 There are many organizations that help to facilitate exchanges for students across the world. For example, TwoWorldsUnited.com, ayusa.org and asse.com all facilitate exchanges.


Some of the organizations that do exchanges are for-profit and some are non-profit. If they are for-profit, then along with the costs of the services you'll require in Spain, they will charge for their services. Look up reviews to find out what other students thought of their experience with the company or organization before you sign up.
 Try to sign up 6 months to a year in advance, if possible. This will allow you to pay for the program, raise money and gain conversational fluency.
 Spain's economy is run on the Euro, which is currently valued over the American dollar and just under the British pound, so it is likely to be more expensive to live there than at home.
 Many exchange programs require you to have a 2.5 or higher grade point average (GPA). You may be required to pass oral or written exams in Spanish.
 You will need one in order to live in another country, unless you are under the European Union Economic Agreement. You will be required to have a passport in order to apply for a travel visa.
 This depends upon your country of origin, and the exchange program should be able to tell you if it's necessary. Many countries outside of the European Union only need a visa if they are staying more than 90 days.
 These forms of video chatting allow you to use a web cam, microphone and computer to see people as you talk to them, making it easier to feel connected while you are away.
 Some students journal, email or write blogs to channel their feelings. For many students they have a few tough weeks, become accustomed to the culture and then they do not want to leave at the end of their stay.

