 Keep whisking until no powdery granules remain, about 2 to 3 minutes.


If you are using a larger, 6-ounce (170 grams) packet of jello, use 2 cups (475 milliliters) of hot water instead.
This recipe uses the sweetened, flavored jello packets. If you are working with regular gelatin, click here to learn how to make jello from scratch.;
, If you'd like to make the jello set faster, use enough ice cubes to fill 1 cup (240 milliliters). Keep in mind that the jello will start to set up rapidly, so you will need to work quickly.If you are using a larger, 6-ounce (170 grams) packet of jello, use 2 cups (475 milliliters) of cold water.
 Once you add the fruit, give the jello a quick stir to disperse the fruit. You can use a baking pan, a bowl, or even a fancy jello mold. You can also use any type of fruit you'd like. Grapes, berries, and orange pieces are great choices!


If you are using a baking pan, choose one that is 9 by 12 inches (22.86 by 30.48 centimeters) or 8 by 8 inches (20.32 by 20.32 centimeters). This is great if you plan to cut the jello into fun shapes using cookie cutters.
If you are using a fancy jello mold and would like to add some fruit, fill the mold with ½ inch (1.27 centimeters) of jello first, then add your desired fruit. Fill the mold the rest of the way with more jello; don't stir the fruit. This will give you a pretty design at the top of the mold.
 Depending on how cold your fridge is and how much jello you made, this can take overnight. You can test if the jello is ready by pressing your finger against it. If the jello sticks to your finger, it's not ready. If it doesn't stick to your finger, it's ready.
 Dip the mold all the way up to its rim in warm water. Wait 10 seconds, then flip the jello out of its mold and onto a plate. If it doesn't come out easily, dip the mold into warm water for another 10 seconds.


If you poured the jello into individual bowls, you don't have to de-mold it.
If you poured the jello into a baking pan, you can cut it into cubes, or use cookie cutters to make fun shapes. If you are having trouble getting the shapes out, dip the bottom of the pan into warm water for 10 seconds.
If you poured the jello into a large bowl, you can scoop it out using a melon scoop to make little jello balls. Serve the jello balls in a separate bowl.
 You can serve it as is, or garnish it with some whipped cream or pieces of fruit. 

