 If you're going to an interview, you need to dress professionally. Jeans and t-shirt will not impress an interviewer. Even if it's just a casual, part-time job, dressing up will help you make an impression.


Choose a nice blouse and dress pants or a skirt. Jeans or leggings are not appropriate job interview attire.If you wear make-up, do light, work appropriate make-up. Avoid bright shades of eye shadow and lipstick. Instead, go for conservative, neutral shades that match your own skin tone.Do not forget your footwear. Sneakers, flip-flops, or other casual shoes are not interview appropriate. Stick to professional looking dress shoes.;
, You should always have some knowledge of a company before going into an interview. Spend some time familiarizing yourself with a company before attending an interview.


Employers want to hire someone with a vested interest in their company. You can convey your interest by having some knowledge of the company and its goals and ethics ahead of time. Spend an hour or so the night before researching the company and the position.If the company you're interviewing for has a website, you can probably find basic information about that company online. Browse their "About" section. If you know any former employees, try sending them an e-mail asking them about their experience with the job., Even if the job doesn't specifically ask for a resume, spend some time working on one before applying. Showing up with a solid resume will impress an employer.


If you've never written a resume before, try asking a teacher or guidance counselor at your school to help you out. He or she can help you with formatting, style, and let you know the typical conventions of resumes.Consistency is important for most resumes. For example, if you're using bullet points to list your experience for one job don't suddenly switch to sentences when talking about your next work experience.Do not downplay experience. Many teens have limited professional work experience but you can find other relevant materials to list on your resume. If you've worked volunteering, have babysitting experience, have had a paper route or mowed lawns, or taken on any leadership experience in schools, talk about it. All these experience show you are capable and responsible, even if they're not as related to the position as you would like., Spend some time researching typical interview questions and how to answer them. During a typical job interview, you can expect some of the following:


"Tell me something about yourself." This is an open ended question that allows you to show off your skills, experiences, and interests. Talk about your passions and how they manifest. For example, "I'm really interested in helping my community which is why I've been a volunteer for Little Brothers, Little Sisters for two years.""Why do you want to work for us?" This is a question that allows you to convey you've done your research. Never say "Because of the pay" or "Because it seems like a low pressure position." Even if the job is not your dream job, emphasize that you're enthusiastic about the opportunity to build your resume. For example, "I think working with customer service would be a great way to work on my people skills.""Why should I hire you?" This is your chance to brag about yourself. Even if it feels unnatural, try to talk yourself up so the interviewer so they feel you're the best person for the job. Say something like, "I have a strong work ethic and a desire to learn and grow through my work experience.", Showing up too early might be in bad form as this might make the interviewer feel pressured to conduct the interview before he's ready. However, showing up 5 to 10 minutes early can show you're punctual and take initiative. Aim to get there early if you want to ace the interview., At many job interviews, you'll be given an application to fill out before hand. Make sure you look over the forms closely and fill out all the information. Accidentally leaving a section blank can reflect poorly on your when the boss reviews the applications to make a final decision., Remember, many people will be interviewing for the same position. It's important to find creative ways to be memorable during the interview.


What do your friends and family members like about you? Are you particularly attentive to detail? Nicer than the average person? Do you have a great sense of humor? Find ways to appropriately incorporate that into the interview.It's also a good idea to incorporate any talents applicable to the position into your interview. Say you're applying for a job as a library aid. Make a reference to one of your favorite books or authors to convey that you're well read., Employers are inclined to choose those with confidence. Use your body language to convey confidence during the interview.


Sit up straight and make eye contact during the interview. Show you're listening as well by smiling and nodding as the interviewer speaks.When you enter the room, keep your gait steady and your back straight. When you shake the interviewer's hand, give a firm handshake while smiling and maintaining eye contact., At the end of the interview, it's standard for an interviewer to ask if you have any questions. Always ask a couple of questions. This conveys your interest in the position and increases your likelihood of hearing back.


Do not simply ask questions regarding logistics. Things like "How much does this position pay?" and "When will I hear back?" will not impress an interviewer. Instead, focus on open ended questions that show you're interested in the position on a deeper level.Good questions ask about the company's atmosphere and ethics. Ask something like, "What do you like about working here?", "What does a typical day in this position look like?" and "How would you describe your company culture?", When leaving the interview, make sure to maintain confidence. Remember, you're being judged from the moment you enter the interview room up until the moment you leave.


Say goodbye to the interviewer and thank him or her for your time. Offer a handshake and maintain eye contact, giving a smile as well.When you walk out, stand up straight and walk in a steady, confident gait., Send the interviewer a brief e-mail or letter thanking them for their time. This can help you stand out from the crowd. It does not need to be more than a few sentences. Something, "Dear Ms. Johnson, I really enjoyed talking to you about the salesclerk position at Sear's this weekend. I appreciated you taking the time to interview me. Good luck selecting a qualified candidate for the position.", It's always a good idea to follow up about a position. If you haven't heard back in a couple of weeks, call or e-mail the person who interviewed you and let him or her know you're still interested in the position.