 Riding a rodeo bull is not something you can just jump into. Even at the professional level, the expected amount of time a capable adult human will stay on a rodeo bull is 8 seconds. Even with training, the amount of strength, focus, and balance required to last those 8 seconds is immense. If you hope to get into riding cattle, start an integrative strength training regimen, such as yoga or mixed-martial arts.You’ll likely need to improve your overall strength, balance, and responsiveness in order to successfully ride a steer. Integrative core exercises are great for this, as they can help you increase your stability, reduce the chance of injury, and maintain mobility.
Bodyweight exercises, such as planks, push ups, and yoga position that require you to balance are great exercises to start with.
Talk to others in the steer/bull riding community about what exercises they do to strengthen their legs and core.
 If you hope to someday ride a bull, you can start by riding steers that are less likely to buck you off immediately. Young people who hope to be bull riders have steer riding competitions that operate similarly to rodeos, but with less dangerous and aggressive cattle. Contact a local rodeo organization to see if they host steer riding competitions.
 If you can find someone who is willing to show you the ropes (literally), they might even be able to help get you in the ring to practice riding a steer. Reach out to rodeo facilities in your area to see if they know of anyone who offers training on how to ride cattle. They may offer lessons that start you out with a beginner steer until you're ready to move on to a more difficult steer, similar to how horse riding lessons progress.


A professional will also be the best source of knowledge regarding the specific type of safety equipment you’ll need to get in the ring the first time.Expect to need a helmet, boots with spurs, and leather chest and leg protection. You may be able to borrow or rent this equipment when you’re first starting out.
 Bull ropes have a loop on one end, as well as a handle along the length of the rope. Wrap the rope beneath the steer’s chest and behind its shoulders. Thread the tail of the rope through the loop on the other end. Make sure the handle, which is usually leather, is positioned on top of the steer.In training conditions, your trainer will likely help you wrap the rope or check to make sure you did so correctly until you get the hang of it.
 Since the animal will be corralled in a tight chute before being released into the ring, you will easily be able to climb onto its back. Stepping off one side of the chute, you’ll swing your other leg over the saddle and onto the steer’s other side. Do so carefully, as he may try to shift or buck immediately. Once you’re on, scoot forward towards his shoulders. The handle of the rope should be between your thighs.Squeeze the bull’s body with your legs and spurs. Keep your feet in front of the rope at all times.
Since you should not simply be saddling and riding animals without professional guidance, you and your trainer will position the saddle on the bull together.
 You’re only allowed to hold on with one arm when competing in a bull riding competition. Slip your hand beneath the rope where the handle is located. Adjust the rope to maintain the handle’s position in the center of the steer’s back. Pull the tail side of the rope to tighten the rope down on your hand. Wrap the rope’s tail around the hand that is tightly gripping the handle.Nod to the gate operator once you’re ready to ride. The chute will open and your ride will begin. Hold on tight!

, React to the steer to try and stay on him. Engage your core and leg muscles to try to keep yourself seated on the steer's back. Pull up on the rope to center yourself and pull yourself into its back. Avoid leaning too far forward or too far back. Sit up straight with your chest stuck out and your free hand in the air to help balance.If the steer goes up on his hind legs, lean forward over his shoulders and head.
If he kicks his back legs up, keep your butt against his body and lean back slightly or he’ll buck you over his head.
Continue squeezing the bull with your legs and spurs throughout the ride.
 In competitive bull riding, you must stay on the bull for 8 seconds in order to receive a score for your ride. Otherwise, the clock will stop once the bull bucks you off. The clock will also stop if you use your other arm to touch yourself, the bull, or the ground at any point. These same rules usually apply in steer-riding competitions, as they are often considered to be training competitions for someday bull riders., Once you've had enough, look for your chance to dismount. When the steer moves in the opposite direction of your riding hand, let go of the rope. For instance, if you’re holding the rope with your right hand, wait for the steer to start moving left. The rope will loosen, allowing you to jump off.Jump off sideways and backwards, moving away as you land.
If you fall during the ride, try to get as much distance between you and bull as you can while you’re falling. If possible, push off of the steer. As you land, immediately roll onto your feet and run away. If there are rodeo clowns in the ring, move towards them, as the clowns may be able to distract the animal away from you.

