 Plan for the swap to take place on the cusp of the season, between fall and winter. This is usually the time when people begin to clean out their closets and shop for new winter gear. Try for late October or early November. You also want to pick a day and time most people will be available, like around noon on Saturday or Sunday.You aren’t restricted to one day, though. If some people can’t make it on the day you set, expand the swap to two to three days instead.;
, There is no set place for a clothing swap. You can have it in your home, a friend's, or even at a local community center or school. Wherever you choose, make sure the space has enough room for everyone participating, as well as their clothes. You should also make sure you have permission if you plan to hold the swap outside of your own home.
 Depending on the recipients of the winter clothing swap, you may want to set an age and size restriction. For example, if you are swapping clothes for children, try inviting friends, neighbors, and coworkers with kids of similar ages. Ideally, there should only be a three to four-year difference to keep the sizes close and give everyone more options. However, if you are exchanging clothes with other adults of varying sizes, be sure to invite a diverse group of people so everyone can find something they need.You may also want to restrict the number of people involved to between three to eight families or 20-25 people. This will help you keep everything organized.
 If you don’t set a limit on the clothing you may either end up with too much or too little for the swap. So set a number of pieces each person has to bring to participate. For example, at minimum you could ask for three to five articles of clothing. Then, you could set a maximum of five bags of clothing per person/family. It’s up to you!, The last thing you want at a clothing swap is dirty or torn items. Make sure that everyone looks over and washes the clothing they wish to donate. This means emptying pockets, inspecting for discoloration or tears, and running each article through the washing machine. If a piece of clothing has obvious tears or stains, you want to throw it away rather than add it to the clothing swap.
 When most people think of a winter clothing swap they think of jackets, snow pants, and snow suits. However, winter accessories are just as needed. Make sure to request gloves, mittens, hats, scarves, and boots as additional items. This will help ensure that everyone participating can find an item of use to them., The easiest way to get the word out is online. Create a group or event on Facebook and ask people to RSVP. You can also set up clear guidelines for the swap and allow people to communicate and ask questions through Facebook. However, you can also use platforms like Twitter or Instagram to advertise your event.
 Even if you already have an event listed online for your clothing swap, sending evites directly can help ensure people save-the-date and get involved. Use a site like Evite.com or simply go through email to send out invitations to anyone you’d like to participate. Ideally, you should send an invite at least a month before your planned swap. This will give everyone enough time to go through their clothing and choose what they want to bring.You can also ask anyone you invite to bring a friend if you don’t mind opening the event to more people.
 For a more local crowd, try advertising your clothing swap in the newspaper or a community newsletter. You can do this directly through your paper’s website. However, keep in mind that these ads do cost money. You are likely going to be charged by the letter or word count. There may also be a flat fee to run the ad for two to three days.
 If possible, have people deliver clothes to you ahead of time - usually a week or two before the swap. If you are running your exchange through a community center or school, set up a couple of cardboard boxes for people to place their items in. However, if you are having the clothing swap in your home, see if people can stop by earlier in the week to drop off their donations. This will give you time to set everything up.
 Separate items by type. For example, hang all coats and jackets up on clothing racks. Fold and lay out pants and shirts on tables. Pair mittens with scarves and hats and hang them when possible. You can even divide articles of clothing into different rooms if you don’t have space for everything in one area.


Separating the categories will help people find what they are looking for quickly and save everyone time.
 The purpose of a clothing swap is for everyone to find what they need. Let people choose whatever they want regardless of what they brought. For example, if one person brought only five pieces while another person brought two bags, they should still be able to take or swap the same amount. The same goes for pricing. Don't worry about how expensive an item is, at a swap everything is equivalent.


If you worry there won't be an even distribution of items, you could set a limit on how many items each person can take. However, try to make it clear to attendees ahead of time that the swap is a free-for-all so that there are no misunderstandings during the event.
 There are no set guidelines to operating a swap. However, to avoid potential conflict, be direct in your expectations of the swap. For example, be sure to let everyone know that it is a free clothing exchange and that everyone can take as much as they need or want. The entire swap should function on an honorary basis.


If you feel this may be an issue, feel free to set an actual list of rules involving an item limit and amount of time people can shop.
 After the swap has ended, collect all extra items and pack them up for a local shelter, church, or charity. You can take them in directly or place them in a donation bin for pick-up. Simply search online for what’s available in your area.


You should, of course, check with all participants to make sure this is okay beforehand.

