 Both surgical and non-surgical (conservative) methods can be used to treat ACL. A combination of both methods is usually helpful for the dog. However, the type of therapy recommended varies based on body size, body condition, and severity of lameness of your dog.


A dog under 20 kilograms may not be a good candidate for surgical procedures.;
, The ACL is meant to stabilize the leg and provide support during weight bearing activities. High body weight is a risk factor and a leading cause of ACL injury, because of the extra stress placed on the ligament by an overweight body. You can easily accelerate your dog's healing process by reducing the body weight of your dog. Try lowering your dog's body weight with a combination of diet and exercise.


To reduce the body weight of your dog, decrease its calorie intake at least 60%.
Don't reduce the calorie intake suddenly, but rather feed your dog smaller portions more throughout the whole day.

To minimize any digestive upset, try to ease your dog into the new diet gradually. Make sure to monitor the outcome of your weight reducing program regularly.


Be sure include regular, but non-vigorous, exercise for your dog. The exercise may include walking or running.

In the case of a severe ACL injury with inflammation, exercise should be postponed until after you give your dog some NSAIDs to reduce pain.
If your dog has a severely torn ACL, specialized hydrotherapy (walking/swimming in water) is recommended.


Please consult with your vet to get an appropriate exercise list based on the clinical condition of your dog.
Due to lowered pressure on knee joint, your dog will be able to heal its ligament faster.
 Full rest and limited activity will give your dog's body the chance to heal. Lower inflammation due to rest will allow the body to heal itself naturally. Some veterinarians advise you totally restrict the activity of your dog, while others advise some limited exercise.


You should not allow your dog to jump up to catch a ball or Frisbee or to jump out of a truck or off a porch.
You can practice a short-leash walk with your dog only.
 Sometimes, using a towel as a sling under the hip of your dog to support its weight can be helpful to speed up healing. The towel sling is commercially available, or you can make one easily by using a bath towel or recycled children's jacket in your home.


For using a bath towel, you should cut a large bath towel in half and apply it under the lower abdomen of your dog. By applying upward pressure, while holding both ends of the towel, you can help your dog walk.
Commercially available athletic bandage can also be used for this purpose.
If you use a recycled jacket, you should cut the sleeves so that the jacket fits on your dog’s abdomen.

