 People with social anxiety tend to fear judgment or embarrassment regarding their social performance. Some common traits of people with social anxiety disorder include:Feeling highly uncomfortable around people and social situations
Having a hard time talking to people
Feeling self-conscious around people; having fears of feeling humiliated, embarrassed, or rejected
Fearing judgment from other people
Excessively worrying before a social event, sometimes days or weeks in advance
Purposefully avoiding places with many people
Showing difficulty making friends and keeping friends
Blushing, sweating, or shaking around people
Feeling sick to the stomach when near people;
, Have a conversation with your loved one about the anxiety. This shows that you care and are willing to openly discuss the anxiety without judgment or knowing what is “best” for the person. You want to communicate that you are here to listen and be a support.You may choose to say you’ve noticed a change in this person’s behavior and you are concerned.


Act curious and ask open-ended questions, such as “So, tell me about what’s going on. I’ve noticed you seem to avoid certain situations. Can you tell me about that?” You can also ask, “What’s it like to have social anxiety? I’m here to listen.”
It’s possible your loved one may not be ready to talk about the social anxiety. If this is the case, respect the desire to not talk about it, yet state that you are there as a support if needed.
 Instead of assuming you know how to help your loved one, ask what you can do to help with the social anxiety. Your loved one may tell you what is helpful and what is not helpful in support. Be sensitive to your loved one’s needs, and keep in mind that you are there to help, not “change” or “fix” your loved one.


Remember that your loved one is in control of his or her own treatment. Your role is to support your loved one, not to take control away.
 However, to the person suffering from social anxiety disorder, the fears are very real and greatly impact normal life. While you may motivate yourself against fears in a certain way (by telling yourself to relax or “just do it”), it doesn’t mean that this will be helpful or well received by your loved one.


Your loved one’s social anxiety disorder may influence your life or frustrate you. Keep in mind that your loved one is struggling and needs your compassion, not your judgment.
 Relaxation is a great way to bust stress and manage daily stressors. While stress can overwhelm the body and the mind, relaxation can help bring balance back to life. Invite your loved one to accompany you jogging, dancing, in meditation, or to yoga. You can also practice deep breathing together by closing your eyes, taking deep breaths, and feeling your body and mind relax more and more.Practice daily relaxation for 20-30 minutes a day. Even if you cannot meet with your loved one each day, practice relaxation over the phone.
 If your loved one is struggling with a decision and cannot make up his or her mind, encourage your loved one to face the fear and go through with the social engagement.Don’t push your loved one, however. Instead, encourage your loved one by pointing out the positive aspects of that decision. Instead of pushing your position, share your thoughts and allow your loved one to make the decision.


You can say, “I support you going to the family function. It’s a great way to see your nieces and nephews.”

, Gently inform your loved one when he or she engages in negative thoughts. These thoughts may include, “I’m too boring to hang out with people because nobody will like me,” or “I’ll humiliate myself and never be able to show my face.” Don’t judge your loved one for the thoughts. Instead, bring them to awareness. Look for the following negative thought patterns:Mind reading- Assuming one knows what others are thinking or feeling, such as judgment.

Fortune telling-Assuming the worst will happen in a situation, such as “knowing” things will go poorly.

Catastrophizing- Blowing the situation out of proportion, as if it will affect the rest of one’s life.

Personalizing- Assuming that other’s actions are related to the self or assuming that people have negative thoughts of the self.
 You may notice your loved one engaging in irrational thoughts, such as, “I don’t want to go because everyone will hate me” or, “ I know I’ll embarrass myself.” Gently challenge those thoughts as irrational, and steer your loved one toward more rational thoughts and outlooks.For instance, say, “It’s not necessarily true people will dislike you. Last time you were with people, you made friends.” Or, if your loved one fears embarrassment, say, “What would happen if you embarrassed yourself? Do you think that’s likely?”
It’s likely it may take time to know how to respond best to your loved one’s anxiety. Finding a balance between being patient with the anxiety versus pushing your loved one to face fears is a delicate process that may take practice., Someone is who socially anxious may avoid social functions or come up with excuses for not going to events. However, don’t aid in this avoidance, and don’t offer to make an excuse for this person’s absence.Instead, encourage your loved one to go, and give no indication that you will help in the avoidance.


If your loved one asks you to provide an excuse, say, “I’m not willing to lie to people for you.” If your loved one tries to make other plans to avoid a situation, don’t go along with the plans. Say, “It seems like you’re trying to avoid the situation, and I think it’s good for you to go.”

, When your loved one takes a step toward facing the social fears, praise the effort. Even if it doesn’t go as well as planned, point out that he or she made the effort and went through with something that was scary. Reinforcing positive behavior is much more helpful than criticizing avoidance or irrational behavior.For instance, if your loved one talks to a stranger, point out how that must have been scary, but he or she did it. Don’t criticize any part of the discussion, but praise the effort.
 Talk to your loved one about getting treatment for anxiety. Cognitive-behavior therapy can be beneficial in treating social anxiety disorder by challenging the thoughts, feelings, and behaviors that fuel the disorder. Much of therapy focuses on changing thoughts in order to affect one’s feelings and behaviors. CBT may also focus on relaxation techniques to calm the body when experiencing symptoms.Say, “I notice you have a hard time with social situations, and I think therapy may be helpful in allowing you to live a freer, more fulfilling life.” Be willing to make the call with your loved one, or drive him or her to the appointment.
When talking with your loved one, stress the importance of getting help and finding solutions for difficult problems. Therapy doesn’t mean your loved one is weak, but is willing to improve life.
 A support group can help someone with anxiety by bringing similar people together to talk about life struggles, coping strategies, and sharing support for each other.Especially for social anxiety disorder, it may be comforting to know that everyone else in the group also suffers from anxiety, and it can make the group feel less intimidating than other social groups.


Do some research and see if any support groups are offered near your loved one. Or, offer to help your loved one look for a support group.
 When you spend time with your loved one, choose activities that do not exacerbate any anxiety. Stimulants such as caffeine in coffee and tea can increase symptoms of anxiety, so avoid the coffee shops when getting together. Instead of spending time going out and drinking, find other activities to enjoy at night, such as watching movies or cooking dinner together, as alcohol can increase the risk of anxiety attacks. Encourage getting enough sleep so that your loved one will be less vulnerable to anxiety.Offer to quit smoking together: contrary to popular belief, nicotine leads to higher levels of anxiety.
Discourage coping through alcohol or drugs. If your loved one experiences a bad day or a bad experience, discourage substance use. Substances can increase feelings of anxiety and/or depression.

