 The pattern doesn't have to be perfect because you will try the shirt on and make adjustments later.


Draw a line equal to the distance between your shoulder and waist on the paper. Add 2" (5 cm) for seams.
Measure the distance from your hips to the widest part of your bust. On the line that you just drew, measure the same length, starting at the bottom of the line. Make a dot on the first line to mark the location of your bust on the pattern.
Draw a line through the dot that you just drew. The length of the line should equal one-fourth of your bust measurement plus 2" (5 cm) for seams, and the dot should be at the midpoint of the line.
Draw a line at the base of the shoulder-waist line that is perpendicular to the shoulder-waist line. This line should be one-fourth of your waist measurement plus 2" (5 cm) for seams.
Rough-sketch the front half of the shirt. Sketch as though you are looking at the shirt from the side. Curve the sides inward slightly to give it a natural shape.
Sketch the back of the shirt. The sketch should be approximately equal in size to the front with a section scooped out of the top.
, Cut out 2 front pieces and 2 back pieces.
 Cut 2 front shirt pieces and 2 back shirt pieces out of the lining material by cutting around the bedsheet pieces.



Join the 2 front pieces with the pinned seam in the middle.
Pin a 12" (30.5 cm) zipper to the back pieces. The shorter side of each back piece should be pinned to the edge of the zipper.
Pin the back of the shirt to the front.
 Doing this will prevent you from poking yourself with the pins.


Adjust the pinned seams as needed so that the shirt fits comfortably.
Check the zipper to make sure that it fits snugly against your back and doesn't bulge.
Tuck the seam in under your bust if needed. Do the same along your waist. Ignore the section above your bust for now because that will be fitted later.
Take the shirt piece off and try it on after you make your initial adjustments. Keep trying it on until you have a good fit.
 Just keep the zipper pinned into place.

