 Your border collie will need a wholesome, high-protein nutritional diet that is appropriate for its activity level. Border collies are working dogs, and they typically have higher nutritional needs than other breeds. However, each border collie has a different activity level and receives various degrees of exercise.You should always consulate your veterinarian when determining the best options for your border collie based on its activity level.


Your border collie will need more fat, protein, and calories if it is extremely active. If your dog often runs continuously for a 30-minute period, herds sheep, or participates in competitions, it may be considered a highly active dog.An athletic border collie’s food should contain 25% protein and 15% fat.Your active, working dog’s daily calorie intake should be around 1400 calories.A less active border collie should receive a maintenance diet, or a sufficient amount of nutrients and calories to support their moderate activity level.A maintenance diet requires a minimum of 18% protein and 5% fat.Your dog's calorie intake should be around 996 calories per day.Be cautious about feeding your border collie based on the number of cups, because the calorific content varies greatly between different foods. Instead, feed the amount recommended on the pack and then check your dog's body condition once a week. If the ribs become more difficult to feel, then reduce amount fed by 5 to 10%. If the dog's ribs have become obvious, then increase the ration by a similar amount.;
, A playful, growing puppy needs a lot of nutrients and nourishment to support healthy growth. On average, puppies need a diet that consists of 25 to 30% protein. Refer to the recommended serving size based on the puppy’s weight, which will be listed on your dog’s food package.Be careful not to overfed your puppy. Medium-sized breeds like border collies can develop bone or joint issues if they eat too much when they are pups., As dogs age, they undergo metabolic and body composition changes which may require changes to their diet. Although some senior dogs are not as active, they still require adequate levels of quality protein to help maintain muscle mass. However, their caloric intake may need to decrease to ward off any weight gain. An active senior border collie will require a diet more consistent with the diet they had as adults.


Studies have indicated that the caloric requirements for a working border collie do not decline with age, provided that they remain active. As they age, their protein and fat intake should remain consistent.In some studies, border collies that are household pets displayed typical signs of aging and decreased energy levels.The activity level of an older dog declines as it ages and is more likely to rest, take naps, and go on shorter walks, and therefore does not need to burn as many calories throughout the day.A senior border collie should receive about 717 calories each day., Be sure to discuss your dog’s particular health problems with your veterinarian. The type of health issue may be alleviated by adjusting its diet. Your veterinarian will consider your dog’s daily intake of fiber, protein, fat, carbohydrate, and other nutrients and will adjust these depending on your dog’s symptoms or diagnosis.


A dog with kidney problems should be fed a diet that is moderate to high fat, contains a moderate amount of high-quality protein, and is low in carbohydrates.
A high-fiber diet is recommended for a dog that suffers from frequent constipation or anal gland disease.Border collies may suffer from orthopedic condition called osteochondrosis dissecans, which causes pain in the elbow and other joints. Feeding a border collie puppy too much "growth formula" puppy food or feeding an adult high-protein foods can contribute to this condition.