 Kids need some direction in terms of how to deal with their own anger. Not many people know how to instruct their kids on how to deal with anger, so many are left to themselves to deal with it on their own. This can lead to poor impulse control, a history of violent behaviors, and fighting in relationships in school and at home. Children learn their behavioral patterns from their parents and other adults with whom they spend a lot of time. In order to teach your child mutual respect, you must try your best to communicate respectfully with your child.


Instruct your kids to treat others with kindness. They shouldn’t be sarcastic toward other people. Model this for your child by doing the same — if you don't treat others with kindness and respect, don't expect your child to do so.
Don’t yell or shake your finger at them. Don’t shame your kids, call them nasty names, or put down their actions even if they didn’t exhibit the best of judgment. Do not use guilt trips on your kids.
If your kids stray from communicating respectfully, don’t accuse them of disrespecting you. It will hurt their feelings. If your kids are young, they probably don’t even realize they are acting in a disrespectful manner. If it’s your teen, let them know in an assertive way that their tone sounds angry and ask them what is going on. In other words, just make the observation without getting upset. Use a non-accusatory tone. Give them a chance to explain.
 Make sure your face is relaxed. Use a tone of voice that does not sound angry or tense.
 Behavior such as throwing things or hitting should not be allowed. If it’s a one-time occurrence, talk with your child after the incident to let them know that hitting is not allowed. Tell your child that this action was a mistake. Tell them that you forgive them, but that they will lose a privilege the next time this happens.
 Just like adults, kids have the right to feel angry. An older child or teenager may respond well to a statement like this: “I notice you seem angry. It’s okay, you’re allowed to be angry, and people do get angry sometimes. You might be feeling other feelings along with anger too, and that’s okay also.”


For younger kids, a shorter, more direct reflection statement is more helpful. Reflection can help children learn to name the emotion and learn how to deal with feelings appropriately. Try saying, "You are angry that you did not get to eat the cookie before dinner." Don't worry that it might not be the right emotion — they will correct you. The key is just getting them to refocus on how they are feeling.
Help your kid identify more feelings if it’s possible, since anger almost always occurs with other feelings specific to the situation. For example, your kid could be angry that their little brother entered their room without permission. Your kid can also feel a little violated.
 What works for adults works for kids too. If you notice your teen or kid stewing for a while, sit down with them. Count out loud for them, taking a few deep breaths with them. Breathe in for a count of four, hold for a count of four, and exhale for a count of four.


Be willing to allow your child to blow off some steam for a little while and calm themselves down. They will need this skill throughout their life. In addition, some kids really prefer to calm themselves down.
 With some kids, it’s possible to distract them long enough to get them to move on from something they are focused on. This is easy for young kids. Distraction is a way to deal with emotions to calm them down.


Change the scenery and bring your kid out to the garage to help you with something small. A small task like this can help take the focus away from what’s upsetting them. Then you can discuss the issue later with them.
 As your kid discusses their issue and what caused them to be angry, listen to them carefully. Paraphrase and summarize what you think they have said. This will show that you are following their story.


For children, it is key to teach them the difference between feelings and behaviors. It is perfectly fine to be angry or upset, but we have to show that in the right way. This is especially true for children who externalize their anger and hit, kick, or destroy things.
Ask questions. Your child still might be upset and jump around in their story. By asking questions, you can help your child organize their thoughts too.
For instance, if something at school upset your child, try to sum up what they are saying: “Let me see if I’m following your story. Billy pushed you during lunch time. You told the teacher, but the teacher just told him to stop, but you felt that the teacher should have punished him. Did I get this right?”
For instance, if your kid has a falling out with friends, acknowledge that your kid has a right to be angry and upset. Your child might be feeling hurt. It might take a while for these feelings to resolve, but assure your child that the feelings eventually will fade away.
 This will shift the focus away from the anger and focus on problem-solving. Encourage your kid to think of solutions where everyone wins, which will ensure cooperation in the house.


You can offer some suggestions too, but it is also effective to let your child come up with solutions. Your child may feel more in control when he gets to determine how to solve the problem. He is also learning how to resolve his own problems, which is a skill he will need throughout life.
 You are teaching your kids major life skills, so following these steps each and every time will help this lesson sink in.
 In some cases, your child might be angry because they have been wronged. Whether it’s bullying or because of unkind treatment from peers, your kid might have a really good reason to be angry.


If there are situations where your child needs protection, like a bullying situation, demonstrate how this situation should be handled assertively. Go to your school’s principal for help and alert your child’s teachers. Keep going up the chain of command until you reach a positive solution.
Being patient in tough situations will help show your child what it’s like to work out problems.

