 In this method, you will be cornrowing your hair into a ponytail. You can add extensions to your braids once you reach the ponytail part to make them longer, if you wish.
 This style works best with high ponytails. You can have them centered on the back of you crown, or just off to the side. Keep this point in mind; you will be braiding towards it.
 If you plan on having your ponytail off-centered, then part your hair to the side. Your part will go right through the ponytail.
 Take the hair on the left side of your head, and split it in half horizontally. The horizontal part should be level with where you want your ponytail to be. Tie or clip each section off. Repeat the step for the right side. When you are done, you should have a "+" shaped part, with the center being where your ponytail will be.
 Undo the top left part. Run a rattail comb from your hairline towards the center of the "+" part, sectioning off some of the hair. Start cornrowing start section, angling it towards the "+".








Consider adding real or synthetic hair to your cornrows to make your braid longer. You can match the hair to your natural color or use a bright color, such as red or purple.Consider adding a moisturizing cream (or even coconut oil) to each section before cornrowing it., When you reach the center of the "+", stop cornrowing. Finish off doing a regular braid. You can braid all the way down to the end of the hair strand, or you can braid down halfway.








You should not have to tie off the braids—they should be able to hold on their own. If they do come undone, secure them with clear hair elastics.
 Each cornrow should be angled back towards the center of the "+." When you reach the bottom of your head, you should cornrow upwards.









If you used kanekalon, the ends may be crinkly. If you want them to be smoother, dip the ends in hot water and let them dry, this will straighten them a bit., Add some hairspray or hair oil all over your scalp. This will prevent itchiness and dryness. Be careful not to mess up your cornrows, however!








Focus moisturizer on your hairline., When you are con cornrowing and braiding, all of your braids should come together at the same point. Gather those braids together, like making a ponytail, and secure them with a hair tie.You can then wrap an interesting scrunchy around the hair tie to cover it.









Alternatively, you can take a few braids from under the ponytail, and wrap them around the ponytail's base to secure it.