 Having long conversations with an annoying person will imply that you are interested in talking to them. Keep your conversations brief and to the point. Even if you aren’t rude, the person is likely to move on to someone else who is more accommodating to their need for attention. If they do insist on talking for longer than you want, excuse yourself from the conversation.If you attempted to make a conversation about an assignment short and sweet, but the other person jumped right into talking about something else, excuse yourself to go restroom and end the conversation.
 If you have routine interaction with an annoying person, consider trying to avoid them. Avoid going to places that you know that they will be. Try to be uninviting to keep them from wanting to be around you. Shift your schedule so that you just barely miss the time that you would normally pass them. You could also consider taking a different route to your class, office, or other routine destination.If this annoying person is a co-worker, try shutting your door to keep them from bothering you in your office.
Change up your lunchtime or eating place to avoid an annoying classmate or co-worker.
 Most people like to receive attention. Sometimes, even negative attention will give that person some satisfaction. You can make the interaction less appealing to the other person if you ignore them as much as possible. This clearly states that you are not interested in interacting with them. It may take several tries, but the annoying person is likely to get bored or flustered with trying to interact with you., If you are dealing with an annoying person regularly, it is likely that they will have your cell number or add you to social media. There is a good chance that they will feel comfortable contacting you any time through electronic media. The best way to handle this is to keep your responses few and far between. You can also choose not to respond at all.For example, if an annoying person messages you saying something like “Hey, what are you doing,” you can respond by saying something like “Hi, I’m working on my lawn. I can’t really talk at the moment.” If they continue to message you, it is best to just ignore them.
You can also hide posts made by people on your social media feeds. Just go to one of their posts and click the ‘Unfollow,’ ‘Mute,’ or other comparable button.