 If you plan to forage for food, find a good guidebook on what types of plants grow in your area, which are edible, and which are poisonous; Richard Mabey’s Food For Free is a classic, illustrated handbook that is widely available and well-reviewed. If you plan to grow your own food, research the most effective ways of dividing land, planting seeds, and tending to your crops.


If you have a university or college in your area, see if it has a cooperative extension. These offices provide education for the community on many things, including food cultivation and foraging, and often it is free to attend classes or get information.
Remember that foods grow seasonally. Berries tend to be ready to be picked in the summer, while apples and nuts are harvestable in the autumn. Greens are often harvestable year-round. Whether you forage or grow your own crops, ensuring that you have foods to harvest year-round will help you keep a nutritionally balanced diet.
 Picking wild foods that grow in your vicinity is an enjoyable, eco-friendly way to spend a day and prepare a meal. Even if you live in a suburban neighborhood, your neighbors may have things like fruit trees that produce more food than they can use. Always ask before you take food from others. ]


Avoid collecting any nuts or plants which show signs of being partially eaten by another animal, have been broken open in a fall from a tree, or seem partially rotten, as these are likely to contain dangerous bacterial growth.
Avoid picking greens and other plants near busy roads, or industrial sites, where runoff from the cars or pollution from industry may have contaminated your food source. Instead, look for food in rural, less developed areas, away from the impact of cars, industry, and technology.
Never eat anything you cannot identify. If you’re unsure whether something is hazardous, it’s best to bypass it.
 Many grocery stores and restaurants throw away unwanted or excess food, as well as food that is past its sell-by date but still edible. Ask a manager what their policies are for disposing of these products. You can also ask vendors at local farmers markets if they have discarded produce you may take away.


Be cautious of meat, dairy, and eggs, as the risk of bacterial growth and foodborne illness is higher.
Independent and family-owned stores may be more accommodating than mega chain stores, although stores such as Trader Joe’s are well-known for giving discarded food away.
Make a name for yourself in your neighborhood. Most households waste thousands of dollars in uneaten food a year. Consider putting up a flyer in your local community center about yourself and your cash-free aspirations. Many people may be happy to donate slightly off fruits, vegetables, or older dried goods.
 Bartering, or haggling, for food, is a great way to negotiate prices, add variety to your diet, and exchange items you don't want for things that are more useful. ] You may find that people are willing to offer you food or goods in exchange for odd jobs such as window washing or lawnmowing.


Look at what you have to trade. Do you grow vegetables that your neighbors don't? Do you have skills that people around you need? Consider using your homegrown potatoes and handpicked berries, your fence-painting or babysitting skills, and your dog-walking experience to trade for fruits that you cannot grow or pick on your own,
Remember: In a successful negotiation, both parties win. Be fair in your request. Is an hour of babysitting really worth ten pounds of fresh apples? Or is it more worth five?

, The art of gardening is a financially savvy and personally fulfilling way to feed yourself from your own land and hands. It’s possible even in an urban or suburban location to grow vegetables and fruits. Even if you can’t subsist entirely on food you grow yourself, the produce you grow in your own garden will be healthier and cheaper than what you buy in the store.


Decide what is most feasible to grow in your area. The easiest way to determine which plants thrive in your region is to visit a local farm or to speak with someone who tends an extensive food garden. Differences in regional climate and soil greatly affect which vegetables and fruits thrive in which areas.
Build a greenhouse! Using recycled garbage bags over a wood frame, you can grow hardy vegetables, such as potatoes, Brussel sprouts, and radishes, in colder climates, even when there is snow on the ground.
Ask your neighbors if any are interested in co-opting a garden space. Sharing the labor and time necessary to grow your own food, in exchange for a larger space of land, and a greater variety of fruits and vegetables is a wonderful way to diversify your diet, decrease your workload, and build community friendships.
 Food that you collect that is no longer suitable for eating is still perfect for decomposing into a nutritious soil, perfect for your fruits, vegetables, and grains.

