 Purchase KMR, a milk substitute generally used for kittens, at your local pet store. Put the KMR in an eye dropper or syringe for feeding. Feed the hamsters around the clock, approximately three drops per serving.


Alternatively, you can use a mixture of 50% warm water and 50% evaporated milk. Heat up the water in a tea kettle and stir together with a spoon before giving it to the hamster. Test the mixture with a thermometer. It should be approximately 90 degrees Fahrenheit.The feeding schedule for a baby will be very labor intensive. Start with two drops every half hour, night and day. When the pup is about 12 days old increase this to three drops every half hour. After it is two weeks old, switch to .5 milliliters every hour.
Stop this regimen after 21 days.;
, For hard food, soak pellets in water so that babies can eat them. Immerse them in water and stir them they until they appear soft. Drain them and place them in a dish in the cage. To make them extra nutritious, sprinkle powdered milk on top of the pellets.Alternatively, provide some small seeds like millet, and some wheat germ.The hamster might well refuse hard food until it is about three weeks old. When it does take hard food, begin weaning it off of milk.
 Good fresh foods include finely broccoli and apples.Apples will also help keep the hamsters hydrated., Mash up canned dog food made from either beef or chicken. Be sure that it is sufficiently mashed so that there are no large, hard chunks in it. This will provide a much needed source of protein for the hamsters.Alternatively, for protein you can mash up a hard-boiled egg.
 Baby hamsters will eat the droppings of adult hamsters. This is actually important to their health because it, provides them with the bacteria to process their foods., If a baby is over ten days old, it might be able to survive without its mother, but will need a suitable environment. Clean the cage thoroughly in case the mother was ill. You will need to make a nest by shredding some toilet paper.


Normally the baby’s mother would keep it warm with its body heat. You will need to keep the cage in a warm place. Alternatively, you can place a heading pad under the cage and set it on a low heat setting.
Normally a mother would encourage its baby to urinate and defecate. You will need to do this after each feeding. Rub the genital and anal area with a warm, damp cloth.