 It’s important that the marking tool you use is appropriate to the maze’s floor. For example, you can use chalk on a hard surface like wood or concrete. For other surfaces, consider using objects you can leave behind, like bread crumbs or some rocks.

Whatever item you use, you have to be able to make two distinct kinds of markings; you need to differentiate between paths you’ve taken once or twice., Each maze will have a different layout at the start; some may start with an intersection and others will have only one path. In either case, choose any path and start walking forward until you either reach an intersection or a dead end., It’s crucial to keep track of what paths you’ve already taken for Trémaux’s Algorithm to work. Make sure to mark both the beginning and end of each path using whatever marker you’ve chosen.

If you take a path for the first time, you’ll want to mark it once. With chalk, a simple line will suffice. If you’re using objects like a pile of rocks, leave a rock at the beginning and end of the path.
If you follow a path for the second time, mark it again. Using chalk will mean drawing a second line, while with objects you’ll just leave a second behind.
If you reach a dead end, mark the path so you’ll recognize it as such. For instance, if you’re using chalk, mark the path with a “D”. Make this marking close to the intersection the path leads to. , Whenever you arrive at an intersection, take a moment to note the markings on each path. Some might be unmarked while others will show that you’ve taken them once (or twice) already. You should prioritize paths that are unmarked, as following these gives you a better chance of moving forward. If all paths are marked once, pick one at random., If you have to follow a path that you’ve already marked once, you should mark it a second time. Under Trémaux’s algorithm, marking a path twice means it won’t take you to the exit. If you find an intersection where a path is marked twice, always choose another path, even if that means going back the way you came., If you reach a dead end, you want to return to the last intersection you crossed. Make sure to mark the path to remember that it leads to a dead end. Once you arrive at the intersection, pick among the remaining paths and continue crossing the maze., If you consistently do this, you should eventually find the exit. Note that you won’t necessarily find the easiest or most direct path out of a maze, but you are guaranteed to find the exit. Trémaux’s algorithm essentially gives you the ability to test a larger number of paths, using a system to determine the ones that definitely don’t lead to the exit. It will beat any maze eventually. 