 Place a large mixing bowl in the refrigerator for 30 minutes, preferably a stainless steel bowl because it chills faster. Chilling your mixing bowl before whipping your cream helps the cream to thicken faster and makes it easier to whip.Make sure that the cream you are going to use has been refrigerated for a couple of hours.
Use heavy whipping cream as opposed to half and half or other varieties of milk or cream.;
, After your have chilled your bowl and your cream, take them both out of the fridge. Pour one cup (236.5 ml) of the heavy cream into the chilled bowl., To beat the cream, use your non-dominant hand to hold the edge of the mixing bowl and tilt it slightly. Use your dominant hand to whip the cream with the whisk in rapid circular motions.When whipping the cream, get momentum from your wrist rather than moving your whole arm.
You need to whip rapidly and work quickly, before the cream has time to warm up.
Try to whip and disrupt the cream without splashing the cream. Instead of repeatedly taking the whisk out of the cream at the beginning of every circular motion, keep the head of the whisk in the cream as you whip.
You can also use a hand-mixer to whip the cream. To use a hand-mixer, turn the setting up to high and move the mixer in circular motions. You don’t have to whisk as rapidly as you do when whipping using a whisk, because the mixer will churn the cream for you., Keep hand-whipping the cream until the cream starts to gloom together and form soft peaks, about 3-5 minutes. Once you see that your cream is starting to look more solid, add in 2 tablespoons (29.5 ml) of pure maple syrup.Use pure maple syrup as opposed to artificial maple syrup, which has a different consistency and flavor.
 Once you have added in the maple syrup, whip either using your whisk or your hand-mixer on its highest setting. Whip for about 1-2 minutes, until the cream starts to take on the consistency of whipped cream and has stiff peaks.You can tell that your whipped cream is forming stiff peaks when the hill-like masses of cream look solid as opposed to liquid-y and soft.
Make sure not to whip for too long after the soft peaks become stiff. If you whip your cream for too long a time, it will become butter!

, Your whipped cream is now ready to be enjoyed! Dollop your homemade whipped cream onto fruit, baked goods or ice cream. Immediately store any unused whipped cream in the refrigerator, making sure to cover it by placing plastic wrap over the mixing bowl or putting it in a sealed container.

Whipped cream lasts a few days covered in the fridge. If it becomes runny in the fridge, whip it for 30 seconds or so before serving until it reaches its former consistency.

