 Dip a brush into watery paint. Hold it over the canvas and flick your wrist. Also try flicking bristles with your fingers or striking the brush handle. You can use a variety of brushes and other objects, including toothbrushes and sticks, to get different effects.Different objects, such as sticks or rods, can give you a less uniform drip than a paintbrush. They may have cracks and crevices the lead to a less controlled spatter.
 Use liquid acrylics or thin out thicker paints. All you need to do is tip over the paint container and let the color flow onto the canvas. You can customize this in many ways, such as by pouring more paint, pouring a new color onto wet paint, and tilting the canvas. Pouring turns paint drips into broad, controlled shapes.Think of how you want to apply your paint. Every detail, including how high you hold the paint container, the angle, the volume, and your wrist movement, will change the effect the paint has on the canvas.
For example, holding the paint container higher will cause more of a paint splash. Tilting the container more causes thicker paint drips. More paint in the container can help you get longer lines. Wrist movement can help you make paint lines thicker or thinner as you pour.
 Hold a palette knife up to the container as you pour your paint. This will thin out the stream, causing the paint to look stringy and drizzled. Try it to get thinner paint lines with the same control as regular pouring., You can load the paint into a squeeze bottle or turkey baster. Squeeze the paint out over the top of an upright canvas. This will lead to very unique drip marks. You won’t have as much control as you would by dabbing areas with a brush, but no painting will turn out the same., Anything you have laying around can be repurposed for painting. Like how fingerpainting can give you more rounded paint lines, other tools will have their own effects. Sponges are useful for making clean, square-shaped marks. Fly swatters and potato mashers can give you patterned marks.Other examples include rolling pins, corn cobs, marbles, cookie cutters, metal rods, knives, rollers, and cards. They all help you apply different amounts of paint in unique patterns. The paint can be put on the canvas directly, splattered, dripped, or more.

