 It's not always appropriate to strike up a conversation with someone you don't know just because they look lonely to you. If there's someone on the edge of a group you are part of, someone in your school, your organization, your church, your apartment building etc, it's ok to cautiously approach them. If there's a big age gap, and you are under 16, it's probably wise to tell an adult you are going to try to make friends with this person.
 This is always a first (and effective) step people should take. Chances are the person is lonely and would enjoy your company, even though they do not know you well.


If they say that they would rather be alone, do not press them. If they say they want to be by themselves, take their word for it! Some people don't like talking to strangers, they may have cultural beliefs that prevent it.
The person might not be used to getting attention. They might expect you to have a hidden agenda with your kindness. Don't overwhelm the person with sudden attention.
 Say hi. Be friendly. Do not walk past them coldly or ignore them. You want to make them feel noticed and happy, not overlooked and hurt.
 Ask them kindly if they would be your partner. Do not say, "Do you need a partner?"—make the offer to be their partner. Make them feel as if they are the one in charge, or the one making the final decision.
 Before work has to get started, during free time, or before the bell rings, converse with them. Ask them what they enjoy, and what they dislike. If you agree with them, say so and laugh. If you do not agree with something they like or dislike, do not point it out. Everyone is different, and has different interests and pet-peeves, so do not allow it to bother you.



Listen more. Allow them to get in the conversation too (probably more than you). Remember, no one wants to talk to a person who completely dominates the conversation and doesn't let the other person get a word in edge-wise!







, Do not pop the question out of the blue, or the first day you speak to them—wait a few days until you're sure both you and the other person feel adequately comfortable being around each other.


If they refuse, don't feel bad! They may just need more time to get to know you.
 Talk to them everyday; ask them to sit with you at lunch; walk to them to their classes etc; invite them to your house. The options are infinite! By hanging out with them more often you will open up their heart to you. You want them to feel comfortable and relaxed around you, and you want them to enjoy your company just as much as you enjoy theirs.

