 Building a better future for your family will be a lot easier if you recognize how special your family is and how these bonds are worth preserving. Do this by looking at your family’s quirks, complicated dramas, or unorthodox structure not as embarrassing problems, but as special strengths and reminders of how irreplaceable your family really is.It can also help to remember that, no matter how perfect other families may seem, every family has its own problems.
 It’s important to acknowledge past problems and conflicts, but you shouldn’t belabor the past and let it dominate the present. This will just extend old problems and delay healing in the present.Show everyone you're serious about this principle by establishing a common family rule to leave the past in the past and focus on positive behaviors and supportiveness in the present.


Making new memories can be helpful in this regard. If old traditions seem to belabor pain from the past, try new experiences together as a family.
A good, concrete way to stop belaboring the past is to avoid bringing up past resentments in current conflicts. For example, if you’re arguing with a family member about a loan which hasn’t been paid back to you in the agreed time frame, stop yourself from using past money issues and unpaid loans into the present argument. Focus on steps for resolving the current issue and, if the same thing happens again, make a policy never to lend money to that family member again.
 While old family wounds can take time to heal, you should remind one another how far you’ve come and what positive steps you’ve made. This way you won’t feel like the process has been futile and that you’re just slipping back into old behaviors.For example, when a family member who always missed your concerts or basketball games in the past shows up to one, send them a text afterward saying how much you appreciated their presence and support. If you’ve noticed a family member making an effort to use kinder words and tones in disagreements, compliment them on their effort and express your appreciation.
 While conflicts are unavoidable to some extent, you can minimize their damage by spotlighting the love and deep bonds among one another. You should do this in many ways: don’t just articulate your love verbally, but also perform actions which demonstrate love.For example, give small presents such as hand-picked flowers, favorite candies or cookies, and little seasonal knick-knacks for no particular reason.
You can also show that you care by being of service in simple ways. For example, bring over morning coffee and bagels, drop into your family member’s workplace just to say hello, make dinner for the family, or offer to help with fixing a computer bug or installing a shelf.
For many people, physical affection is the most significant sign of love. It's a person by person basis, but you may consider hugs and handshakes.
 Laughter has been shown to have numerous mental and even physical health benefits, and you’ll be surprised how much of a positive impact it can have on your family dynamic.Next time you’re planning a family gathering, make sure it includes plenty of chuckles and fun.


For example, rent a funny film and have a movie night, play a side-splitting board game like Apples to Apples or Taboo, or go see an improv comedy show in a group outing.

