 Some therapists use touch as a part of their healing technique, but this is rare and not actually allowed in the profession. Tell the therapist that you don’t want any type of physical interaction if it makes you feel uneasy. Setting this boundary from the start can prevent awkward or unpleasant situations. If it continues, report them to the state licensing board and find a new therapist.

During your first visit, say, “I know that some therapists like to give hugs or offer physical comfort to their patients. I am not comfortable with any type of touching.” Your therapist should respect your request; consider finding a new therapist if they don’t., Tell your therapist if you would only like to see them in their office. Some therapists will visit their clients outside of the office to offer encouragement and support, but this is very rare. It is against regulations in most states unless both parties agree to it. Tell the therapist you only want to see them during your scheduled time, if that’s what you feel good about.

For instance, some therapists will visit their clients in the hospital or come to special events with them to offer support. Let your therapist know if this is something you’re interested in or not at the beginning., The point of therapy is to discuss your life and the issues you’re enduring. However, you may not be ready to talk about certain events from your past right now. It’s OK to them know you don’t want to discuss them yet.

You could say, “There are certain aspects of my life I’m not ready to talk about right now. Please don’t persist if I tell you I don’t want to talk about a certain subject.” Your therapist should understand this. If not, consider finding someone new., Therapists use different techniques they believe work. You may not like what yours uses. Address the situation as soon as you can to prevent it from happening in the future.

You may not feel comfortable with the way the therapist speaks to you, you may not like if they take phone calls during sessions, or you may think they end your session short. Tell the therapist about anything that you don’t like. You don’t have to put up with any behavior you aren’t happy with.It is important to keep the lines of communication open between the two of you.

