 Many general insurance providers lack the experience with boats to make sure you get all the coverage you need. While you may ultimately find that you go with your original provider, you need to do some additional work to be an informed consumer.;
,


Actual Cash Value policies pay for Replacement Costs *minus depreciation* at the time of the loss. If your boat is a complete loss, the insurance company will take used boat pricing guides and other resources to figure approximate market value of your vessel. While this form of boat insurance costs less, you also get a smaller return. Unless you think you can replace your boat for whatever your used boat is worth, it may not be a good idea.
Agreed Amount Value policies refer to an agreed amount you and the insurance company have set as the value of your vessel and that's how much you would get back in the event of a loss. Agreed Amount Value policies also replace old items for new in the event of a partial loss without any deduction for depreciation.
 Some of the things you may want to cover (or may be obliged by law to cover) are:


Physical Damage Coverage- this is the bread and butter of your coverage but you want to make sure it covers your hull, engine, and trailer. It protects against vandalism, theft, lightning, windstorms, and collision
Personal Effects Coverage- This covers all your personal property on your boat such as a TV, cell phone, cameras, radios. You won't usually find this coverage from a general insurance provider.
Boat Liability- This is coverage you have to have, is required if you financed your boat, and is required by most states. This covers any damage you do to someone or their boat.
Uninsured boat owners coverage protects you from damages received from a hit and run or uninsured operator.
Medical liability coverage ambulance and hospital costs if someone injures themselves in, on, or boarding/leaving your boat
Commercial Towing coverage reimburses you if your boat stalls and needs to be towed in to port. Additionally you can get coverage for towing if your boat becomes grounded ashore.
Salvage Coverage will cover the cost of salvaging a sunken vessel, which is required on most lakes/rivers
Spillage Coverage covers clean-up costs for oil/fuel spills in the water.
 The easiest thing is to start with a Google search "boat insurance specialists" and get a quote from the top ten providers. You'll want to do a back round check on these providers to make sure they are stable, quality insurers. Do this by seeing how long they've been in business. Search for any negative reviews existing online, and finally when you talk to them make sure their staff is knowledgeable and friendly.
