 You want to cover your hands to protect them from the vomit. This not only keeps your hands away from the unpleasant substance, but also protects you from germs.;
, As soon as the vomit hits the floor, grab a scraper or other flat sided object.Scrape the thick pieces into a dustpan or plastic bag.
 Another way to clean up vomit is to pick it up in a towel. After gathering all the vomit you can into the towel, place it into the washer. You can also pick up the vomit with paper towels instead of towels and place them directly into the trash.


One thing to think about when washing vomit towels is that if it has chunks, they may get stuck in the washing machine.
 Use old cereal or soda boxes or the back of a composition notebook as a scoop. Gently slide the cardboard under the thickest sections, and then toss into the trashcan. You can make two pieces, one to push the vomit onto the other like a makeshift, disposable broom and dustpan., Turn a plastic bag inside out on your hand as a makeshift glove. Use the bag to pick up any vomit that you can. Then, turn the bag right side out and tie the handles. Drop the bag in the trashcan.


Make sure the bag doesn't have any holes in it so you don't get vomit on your hands.
 Another way you can get vomit off the carpet is to pick it up with a spatula. Slide the flat side under the vomit and lift it off the carpet. You can also use a spoon to scoop it up.


Don't use a spatula that has slits in it. The vomit will fall through if you do.
Disinfect the spoon or spatula after you clean the vomit.
 Immediately after someone vomits, cover it with sand. Allow the sand to combine and clump with the vomit, then use a broom and dustpan to sweep it up., No matter which way you get the excess vomit off your carpet, do not rub it into the carpet. Pressing down when removing the vomit can push the vomit into the carpet fibers, making it twice as difficult to remove.


Towels can result in vomit pressed into the carpet.Sliding flat objects, like spatulas, cardboard, or scrapers, under the vomit might help prevent this.
 Baking soda is a great product to use on vomit spots. It dries up the excess moisture, resulting in little clumps. Pour a liberal amount over the stain. Leave the baking soda on for 10-15 minutes, or until the clumps have started to dry. Then, vacuum the area, removing all the clumps. Repeat if necessary.


If the vomit doesn't have a lot of thick chunks to begin with, try spreading baking soda over the area and leaving overnight. The baking soda will soak into it and turn it into clumps.Use the tube to vacuum up the clumps instead of the regular vacuum head., Another way to dry up the moisture left behind is to sprinkle cornstarch over the area. Make sure to completely cover the area. Allow the cornstarch to dry for 10-15 minutes, then vacuum using the hose tube., Spray or pour warm water onto the area. Using a clean rag, start blotting out the moisture. Don't scrub because that could push any remaining debris into the carpet. When the towel gets saturated, get a clean towel and repeat.


When you blot, put some force into it to get out the water. Press down hard; just remember not to scrub.
Use white towels so you don't transfer any patterns or dyes to your carpet.
Instead of a rag, you could also use paper towels.
 Fill a spray bottle with club soda, or just pour directly onto the stain. Press a clean rag to the stain, blotting up the moisture until the stain is removed. Add more club soda and use a dry, clean rag as needed.
 Put dry cleaning solvent, such as Dryel, onto a clean rag. Blot the stain with the dry cleaning solvent soaked rag until the solvent has been absorbed., Mix equal parts vinegar and cold water in a spray bottle. Liberally spray the area with vinegar. Let the vinegar sit for 15 minutes. Then, use a dry, clean cloth to dab at the stain, soaking up the vinegar.


After you have soaked up most of the vinegar, use a stiff brush to rub at the stain until it starts to loosen. Go back over the stain with a dry cloth again.
You can also add 6 drops purification essential oil to help cover the odor, and 8 drops thieves essential oil, which is thought to kill 99% of germs.You can use white or apple cider vinegar for this.
Don't scrub with the cloth.
Don't overspray the area. You want to cover the stain, but not soak the carpet.
 Mix 1 part hydrogen peroxide with 1 part water or dish soap. Pour the mixture over the carpet and let sit for 30 minutes. Gently rub the area with a rag, causing a lather to form. Blot up the moisture with a dry towel.


Pour water over the spot afterwards to rinse the area of the soap. It's important to rinse the soap from the carpet because soap can hold dirt and dust.
 Mix together 2 cups of warm water, 1 tablespoon of salt, 1/2 cup of white vinegar, 1 tablespoon of clear dish or laundry detergent, and 2 tablespoons of rubbing alcohol.Use a sponge to spread the cleaner over the stain. Blot the stain with a dry, clean towel until all the moisture has been removed.


Make sure to rinse the area after the stain is removed. Cover the area in water, then blot up with a towel. Do this two or three times.
 Use a carpet stain remover. Good ones to try are enzyme-based stain removers for pets or car upholstery cleaners. Make sure to follow the directions on the bottle.
 If the stain is severe, think about using a carpet cleaning machine. If you own a wet vac, use it over the stain. If you don't own your own, many supermarkets carry carpet cleaning machines that you can rent.
 Mix 1 tablespoon of ammonia with 1 cup of water. Spray or pour the mixture over the stain. Use a sponge or towel to dab the ammonia over the stain. Then, rinse with water and blot with towels.


Don't use ammonia if you have pets. It might attract them to the spot and encourage them to urinate there., Spray the stain with a mixture containing 2 parts water and 1 part white vinegar. Place a damp white rag over the stain. With your iron on the steam setting, iron over the spot for 30 seconds, repeating multiple times if necessary.The stain should transfer from the carpet to the towel.


Don't hold the iron in one place - it could scorch or burn the towel. Instead, gently slide the iron back and forth over the area where the stain is.
Never iron carpet directly. Always put a towel between the carpet and the iron. Otherwise, you might burn or scorch your carpet.
 After you've cleaned the stain, sprinkle a liberal amount of baking soda on the area. Baking soda is an alkaline and helps stop acids, which are found in vomit. It also neutralizes odors instead of covering them up.Let the baking soda sit overnight, then vacuum the next day. It will also help absorb any left over moisture.
 Mix equal parts vinegar and water together, and spray or pour onto the smelly area. It will help get rid of, or at least lessen, the odor.The downside to vinegar is that it can leave a smell behind.
 Get an odor neutralizing spray like Febreze or Renuzit. Choose one of these neutralizing sprays instead of an air freshener. Potpourri and floral air fresheners just cover the odors, which can sometimes mix with the vomit smell and make it worse. The neutralizing sprays help eliminate the odors.

