 Ironically, having a perfect day means starting the night before! It's harder to enjoy yourself if you're drowsy from lack of sleep and, if you have to take a nap in the middle of the day, you'll miss out on time that you could be spending doing something more important. Try to get a full night's rest the night before your big day — though everyone's sleep needs are different, most adults need about seven to nine hours per night.


Ideally, getting enough sleep isn't something you should give up on the day after your "lovely day" — insufficient sleep has been linked to a variety of health problems, including obesity and heart disease.;
, If you're like most people, when you roll out of bed in the morning, you jump right into the shower or drag yourself off to work without a moment's notice. Today, instead, start slow with a good, thorough stretching session. Stretching loosens up your body, increases the blood flow to the muscles, and helps clear your mind at the start of the day. Plus, it just plain feels good, so, to start your morning right, don't skip this simple treat.


If you'd like, you can even start stretching in bed before you open your eyes. Lift-up your palm and stretch out each of the finger. Take up your wrist and then your arm for the stretch. Do the same for the other arm. Progress next to your toes, feet, ankles, and both of your legs.
For extra effect, try listening to your some music while you stretch. Tuning in to your favorite Dvorak symphony or grooving into some Bob Marley jams can help you focus on your stretches and get you in a great mood to start your day.
 If you work an average nine-to-five, there's a good chance that the word "breakfast" has come to mean "whatever you can grab on the way out the door" for you. Today, try something different: take the time to make a filling and nutritious breakfast. There's no "right" breakfast to start your day with — whatever you choose to eat is a matter of personal taste — but below we've listed a good all-purpose breakfast that should be satisfying to most:


Two pieces whole wheat toast with butter or your preferred spread; Two eggs cooked to your liking; one apple or banana; sausage, bacon, or ham.
Resist the urge to have an enormous breakfast — though it can be tempting to load up on pancakes, french toast, bacon, and omelets, huge breakfasts can slow you down later in the day by giving you a "food coma."
Consider accompanying your breakfast with a cup of your favorite tea or some fresh-brewed coffee. A small dose of caffeine can help give you the energy you need to get the ball rolling on your day's projects.
 In the words of Robert F. Chew, "Look the part, be the part." Don't wear a dirty T-shirt and sweatpants for your big day — it's tough to feel fresh and energized when you look like you just rolled out of bed. Instead, dress a little "nicer" than normal, as if you were going on a date or seeing someone you really care about. Catching a glimpse of your handsome or beautiful self in the mirror on the way out the door is all you need to get in a positive mindset for your lovely day!


Believe it or not, the clothes you wear can have measurable effect on the way you act and feel. Research has shown that dressing well can subtly increase your confidence, your ability to attract romantic partners, and even the quality of your work. On the other hand, dressing shabbily or neglecting your hygiene can be a sign of depression., Exercise is a fantastic addition to any lovely day — not only is it a great long-term move for your health, but can also give you a noticeable mood boost in the short term. Medical research has shown that exercise triggers the release of chemicals called endorphins in the body that produce feelings of happiness and well-being.In fact, exercise is often prescribed as a treatment for mild depression.


If possible, try to exercise outside (for instance, by going for a bike ride, jogging, doing pushups on the back porch, etc.) Stepping outside even for a short amount of time has been shown to noticeably boost one's mood and self-esteem., Everyone has things they love to do for their own joy and personal fulfillment. On your lovely day, try spending at least an hour doing one or more of these things. You'll come away from the experience with a satisfying feeling of accomplishment that you may not have had in a long time if you've been bogged down with tons of work or life commitments.


For example, if you're an amateur baker, try your hand at baking some mouthwatering cookies. Doing this gives you a chance to practice an activity you love doing (and, most importantly, enjoy some delicious baked goods). You may even want to try flexing your culinary creativity by modifying your favorite recipes to create something new — for instance, adding a pinch of orange zest to chocolate chip dough can make an unbelievable flavor combination.
 In the age of email, smartphones, and social media, snail mail is a rarity. However, both writing and receiving letters can be an absolute joy. Take a little time on your lovely day to write or type an honest-to-goodness letter to a friend, family member, or significant other. Your letter doesn't necessarily have to be about anything important. Even simply writing about how you're feeling lately and what you've been up to can be a rewarding opportunity for self-reflection (not to mention a treat for your recipient to read.)


If you're not sure where to start, try writing about happy events you've shared with your reader — these should get your thoughts flowing. For example, if you've been on fishing trips together, you can say something like: "I truly enjoyed our fishing trips off the Baja coast. I feel lately that I've been working just so that I can afford another trip out there." You may even want to personalize it even more: "The fishing trip in May was awesome! How are y'all doing in California?"
If you'd like, feel free to add a drawing, a few photos, or even a little present for your recipient. Even simple additions tell your readers that you care for them enough to take the time and effort to perfect the letter.
 Just because solitary pursuits like reading are quiet doesn't mean they can't be exciting or rewarding. Try reading a book for an hour or so before you go to bed as the perfect closer to your lovely day. Reading is just as wonderful when you're 9 years old as it is when you're 90. For maximum enjoyment, take your book with you to your sofa or bed with a blanket and a warm cup of tea or cocoa. Encourage a pet to sit with you for simple, quiet companionship.


If you don't have any good reading material, try taking a trip to your local library. Libraries are fantastic, often-underutilized public resources. At a decent-sized library, it's easy to find almost anything you could possibly want to read for very cheap, and many have comfy easy chairs or attached cafes to read your new (old) book in.

