 The basket should be large or small enough to accommodate the amount of flowers you'll be using. Consider what the end use will be for the floral arrangement in a basket -- for example, if it is for a patient in a hospital, use a small basket so as to be considerate of space. If for someone's home, you can be more generous with the basket size. The basket can be decorated. For example, you could spray paint it a desired color and glue on beads, shells, lace, etc., to make the basket prettier.

If also using fresh flowers, select the glass vials or test tubes. These can be clear glass or colored glass, according to your preference.;
, Choose your desired type or types of silk flowers, which can be purchased from a florist or a craft shop. These silk flowers can form the bulk of the arrangement and can be accompanied by fresh flowers in glass vials or test tubes, also available from florists or craft stores. Adding fresh flowers can make this extra special, and the silk flowers are a nice reminder once the fresh flowers cease being fresh.

If using fresh flowers, thin down the foliage and cut the stem at a diagonal angle. Let the flowers soak in a solution of lukewarm water to which you've added some watered down tea, baby bio and 1/2 a tablet of crushed paracetamol. The fresh flowers will drink this up and it helps them to last longer. Cut the stems short.
 Add a little water. When filled, put aside standing upright, ready for use., Place a foam oasis block in the base, and glue in place to prevent it from sliding or moving. Then stick the stems into this. Fan them out to fill up the basket. Once this is done, you can arrange the glass vials with fresh flowers across the front of the basket, inserting them into the oasis, in front of the silk flower arrangement.

If you would rather put the glass vials/test tubes in a different arrangement in the basket, that is fine. They could be placed in different areas of the basket, at different angles, etc., provided they show the fresh flowers at their best. You can build up the theme in any way you'd like.
 Use ribbon or lace to beautify the basket. You can also use any novelty items to decorate the basket, as desired. For example, if it is the holiday season, you could add some holly and tinsel, wrapping the tinsel around the basket's handle., The basket is now ready to give. Or, just place it on display without a tag.