 To combat diabetes, and potentially even reverse the disease, get on a pair of runners and go out for a walk or jog, head to the gym with some friends, or find some form of physical activity that you are motivated to add to your weekly routine.


A balance of aerobic exercise (things that elevate your heart rate over a prolonged period of time — at least 20–30 minutes), with weight and resistance training is ideal.Each of these forms of exercise benefits your body in different ways, so to blend the two is your best bet.
Try to exercise for at least 30 minutes five times per week (you can break these up into 10-minute segments if that's easier). It is important to have a consistent routine in order to reap the full-body benefits of exercise, not the least of which can be a dramatic improvement in your blood sugar levels.
There are specific recommendations for eating before and active exercise if you are diabetic, so ensure that you speak to your physician/diabetic educator before you start your plan to be properly fueled and avoid low blood sugar levels.
 It is better to begin slowly and to be able to continue your exercise regime, than to be too ambitious at the start and end up burning yourself out with the effort. Remember that type 2 diabetes is a lifelong condition, so it is best to start slow and choose a form of exercise you enjoy, or that you can do with others to add to your encouragement and motivation, to increase the chances that you "stick with it."


If you can find a friend to workout with, it can help to hold you accountable. It is often much easier for people to keep commitments they have made with others, than to rely solely on self-discipline for an effective exercise regime.
If you don't have a friend who is interested in joining you, consider joining a community or recreation centre class where you will be part of a group energy. Many people find this more encouraging and uplifting than working out on their own.
 In other words, the benefits of exercise are multiple, and happen by improving the physiology of your individual cells as well as offering whole-body benefits.


By losing weight through diet and exercise, you can put off depending solely on insulin injections to help process the sugar in blood. Often times, newly diagnosed diabetes can be managed through lifestyle modifications and maybe medication. Later on, insulin may need to be added.

