 Many of the thousands of Civil War military engagements has been preserved by the US Park Service or corresponding state agencies. There is probably no better way to get an understanding of the Civil War’s scope than by visiting the battlefield sites of the larger battles.


The battles of the Civil War were simply enormous. During the Seven Days Battles outside of Richmond, 103,000 Union soldiers squared off against 92,000 Confederate soldiers. For comparison’s sake, the largest stadium in America holds 107,000 people.The Civil War Discovery Trail, a list collected by the Civil War Trust, is a great place to find a battlefield or historic site to visit. Go to http://www.civilwar.org/civil-war-discovery-trail/ for more details.
 While plantations aren’t strictly Civil War historical sites, the fabled plantation lifestyle was made possible by the institution that sparked the conflict. Any plantations toured today were owned by the ultra-rich of the Civil War period, so they aren’t representative of the lifestyle most people lead. But it does give an idea of the Southern ruling class’ decadent and degenerate lifestyle, a lifestyle made possible by the wholesale theft of labor and liberty.Many plantations either whitewash slavery or present it as an afterthought altogether, but not all. For example, Laura Plantation, in Vacherie, Louisiana, is known for an unflinching take on the institution of slavery. It is also among the most highly regarded historical tours—of any kind—in the United States. Another good tour is the tour of Whitney Plantation in Wallace, LA, which treats the story of the Plantation and the slaves who worked it as inseparable.
 Although it certainly isn’t as dangerous, terrifying, or large as the real thing, attending a battlefield reenactment can be a fun way to further immerse yourself in the history of the Civil War period.


Reenactments are usually low-cost or free. The best way to find a reenactment is to look at the schedule for the particular battlefield you’re interested in, the Civil War Trust maintains a schedule as well.

