 Cognitive behavioral therapy (CBT) is an approach that uses techniques such as cognitive restructuring and relaxation to change a person’s response to tinnitus. Tinnitus retraining therapy is a complementary practice that helps desensitize you to the noise in your ears.


The therapist will teach you different ways to cope with the noise. This is a process in CBT known as habituation, where you can learn to ignore the tinnitus.The therapist will teach you about your tinnitus and will teach you a variety of relaxation techniques. This person will help you adopt a realistic, effective attitude in dealing with tinnitus.”A recent review of the technique indicated that it didn’t affect the level of noise, but it positively affected how the individual responded to the noise. The response after CBT included less depression and anxiety, with higher reported levels of satisfaction with life.A recent large review of therapeutic approaches to tinnitus determined that a combination of sound therapy (background noise) plus CBT provided the best overall results.Another study reviewed nine high-quality studies evaluating the efficacy of tinnitus retraining therapy and cognitive behavioral therapy. In each study, a variety of standardized and validated questionnaires was used. The investigators found that both tinnitus retraining therapy and cognitive behavioral therapy were equally effective in relieving the symptoms of tinnitus. , You might find it useful to find a tinnitus support group, especially if you are experiencing depression or anxiety associated with the tinnitus.


This support group can help you develop tools to cope with your condition.
 Anxiety and depression can be associated with tinnitus and vice versa. If you are experiencing these symptoms, make sure you seek out professional help. Usually, depression and anxiety exist before the tinnitus, but these conditions can follow the onset of tinnitus.The sooner you get treatment for tinnitus, anxiety and/or depression, the sooner you can begin to feel and function better.Tinnitus can also make concentrating difficult. This is where cognitive behavioral therapy can be very useful, providing different tools and resources to cope.

