 Give yourself the appearance of being desperately underfed. Apply makeup between the bottoms of your eyes and your cheekbones to simulate the “bruising” effect that comes with undernourishment and a lack of sleep.Using a makeup brush:


Brush one or more shades of a matte purple eyeshadow over the skin.If using more than one, start with the lighter as your base, followed by progressively darker ones.
Blend as you go, but don’t be afraid to make it appear blotchy.
Add touches of black eyeshadow and then blue if desired.
 Make them look like you finally found a blood bag or victim to satisfy that hunger. Use red lip stain, rather than lipstick or lipgloss.If your lips are chapped or otherwise cracked or course, exfoliate with a lip scrub beforehand so they are smooth.Then:


Apply a light coat of chapstick over your lips to keep them moisturized. Wipe any excess off with a tissue, paper towel, or clean cloth.Brush the head of the lip stain over your lips. For more color, add multiple layers.
Since this is simulating blood (as opposed to lip stain’s intended use, which is to enhance your lips’ color), feel free to do it unevenly to suggest a messy feeding.
 Since Twilight’s vampires have very sharp but otherwise regular teeth, forget wearing fake fangs. Instead, use contact lenses to further distinguish yourself. First, visit your eye doctor to get a prescription, even if you have perfect eyesight, since theatrical contacts still need to be fitted to the exact shape of your eyes. Then search locally or online for retailers selling Twilight-themed lenses and provide them with your prescription and contact info for your eye doctor.A Twilight vampire’s eye color reflects their diet. Red eyes indicate a diet of human blood. Gold eyes reflect animal blood.In both cases, a lack of food turns their eyes black.
 Emulate Twilight's vampires even further rocking a smashing do. Watch online tutorials to learn how to fashion your hair the same way as specific characters. Or, follow your own instincts and create something original. Either way, use your hair to show a different side of you than your normal daytime haircut suggests.Youtube.com is a great resource for learning how to do specific hairstyles. For example, here are links for Edward Cullen (https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=laf5unfrT6c) and Victoria (https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HGMazEGNkyA).
Regardless of which hairstyle you choose, one important rule to follow is to eliminate frizz. The Pacific Northwest is a very damp climate, which makes the local vamps' lack of frizz appear that much more unworldly.