 How you feel and approach a test can be reflected by how your body reacts. Some people find exams no big deal, but most people find them at least a little stressful. Your body may react the way it would if it perceived a physical danger, often called the "fight or flight" reaction. Your body--unaware that this test is an academic assessment and not a man-eating tiger-- prepares you by getting you ready for an all-out freak-out. This can cause you to feel:


A tightening of the stomach.
Headaches
General nervousness or jumpiness.
Sweaty palms.;
, Often people stay up all night to study, but this is ineffective since you retain very little information when you are tired. It is better that you get a good night's sleep, so that you can concentrate and get all the brain power you need for the next day.
 Sitting all day can be bad for your health. Getting some active time is very important while studying. Break up your study sessions so you can clear your mind and get some fresh air. Try going for a quick jog or perform jumping jacks to get the blood flowing.
 With little time to spare, people often resort to unhealthy foods which are quick and easy to prepare. These foods can make it harder to concentrate and are bad for your health. Keep your diet nutritious and drink lots of water.
 Having the energy to stay awake all night won't be any use to you; it will be harder to concentrate, you will make more mistakes and learn information incorrectly. Instead, try limiting yourself to one coffee a day and organize your time so you don't have to stay up all night.
 Remember to take some time to relax and regenerate. Avoid mental exhaustion by doing something you enjoy so that you can have a clear and happy mind. Try meditation or yoga for a deeper relaxation.
 Write up a timetable to managing study and leisure. Make your study periods reasonable and manageable. Factor in break days and time off, being stressed out is just as bad as not studying.
 Be realistic about how well you will perform and don't get your parents' hopes too high. On the other hand, if you are expected to get a good result tell them to back down. While it can be beneficial to want to do well and put pressure on yourself, remember that grades aren't everything and in the long term it won't matter if you have to do the test again.
 Laugh and keep time to be with your friends. Don't be embarrassed to be studying; you could even encourage them to study with you and make it fun.
 Try to stop alcohol, smoking, dope, cocaine, heroin or any other thing you might take. Even if they help you concentrate and retain information, it is short term. In the longer outlook, it will make you feel worse and badly affect your health.
 If things are getting difficult, don't be afraid to ask your teachers or other people who work at your institute. If you are going crazy and getting anxious, see the counselor.

