 You obviously have to enjoy their music. The band plays typically hard rock and glam metal. A song that will show their typical sound would be Rebel Love Song. Other songs you should check out include Fallen Angels, Ritual, In the End, Smokes & Mirrors, Hello My Hate, Sex & Hollywood, Nobody's Hero and The Legacy.;
, Many fans don't know who the band really are supposed to be. In fact, they don't notice the rock bands the band lights in their music. Some fans tend to just like the band because they saved their life or because they think Andy Biersack is cute. The band are pretty much bringing back the older sound of rock n' roll from around the 1980s. They slowly sound more old-school from album to album. Their debut album was more of melodic metalcore than glam metal or hard rock. Although it does have a lot of glam influences. The band carry the hard rock style of KISS and the glam metal vein of Mötley Crüe. The band's appearance is the stereotypical rockstar image. They look and sound as if Mötley Crüe or KISS had kids who became rock musicians. They have big, black, smeared makeup (although recently they haven't worn makeup), tattoos, black leather, tight clothes, studs and they even have long hair and they also stick out their tongues and do the matoik. The band abandoned the melodic metalcore style of their debut and moved to hard rock and glam metal with the second album, Set the World on Fire. At that time, that's when the band began to look like KISS, Mötley Crüe and Alice Cooper. The band have been praised by plenty of rock legends now such as Zakk Wylde, Gene Simmons, Alice Cooper and Dee Snider. Even the band has toured with Mötley Crüe and are friends with Nikki Sixx of Mötley Crüe.
 The members are Andy Biersack (vocals), Christian "CC" Coma (drums), Jinxx (guitar), Jake Pitts (guitar) and Ashley Purdy (bass).
 You'll definitely find it at any music store as well as Target, Walmart and iTunes and Hot Topic

, Despite many fans listen to Asking Alexandria, Suicide Silence, Chelsea Grin, Escape the Fate, I See Stars, As I Lay Dying, Pierce the Veil, Blood on the Dance Floor, Sleeping With Sirens, Of Mice & Men, etc, those bands are nothing similar to the style of Black Veil Brides. Try the following artists/bands who are most likely similar or might be doing what Black Veil Brides is doing: KISS, Mötley Crüe, LA Guns, Blessed By a Broken Heart, Sixx AM, Alice Cooper, Guns N Roses, Scorpions, Toxicrose, Avenged Sevenfold, Murderdolls, etc.
,