 When the bitten person gets to the hospital, the bite will be washed again. The nurse will first wash the bite with soap and water, and will then apply a disinfectant to the site.
 The doctor will inspect the wound to ensure that it is clean and that there are no signs of bone or tissue damage. A loose dressing will be applied on top of the wound to prevent any microbes from entering the bite.


The wound should not be stitched because this increases the chance of exposing the nerve endings to the virus therefore increasing the chances of being infected.
 The doctor will order laboratory tests to be done to the bitten person. These tests will help to determine whether the person is infected with the rabies virus. The laboratory tests will be done on the skin and saliva of the patient where a specimen is taken to the laboratory for analysis.The doctor will discuss the person’s history to determine the level of contact the person had with the infected animal. This will help in determining the chances of infection and the need for treatment.
 Depending on when he or she had her last tetanus shot, the bitten person may be given a tetanus shot. This, of course, is to prevent tetany, another issue that can occur from being bitten by an animal.


Tetanus injections are given on first contact, at 2 months, 3 months, and 4 months, 1 year and after 13-18 years.
 To keep infection from occurring, the bitten person will be given antibiotics. The most common antibiotic for the prophylaxis treatment of rabies is amoxicillin-clavulanate (augmentin).The augmentin is generally recommended as 1G taken twice a day for 14 days.
 The bitten person will be given an anti-rabies vaccine called human rabies immune globulin. This shot is injected into the hip and site of the bite for a rapid protection against the rabies infection. The immunoglobulin acts by producing antibodies specifically made to neutralize the virus and stop it from spreading.These injections are usually given on initial contact with the rabies virus, third day, seventh day, fourteenth day and 28th day. After the shot in the hip and bite site on the first day, the rest of the shots will be injected into the arm.
If the person has already had a rabies vaccine, the person will be given two doses. The first dose will be give on the day the person was bit and then the second dose will be given three to seven days later.
 The bitten person may experience some tenderness, swelling, pain and redness at the injection site. These symptoms usually clear on their own and will generally not last more than 24 hours.

