 It’s easier to clean diamond earrings if you don’t get them very dirty in the first place. So, it’s a good idea to remove them for activities that could dirty them such as going to the beach, playing sports, gardening, and even washing dishes. Keep diamond earrings away from chlorine bleach. It can cause them damage.
Natural oils can leave a coating on diamond jewelry that needs removing to restore the earrings to their proper brilliance. Contact with skin, lotions, powders, and soaps can leave such a film.
Put your earrings on last, after you style your hair and put on perfume and lotion. All of these products can damage the earrings, so reduce the exposure.
 Diamond earrings will incur less wear and tear if you store them properly. That means you shouldn’t just toss them in a drawer. Diamonds are almost impossible to scratch – unless it’s with another diamond.


Thus, you shouldn’t store them right next to each other because the diamonds can scratch each other.
Avoid touching the earrings too much. The hands contain body oils that can turn diamonds dull. , Sometimes your home owner’s or rental insurance will cover lost or stolen jewelry. Check your policy. If they aren’t covered, it might be a good idea to change your policies to cover the earrings.


Whether this is worth it depends on how much the earrings cost, of course, or whether they have great sentimental value.
Do your homework, and compare different companies before choosing an insurance plan. Remember to check the deductible.
 A certified jeweler will spot flaws in your earrings that you won’t. So it’s a good idea to get the earrings checked out if you want the diamonds to retain their shine.


You want to make sure that the diamond’s prongs are not loose, or you could lose the diamond.
You should have your diamonds checked out by a certified jeweler once or twice a year.



Ask your local jewelers if they offer an ultrasonic or ionic cleaning for diamond jewelry. Many will only charge a nominal fee for such services.
Search for a jeweler that offers sulfuric acid cleaning if you have extremely dirty diamond earrings that you cannot clean any other way. Sulfuric acid boils are still relatively inexpensive but cost a little more than ultrasonic cleanings. They can damage jewelry if not done properly.

