 If you are trying to get over someone, even someone you are still on good terms with, take a break from texting or talking with him or her. If you aren't in contact, keep it that way. If you are still in contact, the next time you are in a conversation mention that you need some time to yourself. Say "I hope we can be friends again, but I can't just jump into it. I need time to process."

Hang out with other people. Enjoy the company of your family and friends.
If you lost friends in the separation, or are unsure who you can contact of your mutual friends, feel it out slowly. Try getting in contact with your closest people first, and see what happens from there.
 Make it hard to think about the person you are detaching from. Set the external boundary of detaching via social media. If you are on good terms with your ex but are trying to get space, you can temporarily close your account on whatever websites you both use. It can be helpful to avoid pictures of your ex, and, while you are in a wounded state, it can be helpful to spend some time away from images of other people's lives as well.


If you are not on good terms, you can just block or unfriend him or her.
Depending on the website, you may be able to temporarily block notifications from the person without changing your status as "friends." However, if you are worried about obsessively checking their material and getting bummed out, you should either shut down your account or drop them as "friend."

, Every relationship is full of the fantasy of itself. If your relationship ended, there were probably reasons all along. Once you break up, you might only remember the good parts, or what might have been. Dwell for a while instead on the conflicts, the letdowns, and the things you couldn't do then and can do now.

You don't have to vilify your partner. Just remind yourself that the two of you were not having an easy time of it and that if it hadn't ended, it might have gotten worse.
If you are having trouble remembering what went wrong, try writing down every weak moment of your relationship. Read it over and allow yourself to grieve., After you have allowed yourself to feel the anger and pain of your breakup, choose to move on. Let go of your anger. Allow yourself to feel compassion for yourself and your ex. When you catch yourself feeling angry or resentful, name how you feel.


Say "I resent that I always paid for our meals out" or "I am still angry that she or he never asked me what I wanted," or "I'm ashamed that I lost my temper with her instead of hearing her out."Write a letter. You do not have to share it with your ex, but you can if you wish. Write out how you have felt and how you feel now.
Forgiveness does not mean condoning anything that happened in the relationship. Rather, it means letting go of the anger that clouds your mood and harms your health., Your focus in the months or even years after a relationship ends is learning how to live well without a partner. Once you have grieved, been angry, and worked on forgiveness, you can start working on enjoying yourself. Do things that make you feel balanced: take good care of your health, spend time with friends, do a great job at work, and enjoy outside activities.


If you are miserable, try visiting a therapist. It doesn't have to be forever, but if your breakup has plunged you into a depression, or if you are feeling urges of self-harm, talk to a professional., It's fine to grieve for a relationship that has ended, but don't let yourself dwell forever on what might have been. Instead, think of the things you learned from falling in love, from negotiating your partnership, and from breaking up. Remind yourself that a relationship that ends isn't a bad relationship: relationships can be good and short.
 When you're really feeling right with yourself, you'll be ready to date again. To see if you're ready, ask yourself if you're still angry at your ex, if you still want to be with your ex, if you feel unattractive, or if you are still feeling sad or unbalanced. If you aren't feeling any of these ways, you're probably ready to date.

