 Before you toss your aerosol can, take a moment to make sure that it is really empty. If no product comes out of the nozzle and it does not appear to be clogged, the can is empty enough to dispose of safely.If you're not sure if the can is empty, try shaking it. You shouldn't feel any liquid moving inside.
Aerosol cans that are not empty must be treated differently, as disposing of a partially full aerosol can can be dangerous.;
, You don't need to alter an aerosol can in any way dispose of it. Leave the can exactly the way it is, no matter how you end up disposing of it .Aerosol cans are pressurized, which means they may explode if tampered with. Never attempt to puncture an aerosol can or expose it to extreme heat. Do not attempt to remove the spray nozzle from the can, even though it is usually plastic.
If the can has a plastic lid, you can remove this for recycling. (The lid is likely recyclable too.)

, Not all aerosol cans are created equal. Some contain hazardous materials, so you may not be able to dispose of them in your regular trash or recycling. Check the can for indications that it contains hazardous waste. If the can has specific directions for disposal on it, make sure you follow them. In some cases, you may be required to take the can to a hazardous waste disposal center.
If you are unsure whether a specific can can be recycled, call your town's recycling center and let them know the contents of the can.
 Every municipality has different policies on recycling, so you may or may not be able to recycle an aerosol can in your area. Look up your city or county's regulations online or call them to inquire about whether aerosol cans are accepted for recycling.If you do not have single stream recycling in your area, be sure to put your aerosol can with your other metal recyclables.
If there are no options for recycling an aerosol can in your area, you can throw it in the regular trash (as long as it is empty and the can does not indicate that it needs to be treated as a hazardous material).
 Since many aerosol cans are made of steel or aluminum, some scrap yards may be willing to take them. If you want to be sure before you visit the scrap yard, call ahead of time.This may not be worth your time if you only have one or two cans. If you have a large number of cans, however, it can really add up.
While you're at the scrap yard, you may be able to sell other metal scraps as well, like aluminum soda cans. This is especially helpful in states that don't have deposits on cans. (If your state does have deposits, it may be more convenient to return your soda cans at the grocery store.)