 Slim or skinny jeans pair well with most shoes. Wear them with heels, sneakers or boots and just about any top. Try black skinny jeans with ankle boots or boots that hit either just above or just below the knee.


Try black loafers or brogues for a touch of formality, and consider cuffing your jeans for a smooth finish. To dress your look down, try black or white trainers.Cuff looser jeans to show off your shoes. Cuffed jeans and capris are a great way to show off some colorful sneakers, casual mules, or heels.
Strappy sandals and sporty loafers are also elegant choices.Wear black capris with brightly-colored heels such as a highly-saturated sky blue, teal, or a bright cherry red.
 Add a top that shows off the belt. Consider adding a flash of metallic, such as gold on your belt.For example, you may want to wear a collared, button-down blouse tucked into your skinny jeans, to showcase a black belt with a large metallic buckle.
 Pair jeans well by selecting jackets in matching styles. If your jeans are more casual, your coat should be, too. If your jeans are more formal, go with the formal jacket.Look for a high-waisted blazer that falls above your beltline.Black and white blazers are chic choices for this look. If you want to make the look more casual, try a bold blazer, such as one with an animal print.For instance, if your black jeans have a light wash and/or they are baggy, they would be considered casual. Pair them with a soft-shouldered jacket in a solid color, like coffee bean. Cuff your jeans if they’re baggy and long. Wear boots or shoes that aren’t dressy.
If your black jeans are slim-fitting, look for a dressier, tailored coat.
Wear a leather jacket and a t-shirt. Look for high-waisted jackets that are form-fitting. Opt for casual flats like sneakers or sporty slip-ons., Button it to the collar and add outerwear if desired. A black or white button-down shirt pairs well with black jeans.Avoid wearing black polo shirts with black jeans, as your outfit could lack visual interest. Opt instead for light-colored polo shirts or polos in rich dark colors.For example, pair black jeans with a polo shirt in snow white or dark burgundy.
 The contrast of black and white never goes out of style. Try a leather bomber jacket over a white t-shirt, or a white tee by itself if the weather’s warmer. For an urban casual look, tuck baggy black jeans into bright white tennis shoes and pop on a black blazer over your plain tee.Add a long-chained necklace, if desired.
Any color pairs with black and white, so incorporate a pop of color if you like. For example, a bright-colored baseball cap.

