 In general, medical malpractice occurs when a medical provider breaches or violates the standard of care, which then directly results in an injury to the patient. The standard of care is the reasonably accepted level of care that a healthcare provider should provide to a patient in a similar situation with the same or a similar medical condition. This standard of care may vary depending on the circumstances, as well as on the age of the patient and the nature of his or her medical condition. There are four specific elements to a medical malpractice claim:The medical provider must have owed a duty to the patient, which is inherent in the doctor-patient relationship.
There must be a breach of that duty by the medical provider.
The breach of that duty must be the proximate cause of the patient’s harm or damage.
Proximate cause means that “but for” the breach of duty, the patient’s damages would not have occurred.;
, Every state has a specific statute of limitations, or time limit, during which an individual can file a medical malpractice lawsuit. In New York, individuals have two and one-half years in which to initiate or file a claim for medical malpractice. The medical malpractice trial does not have to be complete by the statute of limitations. Rather, the individual simply has to file the lawsuit.


This statute of limitations begins to run when the injury occurs, or at the end of a continuous course of medical treatment during which the act causing the injury occurred.If you fail to file a medical malpractice claim within the statute of limitations, you are out of luck. You will have no right to file a lawsuit for medical malpractice after the statute of limitations has expired.
 Lawsuits seek to compensate you for your injuries. They can compensate you for compensatory damages such as lost wages, future lost wages, medical expenses, both past and future, as well as non-economic damages, such as your pain and the suffering, both past and future. Punitive damages also may be available in certain cases, where the evidence shows that the medical provider acted recklessly in causing your injury.Lawsuits do not directly seek to harm anyone's reputation. A doctor who is sued will not lose his or her medical license if the lawsuit is successful. A lawsuit attempts to compensate the injured victim, and at the same time, tries to ensure that the doctor does not repeat the same type of bad treatment that you experienced as his or her patient.
 These kinds of lawsuits often involve birth injuries, leaving objects inside patients’ bodies during surgery, failing to diagnose cancer or another medical condition, and a lack of oxygen during surgery, leading to brain damage. However, almost any type of medical procedure or negligence in medical care can result in a medical malpractice claim.
 Not every attorney has the same experience handling a particular type of legal case. You want an attorney who primarily handles medical malpractice and personal injury cases. You can evaluate an attorney’s experience by asking him or her the following questions:


How many years have you been in practice?
What percentage of medical malpractice or accident cases do you handle compared to other types of cases?
Do you try cases before the Supreme Court (the trial level court for New York)?
Have you ever lost a case? If the attorney claims that he or she has never lost a case, either the attorney is not being accurate or accepts clear-cut cases that he or she cannot lose. The majority of trial attorneys will have lost a case from time to time. Unfortunately, it's the nature of the beast.
Will you be the one who handles my case on a day-to-day basis? If not, who will be my attorney?
Whom do I call with questions?
How quickly will my attorney call back?
How often can I expect to receive correspondence from you about the status of my case?

, Most medical malpractice and personal injury cases are handled on contingency. This means that the attorney receives no fees from you unless you win your case. If you lose, the attorney loses as well, and receives no fees from you.Keep in mind that the expenses that the attorney pays to file and prosecute your medical malpractice case are your responsibility, whether or not you win your case. Technically, you are supposed to repay these expenses if you lose your case. Some attorneys do require this, but many don't. Be sure to ask your attorney his or her policy on this issue.
If you win your case, you can expect that your attorneys’ fees will be 30 % of the first $250,000 in damages that you were awarded, and a lower percentage of any damages beyond that amount. Some of your damages also will go to pay your healthcare expenses and medical bills.
For those folks who like to handle legal matters on their own, this is a very poor idea. Medical malpractice cases are a world unto themselves. There are many rules that must be followed and adhered to. If you fail to do so, you could seriously jeopardize your case, and because of some technical problem, never get your case to a jury to determine if you're entitled to be compensated for your injuries.
 Ask your treating physician for a short-term and long-term prognosis of your medical condition. Sign the documents necessary to allow your attorney to access all of your medical records and bills.A medical malpractice attorney always will request and review all of your medical records. Often, the attorney will want to review your medical documentation before agreeing to take on your medical malpractice case. If needed, your attorney will consult with an expert physician or other healthcare professional in order to determine if your injury or medical condition is sufficiently severe to merit a medical malpractice lawsuit. This is how an attorney will determine if you have a meritorious medical malpractice claim.
If you require additional treatment or surgery to correct a medical error, you may have a stronger medical malpractice lawsuit. Likewise, if you have become permanently disabled or will require extensive rehabilitation to restore you to your prior condition, you may have a meritorious medical malpractice claim.
There are no guarantees to winning. However, with good experienced counsel and thorough preparation, you stand a much better chance of being fully informed about your prospects and achieving a good result.
Due to the contingency fee agreement that most medical malpractice attorneys use, an attorney is unlikely to take on your case if he or she believes that it has no merit.
 You will be required to draft and sign certain legal documents to file your lawsuit in court. This is how any medical malpractice lawsuit begins. These documents include a complaint, a summons for each defendant, and certificate of merit.The complaint is the primary legal document in which you claim injuries as a result of medical malpractice and ask the doctor or healthcare professional to be held responsible for your injuries. In the complaint, you will detail the nature and amount of any special and punitive damages that you are requesting to be awarded as a result of your medical malpractice claim. Each defendant will receive a copy of your complaint after you file it with the court.
The summons is a legal document that formally notifies a defendant that he or she has been sued for medical malpractice. It contains the name and address of the defendant, the state and county in which the case is being filed, and the court in which the case is being filed.
Under New York law, you or your attorney also must file a certificate of merit, which advises the court that a medical professional has reviewed your medical records and determined that your claim has merit, or that you had insufficient time or were otherwise unable to have a medical professional review your records.
 This is likely to be the court in the county in which you live and/or in which your injuries occurred. You also will need to pay a court filing fee to the clerk’s office of $210.If your case is valued at less than $25,000, the case must be filed in New York Civil Court. If your case is valued at more than $25,000, the case must be filed in the New York Supreme Court. For cases outside of New York City, they would be filed in the corresponding county courts.
 Most plaintiffs hire a process server to serve the summonses, which can cost $100 or more, depending on how many defendants must be served and how difficult it is to serve them. The process server can be anyone over the age of 18. You have three different options to serve the summonses:Personal service – the process server gives the complaint and summons directly to the defendant
Substituted delivery – the process server gives the complaint and summons to someone other than the defendant at his or her home or place of business, also followed up by a mailed copy
Conspicuous delivery – the process server leaves the complaint and summons in a conspicuous place at the defendant’s home or business, also followed up by a mailed copy

, After the process server has served the defendants, he or she must sign an affidavit of service swearing to the court that he or she has served the complaint and summons to each defendant., After your complaint is filed and served on the defendants, they have 30 days to respond to the lawsuit in writing. Once the defendants file their responses, the lawsuit will proceed. If the defendants fail to respond, the court will assume that the allegations in the complaint are true and that the defendants are admitting to all of the charges.
 This is the phase of litigation in which your attorney and the attorneys for the defendants will exchange information about your medical malpractice claim. Your attorney will help you prepare for and respond to any discovery requests. This will include the following types of discovery:Requests for production of documents, such as medical records and medical bills
Depositions, during which you and the defendants answer questions under oath from the other party’s attorneys about your medical malpractice claim
Interrogatories, which are questions that you answer in writing
Independent medical exam, in which the defendants request that you undergo an exam by a doctor of the defendants’ choosing

, Throughout the duration of your medical malpractice lawsuit, your attorney and the defendants’ attorneys will periodically attempt to negotiate a settlement. They may exchange settlement proposals back and forth for a lengthy period of time. The vast majority of cases do end up in a settlement.Alternative dispute resolution may aid the parties in reaching a settlement. Mediation, in which the parties negotiate with the help of a neutral, third-party mediator, can give both sides a more realistic view of the pending medical malpractice claim.
 If settlement is not a possibility in your case, your claim must proceed to trial before a jury. The jury will hear evidence from you and all defendants before meeting to determine if and to what extent any defendant should be held liable for your damages.Recognize that a lawsuit takes time to come to a conclusion. The average time is 2-3 years from start to finish.
 Once the jury has made a decision, it will announce it to the judge and all parties. This verdict will determine if any of the defendants are liable and how much of a damages award you should get. The court will then enter judgment in favor of the plaintiff or defendant.
 If any party is unhappy with the judgment that the court has entered, he or she has the right to appeal the judgment to a higher court. These appeals typically would be filed in the Appellate Division of the New York Supreme Court, assuming that the case is worth more than $25,000. Any further appeals then would be filed in the New York Court of Appeals, the highest court in the state of New York.