 Look at your current phone bill and to see how you're using your phone. How many minutes do you use a month? Are you a big texter? Do you need a larger data plan or would you be fine with a smaller plan or even no plan at all.;
, Once you know your usage needs, you're ready to find a plan. There are many different carriers but the key is to find the one with the plan that meets your needs. Popular prepaid service providers include Straight Talk, Cricket Wireless, Tracfone Wireless, and Simple Mobile. Some traditionally with-contract service providers such as AT&T and T-Mobile also have prepaid options.
 Some things to keep in mind when weighing your options:


Does this plan meet my needs, and if so, is it cost effective? You might save more in the long run going with an unlimited prepaid plan. Or if you're a light user, find a plan without bells and whistles so you can stop paying for the features you don't use.
Can you keep your phone? For example, Straight Talk has a "Bring Your Own Phone" plan where you can keep your phone (and number). Buying a new phone can be costly. If you're happy with your phone (and it's GSM or otherwise compatible), try to find a plan where you can keep it.
Is there coverage in your area? Do they have voice and data roaming, and if so, what are the associated costs? For example, if you're a big data user it might make a difference for you that T-Mobile does not allow data roaming for pay-as-you-go plans.
 If you were able to find a plan like Straight Talk's "Bring Your Own Phone" you can skip this step. Otherwise, you have a number of options but keep in mind that the costs of buying a new, unlocked and out-of contract phone can be high, particularly for smartphones.


Get a phone directly from the carrier. This is probably the easiest and surest way to get a phone because you know the phone will work and be covered with your chosen contract.
Find a phone that is out-of-contract from a friend. When people upgrade their phone, the old one usually becomes an orphan.
Browse eBay. Search for 'cell phones, no or unknown contract' to limit responses to phones that are suitable.
Check out Craig's List. As always, be cautious when making a purchase from an unknown seller.
 If you didn't get your new phone from the carrier or you're bringing your current phone from another plan, you're going to need a SIM card. A phone that is out-of-contract will probably still be locked to a particular carrier. In order to get your phone to work on your new carrier, you must purchase a SIM card specific to that carrier. If the phone is unlocked, then a SIM card for you chosen carrier will work regardless of the "branding" may be on the phone. Similar to the purchase of your phone, you can get the SIM card directly from your chosen carrier or from non-brand retailer.
 To activate your SIM card and phone, insert the SIM card into your phone. This is usually done by removing the battery to expose the SIM card slot. The SIM card will only go into the slot in one way -- there is usually a picture of the card being inserted to show which side goes "up" and what the orientation is. If you have problems, you can usually find a manual on-line if one did not come with the phone. Another option is to go to a local Radio Shack, AT&T, Walmart or T-Mobile store and ask for help.
 Once the SIM card is in the phone (and it is charged), you can activate the phone online or by calling your carrier. If you want to keep your existing phone number, the process is a bit complicated. Check with you carrier about the specifics but generally it will be as follows:


You first activate your "new" phone with the carrier-supplied number.
Then the old number is assigned to your "new" phone. (This may require having a PIN number for your old carrier.)

, Congratulate yourself on having saved money with the phone and plan that's right for you.

