 The name of this condition describes what it's about. Taken literally "dilated" means stretched, "cardiac" means heart, "myo" means muscle, and "pathy" means abnormal. Thus, dilated cardiomyopathy is an abnormal stretching of the heart muscle.Think of a balloon that you blow up and let down several times. The balloon walls become baggy and stretched, and the empty balloon is saggy rather than tight. This is what happens with the heart muscle. It loses its elastic recoil and the heart behaves like a saggy balloon.
 This condition means the heart doesn't contract with normal force and each heart beat is weaker and less efficient. The dog may be able to cope at rest but when the heart needs to respond during exercise, it is unable to meet the demands and the dog becomes weak or even faints.


Signs that a Doberman may have a heart problem include persistent tiredness, lethargy, and weakness., Changes in the dynamics of the blood flow means that blood can pool downstream of the heart. This causes symptoms such as congested lungs and fluid build up.When the lungs become congested this causes the dog to cough. It may have labored breathing or use its abdominal muscles to aid its breathing.
Such dogs are often reluctant to exercise, as they can't breath when they do.
 A further sign is build up of fluid in the abdomen is that the belly begins to swell. This can be distinguished from obesity by the fact that the ribs and backbone are clearly visible through the skin due to weight loss.
 The veterinarian will most likely use an ultrasound examination where the clinician measures the thickness of the walls of the ventricles (the main pumping chambers in the heart) and the force with which they contract.This will be assessed to see if it is normal or abnormal.


Alternatively, a 24 hour Holter monitor harness can pick up abnormal heartbeats that occur erratically as a result of DCM.Both these tests help identify dogs in the very earliest stages of the condition so that medication can be started. However, the timing of onset of the disease varies between dogs with the DCM gene. Because of this, regular yearly screening is advised in order to catch dogs that have deteriorated since a normal screening.

