 Place a short or narrow highball glass into the freezer about 20 minutes before you want to make the cocktail. The glass should become chilled so it will keep your gin and tonic cooler for longer.If you prefer a less sweet gin and tonic, consider serving the drink in a short, fat glass. This will give you a stronger gin flavor since you'll use less tonic water.;
, Get out a handful of clear ice cubes. Place them in the chilled highball glass. The ice should come almost to the top of the glass. If you have time, consider making your own ice cubes using tonic water. This will prevent the ice cubes from diluting the cocktail as they melt., Measure 2 ounces (60 ml) of gin into the serving glass filled with ice. You can use a 2-ounce (60 ml) jigger or small measuring cup for accuracy. Use your favorite gin or the best gin you can afford. Higher quality gins will have more of a botanical flavor., Get out 1 to 3 lime wedges and squeeze them gently. The juice should squirt into the serving glass. Drop the wedges into the glass with the ice and gin.Choose fresh limes with a bright green color. The lime wedges shouldn't feel mushy or have any brown spots.
For a stronger lime flavor, add all 3 wedges. If you prefer a light lime flavor, just add one.
 Measure 3 to 4 ounces (90 to 120 ml) of chilled tonic water and slowly pour it into the glass. Try to choose a tonic water that contains real quinine instead of artificial flavoring. Pouring the tonic water slowly will help it keep its carbonation longer., Take a swizzle stick and gently stir the the drink. This will combine the juice of the lime with the gin and tonic water. Avoid stirring the drink too quickly or your cocktail may lose its carbonation.If you don't have a swizzle stick, you can use a butter knife or long spoon.
 You can serve the gin and tonic once it's served or add a cocktail straw. For an extra garnish, you could slice a fresh lime wedge and stick it on the edge of the glass.Avoid squeezing the lime wedge before sticking it on the edge of the glass.
 One of the simplest variations on a classic gin and tonic is to substitute lemon for the lime. This gives the cocktail a brighter flavor. If you'd like to make the cocktail even fresher tasting, slice some cucumber to add to the glass.

Lemon also works well with fresh mint, basil, or rosemary. Consider using a few sprigs of these in your drink.
 Use 2 ounces (60 ml) of a gin that has noticeable herbal flavors and add 1 tablespoon (15 ml) of elderflower liqueur. Pour in 2 ounces (60 ml) of tonic water and 2 ounces (60 ml) of Champagne. Stir the cocktail gently and serve it with a slice of lemon., Make a classic gin and tonic using gin that has a fresh cucumber flavor. You can also use a tonic that's flavored with elderflower. Garnish the cocktail with fresh mint and thinly sliced cucumber.To thinly slice the cucumber, use a vegetable peeler to make long ribbons.
 Measure one 1 ounce (30 ml) of gin, 1 ounce (30 ml) of sweet vermouth, and 1 ounce (30 ml) of Campari into a short, fat glass. Add ice and fill the cocktail with tonic water. Serve it with a slice of orange.If you prefer, you can leave out the Campari for a sweeter drink. Include a few dashes of peach bitters and garnish the drink with fresh berries.
 Pour 2 ounces (60 ml) of a botanical gin (with lots of juniper flavors) into a serving glass. Add 1 1/2 teaspoons of a very smokey whiskey and a dash of apricot or peach liqueur. Add ice to the glass and top the drink with tonic water. Garnish the cocktail with a strip of grapefruit zest.