 Even if your faith is your top priority in life, you may have to accept that there will be times when you don't have as much time to observe your spiritual practices. When such times occur, be easy on yourself. Try to carve out as much time as you can, but you may have to get creative.For instance, if an overloaded schedule keeps you from attending a worship service, you might listen to a podcast or video while commuting to work.
If you generally dedicate an hour in the morning and evening for prayer and worship, you might have to cut these down to half an hour during busy weeks.
 Going through a traumatic event such as abuse or the loss of a child may threaten your faith in God. You might ask "Why me?" or wonder why bad things happen to good people. During these times, rather than questioning why things happened a certain way, seek out a deeper connection and understanding with God to help get you through.You might take on a spiritual adviser, receive religious counseling, or study scripture to glean understanding from your situation.
Religious and spiritual beliefs tend to help people heal faster, so lean on your faith during such times. You may find that on the other side you become more focused on God than ever before., There may come a time when you make a mistake in life that doesn't align with your spiritual or religious views. You may then become distant from God because you are ashamed. Know that most faiths acknowledge and understand that you are not perfect, and that you never will be. Be willing to forgive yourself so that God can forgive you, too.Seek out guidance from someone in your faith. Explain to them what happened--maybe you were unfaithful in your relationship or you drank alcohol in excess. Then, ask for recommendations on how you can forgive yourself and feel worthy again.
 It can be difficult to follow your spiritual practices when those closest to you oppose them. Others can make you feel ashamed about your faith in God, or they may try to discount the validity of your beliefs. You may have to make a choice between keeping these people in your life, or letting them go. Talk it over with someone you trust before making a decision.


If your family members disagree with your beliefs, you might simply avoid discussing your views around them. Or, if they seem open-minded you might try to compassionately share your views.If a friend or coworker opposes your faith, you might choose to end the relationship, especially if their presence in your life is distracting you from your faith.

