 A person with histrionic personality disorder may dress or act in certain ways as a means to gain attention. For example, they may dress in an overly seductive way,or wear outrageous clothes or costumes as a way to seek attention. These people may attend events or social situations in which they can easily be the center of attention. Often, the behavior may be interpreted as inappropriate, over-the-top, or overly seductive.Behavior may be overly theatrical or purposefully flamboyant as a way to get people’s attention. For example, a woman guest may wear a wedding dress to another woman’s wedding, or a man may show up in an animal costume to a formal event.
These people are often considered the “life of the party.”;
, A person with histrionic personality disorder may respond to minor problems as if they are major or life-threatening. Instead of finding solutions, this person may exaggerate the severity of the problem or create other problems where they do not exist. Even minor problems provide the opportunity to create drama, which allows the person to draw more attention to the self.For example, a person may date someone for one week and when the relationship does not work out, they may threaten suicide.
Instead of taking responsibility, the person may blame other people or external factors for their own problems.For example, if the person’s business fails due to negligence and poor decision making, they may blame staff, location, bad customers, or other external factors.
 This person may speak very dramatically or emphatically. They may express strong opinions. Yet, when pressed, this person may be hesitant to respond or avoid giving details to provide any sort of evidence for the opinions.The person may appear more concerned with expressing the opinion than supporting it.


For example, the person may have very strong and controversial beliefs, such as saying that all countries should be communist or that having children should be regulated by the government. When asked why, they may not give a direct answer or provide any reasons for these beliefs.
 This can cause problems in relationships with others. While this person’s charisma may attract some people, others may feel drained by the self-centeredness of the person.


This person may put a lot of effort into or be overly concerned about their personal appearance.They may be “too busy” to help you with problems due to managing personal appearance.
 Emotions may change rapidly and others may perceive the individual as disingenuous or insincere.Does the person appear difficult to relate to? If you bring up a problem, does this person make it about himself or herself instead?

, The individual may check in on their social status, or do things to purposefully gain attention from others or create a reaction. As a result, this person may be easily susceptible or prone to peer pressure. They may also be easily influenced by other people’s opinions.This person may say, “I know that Jordan hates me, but you think I’m a good friend, right?” To gain approval, this person may do things like buy gifts to gain acceptance, or put down other people to make the self look better.
This person may be overly sensitive to criticism or disapproval.This may result in an emotional explosion or blaming others.
 This person may also overestimate the level of intimacy in romantic relationships. The behavior can get in the way of truly intimate relationships.This person may act overly familiar with strangers or acquaintances., Fear may exist around being ignored, so the person may create attention around the self. This person receives social validation by gaining the attention of others. If this person is not in the center of attention, they may feel uncomfortable or unappreciated.They may respond to feeling uncomfortable by doing something outrageous to feel comfortable again.


When thinking about this person, do you notice that they crave attention and cannot be without it? How does this person respond when ignored or overshadowed?

, People with anxiety disorders may catastrophize about problems, and act as if they are much more serious than they really are. They also may need lots of reassurance from others. However, there is usually no theatrical behavior or need to be the center of attention.


Anxiety can often co-occur with histrionic personality disorder.
 Like those with HPD, autistic people may be idiosyncratic in dress and speech, deeply emotional, lacking in social skills, open with strangers, and low in self-esteem (possibly needing more reassurance or fearing criticism). Unlike people with histrionic personality disorder, autistics will stim, exhibit narrow and passionate interests, and struggle with organization and self care.


Autistic people usually have trouble interpreting others' emotions, but care deeply.Miscommunication is a common problem.
Any weirdness is due to not understanding or personal choice, and is not usually for attention. For example, an autistic person might wear floor-length skirts because they think it's normal or they like the swishy feeling, not because they want others to notice them.
Consider what happens if you leave the person alone. Autistic people often need extra attention because they can't look after themselves, not because they emotionally need it. Concerns about leaving them alone are usually practical (e.g. "she'll hyperfocus on her essay and forget to eat"), and not emotional (e.g. "she'll feel hurt and avoid eating, and it'll turn into a big production"). If they are kept safe, autistics can enjoy solitary pursuits for long periods of time.
 A narcissist may behave in grandiose, self-important ways. While someone with HPD needs constant attention and validation, a narcissist already believes they are important, and does not need validation from others, who are viewed as inferior to the narcissistic person., A psychologist may diagnose histrionic personality disorder through use of evaluation and observation. Personal, medical, and family history will be discussed. The psychologist may assess the frequency, duration, and severity of the symptoms.Common factors to assess include behavior, appearance, and personal history.


It can be important to assess a person’s social and romantic history to gain insight on how they relate with others.
 Histrionic personality disorder is most often diagnosed in the late teens or early 20’s.Adolescents commonly display behavior that is immature or dramatic, yet this behavior typically decreases and is replaced with more mature or socially adaptive behavior and emotional regulation.If the behavior increases or does not improve into adulthood, then histrionic personality disorder may be considered.


Histrionic personality disorder is more often diagnosed in women than men, however, this may reflect socially acceptable roles and not the actual prevalence of histrionic disorder in the general population.For example, a woman who is more sexually forward may be considered outside the norm, while this may be considered normal behavior for men.
 Many people with histrionic personality disorder may experience depression and/or anxiety as a result of their conflicts with others or after a failed romantic relationship. They may also feel depressed when not the center of attention or when alone.Sometimes, treatment is sought to cope with the depression.


Substance use is common in those with histrionic personality disorder.
If a person uses substances that affect their functioning, substance treatment may be necessary., No causes are known for histrionic personality disorder. Although there are no direct links associated with histrionic personality disorder, there may be some probable causes or associated traits. For example, genetic influences and early childhood experiences may contribute to the experience of this personality disorder.Childhood experiences might include learning behaviors or responses from adults. This could be unpredictable attention given as a child. A child may become confused when feedback is inconsistent or when they don’t know how to interpret when parents are pleased.