 If possible, you’ll probably want to have the party on your girlfriend’s actual birthday. However, if the day falls during the week, it’s usually best to move it to the weekend so guests don’t have to worry about getting up for school or work in the morning. You can choose the weekend before or after her birthday, depending on which is closest to the actual day.If you’re planning to throw a surprise party, try to pick a date before your girlfriend’s birthday. The further away from the actual day, the less that she’ll be expecting it.;
, In most cases, it’s easiest just to have the party at your or a friend’s house. However, if you want a more formal party, you may want to rent a catering hall or hotel function room. Many restaurants have party rooms available too, which can be convenient if you just want a simple party.You can also opt for a destination party by celebrating your girlfriend’s birthday at a venue that hosts a specific activity, such as a bowling alley, an arcade, or a pottery studio.
 To make the event special for your girlfriend, it helps to come up with a fun theme for the party. It can be something simple, such as her favorite cartoon characters, or something more elaborate. In warm weather, you might hold the party outdoors and go with a tropical theme where all the guests wear Hawaiian shirts. If she’s a fan of gambling, you might choose a Monte Carlo or Las Vegas theme. Tailor it to your girlfriend’s specific interests.After you choose a theme, don’t just make the decorations match it. Have all of the elements, including the food, entertainment, and music, fit it as closely as possible.
If there’s a movie that your girlfriend loves, make that the theme of the party. Have all the guests dress up as characters from the film.
A carnival theme can be fun. Make fair-worthy foods, such as corn dogs, snow cones, and popcorn, and set up some games, such as a ring toss.
A murder mystery party is a fun idea if your girlfriend likes detective stories. Let the guests know ahead of time, though, so they can get in character and dress up.
 Once you have the date, venue, and theme decided, you can start to invite guests. Create a list of all the people that your girlfriend would want at the party, such as family, friends, co-workers, and classmates. It’s a good idea to get her input on the list so you know that everyone who she wants to celebrate will be there. The easiest way to send invitations is through an email invitation site, such as Evite, because you don’t have to worry about postage.For a surprise party, ask your girlfriend’s close friends and family to help you come up with the guest list so you don’t miss anyone.
If you’re going with email invitations, make sure that you have email addresses for everyone on the guest list.
You can also invite guests more informally, such as through phone calls or text messages.
 When it comes to food for a party, a buffet-style setup is usually the best bet. If you’re doing a theme party, you may want to tailor the food to fit the theme. You can also create a menu based on your girlfriend’s favorite foods.Making the food yourself can add a personal touch to your girlfriend’s party.
If you don’t want to cook for a large group, consider having the party catered from your girlfriend’s favorite restaurant.
You can also opt for easy to prepare foods from the grocery store, such as frozen appetizers.
If you’re on a budget, just go with simple snacks foods for the party. Put out bowls of chips, pretzels, and some dip. A platter of vegetables is also a good option.
Don’t forget beverages. Set up a bar area with bottles of soda, water, juice, some alcoholic beverages if your girlfriend and the guests are of legal drinking age, ice, and plastic cups so guests can help themselves.
 If you’re holding a theme party for your girlfriend, you can choose decorations that help bring it to life. For example, for a tropical theme party, you might hang tiki lights outside. For a general party, you can’t go wrong with the old standards of balloons and streamers.Party supply stores have decorations to fit a wide range of themes, so you can find the perfect options for your girlfriend’s party.
If you’re going for a low-key party, you may want to forgo decorations and just hang a Happy Birthday banner.

