 Communicating your needs and standing up for yourself probably won’t come to you overnight. You may want to practice standing up for yourself in low-risk situations before you try confronting someone in a position of authority or importance (e.g., a boss or romantic partner).For example, if a co-worker asks you to bring him or her coffee whenever you go to Starbucks but never offers to pay, you could remind him or her about the cost the next time they ask. You don’t have to be insulting or aggressive when you do this; instead, just say something friendly but clear like “Would you like to give me cash to pay for yours, or would you prefer I put both on my debit card and you can buy the next round?”

, If you feel taken for granted by others, you need to communicate that to the other person. However, you don’t want to simply come out and say “You take me for granted.” Attacks and “you” statements shut down communication and can make a bad situation worse.Instead, use simple, factual statements to explain your discomfort.


Stay calm. You might feel resentment, anger or frustration, but it’s important to keep those emotions under control. While there may be plenty of negative emotions within you, focus on presenting a calm front and letting the other person know that you're not unstable or attacking but that you do mean business.
Stick with "I" language. It's easy to fall into the trap of saying things like "you make me miserable" or “you’re a jerk,” but all that does is make the other person defensive. Instead, stick with explaining how things impact you and start your sentences with such phrases as "I feel", "I want", "I need", "I am going to" and "I am doing this from now on".If you’re concerned that enforcing a boundary may seem like you don’t want to help, you can explain the situation. For example, if a coworker asks for your help, you could say something like “I would normally love to help you with that project, but my son’s recital is tonight and I don’t want to miss it.” You can establish that you care about the other person without always caving to requests.Don’t reward hostile or manipulative behavior with positive consequences. “Turning the other cheek” when someone abuses you may only encourage them to continue that behavior. Instead, express your dissatisfaction with that behavior., Others may not even realize that they’ve been taking advantage of you. In most cases, they will want to make the situation right once you bring it to their attention, but they may not know how. Offer ways for the other person to address the problem so that you both can feel positive about your relationship.


For example, if you feel taken for granted because your contributions to a group project haven’t been acknowledged, explain how your boss can remedy the situation. You could say something like “My name was the only one left off of that big project. I felt like my work wasn’t valued when that happened. In the future, I’d like you to credit all the team members.”
Another example: if you feel like your romantic partner is taking your love for granted because he or she doesn't express feelings clearly, offer some options that would help you feel appreciated. You could say something like “I know you aren’t into flowers and chocolates, but I would like you to occasionally express your feelings for me in a way that feels comfortable for you. Even a simple text during the day would really help me feel more appreciated.”

, You don’t have to pick fights to stand up for yourself, and you don’t have to pretend to be an uncaring jerk to say “no” to others. Expressing that you care about the other person’s feelings can help ease tension in uncomfortable situations and make them more willing to listen to your concerns.For example, if your romantic partner always leaves the dishes and laundry for you to do, begin by making a statement of empathy: “I know that you care about me, but when I always end up doing the dishes and laundry, I feel more like a housekeeper than a romantic partner. I would like you to help me with these chores. We could alternate days, or we could do them together.”

, It can be helpful to rehearse what you want to say to the other person. Write down the situation or behavior that has upset you and describe what you would like to see change.You don’t have to memorize this verbatim; the point is to become comfortable with what you want to express so that you can communicate it clearly to the other person.For example: imagine that you have a friend who often makes plans with you and then cancels at the last minute. You have begun to feel taken for granted because you don’t feel like your friend respects your time. You might say something like the following:“Terrell, I want to talk to you about something that has been bothering me. We often make plans to hang out together and you end up canceling on me at the last minute. I feel frustrated by this because I usually can’t make new plans with such short notice. I feel like you are taking my time for granted because I always agree to hang out with you when you ask. Sometimes I even wonder if you are canceling because you don’t actually want to hang out with me. The next time we make plans together, I would like you to put them in your planner so you don’t double-book that time. If you really have to cancel, I would like you to call me more than a few minutes beforehand.”

Another example: “Sophie, I need to talk to you about babysitting. You asked me a few days ago if I could babysit your son next week, and I said yes. I agreed because I value your friendship and I want you to know that I’m there for you when you need me. However, I have already babysat for you several times this month, and I’m beginning to feel like I’m always on call. I would like you to ask other people to help out too, instead of always asking me.”


, It’s important to make sure that your words and your behavior match up so you don’t send mixed signals to the other person. If you have to say no to a request or enforce a boundary, using assertive body language can help the other person understand that you are serious.Stand straight and maintain eye contact. Face the person you are speaking to.
Speak in a firm, polite voice. You don’t have to shout to make yourself heard.
Do not giggle, fidget, or pull funny faces. While these tactics might seem like they would “soften the blow” of your refusal, they can communicate that you don’t mean what you’re saying., Make it clear to the person that when you say "no", you mean it. Don't give in to any manipulations or “guilt tripping.” People may initially test your boundaries, especially if you’ve frequently given in to demands in the past. Be persistent and polite about enforcing your boundaries.Avoid coming across as self-righteous when you maintain your boundaries by not over-justifying your actions. Too much explanation or insistence on your own perspective may come across as arrogant, even if you don’t mean it to.For example, if a neighbor repeatedly comes over to borrow your tools but often doesn’t return them, you don’t have to make a long speech about your personal rights to decline the next time s/he asks to borrow something. Politely tell the person that you do not want to lend him or her any more tools until s/he returns the others s/he borrowed.

