 The trustee will ask you questions about your paperwork at your creditors' meeting. Make sure you are comfortably familiar with the contents of the documents you filed.Particularly if you're filing bankruptcy under Chapter 7, you won't have to go to court at all if all issues are resolved to the trustee's satisfaction at the creditors' meeting.
For this reason, it's important that you know the information on the documents filed with the court in your bankruptcy case.
This may require a bit of study if you have an attorney, since you didn't fill out the petition and schedules yourself.
 In going over your petition, you may come across an item that has changed since you initially completed the paperwork. File an amendment to set the record straight.This also applies if you find something, such as a missing account, that you want to add to your petition.
Keep in mind that if you add a creditor fewer than 14 days before your meeting, you must have those new creditors served with your petition and notice of the meeting.
The trustee may propose or require you to amend your petition to reflect the information provided in the creditors' meeting. However, you want your documents to be as accurate as possible before the meeting to avoid going to court.
 The impression you make is important at your creditors' meeting. One important way to make a good impression is to appear organized and in control. Having to stop and shuffle through a loose stack of papers will not endear you to the trustee.You should receive a checklist of documents you're required to bring to the creditors' meeting. Use this checklist to organize your documents.
Your attorney also may have a checklist or other methods to help you organize your documents before the meeting.
Consider using a binder with tabs to keep your documents together and easy to find.
 Even though you're not in court, you are under oath during your creditors' meeting. You could end up needing to go to court if you provide incomplete or inaccurate information.Even though this meeting is called a "creditors' meeting," your creditors typically will not attend. Usually it will just be you and the attorney in a meeting room in an office building.
The trustee will ask you some general questions to confirm that you've been accurate and honest in the court documents you've filed. He or she also may ask specific questions about accounts or transactions that seem suspicious.
Stick to the facts, and answer all questions as completely and honestly as you can. If you don't know the answer to a question, say "I don't know" or ask the trustee for clarification.
If you filed for Chapter 7 bankruptcy, you'll be on your way to a discharge once the trustee concludes the creditors' meeting. You just have to wait the 60 days provided to creditors to object to your discharge.
Generally, if no creditors object to your discharge, you can complete a Chapter 7 bankruptcy without having to go to court.
If you filed a Chapter 13 bankruptcy, you will have to attend at least one court hearing for the judge to approve your repayment plan.

