 HAMP is a voluntary program, and lenders do not need to participate. You should call your lender and ask if they participate in the program. You can apply for HAMP if either your mortgage servicer (who you make payments to) or your mortgage investor (who owns the mortgage) participate.If neither do, then you can also discuss other modification options.Mortgage companies which have participated include:


Wells Fargo
CitiMortgage
JPMorgan Chase
Bank of America;
, The HAMP program is available for homeowners who took their mortgage out before January 1, 2009.Find your paperwork and identify the date of the mortgage. If you took out the mortgage after this date, you don’t qualify.
 To qualify for HAMP, you cannot owe too much money. Instead, the program has a maximum amount, depending on the property. You cannot owe more than the following amounts:At least $729,750 if the mortgage is for your primary residence
At least $729,750 if the mortgage is for a rental property with one to four units

, To qualify for HAMP, your mortgage payments must be more than 31% of your gross (pre-tax) household income. Add up your income from every source. Include things like disability payments, Social Security benefits, rental income, alimony, and child support.Then multiply this gross amount by .31. Check to see if this number is smaller than what you make in mortgage payments in a year.
 HAMP also requires that you be suffering from financial hardship.Most lenders want to see that the hardship was involuntary, i.e., beyond your control. The following may qualify as involuntary hardships:lay-off or reduced work hours
new job after layoff pays less
reduction in self-employed income even though you tried your best
short-term or permanent disability
divorce
serious illness or uninsured major medical expenses
natural disaster
increase in adjustable interest rate
unavoidable child care expenses

, HAMP also requires that you be delinquent on your mortgage by 60 days.You may also qualify if you are in danger of becoming delinquent because of divorce or the disability/death of one of the borrowers., HAMP can help lower your monthly mortgage payments in several ways. For example, you might be able to modify your mortgage in the following manner:


change the mortgage loan from an adjustable rate mortgage to a fixed-rate mortgage
stretch out the repayment period, for example, from 30 to 40 years
reduce the loan’s interest rate temporarily or permanently
add past-due amounts to the unpaid principal and then spread them out over a new term of the loan

, You will need to show your lender certain information to start the application process. You should gather the following as soon as possible:monthly mortgage statement
information about other mortgages on the property
pay stubs from the previous 90 days that show your year-to-date income
if self-employed, your most recent signed and dated quarterly or a year-to-date profit and loss statement
documentation of any additional income, whether from your job (such as overtime), child support, alimony, or government benefits (Social Security, disability, etc.)
if unemployed, then an unemployment benefits letter
two most recent bank statements for all accounts
utility bill that shows your property address and name

, You have the option of including a letter in which you explain in detail the hardships you are facing. Although it is optional, you should go ahead and write one. Format the letter as a business letter and be sure to include the following:Your identifying information, such as name, address, phone number, and account number.
Contact information for your advocate (if you have one).
The type of work-out plan you are seeking. For example, you want to stretch the payments to 40 years.
The reasons you fell behind. Go into detail about the events beyond your control that have made it difficult for you to pay your mortgage.
Your proposed budget and plan for making future payments. Include how much you can pay each month for your mortgage.
How much money you have saved that you can contribute to your mortgage.
 You need to download and complete this form. It is available as a PDF here: https://www.makinghomeaffordable.gov/steps/Documents/RMA_English_08.13.2015_Fillable.pdf. You can also watch a tutorial to help you figure out how to complete the form.The form will ask for the following:


information on all borrowers, including their name, date of birth, social security number, and contact information
whether any borrower has filed for bankruptcy
information on why you are suffering a financial hardship
information on the property covered by the mortgage, such as location, the number of liens, and any insurance
household income
monthly expenses
household assets
income documentation
other properties owned, including the location and information about mortgages
signatures from all borrowers

, You must also complete a tax form, which is available for download at https://www.makinghomeaffordable.gov/steps/Pages/step-4-apply.aspx. This form gives the mortgage lender permission to request a copy of your tax return from the IRS.


If you filed your annual taxes on Form 1040, then you should complete Tax Form 4506T-EZ.
All other filers should fill out Tax Form 4506T.
 If you have questions or need help, then you can contact a housing counseling agency through the Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD). You can reach them in the following ways:Call 888-995-4673.
Visit the HUD website at http://www.hud.gov/offices/hsg/sfh/hcc/fc/ and select your state to find the nearest counselor.
 Make a couple copies of all forms and attachments. Then contact your mortgage lender to see how they want the application submitted. You can find contact information for lenders here: https://www.makinghomeaffordable.gov/get-answers/Pages/get-answers-how-contact-mortgage-company.aspx.


Generally, you may be told to mail, fax, or upload the materials online., After sending in your application, you should call the mortgage company every week. Always write down the date and time you call, as well as who you spoke with.The first time you call, ask if anything is missing. If so, provide it promptly.
When you call back, ask about the status of the application. In particular, ask what department has the application. It should move from “loss mitigation” or “retention” to “loan negotiator” or “underwriter.” If it stays in retention or loss mitigation for more than two weeks, it could be incomplete.
 Mortgage companies often make mistakes. If your application is rejected, then you should ask for a written explanation why. Follow up with the mortgage company if you think they made a mistake.Also ask how you can appeal.
 There are other modification programs in addition to HAMP. For example, you might be able to get a modification if your mortgage is owned, guaranteed, or insured by the following:Fannie Mae
Freddie Mac
Federal Housing Administration
Veterans Affairs
U.S. Department of Agriculture

, Mortgage companies can also voluntarily negotiate a mortgage modification outside the HAMP program. You need to call them up and work with them. The following options may be available, depending on the mortgage company:Forbearance. The mortgage company can reduce or suspend your mortgage payments for a limited amount of time. At the end of the forbearance period, you start making payments again and pay some interest. You might be able to get forbearance, for example, if you have been laid off or called up to active military duty.

Repayment plan. If you fell behind on payments, you can come up with a payment plan that allows you to pay off the owed mortgage payments over a certain amount of time. For example, if you owe $10,000 in mortgage payments, you can come up with a plan to repay that amount over a year.

Modification. You can request many of the same modifications outside of HAMP that you could get inside HAMP, such as a longer repayment period or a reduced interest rate. Banks can also make different modifications outside HAMP which they couldn’t inside the program, such as reduce the principal on your loan., Your state law might allow you to reinstate or redeem a mortgage that is delinquent. You should check with an attorney about whether either is available in your state and the process for requesting them. Generally, you must request them before the date for the foreclosure sale.With redemption, you pay off the entire loan, possibly by refinancing with another loan.
With reinstatement, you make the loan current by paying off owed mortgage payments and any fees before a deadline. You then begin making regular monthly payments., You should call and talk directly to someone in the loss mitigation department. You can typically find a phone number on the mortgage servicer’s website.You should have at your fingertips all the information that you would need if you applied to the HAMP program.
Write down the name of who you talked to. Under federal law, the servicer cannot make you talk to different people each time you call. Instead, they should give you one point of contact.
 Any modification program will probably require an application. You should fill it out promptly and provide all information requested. You will probably also have to submit supporting documents, such as the following:bank statements
tax returns
pay stubs or profit and loss statement if self-employed
income and expenses financial worksheet
hardship letter

, Unfortunately, there are many mortgage scams on the Internet, and you should be careful that you don’t work with scammers. You can avoid getting ripped off if you follow these tips:Don’t work with anyone who contacts you. There is no reason why a legitimate company should be contacting you directly. Hang up on the person and seek an appointment with a HUD housing counselor instead.
Never make a mortgage payment by wire.
Hang up on anyone who promises that they can get you approved for a modification. Only your mortgage company can make that decision, not third parties.
Steer clear of anyone who tells you to stop making your mortgage payments or to avoid communication with your mortgage lender.
Never sign over the deed to your property to someone else. This is almost always part of a scam.

