 Be absolutely certain that you want to be a popular online presence. With popularity comes loss of peace, the inability to move around quietly and a need to maintain a great reputation in your chosen field of popularity. This can add up to a lot of effort, especially if you're not being paid for it and have to keep that day job up. It can also erode your humility and cause you to behave in ways that aren't entirely you and can lead to dissatisfaction. If you're okay with this, proceed with the next steps.;
, Start with the well known ones, such as Twitter, Facebook and the like. Then tailor your online presence to the area for which you're keen to be known, such as graphic design, scene fashion, smoothies-maker extraordinaire, medical explanations guru, or whatever it is. Find a blog, website, portal, forum, etc., where you can make the most of your talents and start creating your presence there through adding information, interacting and being around a lot.


Join bigger social sites. Go onto Friendster, start stalking some people – be sure to add a lot of friends for yourself.






Pick the sites Google likes. That way, your name has a better chance of coming back in the top first page returns when people search online for you and your talents. Google is always reworking its algorithms, so check Alexa and similar to find out which social networking sites are currently hip and happening.
Link to high page rank sites that are related to your site is the key. Submit to directories such as Add Your Site Free Submit







, Work the imagination and make a site work for you. As for people who want to be popular for their style or looks, obviously, start posting your pictures all over the web. Get someone able to take quality pictures of you.
 If you're copying everyone else, there is a good chance that you're not going to be seen or heard about. Few people are keen to see the same, same. Thus, think of a new trend, or try something that nobody has done before, even if it's a common topic done very differently., And be genuinely nice, not just putting on an act.


If you want to be known as grumpy and gruff, don't chop and change by pretending to be nice one minute, then horrible the next. Get your brand straight.
 Then be available and interactive, so that people can get to know you and trust in you.


Be aware that this likely to chew up your time considerably. Be careful what discussions you get involved in; keep it light, friendly and caring.
 When you're on social websites, add many friends. Have a big list of them! Because the friends of your friends will start adding you, and you'll get more and more well known.
 People are thirsty for good content, not self-love. Give them something they're keen to watch, read or listen to. Introduce them to interesting things on a regular basis. Bring together the energies of other people whose work and updates add value to yours, so that you spread around support for others online.