 Every time you tap your brakes, the cars behind you will do the same. This can cause a ripple effect for miles down the road. Try to keep a gap between you and the car ahead of you. If another car slows down or tries to merge, you should have enough room to slow down without braking suddenly.Keep at least two or three seconds between you and the car in front of you. This means that it should take you two or three seconds at your current speed to reach the other car.;
, Try to stay at the speed limit, or go at the speed of traffic. If you need to slow down, take your foot off the gas, and do not brake unless you need to. In many cases, if you keep a gap between cars, you may be able to slow down without braking.When there's an accident or a breakdown on the side of the road, do not slow down to look. Instead, keep going at the rate of traffic.Cruise control can help you maintain a steady speed on the highway.
 The more you change lanes, the more other cars may have to slow down to accommodate you. While you may sometimes need to move over, try changing lanes only when necessary., By letting cars in the merge lane come into your lane, you’re helping the flow of traffic. If you see cars trying to merge, allow a gap between you and the car ahead of you so that they have room to enter., Stay alert by scanning ahead as far as you can. Remain aware of what is happening around you. Watch for road hazards, accidents, bottlenecks, or other problems along the road.Many highways have signs that will alert you of delays or traffic jams. You can either prepare to slow down or find an alternate route.
 Do not text, read the news, check your social media page, or take your eyes off of traffic, even if traffic has stopped dead. Always watch what is happening in front of you. You never know when traffic will start moving again.

If you are bored, turn on music or try a podcast.
 If your car begins to break down, move to the slow lane, slow down, and pull over as soon as it's safe to do so. Turn on your hazard lights, and use your cell phone to get help immediately.If you are on the side of a busy highway, you should remain in your car. If you must exit, exit on the passenger’s side to avoid getting hit by a car.

