 You will need lots of them. Do not use bobby pins; they will not work for this method. You can find U-pins at a beauty supply shop or online.If you absolutely cannot find any U-pins, get some stiff wire and cut it to twice the length of your finger. Fold it in half until a narrow U-shape. It should be no wider than your finger.
 Your hair must be brushed, or it will turn out frizzy. It might also be a good idea to straighten it first; this will also help reduce frizz. The styling mousse is especially important for those with naturally-straight hair, or for those whose hair can't hold a curl easily.
 The bottom fourth of your hair should be hanging loose around your shoulders. You will be working on this section first.
 The section should be about 1 inch (2.54 centimeters) wide, and 1 inch (2.54 centimeters) tall.
 Bring the curved part of the pin as close to your scalp as possible. The closer the pin is to your scalp, the more volume you will get.
 Weave the hair in and out of the prongs in figure-rights. When you reach the end, consider wrapping a small hair elastic around the ends of the U-pin. This will help pinch the pin closed, and prevent your hair from unraveling.
 Work in 1 inch (2.54 centimeters) sections.
 For more holding power, you can also add a little bit of hairspray as well.
 Do not use a high heat setting. Start ironing from the ends of the U-pin first, and work your way towards your roots. Only clamp the straightener down five seconds at a time.
 When you are done, you should have no hair left to weave. You should have four rows of hair-wrapped U-pins. Make sure that you spray and "straighten" each row before starting on the next.
 If you remove the U-pins too soon, your hair will not hold its crimp. This will take about ten minutes or so.
 Start from the bottom layer first. Pull off the hair tie, but don't unravel the hair. Instead, pinch the curved part of the U-pin, and simply pull it out of your hair., If you do, your hair will turn frizzy. If the crimps are too tight for your liking, you can loosen them by running your fingers through your hair.

