 People who make eye contact are usually the ones who wish to engage in conversation.Eye contact can also help you determine whether a topic of conversation is one that your conversation partner will enjoy. If he begins to seem distracted or look elsewhere, you should consider changing the topic, asking your partner a question, or politely ending the conversation.
 Silences happen. Feel free to embrace these silences, especially with those with whom you are already close.Don't feel obligated to fill every break in a conversation with your opinions, questions, and stories: sometimes these breaks are natural and positive.
 Pause every once in a while as you speak. This will allow your partner to change topics, ask you questions, or end the conversation if necessary.Be sure that you are not monologuing.
 If you are first getting to know somebody, you should withhold your most intimate details until you get to know them better. Oversharing might make you appear gossipy, inappropriate, or shocking. Keep things factual but appropriately intimate until you become better acquainted.Some topics to avoid oversharing about include:


Bodily or sexual functions
Recent breakups or relationship turmoil
Political and religious opinions
Gossip and salacious stories

, Topics that people do not like discussing in the workplace include personal appearance, relationship status, and socioeconomic status.Political and religious affiliations can also be taboo, depending on the context. Be sensitive to your listener and try to keep things casual and light until you have a better sense of what they are interested in.
 If you have a funny story to share, make sure that it is brief or that it has something to do with your listener's interests. Just because a topic is interesting to you doesn't make it interesting to others.Feel free to share (briefly) your interests and enthusiasms, and then gauge your listener's responses. Let them ask you follow-up questions (if they are interested in learning more) or change the subject (if they'd rather discuss something else).
 It is not just your responsibility to keep the conversation going—it takes two to tango. If the other person is really not interested in your conversation, find another person to converse with. Don't beat yourself up over an unsuccessful conversation.
 Maintain eye contact and listen carefully when your conversation partner is speaking. Do not appear distracted or bored. Show that you are engaged and interested., Conversations will go more smoothly if you smile, nod, and show interest with your body language.Don't shift too much, cross your arms, look down at your toes, or stare at your phone. Maintain an appropriate amount of eye contact and face your conversation partner openly.

