, If the Properties windows is not open, Press Ctrl + F3 or go to window\Properties\Properties and check it.
,
Press Ctrl + R to insert your image or go to Files \ Import \ Import to library and the drag it to your stage.
Remember that your background image must be in 800 X 600.
Put your image's location on x=0 , y=0 to fit it on the stage.
As we have nothing to do with this layer from now... lock it. (Click on the dot which is under the lock image in the Timeline window.)





 

Note that to change your image size, open it with Photoshop, Press Ctrl + Alt + I then disable the Constrain Proportions and change your image size to 800 X 600 Pixels.(more in Tips and warnings sections)




,,
Press click on Eraser, then Right click on it and choose "Background Eraser tool"
Erase the whole stage.
Choose the shape tool then right click on it and choose "Rounded Rectangle Tool".
Create a shape on your stage and change the color to black. (The color is Optimal).

Press "M" and make a rectangle which take the half of our button.
Click on Gradient tool. If it's on Paint Bucket tool, right click on it and change it to Gradient tool.
Change the Opacity to 17%.
Choose the white color.( some color which is antonym with Black or color you have chosen)
Now color the rectangle with the Gradient tool for once or twice.
press "M" and click on stage to dis select the rectangle.
Press Ctrl + Shift + S and Save your file in .PNG format.
,
I have inserted 5 buttons
Set the location of buttons as : Y=18(for All buttons) and x= 137.0 - 244,0 - 351,0 - 458,0 -565,0

,
Choose your Font Face.(like Arial)
Choose your Font size as 20.
The Choices are optimal.Chosen by me (Home, Downloads, Wallpapers, About us, Contact us)
Set the location of each text as : y= 64 (for all) , x= 280 - 170,0 - 385,0 - 489,0 - 600

,,

First we need to create another button as pressed in Photoshop.
Open your button.
Press "M."
Select all your button.
choose the normal brush and change the Opacity to 80%.
Change the color of your brush to Black and color the whole button for twice.
Press Ctrl + Shift + S and save it as Pressed in .PNG format.

Insert the Pressed buttons to your stage and give them the same location as buttons which you have inserted.
add the texts and give them the same locations as the texts which you have created. you can also cope & paste them too(only for text)

,
Right click on it.
Choose "convert to Symbol"
Choose button and the name of symbol is up to you!
Press OK.
Double click on your symbol.
Drag the Keyframe from "UP" to "Over".
Double click on stage to get back.
Do this for all buttons.


Open the "Behavior window" by pressing "Shift + F3"
Now click on your button ( pressed button which is in some kinda blue color).
As you have selected the button , click on the Blue Plus button in the Behavior window.
Choose "Web" from list and write your link.
You can also choose the window open in which window.(_blank, _same, ...)
Open the scripting windows and change release to press.
Do this for all the buttons.


Go to your Photoshop.
Create a new image in 548 X 320.
Erase the background.
Choose the paint bucket tool and set the Opacity as 44% and change the color to black.
Fill the background for twice or once.
Save it as .PNG
Create a new layer on the top of the all layers.
Now add it to your Work in this location: x=137 , y=138 px
Write your content on it.
,

Create a new Layer on the top of all layers. Whether if you want to add a new layer must be under the layer.
As you know you have to add a keyframe for each website page.
Add nothing to this layer and keep it empty.
on this layer add empty keyframe on the keyframes which contains your pages.
Add this script to your empty keyframes: stop(); ( click on the keyframe , on the properties windows , clock on the arrow which is on the question mark)

,
Choose rectangle tool.
Delete the border.( Click on the pencil then click on no color)
Set fill color as Black.
Make your rectangle.
Change w to 800 and h to 100.
set the position as ,,

Press "V" and click on the grey stage.
Choose "Publish settings".
On the window which appear choose "Formats" on the top of the window.
Check the ".HTML."
Click on "Publish."

, We have to make this website to fit to any screen.

Open the Html Code with Notepad or Wordpad.
Find this code:

<object codeBase="http:<embed class="misspell" type="application/x-shockwave-flash" src="flashmovie.swf" pluginspage="http:<="" object="">



,,