 Sit down with the other parent and discuss the new terms of your custody agreement. To help, look at your original child custody order and use that general framework for your modification. In general, any child custody arrangement should include the following information:


Who will have physical custody. This will include a description of who will have the right to have the child live with them.The court will want to know that the parent getting physical custody has the financial, physical, and mental ability to care for the child.
Who will have legal custody. This includes a description of who will have the right to make decisions about the child's upbringing.This could include decisions about schooling, medical care, sports and music participation, and religious affiliations.Will the agreement call for joint custody or sole custody. Finally, the agreement should discuss what custody will look like. Will you and the other parent share physical and/or legal custody or will only one parent take on these responsibilities.If there will be joint custody, be as detailed as possible about when the child will be with either parent and consider attaching a calendar to the agreement.
 Once you have reached an acceptable agreement with the other parent on how custody is going to be modified, and once you have memorialized that agreement in writing, you are going to attach some required court forms to that agreement for the judge to look over.In general, along with your written agreement, you will have to fill out the following court forms:



A Stipulation and Order for Custody. This form asks you to acknowledge that the attached agreement is the agreement you would like to submit and that it should be accepted by the court.You will also need to include the original case number in this form so the judge can locate your original child custody order.A Child Custody and Visitation Order. In this form, you will be required to simply check a box or write a brief explanation stating that you have come to an agreement on a modification and that you are attaching that agreement to these other forms., Once you have filled out the required forms to request a judge to sign off on your custody modification agreement, you will want to review them carefully.These forms are going to be the basis of your new custody modification agreement, so you want to make sure they have been filled out accurately and completely. If you have hired an attorney, have them look over the forms you have filled out. If you have not hired an attorney, consider using some of the free legal resources available to you.


For example, in California, you can contact a family law facilitator or a self-help center for assistance with these forms.If you are in California, use this link and this link for more information about those resources.
 Turn in all of your documents so the judge can review them and sign off on them.The judge will review your agreement to ensure your arrangement is in the best interest of the child and that there were indeed changed circumstances that required you to modify your existing order. So long as the judge approves of your new arrangement and the reasons for making it, the judge will sign off on the new agreement.
 Once the judge signs off on your new agreement, you will file that agreement with the clerk of courts.The clerk will keep the original copies of all of your documents and will give copies to you.Once you file your agreement, it will in effect supersede any other order you had before. In most states, you will not be required to pay any filing fee.

