


A Christmas Story, The Polar Express, Elf, National Lampoons Christmas Vacation, How The Grinch Stole Christmas, A Charlie Brown Christmas, A Christmas Carol, It's A Wonderful Life, Miracle on 34th Street, The Santa Clause, Home Alone, Frosty the Snowman, and Rudolf the Red-nosed Reindeer, The Bells of St. Mary., Mickey's Once/Twice Upon a Christmas, White Christmas, The Family Stone, A Muppets Family Christmas, and The Night Before Christmas.;
, No Christmas is complete without the ones you love.
 Some families even have a tradition that, on Christmas Eve night, one of the parents reads "The Night Before Christmas" bedtime story style.
 Ornaments, Christmas cards, popcorn strings, all the Christmas food. Hang chocolates and candy canes on the Christmas tree.
 Example:


Get the Christmas feast groceries
Get presents December 2nd
Wrap presents
Get good treats

, Get craft supplies and make them for family, friends, and people in the military and hospitals who can't be with their family on Christmas! This can be fun to do with friends!

, This list should have presents that you want for the holidays.
 By making everything clean, you will spend less time concentrating on the cleanliness of your environment, and have more time to spend concentrating on Christmas.
 This will help you to feel more 'Christmassy' as the days go by.
 This also helps keep the little ones (and big ones) stay more patient until the special day.
 Get your boss a good present too, this may increase their "kindness."

, When eating Christmas dinner and the turkey on Christmas day -- it isn't complete without the crackers, novelties, paper hats, mottos and jokes. And don't make the meal gross, like cranberry sauce mixed with squash and mashed potatoes.
 e.g. on a computer stick a notice on such as Please will yule log off your computers when finished. Also don't make a strange and confusing pun like "That elf is a Rude-elf". It can cause confusion.
 If you have a special someone, ask for a Christmas kiss. Try taping the mistletoe to a hat and walk around with it on, make sure you avoid the wrong person.
 Also, if you have satellite TV watch the music channels as they show Christmas songs. Some suggestions:


Merry Christmas Everybody - Slade
Wonderful Christmastime - Paul McCartney
I Wish it Could be Christmas Everyday - Roy Wood and Wizard
Walking in the Air - Aled Jones
Do They Know it's Christmas? - Band Aid
I Believe in Father Christmas - Greg Lake
Rocking Around the Christmas Tree - Brenda Lee
White Christmas - Bing Crosby
Happy Christmas (War is Over) - John Lennon
Christmas (Baby Please Come Home) - Many versions exist
Sleigh Ride - Pentatonix
Frosty the Snowman - many versions exist
Step into Christmas - Elton John
Mistletoe and Wine - Cliff Richard
Mary's Boy Child/Oh My Lord - Boney M.
Fairytale of New York - Pogues and Kirsty MacColl
A spaceman came Traveling - Chris De Burgh
Last Christmas - Wham!
All I Want For Christmas is You - Mariah Carey
Jingle Bells - Bing Crosby (other versions exist too)
Christmas Lights - Coldplay

, Donate your time and/or money to those in need. Think of how you would feel if you were less fortunate. Try to make those who are suffering better. Try to do a good turn for someone, you could do anything from holding the door open to taping some quarters on to a vending machine with a note.
 It wouldn't be Christmas if no one gave anything.
 Get really happy!

