 Don’t talk about your buddy behind their back. It’s disloyal and disrespectful. And chances are it won’t take long for your opinions to reach your friend’s ears. Hearing criticism from a third party is very hurtful and will likely trigger an argument.
 If things turn too serious while you’re hanging out, lighten the mood with laughter. Laughing releases feel-good chemicals that help dissipate stress hormones. And sharing a chuckle might help you share a solution to any issues at hand. A few ways to lesson tension in the moment might include:


Watching a funny video online
Telling them a joke
Following a comedian on Twitter

, Arguments sometimes spring from a feeling of not being heard. Make it a habit to quietly pay attention to your pal’s thoughts and personal feelings. Doing so shows respect and builds trust between the two of you. Some good listening strategies include:


Making eye contact and facing your girlfriend when she is talking.
Using neutral, leading phrases to show you are paying attention, such as “yes,” “go on,” and “I see.”Eliminating distractions by turning off your cell phone, closing your laptop, and turning off the TV.
Rephrasing what your friend has just said. You can summarize something your girlfriend just said and turn it into a question or statement to clarify.For example, if your friend has just been telling you about a fight she had with someone else, you might say something like, “So she just slammed the door in your face and you haven’t talked since then?”

, No two people will ever agree 100% of the time. So when a minor disagreement pops up, be especially considerate of the other person's viewpoint. Shutting your friend down and declaring yourself right will only breed resentment, paving the way for future arguments. Emphasize instead points of agreement between you and never invalidate your pal's perspective on things.For example, if your friend hated a movie that you really enjoyed, then you might say something like, “I think that we both agree that that movie had some great moments, and it is okay that you did not like it as much as I did. I value your perspective and I still like going to the movies with you even if we have different tastes.”

, Keep your word, always. Trust is at the heart of all good relationships. If you keep cancelling outings at the last minute your pals will rightfully start to be bothered by your unreliability. Or, if you promise to feed your friend's cat and forget, expect a long wait between before their next text message. Being a good friend means making promises and keeping them.

