 If your toddler is about to bite, try to distract your child to prevent the biting. This is not always possible, but it is a strategy you can use until you can get your child to stop biting. Here are some things you can try:Give your child a toy or a book
Take a walk or have your child come look out the window
Give your child a something to bite or chew such as a snack or teether
Send your child to a quiet area to play alone and take a break

, Calmly go get your child. Tell your child, “Stop it. Biting hurts.” Show your child the effect of their biting on the other child.You may need to count to 10 or take a deep breath to keep yourself calm.


You may say, “Look at Sally. She is crying because you hurt her.”
Never bite your child back.This will not teach your child to stop biting. It actually teaches that biting is okay.
Remind your child that teeth are not for biting people, but for other things like chewing food, and smiling.
 It is natural to give most of your attention to your child. However, this signals that biting is a way to get attention. Once you remove your child, spend time comforting the other child. Apologize to the child and show empathy.By giving attention and apologizing, you are modeling appropriate behavior for your child.
You may say, “I’m sorry this happened Sally. I know biting hurts a lot.”
Do not force your child to apologize. This only gives more attention to the biter.
 If your child is 2 or older, you may allow them to help take care of the victim. Your child can help with a Band-Aid or gently rub the area where the bite happened.Use your discretion when allowing this. If the victim does not want your child around or you do not think your child can handle helping, simply remove your child and continue to help the victim.
 The heat of the moment is not the best time to teach and address the situation. Tell your child a better way to express their needs that is specific to the situation that just happened. You should also recognize your child’s feelings at this time.If your child bit because of an argument over a toy, you may say, “I know that you were frustrated because Sally didn’t want to share with you. Next time, ask if you can have the toy or ask a grown up to help you.” You could also suggest that your child go play with a different toy.

