 Use social networking tools like Facebook or Myspace, email or use some other means of communication that is easy and accessible for everyone.


As you get older you may find many social barriers have been forgotten and people you rarely associated with are now great friend material.;
,, This is especially helpful if you plan to spend time with these friends outside of the sanctioned events for the weekend.


Try to stay in the same hotel as your good friends. Coordinate which hotel ahead of time and try to book as far in advance as possible to get the room size and amenities you will need for a weekend. Helpful amenities may include shuttle services, in-room refrigerator for snacks and drinks, and a seating area with couch for entertaining.
If you and a friend are traveling from the same town you can coordinate flying the same flight or riding together.
People who live closer and aren't flying can pack extras such as food and drinks or other items that may be cumbersome to travel with by air.
Ask for connecting rooms or rooms on the same floor as your friends that are also traveling to the reunion.
Arrive early on your check in day. By arriving late you may risk losing the room with amenities you were hoping to book.
If your reunion is putting a strain on local hotels, you should call to confirm your reservation. Don't forget to pack a copy of any reservation confirmation before you leave home.
 Also discuss what other plans or family obligations they may have while in town.


Just because it is your high school reunion doesn't mean you must only do sanctioned events.



A reunion is a great way to have many of your oldest and dearest friends in town at the same time.
Plan an afternoon or evening out with your closest friends. Try going out for breakfast or brunch with your friends if it's more appealing than the picnic planned.
Just one small gathering with your oldest friends is a great way to break up the hustle of a busy weekend with large reunion events planned.
If anyone still lives in the town, consider grilling out, gathering for cocktails before or after and event or just looking through photo albums.
 Encourage your friends to do the same.


Make sure you coordinate how you will share and swap photos after the event.
Consider a photo site that you and your friends can access and share.
Let your friends know ahead of time if embarrassing photos should be tagged on social networking sites. Perhaps agree the photos should only be seen by a certain group unless they are tame. Some people have jobs that discourage the posting of photos involving alcohol.
 Drive around town with your friends and enjoy the memories. Don't forget those secret party spots and hang outs that were popular only to your group. Take pictures and enjoy remembering those sites with your friends.
 This is great if you have a very witty group of friends. This can be just as fun as taking photographs. Use a small notebook that can be taken everywhere and encourage your group to write ideas, thoughts and those funny one-liners.


Avoid rude remarks about other classmates, though. You don't want the book in the wrong hands. Remember, this is a high school reunion, not high school.
 Encourage everyone to send in good photos of people. Try to avoid the embarrassing ones. Remember, you'll want everyone to be comfortable and have a good time. Have the slide show featured at an event and have the pictures made available online.
 Combine the video with some still photos and music for a great documentary of your weekend. Send these to your friends that star in the project.



Have your closest friends over for cocktails. By having a suite with a couch or extra chairs you can be more comfortable.
Sit around in your pajamas with your oldest friends and catch up at night once the events have ended.
Ask for a room with a refrigerator to keep beverages cool or keep a cooler with ice on hand.
Stop by the store for light snacks and munchies on your way into town.
Buy or bring cups or plastic glasses for beer or wine since it may be difficult to find glassware after hours in your hotel.
Remember bottle openers and the corkscrew for the wine.
Pick up wine from any popular vineyards in your area or beverages that are popular to your area for sharing. You can try the cheap beer and old favorites from high school if your group is particularly nostalgic.
, Invite friends to drop by but give them a time frame so your schedule isn't compromised.
 You can have this framed and send as gifts for the holidays or sometime after your reunion.


Look through old photos and try to recreate a "Then" and "Now" picture. Try to take the image in the same order. It will be fun to frame these side by side for comparison of how everyone has changed.
, It's alright if you go solo and spend the weekend with your friends.


Many events won't appeal to children and your activities will be limited depending on your access to childcare.
If you're worried about your spouse being bored you can give them the option of attending.
Most events are planned for the returning students and not child appropriate. Don't impose on other classmates by dragging your kids to every event.
 Make the event a roadtrip if you and other friends are traveling from other states.


Load your MP3 player or create CDs with your favorite music from high school.
Coordinate picking up any friends along the way or meeting at a midpoint and riding together
Someone from farther away can fly to your town and drive with you the rest of the way. You'll need to coordinate flights and getting them back to the airport. This is especially helpful if your high school isn't near an airport or if your friend can find a cheaper flight to your town.
If you are traveling somewhere with nice weather and it's in the budget, consider renting a convertible.
 If your friends want to go out for a nice brunch or a night out on the town, you should be prepared.
 Don't forget mobile uploads. Play your favorite music from your high school days while you're getting ready or your friends are visiting.
 It will be easier to coordinate.
 Don't try to overdo it or show off. Chances are you will look back at the photos and cringe.


Depending on your town and the planning committee the events may range from very casual to semi-formal.
Make sure you pack for these scheduled events as well as hanging out and doing things with your friends.
Since most of your photos will be with your better friends it is better if you are all observing the same dress code. You don't want to be the only one in shorts or khakis if everyone else is in cocktail dresses and suits.
Make sure you are packing the appropriate attire if there is an event or restaurant nearby that you are interested in breaking away and visiting with your friends. If it's something very specific you should let everyone know ahead of time to pack the appropriate attire or footwear. A trip to a local amusement park may require serious walking shoes whereas a local fine dining restaurant may require something more sophisticated. At least discuss bringing the appropriate items in case you are able go. It would be a shame for everyone to miss out on something because someone didn't bring the right outfit or shoes.
 Share ideas, recipes and work out tips. If you live near a high school friend you can buddy up for work outs and dieting.
 Don't try to impress those people you wanted to impress in high school. Being self-confident is impressive enough.
 Take a group and go on a tour or a mini-road trip to a nearby attraction.
, Events may have changed, been moved or replaced by other events. Go over the details with your friends to avoid any surprises before you make any plans.
 Not everyone is still a party animal so remember to drink in moderation. You'll want to remember the reunion and not be the laughingstock.
 If you don't have business cards you can print up your own with your basic contact information, your married name, your web address or any url to your social networking sites.


Married women should include your name as FIRST MAIDEN LAST so that your new contacts won't have questions about spelling or keeping everyone's married name straight.
By having something to hand out you can also coordinate the sharing of photos.
Pass out business cards and network with old classmates. Just remember that it's a reunion and not a convention. People will be put off if you spend all weekend trying to "work" them.
Unless they press and ask questions you should limit chatting about work to one or two sentences. Don't spend all night taking about your job.

