 Start by doing simple stretches like neck rolls and shoulder rolls. To do shoulder rolls, sit or stand up straight. Then, roll your shoulder up, back, and down in a fluid motion. Repeat this movement five to 10 times. Then reverse it, rolling forward five to 10 times. This should help to loosen up your shoulder muscles.To do neck rolls, sit or stand up straight with your shoulders rolled back. Slowly tilt your head to the right and roll it down, chin to chest. Then roll it to the left, as if tracing a “U” shape. Reverse the roll to the right. Repeat these movements five times in each direction.
Avoid rolling your head and neck to the back as this can put too much pressure on your cervical spine. Stick to rolling your head sideways and forward only.;
, This pose is great for stretching your shoulders and releasing any tension in your shoulder joints. You will need an exercise mat or a padded floor to do this pose.Begin on all fours with your hands directly underneath your shoulders and your legs bent, knees directly below your hips. Raise your left hand off the ground and thread it through the space between your right arm and your right leg. Allow the back of your left hand and arm to slide along the ground.
Your upper body should rotate to the right and you should have your head on the ground or close to the ground. Keep your hips level.
Hold this pose for five to 10 breaths. Then, come out the same way you went in, lifting your left arm up and back down. Repeat the same movements using the other arm.
 These two poses are great for opening up a stiff shoulder area and upper back. They are also good for releasing tension in your spine. You can do these poses on an exercise mat or a padded floor.Start on all fours, with your hands underneath your shoulders and your legs bent. Inhale and press into your hands. Curve your chest down and forward, forming a “U shape” with your spine. Look up at the ceiling and hold the pose for one breath.
Exhale and push into your hands again. Lift your spine up and forward, forming an upside down “U shape” with your spine. Look towards the ground and allow your spine to curve upwards. Hold this pose for one breath. Repeat cat and cow pose for five to 10 breaths total.
 Bridge pose is another great yoga posture for stretching and opening the shoulders. This pose also helps to release tension in your spine and neck.To do bridge pose, lie on your back with your legs bent. Place your feet hip-width apart, your heels close to your butt. Inhale as you slowly raise your hips, putting weight into your feet. Pretend you are holding a large ball between your thighs as you lift your hips.
Keep your arms flat on the mat on either side of you or interlace your fingers underneath you and roll your shoulders under your chest. Hold this pose for five breaths and then slowly lower one vertebrae at a time, letting your hips touch the mat last.
 Forward folds are great for releasing tension and stress in the shoulder muscles. They are also good for sore backs and tight necks. You can do a forward fold on an exercise mat or even on the carpeted floor in your office.To do a standing forward fold, stand up straight with your legs hip-width apart. Press into your big toes and raise your arms above your head, keeping your shoulders relaxed. Inhale as you stretch upward and then fold forward over your legs, bending at the waist. Keep your legs slightly bent as you fold forward.
Let your chest and shoulders fall over your legs. Dangle your arms in front of you and relax your shoulders and neck, letting gravity pull them down towards the floor. Hold this pose for five to 10 breaths.
 This pose is slightly more advanced but it is a great shoulder opener. It also allows you to activate other muscles like your thigh muscles, your glute muscles, and your abdominal muscles.Stand on an exercise mat, your legs slightly wider than hip-width apart. Inhale and bend your front leg so it forms a 90 degree angle, keeping your knee above your ankle. Spread your arms out over your legs so your front arm faces the front of the room and your back arm faces the back of the room. Make sure your shoulders are relaxed.
Inhale as you lean forward over your bent leg and exhale as you place your front hand on the outside or inside of your front foot. You may bend your front arm and place it on your front thigh. You should feel a stretch along the side of your body and in your shoulders.
Hold this pose for five to 10 breaths. Then, repeat the pose on the other side.

