 Your loved one should be undergoing treatment for PTSD. If they are not, encourage them to get treatment. If they are receiving treatment, help them with their treatment. You can go to doctor’s or therapy visits with them or help them get their medication.Ask your loved one what they need from you where their treatment is concerned. Offer to drive them to appointments or the pharmacy. Tell them you can help make sure they take their medication.
You may want to help your loved one with therapy techniques at home.
 If your loved one has not already gone to a support group, you should suggest that they try one. Support groups and group therapy can be very helpful for those with PTSD. Support groups can put them with others who have experienced traumas and are going through similar things.You might say, “You’re doing great with your recovery, but I thought you might benefit from talking to others who understand what you are going through. I thought you might be interested in going to a PTSD support group.”

, After you learn that your loved one has PTSD, you should do some research to learn as much about the condition as you can. Learn to recognize the symptoms and effects, and familiarize yourself with treatments used. This can help give you a better sense of how to deal with your loved one and help you understand where they are coming from.

You can go talk to a doctor or therapist, search for information online, or buy a book on PTSD.
Make sure to familiarize yourself with the type of trauma that your loved one has gone through. PTSD occurs after many different kinds of trauma, all of which are different and may affect the person differently.
 Sometimes, someone with PTSD might get to the point where they have suicidal thoughts or engage in suicidal behaviors. If your loved one acts like they might be contemplating suicide, you should get help immediately. Remain calm and stay with the person until you can get professional help.Remove any potential harmful objects from near them, such as weapons or pills. Try to do this without the person knowing.
Encourage the person to call a suicide hotline. The National Suicide Prevention Lifeline can be reached at 1-800-273-8255.
 You should be patient with your loved one as they recover from their trauma. Everyone deals with trauma differently, and no one case of PTSD is the same. It can take years for a person with PTSD to fully recover, and before that there will be a lot of obstacles. Just remember to be patient and supportive of your loved one.