 Part of having balanced mental health is eating healthy while you are at college. Go for healthy food options when you eat on campus, such as the salad bar. Avoid eating junk food or food high in empty calories, as this can get in the way of your productivity and cause you to feel less than your best.Never skip meals, even when you get busy!
Pack healthy snacks to have between classes when you start to feel hungry so you can keep your energy up.
Make a meal plan for the week and go grocery shopping so you have the ingredients on hand. Make healthy meals for yourself at home so you don’t spend money eating out all the time. This will also ensure you maintain a healthy diet while in school.;
, Another important part of maintaining a healthy lifestyle in college is setting aside time for exercise and working out. Though you may be busy and overwhelmed, try to schedule in a few hours a week for exercise. This could be a jog around campus or a workout session at the campus gym.Take a fitness class at the campus gym to help you stay fit and healthy. Sign up with a friend so you hold each other accountable and go together. Challenge each other to go every week to the class for the entire semester.
 Avoid turning inward and isolating yourself from others at college. This can lead to mental health issues. Instead, try to get involved in student life at college. Identify a topic you are passionate about and find a club, organization, or group on campus that can help you explore this passion.Sports clubs, student committees, advocacy groups, and social groups can all be good ways to get involved and feel part of the community on campus.
If you do not see a club or group that speaks to your passions, start your own club or group.
 It can be easy to get sucked into partying at college, as going out and drinking can sometimes be a good way to relieve stress and bond with others. Try not to overindulge in drugs and alcohol at college, as this can lead to mental health issues and dependency issues. Plus it pretty hard to stay motivated in school if you’re hung over all the time.You may limit yourself to a few drinks a week at a bar with friends on campus and avoid drugs. Or you may limit drug and alcohol use to one night on the weekend so you do not over do it and can still function well at school.

