 When you are in a situation that triggers a negative emotion, don’t react right away! Instead, try taking several deep breaths before reacting. If you don’t feel calmer after several breaths, you can continue breathing deeply for several minutes until you feel calm enough to address the situation.Some other things you can try include:


Going into a different rom for a few minutes.
Counting to 10.
Listening to some soothing music.
Going for a walk.;
, Sometimes the best strategy for keeping a negative emotion contained in the moment is to temporarily remove yourself from the situation. For example, if your co-worker insults you at work, kindly excuse yourself and take a moment to go to the bathroom or grab a drink of water. This will allow you to temporarily disconnect from the situation and gain some composure., When you encounter a situation that evokes intense emotion like crying, taking a few moments to breathe deeply can help you contain your emotions. For example, if you see your ex-boyfriend out at the movies with another man, try breathing deeply for at least five breaths. This will help you contain your negative emotions in the moment so that you don’t do something you might regret such as lashing at him or his new boyfriend., Shifting the focus of your attention to something other than the person or situation that is causing you to feel a negative emotion can help you control unwanted emotional reactions or outbursts. For example, if you find yourself furious at your boss’s behavior try thinking about the wonderful weekend you have planned with your wife and children. This will help deflect the negative emotion in the moment so you can focus on accomplishing your goals for the rest of the work day., You can’t change how you feel about a situation, but you can shift your response. For example, instead of reacting to your co-worker’s insult with one of your own, try smiling and asking them to clarify what they meant by their statement. Instead of yelling at whomever left their socks on the steps again, try calmly saying, “Somebody left their socks on the stairs again and caused me to fall. Can you please come pick them up?”