 Find a place that is quiet, well-lit, and comfortable. You can even make a reading nook in your room. Constant distractions from the book in front of you can make it hard to concentrate, and no one likes reading the same passages over and over. Finding the proper environment in which to read can be just as important as finding the right book for many people.Sometimes, people may suffer from light sensitivity, which can cause headaches when you read. Avoid high-contrast print, glossy paper, and fluorescent lighting.You don’t have to read only at home, either. Check out the coffee shops, cafes, or bars in your area.
 Try to set aside time to read every day. Even if it just starts as ten minutes on a lunch break, twenty minutes on the bus, and fifteen minutes before bed at night, that’s suddenly forty-five minutes that day you’ve spent reading.You can even turn this into a little game with yourself. Set a daily goal for reading time and give yourself a reward when you hit it. Eventually, you may come to find reading is its own reward.
 You never know when you might find a few extra minutes to read. Sitting in waiting rooms, commuting on public transportation, waiting at a restaurant for a friend to arrive, etc. are all situations where we tend to pull out our phones and send text messages or check Facebook. By having a book in your bag, you can help develop your love of reading.If you have an e-reader, you’ll be able to carry an entire library around with you. The choices are endless.
 Whether it’s in a pocket notebook, a memo on your phone, or someplace else, try to keep a reading list of books you hear about that you want to read.Remembering titles and authors is difficult and drawing a blank once you’re at the bookstore or the library is frustrating. By having a list handy, you’ll always remember what books sounded interesting.


If you’re at the library or bookstore and see a book that intrigues you, snap a photo of the cover. That way, you’ll remember it for later.
 When you find an author whose style you love, try tracking down his or her other books. Even if the plot or subject of the author’s other books doesn't necessarily grab you, loving a particular writing style can lead to enjoyment of books you might not expect. Try looking into the other books of an author you find yourself really enjoying.
 Look into book clubs or reading groups that specialize in the books you enjoy. Reading can be more of a solo activity than watching movies or television shows, but it doesn’t have to be. Books can be just as fun to talk about with others as other media.Finding these groups locally isn’t always easy, so remember to look online for reading communities as well.
 Sometimes school, work, or other obligations might not leave you as much time to read as you’d like. In these situations, try listening to audiobooks to still get your daily dose of books.Even having books read aloud to you will still keep you involved and enthralled with reading during the period where you cannot pick up the actual book.
 Your tax dollars pay for libraries, and you can try out as many books as you would like for free (as long as you remember to return or renew them on time).


Many public libraries even loan out e-books so you can read them from home.
 Bookstores, whether the big chains or intimately used book shops, are also great places to browse if you prefer to own your books. Sometimes being surrounding by cases and cases of books is all it takes to reignite your passion for picking up a few new ones.

