 Make sure the iPhone is completely turned off, not just in Sleep mode. Press and hold the Power button, then swipe the slider to turn the iPhone off.
 This is the charging port at the bottom of the iPhone. You'll need a Pentalobe P2 screwdriver to remove them. The size varies slightly depending on the model:


6 and 6 Plus - 3.6 mm Pentalobe
6S and 6S Plus - 3.4 mm Pentalobe

, You'll want a strong suction cup that can help you separate the display from the case.


For the 6S and 6S Plus, place the suction cup in the lower left corner instead of directly above the Home button.
 You just want to create a very small gap between the display and the rest of the shell. Pulling too hard can damage the display, so pull with a firm, constant force.


Hold the rest of the iPhone down with your other hand while you pull the suction cup.
 A spudger is a tool with a flat end, much like a flathead screwdriver. Insert the spudger into the space created, and then gently work the display apart more.


If you're opening the 6S or 6S Plus, insert the spudger into the notch that appears above the headphone jack.
Twist the spudger to help pry the display up from the case.
 Sliding the spudger up the right and left sides of the case while gently twisting it will help pry up the screen.
 Once you've pried the lower portion of the screen from the case, you can swing it up so that the screen is at a 90° angle from the case. You can prop it up on a book or box to keep it in place.



Do not completely remove the screen, or you will damage the connectors, rendering the iPhone inoperable.
 If you're looking at the battery, the connector will be on the left side, about a third of the way from the bottom. The connector is covered by a rectangular piece of metal with two screws.
 Use a small #000 Phillips screwdriver to remove the two screws holding the bracket into place. You'll be able to lift the bracket out, revealing the connector.
 Use your spudger to pop the end of the connector off of the logic board. Be careful when doing so, as removing the entire socket will break the iPhone.
 This bracket can be found in the upper-right corner of the open iPhone. Take the screws out and remove the bracket. Make sure to pay attention to which screws went in which holes.


The iPhone 6, 6 Plus, and 6S Plus have five screws to remove. The iPhone 6S has four.
 This is the large connector at the bottom of the area you revealed when you removed the bracket, with a cable leading to the display. Use the spudger or your fingernail to gently pry the connector from the socket. Be careful not to remove the socket as well.
 There are three other connectors that need to be removed from the same area. One is directly next to the camera cable, and the other two are revealed when you disconnect the camera cable.
 Once the connectors are all removed, you can separate the screen from the rest of the iPhone.
 These adhesive strips help keep the battery in place. You'll find them along the bottom of the battery.
 The adhesive runs along the other side of the battery. Pull it slowly out until you've completely removed it.


One strip will go up the right side of the battery, and another will go up the left.
 Use a hairdryer and blow on the backing of the iPhone for about a minute. This will weaken the rest of the adhesive that is holding the battery in.


Don't hold the hairdryer directly up against your phone or attempt this step on its hottest setting, as too much heat can cause your phone to sustain more damage.
 After removing the adhesive strips, you'll need to use a firm plastic card to pry the battery off of the remaining adhesive. Stick the card in between the left edge of the battery and the side of the case, then gently pry it out.


Make sure that you don't bend the battery while you're prying it, as this can release hazardous chemicals.
 Once your battery has been removed, you can replace it with a new one and put your iPhone back together. Make sure that all of your connectors are firmly reseated in the correct ports, and that you put the screws back in the same holes that they came out of.Perform a hard reset after reassembling by pressing and holding the Home and Power buttons until the Apple logo appears.
For best battery performance, it's recommended that you drain the battery to below 10%, then charge it to 100%.

