 Before you choose a cleaning method, check for care tags attached to your Saffiano bag, jacket, or other product. These care tags often have recommended methods for cleaning Saffiano leather. If present, follow these directions and only use an alternate method if the recommended method proves ineffective., Whether you’re cleaning a handbag, a coat, or some other Saffiano leather product, there is always a chance that the cleaning method you’ve selected does more harm than good. To be sure you won’t damage your Saffiano leather, test your cleaning method of choice by applying it to a section of leather that won’t be visible.For instance, if you’re cleaning a Saffiano leather passport jacket, test your cleaning method on the inside of the jacket rather than the outside, where the area you really want to clean is.
When testing, check the surface of your cleaning cloth, sponge, or cotton swab regularly to see if you’re removing any color from the leather. If you are, find an alternate cleaning method.
 Baby wipes are perfect for cleaning Saffiano leather for the same reason they are good for cleaning babies: they are gentle and won’t cause damage when applied. You could use baby wipes to clean your Saffiano leather with gentle, circular motions. Alternately, you could rub the baby wipe in one direction across the surface of your Saffiano leather until it is clean., If a baby wipe didn’t quite do the job, you could try soap and water. Mix a few drops of liquid soap with about two cups (240 milliliters) of warm distilled water. Mix them together with a few gentle stirs and dip a sponge or soft hand towel into the water.With your sponge or towel damp (but not soaking wet), gently wipe the leather’s surface.
Use a dry sponge or hand towel to remove any excess liquid once you’ve cleaned the leather to your satisfaction.
Do not use tap water. The chlorine content could damage your Saffiano leather.
 If both baby wipes and soapy water have failed, try to clean your Saffiano leather with a baking soda mixture. Mix one tablespoon of baking soda with ½ cup (120 milliliters) water. Dip a hand towel or dry cloth into the mixture and gently rub the spot you wish to clean in a circular motion, or wipe the area with continuous wipes in one direction.