 Target the lowest guild if you want an easy battle. Attack the highest guild for more points and more fame. Tell your guild mates which ones you will attack to make sure they don't take it.
 Look over its enemy defenses, plan out how you will be able to defeat the heroes and defenses, and create a strategy to destroy the base. Find out where the bombs and traps could be hiding in so you can take them out with small troops, and then send your heroes in. Have a good idea of how you will defeat the base.
 Attack the base with some troops as well. Some troops such as Ornithopters might work since they are a flying troop, and they can do as much damage as an Arrow Tower. Take some ground troops with you as well to take out the bombs and traps. Send your heroes in places where you're sure there aren't any hero traps - they can do quite a lot of damage and can possibly take out half of your hero's health.


Find out which is the best base to attack since you have practiced attacking bases with no spells. Try to take out the defending heroes with flying troops and stronger heroes, until all of them are gone. Carry on destroying buildings and winning the base. Collect as many points from the base as possible - this will be added to the total score that determines how much fame each member will get.
If one or more of your heroes die and you did not get a flame yet, you can either just let the rest of the heroes destroy the base (if possible for them), or just end the battle so the heroes won't have to revive for a long time. Attack again after, but make sure you think up a new strategy to win the base. It will not take off any of your 5 chances. You can use gems to revive them however if they do die and you win.
 Ask them how they did their attacks and do your attacks in the same way. Share your advice as well and tell them how you can improve on your attacks so they can win the war.


Ask them what the best talents and crests are for guild wars. Your guild mates might be able to tell you some good heroes, talents, crests, etc. to use for the guild war. This will help you have the best chances of winning the base.
 Target up to the highest base you can possibly attack without losing. Gain as many points as you can in order to win as much fame as possible. Guild Wars give out over a hundred or more fame, which is more than usually what you get in the Lost Battlefield.
 Collect your fame prize once the war is finished and see which guild won. If your guild won, great! If not, try to figure out a way you can get your guild to have the highest ranking in the next guild war.


Share tips and strategies with your guild mates to find out how you can improve on your attacks. You can also try to make a plan for how you will win the next one.

