 Start by washing the skin tear and the surrounding skin with warm water. Use your hand to gently wash the area. Do not rub or scrub the area, as this can cause more damage to the skin.Avoid using a towel or cloth to wash the area, as this can irritate the skin tear further. Your hand and running water should work just fine.
Make sure you clean the skin tear before you apply a new dressing or bandage to it. This will ensure no bacteria is present in the skin tear before you bandage it.;
, You can also apply a saline wound cleanser to the skin tear. The wound cleanser will contain water and antibacterial ingredients to help clean the area.When you apply the wound cleanser, do not rub or scrub the area.
 This way take 10 to 20 minutes. You can also use a soft towel to pat the area dry, being careful not to rub or scrub the area., If the skin flap is still attached to the skin tear, use a damp cotton tip to gently ease it back into place. You can also use tweezers or a gloved finger to do this. This will help the skin tear to heal properly., Petroleum jelly gauze is a good option for skin tears as it will protect it and keep it moist so it can heal. Petroleum jelly gauze comes in strips. Use scissors to cut the gauze to fit the area. Then, apply the gauze over the skin tear, leaving a one-inch border around the skin tear.You can get petroleum jelly gauze online or at your local drugstore.
 Kerlix bandages are made of thick gauze. They will help to protect the skin tear and keep it moist. Use paper tape to the bandage to keep the gauze in place. Make sure you only apply tape to the gauze, not to the skin.You will need to change out the Kerlix bandage every one to two hours to ensure it does not dry to the skin tear.
 Change the bandages on the skin tear once to twice a day. Soak the bandages in saline solution to make removing them easier, especially if they have an adhesive. Lift the bandages off and away from the direction of the attached skin flap. Clean the skin tear with water before you apply a new bandage.You should also check the skin tear for any signs of infection, such as swelling, odor, pus, or heat coming from the skin tear. If you suspect the skin tear is infected, or it does not appear to be getting better, see a doctor.
 If the skin tear causes an open wound, you may need to see a doctor. The doctor can then use medical glue to close the skin tear. This will help the skin tear to heal and prevent the tear from becoming infected.If the skin tear is very painful, the doctor may numb the area before they apply the medical glue.
 The doctor may also suggest stitches on the skin tear to close the skin. This may be an option if the skin tear is severe and is at risk of infection. The doctor will use a local anesthesia on the area before they stitch it up., Skin tears can be sore and painful, especially if they are located on a sensitive spot on the body. Ask your doctor for prescription pain medication to help reduce the pain as the skin tear heals.The doctor may also recommend over-the-counter pain medication you can get at your local drugstore.
 Apply lotion or another moisturizer to your skin, especially on your arms and legs. Skin that is dry tears much easier than skin that is moisturized.

Drinking water also helps moisturize your skin, so be sure to consume eight 8-oz. glasses of water each day., The foods you eat can also affect your skin. The best foods for promoting skin health include nuts, tomatoes, spinach, and fatty fish., Skin tears are often caused by bumping into your surroundings. Make sure your home or work has adequate light sources to avoid such accidents.