 It is important to learn about emotional neglect so that you will be able to recognize it. Signs of emotional neglect include:Having a hard time understanding your emotions.
Feeling empty often.
Abusing substances or overeating.
Ending up in a co-dependent relationship or in a relationship where you are frequently hurt.
Feeling like an outsider looking in.
Feeling detached from your surroundings.
Feeling like people do not understand you and having a hard time vocalizing your needs.
Not being able to relate to your child or spouse on an emotional level.
Feeling out of place.;
, Did your parents validate your successes, comfort you when you were sad, and express their own emotions openly? Emotionally neglectful parents often fail to do one or more of these things for their children. If parents are emotionally unavailable, demanding, perfectionistic, or too permissive, emotional neglect can be the result.Most parents do not mean to emotionally neglect their children, and many are not even aware they’re doing it. They may not know that they lack the skills to care for their children emotionally.
Many emotionally neglectful parents were neglected as children themselves and are recreating the type of relationship they had with their own parents.
 Feeling consistently numb or emotionless is one of the strongest indicators of childhood emotional neglect. When parents don’t provide emotional support and care, children receive the message that their emotions are not important. They may feel ashamed of their emotional needs and suppress their feelings. This emotional suppression can persist into adulthood.In addition, emotionally neglected children often ignore their own personality and wishes in an attempt to please their parents. In adulthood, this can turn into a feeling of hollowness or a sense of being a stranger to oneself., Adults who were emotionally neglected as children often suffer from low self-esteem or low confidence. As children, their parents’ lack of emotional support gave them the message that they were not good enough to receive love and attention. In adulthood, this may result in insecurity, excessive approval-seeking, and hypersensitivity to criticism.Consider how you are with others, for example. Do you often feel like you are breaking your neck to please those around you? Maybe it's your boss, your roommate, or teachers at school. This can be a sign of low self-esteem.
 People who have experienced emotional neglect may also experience feelings of shame. These feelings may result from your other emotions, especially if you use substances like drugs and alcohol.

One good resource for dealing with shame is Healing the Shame that Binds You by John Bradshaw.
 A person’s adult relationships are modeled on the relationships they formed as children. Children who were emotionally neglected usually have an insecure attachment style, which can cause problems connecting with others later in life. If you have trouble getting emotionally close to others, often feel insecure and needy in your relationships, or can’t seem to make a relationship last, this could be a symptom of emotional neglect.
Do you start a relationship with someone but still feel like there is emotional distance between you no matter how much time passes? Does your partner mention that they feel like you are a tad too clingy? These can also be signs of emotional neglect.
 The first step in healing from emotional neglect is to acknowledge your emotions. Make a habit of asking yourself how you’re feeling throughout the day, and allow yourself to experience your emotions without shame. You may even want to do this once every hour to get into the habit. As you become more comfortable with your feelings, you can work on identifying their nuances further.Journaling can be a helpful way to explore your emotions. Try setting aside ten minutes every evening to write about how you feel. Be sure not to censor or judge yourself as you write.
Keep in mind that to care for yourself, you need to recognize that everything stems from your own emotions.
 If you were emotionally neglected as a child, your upbringing may have trained you to ignore your own needs and wants. You may have felt like pleasing your parents was more important than pursuing your own interests. Know that it’s okay to make choices based on what you want, not what you think other people will want.Make a list of all your deepest desires. This can include simple wants all the way to your wildest dreams and aspirations. Once you have completed the list, choose one desire from the list to work towards. Set a goal to obtain this desire--let's say "To go to medical school." Write out what you need to do to reach it, like "Study for the MCAT" or "Get good grades in science courses." Then, find a friend or teacher to help hold you accountable and push you towards achieving this goal.
Ask yourself questions to identify your values. For example, you might ask yourself, “What is my ideal job?” or “What would my ideal relationship look like?” to help you identify your values., If you have self-esteem problems resulting from emotional neglect, it might be hard for you to ask for or receive help from other people. You might feel like you don’t deserve help or should be able to take care of things yourself.


However, learning to accept assistance from others is a necessary step in recovering from emotional neglect. Everyone needs help sometimes, and knowing how to reach out to others is a sign of strength, not weakness. The next time you need something, simply say "Would you mind helping me with this?" People love to be of service to others, so your friend is sure to be glad you asked.
 As you recover from emotional neglect, you might find that your personal boundaries need adjusting. Maybe you feel guilty about saying no to people, act needy in relationships, or keep others at a distance. Work on setting healthy personal boundaries that you and other people are comfortable with.It’s important to set boundaries with yourself, too. If you catch yourself engaging in negative self-talk, gently redirect your thoughts towards something more positive.
If you find yourself or others violating a boundary, for instance, you will need to enforce it. Let's say, you said "yes" to something that you didn't want to do. You will need to acknowledge this mistake and rectify it. You might go back and tell the person "I've since looked at my schedule and I'm afraid I won't be able to participate in the charity event." Or, you will have to go anyway and suffer the natural consequences of saying "yes" before you truly thought something through.
 The effects of emotional neglect are complex and far-reaching, and it may be difficult to make a full recovery by yourself. Psychotherapy can be a good way to learn better emotional skills and break harmful thought patterns. A skilled therapist can help you pinpoint the issues you need to work on and teach you how to care for the neglected child within you.If you notice, for instance, that you seem to be very co-dependent in your relationships, individual therapy can help you overcome this tendency. Your therapist can help you work on identifying in which relationships you are co-dependent and come up with strategies for reducing this issue so you can stop suffocating your loved ones.
 Emotional neglect can have negative repercussions on all your relationships, especially close ones. If you have a partner, think about attending couples therapy together. Couples therapy can help you form healthier attachments, understand each other better, and relate to one another more compassionately.For example, if your husband regularly comments on you being emotionally distant, it could help to attend therapy together to address this issue. Doing so could help you both find greater connection and satisfaction in your marriage.
 If you were emotionally neglected, you probably want to be more available for your own children than your parents were for you. However, it can be hard to know how to be emotionally open with your children if you never learned how from your parents. Break the cycle by seeking outside resources that teach you how to care for your children’s emotional needs.Reading books, taking parenting classes, and talking with other parents are all good ways to learn new parenting skills.

