 If you see the sign-in screen, type your Facebook username and password into the blanks and click Log In.;
, It’s on the left side of the page under the “Explore” header.
 It’s near the top of the page in the “Friends” section. A pop-up will appear.
, You can start typing a friend’s name into the “Members” box and then select it when it appears on-screen. Add as many friends as you’d like.
, When you want to see a customized timeline of posts made by people in your list, click Edit Friends on the left side of Facebook, then click the name of your new Friend List.
 If you see the sign-in screen, type your Facebook username and password into the blanks and click Log In.
 It’s on the left side of the page under the “Explore” header.
 When you select a list, you’ll see a timeline of posts made by members of the list, and option to edit the list. Choose your new list or one of the following default lists:



Close Friends: These are the people with whom you communicate most on Facebook. Posts from people in this group also appear more often in your regular news feed.

Acquaintances: These are people with whom you don’t often communicate but consider friends. If you add someone to this list, only some of their posts will make it to your main news feed.

Family: If you’ve set up Family members on Facebook, they’ll be in this group.

Restricted: If you add someone to this list, they won’t be able to see any of your posts except for those you set as “public.”

, There are two ways to do this:


If the group is empty, click Add Friends to List at the center of the screen to select new list members.
Click Add next to a friend’s name in the “List Suggestions” box.
 To do this, select the list you want to edit, click Manage List (at the top-right corner of the screen), and then Edit List. You’ll be able to add and remove friends on this screen.


You can also use “Manage List” to change the name of a list. Instead of selecting “Edit List,” choose Rename List and type a new name.

