 The only rider is that the chalk must be acid-free and this will only be known if the box states that it is "acid-free". It is probably best to visit a craft store rather than an art store, as artist's chalk tends to be acidic.;
, It's recommended that you don't use your fingers to apply the chalk directly because the oils from your fingers will mix with the chalk and spoil the appearance. The tools for chalking should be provided in the scrapbooking area as well as the acid-free chalk. Basically they appear like little sponges for eyeshadow or similar and they will enable you to apply the chalk without getting chalk all over your hands. The sizes of the tools vary, and it can be a good idea to purchase a few so that you can experiment with them and get a good idea of how they work on paper.


Also purchase a chalk eraser. This will allow you to take out any chalked errors and they don't damage paper.
 The best type is matte paper.
 Chalking can create many different effects and much of your experimenting with the chalk will bring up different ideas of your own. Some basic things to try include:


Chalk over a dark background with light chalk for a dramatic contrast.
Use a darker shade of chalk over the background to create a shadow effect.
Bring colors together and make interesting effects. Try two tones first and blend them well where they join so that they appear to bleed into one another. Add more color changes as liked.
Use chalk around the edges of die-cuts for embellishing them.
 There are many possible effects and the best thing is to experiment with designs and materials that you're used to, then branching out from there.


Use gel pens to create designs over chalked areas.
Use a slightly dampened artist's brush to create lines, plumes, dots, etc. within the chalked areas. Be careful not to have it too wet.
Use ink over the chalked areas.
 If you want to extend the range of colors in the chalks, scrape chalk dust onto a saucer or similar container and mix the colors together to create new shades. There are many possible variations and you may wish to keep leftovers in containers with clear labels for the name of the colors you've created.
