 When an audience comes to a show, they’re not just looking to hear your songs, they’re looking for a full sensory experience. Coordinate outfits with your band members so that you’ll have a memorable look that makes you stand out from other bands.


Look at stars that have developed their own signature style. Missy Elliot is famous for wearing Adidas tracksuits, Michael Jackson his futuristic, red Thriller outfit, and Ke$ha known for her unique glitter patterns. Choose a signature item that will make you memorable within your own genre of music. Wear that pink hat you’ve always had your eye on, or finally buy yourself a brightly colored suit that nobody will be able to forget.
Don’t be afraid to accessorize! Wear jewelry, make-up, and anything else that adds charisma to the performance. For dancers, be sure to wear clothing that doesn’t inhibit movement.
 Looking the part also means acting the part on stage. Everybody has different strengths and weakness that need to be practiced, and it’s important to recognize what needs to be worked on. If you struggle with dancing and getting into the music physically, take a dance class. If you’re feeling shaky on hitting higher notes, sign up for a voice lesson. Enroll in an acting class with a teacher that you admire. Getting individualized attention will help you fine tune problematic aspects of your performance and allow your strengths to shine. , For the crowd to notice your moves, you have to make them big and dramatic. Don’t be afraid to exaggerate everything, from vocals and facial expression to jumping around and dancing. Do it big so that your audience notices that you’re into the performance.
 At any kind of show, the performer is faced with the task of maneuvering around a very large stage. It’s important to maximize the space you’re given. If you find yourself tending towards a particular side of the stage, be sure to move around and fill the space with your presence.


For musicians, don’t spend the whole show in front of the microphone. Sing into another band member’s mic or dance so that the audience is constantly watching to see what you’ll do next.
For actors, moving across the stage and executing lines can be tricky. Be sure to breath properly so that you don’t get winded. If you stay in one place, your performance might seem unbelievable and stunted.
 Even if you’re feeling nervous on stage, don’t let it show through your body language. Avoid twiddling your thumbs, pacing, or touching your face. All of these movements show that you’re not in control of your body. Whether you’re a musician, actor, or dancer, be aware of your body positioning in relation to the audience and observe how other experts in your field move on stage. Use good, natural posture and controlled, relaxed body movements. 