 t’s okay to admit when you don’t know the answer or even that something had you a little scared. Children, especially older ones, can sense insincerity. Being honest with children lets them know that you are authentic and that they can trust you, which is one of the biggest part of forming a bond.It also sets an example for how you would like them to be with you.


For example, tell them that you’re honestly a little nervous about getting to know them.
If a child asks you about something difficult, traumatic, or scary that they see or hear about, then be honest and age-appropriate about the situation.;
, Although you should be honest with young children as much as possible, sometimes children will ask you things that are a little too personal, or about a topic that is too mature for their age. Sometimes they do this out of genuine curiosity, sometimes just as a “test” to see how much you will tell them.


If a child asks you something that you aren’t comfortable answering, then try saying, “that’s a conversation for another day” or, “Wow! That’s a really big question. I need some time to think about that”.
You can also say, “I'm honestly not comfortable talking about that right now.”

, Doing so sets a good example for children and strengthens your bond with them in several ways. It lets them know that you are human and relatable. It also demonstrates to them that it is okay to mess up, as well as how to handle it.


Don’t let a fear of making a mistake with or around the child stop you from bonding with them. If you make mistake, it just shows them that you are human.
For example, you might try saying, “I made a mistake. I thought I was supposed to do it this way, but I wasn’t”.
 Children are known for saying things that can be insensitive, rude, and just plain mean. Taking it personally can cause you to develop resentment toward the child which would definitely prevent you from bonding. Let the child know that it is not okay, but don’t let it hurt your feelings or make you angry.


Often, especially with younger children, they don’t realize that what they are saying is hurting. Gently let them know that what they said was not okay. If needed give them another way to say it.
Older children may do it intentionally as part of acting out, or even just because they are experiencing natural hormone changes that are making them moody.

