 The bombs in Level 165 will explode after seven turns if they are not removed. An exploding bomb will immediately end the level, regardless of what else is going on. Because bombs are so high-risk, clearing the bombs should be your top priority.


Bombs are colored, and can be cleared by being included in combos.;
, Ignore your candy orders for a moment and focus on clearing out some of the chocolate that's blocking your board. Chocolate will automatically multiply, taking up space that could be used by candies. If you leave the Chocolate unchecked, you will soon find your board consumed. You can clear Chocolate by making any matches next to a Chocolate square.


Clearing the Chocolate on the top of the board is the most crucial task you have. If the top of the board gets blocked, you won't be able to get new candies.Every time you make a move that doesn't clear a Chocolate, a new one will appear.
It doesn't matter whether Chocolates are removed by direct or indirect moves, as long as you can open spaces for new candies.
Striped and Wrapped candies are great for clearing out large amounts of chocolate at once.
 Your Green and Yellow candy orders will almost always get filled automatically through cascades and other indirect clearings. This means that your Blue orders should take priority, since you have to make so many more of them.


Once you are low on Blues, make combos that will clear out other candies. Color bombs are useful for removing unnecessary candy colors, which will leave more room for Blue ones.
 Wrapped (special) candies will give you a greater chance in completing this level. When you make special candies, try to save them to use them on Blue candy. This will help you reach your goal much quicker.


You can make Wrapped candies by forming an "L"-shape with five pieces, or a "t"-shape with five candies.
 Every board is random, and there is a chance you will end with a brutal board to begin with. Some boards are even impossible, because they simply won't provide enough Blue candies to complete the order. Refreshing the board may help you by offering a better starting situation.


This level is particularly tricky, and very few people are lucky enough to pass it on the first, second, or even tenth try. Keep trying, and you are bound to run into a good board with enough blue candies.