 Consider taking a doll with short and straight hair like Kit, or a Truly Me with straight hair or hair easier to brush and that doesn't get messed up easily. Don't bring long haired dolls like Saige or Rebecca because their hair will be constantly brushed and you won't end up having the time of your life, instead you'll be sitting inside doing your American Girl doll's hair - that definitely won't be the time of your life. (But if the only doll you have has long hair, or you REALLY want to bring one with long hair, keep her hair in an easy style like braids or a bun for the whole vacation so it doesn't get messed up.);
, With the clothes it really depends where you are going, if it is very warm and hot weather then your doll will have to wear shorts and a t-shirt, or a short-sleeved or sleeveless dress. For pajamas in warm weather you could take a nightgown, or shorts (or even pants, if it's just warm rather than really hot) and a shirt. For colder weather, you'll want things like jackets, tights, and long pants. For pajamas you will want long sleeve ones with long pants as well.
 So of course your doll might have a little stuffed animal or a toy she likes to take around when traveling, so you might want to put that toy in a little bag or the suitcase. Please note: Sometimes little accessories can get lost while traveling, just be careful they aren't hanging out.
 So if your doll has a little suitcase for herself you may put the clothes into that but if she doesn't a little bag might be handy. If you don't have a bag or a suitcase you just may be able to fit her clothes into your suitcase. They will fit - they're small! If you take a small bag, make sure nothing is hanging out because as things can get lost so please shut tightly.
 Sometimes you might not always want to carry your doll everywhere, so if you want you can put her in your suitcase.


If you put her in your suitcase, make sure to wrap something (cling wrap works well) around her so she can't get anything spilled onto her while being in your suitcase.

