 The reality is that many STDs do not show signs or symptoms. Although you may experience no symptoms, you may still have an STD. You should always use a condom and regularly get tested for STDs.
 A common STD is chlamydia, which involves a bacterial infection of the genital tract. In the early stages, you may not notice any symptoms.A few weeks after exposure, you may experience some of the following symptoms:


Pain during urination.
Pain in your lower abdomen.
Vaginal discharge (f you are female).
Discharge from the penis (if you are male).
Pain experienced during intercourse (if you are female).
Bleeding between your periods (if you are female).
Pain in your testicles (if you are male).
 Gonorrhea is a bacterial infection that affect your anus, throat, mouth or eyes. Although symptoms may appear after ten days of exposure, it is also possible to be infected for months before any symptoms emerge.When your symptoms emerge, they may include the following:


Thick, bloody or murky discharge from your genitals.
Pain during urination.
Bleeding between periods or heavy menstrual bleeding (if you are female)
Painful or swollen testicles (if you are male)
Pain from your bowel movements.
An irritated anus.
 This small, one-celled parasite can be spread during sexual intercourse. In women, it infects the vagina. In men, it impacts the urinary tract. After anywhere from five to twenty-eight days, you may experience any of the following symptoms:


A vaginal discharge that looks clear, white, yellowish or greenish in color (for females).
Discharge from your penis (for males).
A very strong odor from the vagina (for females).
Some itching or irritation of the vagina (for females).
Any kind of pain during intercourse.
Pain while taking a pee.
 This STD infects the immunodeficiency virus. Symptoms will sometimes emerge after two to six weeks and may feel a bit like a common flu, so the only way to know for sure is to get tested.If you are experiencing any of the following symptoms you should certainly see a doctor to get tested:


A fever.
Headaches.
A sore throat.
Swollen lymph glands.
Rashes.
Feelings of fatigue.
More severe symptoms include diarrhea, weight loss, fever, coughing and swollen lymph nodes.
Persistent fatigue, night sweats, chills, chronic diarrhea, lots of headaches, and strange infections (if you have late-stage HIV).

