 An abused horse most likely has a jaundiced view of people, either because contact with them has been unpleasant, or she has had limited contact and is unused to them.


It can takes years to resolve the behavioral issues of an abused horse; you should seek the advice of a qualified trainer to keep yourself safe.
A horse’s wariness of people can manifest itself in one of two ways: as a fearful aggressiveness, or as a complete shutdown.
 A fearful horse could be mistaken for being aggressive, but she is really just protecting herself. This will manifest as a lack of trust the the horse openly displays towards you. She may refuse to be caught when out in pasture, or may refuse to open her mouth for a bit.


She may also shy away, kick, bite, rear, buck or bolt.
 A shutdown horse withdraws into a cocoon whereby she walls herself off from emotion. From day to day she appears dull and resigned, and to some extent she can be regarded as a model horse because she is biddable and doesn't argue.The danger is that when pushed beyond a certain point she is forced out of this cocoon she may behave unpredictably by bucking or shying when you least expect it.
 The key to rebuilding trust is to approach the horse quietly and calmly. Speak in a low, sing-song voice, and be careful never to take the horse by surprise. Offer out treats to win her confidence. Successful rehabilitation depends on building the horse's trust and making her feel safe in your company.


If the horse is head shy, avoid petting this area while also getting her used to contact with other areas, such as her neck or shoulders.
 Always alert the horse to your presence by talking to her as you approach. Never stand directly in front of the horse. Standing directly in front of the horse may increase her anxiety because she cannot see an escape route.


Instead, stand either to the left or right of her head where she can assess you and the situation.
 When working with an abused horse, it is a good idea to have her shoes removed. This way, if she does kick out and makes contact with you, it will hurt less. Also, consider wearing protective clothing such as a hard hat, gloves, and steel-toe capped boots when working with the abused horse.


Where possible work in a circular arena. The lack of corners literally means she cannot feel cornered, and if she can keep moving she is less likely to resort to violence.
 If the horse won't tolerate a pat, use a false hand attached to a pole to gently touch her at a distance. By trial and error try to find an area on her body that she is least sensitive about, such as her withers or neck. Start with brief contact for a few seconds and praise her verbally in a gentle, patient manner.


Work for just a few minutes at a time so she does not get tired or worked up. Try to end each session on a positive note by giving her a treat, or lots of praise. Even then, it may take weeks or even months before she will accept your touch.
 Never get drawn into a battle of strength because the horse will win. If she has a halter and rope on, and she starts to barge you, don't push back. This only encourages her to push in return. Instead, rattle the rope where it joins the halter;doing this should cause her to step away, which is all that you need.


Again, when she steps away, give her lots of verbal praise, or a treat if she will take it.
 Horses are large, heavy, powerful animals and an aggressive or fearful horse is not suitable for a novice to rehabilitate. The process of building trust takes months and the horse has the potential to do real harm to you if she panics. On the other hand, half the battle is winning the horse's trust. Once you have established that you are no threat, and she can trust you, the rewards are immense.

