 Type 1 diabetes, once known as juvenile or insulin dependent diabetes, is a chronic condition most often diagnosed in children. However, it can be diagnosed during any point in a patient's life. When a patient has Type 1, the pancreas makes little to no insulin. In most cases, this is due to the body's immune system mistakenly attacking and destroying the insulin producing cell in the pancreas. Since the body is not producing enough insulin, the glucose in your blood cannot be converted to energy. This also means that the glucose will build up in your blood stream, causing problems.Contributing factors to Type 1 diabetes are genetics and the exposure to certain viruses. A virus is a common trigger in adult onset Type 1.
If you are diagnosed with Type 1, you will likely have to use insulin.;
, The symptoms of Type 1 include frequent urination, excessive thirst, extreme hunger, unusual and rapid weight loss, irritability, increased fatigue, and blurry vision. The symptoms are severe and typically come on within a few weeks or months. These symptoms can also be mistaken for the flu at first.An additional symptom in children may include sudden and uncharacteristic occurrences of bedwetting.
Women may also develop yeast infections., This test is used to determine Type 1 diabetes and prediabetes. A blood sample is taken and sent to a lab. The lab measures the amount of blood sugar attached to the hemoglobin in the blood. This reflects the patient's blood sugar levels over the past two or three months. This test results vary by the age of the person being tested. Children can have a higher percentage than adults.If there is 5.7% or less sugar attached to the hemoglobin, the levels are normal. If the percentage is 5.7% to 6.4%, the adult patient has prediabetes. If the patient is an adolescent or younger, the level range goes up to 7.4% for prediabetes.
If the percentage of sugar is higher than 6.5%, the adult patient has diabetes. For adolescent or younger patients, a percentage of sugar higher than 7.5% means the patient has diabetes.Conditions such as anemia and sickle cell anemia have been known to interfere with this test. If you have these issues, your doctor may use a different test., This test is the most commonly used test because it is accurate and costs less than other tests. During the test, the patient goes without food or liquid other than water for at least 8 hours. The doctors or nurses draw blood and send it to get tested for glucose levels.


If the levels are calculated below 100 milligrams per deciliter (mg/dl), the levels are normal and the patient doesn't have diabetes. If the levels are determined to be between 100 and 125 mg/dl, then the patient has prediabetes.
If the levels measure above 126b mg/dl, the patient likely has diabetes. If anything other than a normal amount is measure, the test will be repeated to make sure that the results are sound.
This test can also be used to detect Type 2.This test is typically given first thing in the morning because the patient has to go without food for so long.
 This test is the least precise of the tests but is effective. The blood is drawn from the patient at any point, regardless of how much or recent the patient has eaten. If the levels come back above 200 mg/dl, then the patient may have diabetes.


This can also detect Type 2 diabetes.