 Make sure you know where the food is kept and how much the dog is typically fed per day. Ask about their favorite treats and how often they’re given treats. You should also ask about food allergies and any digestive problems the dog may be prone to. Some dogs require dietary supplements or medications so be sure to ask about that as well.Never feed a dog chocolate, grapes, milk, cheese, onions, nuts, garlic, yeasted bread, avocadoes, or anything with caffeine. If you feed it an apple, make sure you remove the pit as it is poisonous for canines.;
, All dogs need to be walked daily but some need more exercise than others. Ask the owner about the dog’s exercise routine and how often there are walked. Some dogs like the familiarity of their walking route so ask where they are taken as well.In addition to exercise, you may want to take them to a dog park where it can run around freely and socialize with other dogs.
You should also consider researching exercise needs for specific breeds., Dogs often have unforeseen medical crises so you’ll want to be prepared. Make sure you ask about past health problems and research health problems associated with the dog’s breed and how you should handle them. You may vet records in case you need to take the dog to a pet hospital during an emergency.If you have to give the dog medication, ask how it’s typically delivered. If you have to give them pills, it may help to crush them or hide them in food., Proper dog training requires consistency and you can mess up the dog’s behavioral expectations by giving them treats too often or giving improper commands. Ask about how the dog has been trained and how you should react to good and bad behaviors. You can also reinforce their training by giving them commands they’ve already learned and rewarding them appropriately.


Make sure to ask if the dog is good with children and strangers if you foresee it interacting with them.
 The dog’s owner should provide you with everything you need including food, treats, feeding bowls, a leash and collar, plastic bags for picking up excrement during walks, and a cage. Nonetheless, make sure you know where everything is located in the house so you can access it quickly.


You may also want to know where to buy additional food, medication, or anything else the dog might need, especially if the owner is going to be away from a long time.
Always keep contact information so you can speak with the owner if you have any questions.
 Dogs are messy eaters and will often spill water and food around the surrounding area. You should clean this area daily as dogs will eat rotting food or lick water off the floor. You should also do a more thorough cleaning of the food bowls and surrounding floor area with disinfectant at least once a week., Dogs are creatures of habits and can experience anxiety if their schedules change. The dog will be even more sensitive to changes since their owner is gone and especially if they’re staying in a home they aren’t used to.Try to walk and feed them at roughly the same time of the day, especially in the first few days of taking care of them.
 You should try to spend a lot of time with the dog you are caring for when you first meet it. Dogs can suffer from separation anxiety when their owners leave. This can be countered by giving the dog attention and getting it used to your presence.Take the dog for a walk or play a game fetch soon after you meet it. This will distract the dog from the owner’s absence and help it bond with you.
It’s especially important to spend a lot of time with the dog if you’re taking it to your home rather than spending time at the owners. They may look for things to chew on or destroy in a new environment so you’ll want to be nearby to prevent this.Dogs recognize people based on smell. Give the dog time to sniff your hand so they get used to your scent or they might get nervous each time you walk into the room., The anxiety of missing their owner can cause dogs to ignore their training and behave badly.They may start to chew on things, eliminate in the house, or otherwise destroy things. You should generally keep a close eye on the dog for the first few hours.


If the dog is behaving badly, start by taking them for a walk or giving them a treat to calm them down. Walks are good because the dog will work out their aggression outside and be tired when they return home., If you are taking the dog your home, you should keep the dog in a cage or leashed to a stationary object when they are left alone. Dogs get anxious in new environments, especially when they’re alone and may engage in destructive behavior.