 Frustration and overstimulation can lead to self-injurious behavior (SIB). This behavior can be very scary for parents, but you should know that it is common and preventable.


Researchers also believe that biochemicals play a role. During self-injury, endorphins are released, which inhibit the individual from feeling much pain while making him/her feel happier.
 Some parents have noticed that switching to a gluten-free diet helps, as does increasing the intake of vitamin B6 and calcium.


Some of the best sources of vitamin B6 include sunflower seeds, pistachio nuts, fish, poultry, pork, beef, prunes, raisins, bananas, avocados, and spinach.
Some of the best sources of calcium include milk, cheese, yogurt, spinach, kale, okra, collards, soybeans, white beans, and calcium-fortified juices and cereals.
Always consult a doctor before altering a child's diet.
 Some autistic individuals rub their skin excessively to receive stimulation or do some other potentially injurious behavior and wind up hurting themselves. Intervene by encouraging safer forms of stimulation. Massage can work, as can rubbing the skin lightly with a brush, or wearing a thin layer of clothing over the skin (e.g. sweatpants) to prevent damage while scratching.


Remember that many autistic people don't like the idea of hurting themselves. Work with your child to find alternative ways to stim. For example, hitting one's head could be replaced by rapidly shaking the head. Search the internet to see what substitutes autistic adults have found for their SIB.
Be consistent. Autistic children need to know that self harm is not appropriate or allowed, that you will always be there to help them handle it. Work with other caregivers and teachers so that everyone uses the same approach.
 If your child’s self-injurious behavior seems to result from frustration, do what you can to deal with that. This may mean developing new communication methods, backing off on certain activities, or taking care not to put your child in a situation likely to cause sensory overload.

