 Healthy and therapeutic lifestyle choices remain the mainstay of sensible treatment for most chronic conditions, including acne. Consuming recommended doses of omega-3 fatty acids can benefit those with hormonally-related acne. Polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS), a disorder associated with hormonally-related acne, may be effectively treated in part by switching to a diet high in omega-3 fatty acids and other anti-inflammatory foods. Food high in omega-3 fatty acids include:


Seeds and nuts: flaxseeds and flaxseed oil, chia seeds, butternuts, walnuts
Fish and fish oils: salmon, sardines, mackerel, whitefish, shad
Herbs and spices: basil, oregano, cloves, marjoram
Vegetables: spinach, sprouted radish seeds, chinese broccoli

, Vitamin A and vitamin D can help you treat your hormonal acne. They help balance hormones and promote skin health. You can take a supplement, but you can get your daily values from food. You can get enough vitamin D by spending 15 minutes in the sun.


Foods high in vitamin A include egg yolks, vegetables like sweet potato, spinach, carrots, pumpkin, broccoli, red peppers, summer squash, fruit like cantaloupe, mangoes, apricots, legumes, and meat and fish.Foods rich in Vitamin D include fish and cod liver oil, and dairy, like milk, yogurt, and cheese. Many foods are fortified with vitamin D., There are a number of different herbs that may be useful in rebalancing hormones in women with hormonal acne. For all the herbs listed, follow manufacturer’s instructions and always talk to your physician to determine if there may be interactions with any medications you may currently be taking.Consult with your doctor or a pharmacist for recommended brands when taking supplements. The supplement industry is not regulated by the FDA, so their purity and effectiveness has not been scientifically proven. Ask a medical professional about reputable brands.
Vitex agnus-castus or chasteberry is an herb traditionally used to balance female hormones. It has been shown very useful in treating Premenstrual Dysphoric Disorder (PMDD) as well as Premenstrual Syndrome (PMS) and has been used to effectively treat hormonal acne.Maca is a root vegetable and has been traditionally used in South American native medicine. It has phytoestrogenic activity and may increase progesterone levels.Dong quai or Angelica sinensis is an herb used in Traditional Chinese Medicine (TCM) and is known as a female ginseng. It has anti-inflammatory effects that may be helpful. Dong quai is commonly used during menopause to treat menopausal symptoms. It may promote progesterone secretion and inhibit estrogen secretions.Black cohosh or Cimicifuga racemosa is another herb traditionally used to balance female hormones, primarily during menopause, where it has been shown to be effective in reducing menopausal symptoms. Black cohosh has phytoestrogenic effects and has been used topically to treat hormonal acne.