 Dogs are social creatures, and you’re the center of their universe. They don’t like to be left alone all day. If you’re going to have one as a pet, be sure that you plan on being around more often than not. It’s not fair to your dog to leave them unattended for long periods and may lead to behavioral issues like aggression and anxiety.Many pet owners who work during the day get a companion pet for their dogs so that they can keep each other company. You should also consider having a friend or family member visit your pooch, taking them to doggy daycare, or hiring a dog-walker to get your pet out of the house.
 Your dog needs daily exercise for the sake of their health and well-being. Play with them, and take them for at least one, but preferably two, walks a day to ensure they’re getting enough physical and mental stimulation.Without proper exercise, your dog will become bored and many behavior problems may arise (like chewing, excessive barking, jumping, and hyperactivity).

Play with your dog. Canines have instincts to chew, fetch, chase, hunt, spar, dig, and herd. Help them exercise these instincts in constructive ways through supervised play. For instance, if your dog loves to hunt things, get them a toy that they can safely chase after, like a wooly chew toy at the end of a long rope. That way, your dog can act on their instinct while keeping them away from real animals and at a safe distance from you., Besides working their bodies, you should work your dog’s mind. This means giving them specific tasks (like fetching or finding something) and rewarding them for completing them (with praise and/or treats).Most breeds love to have jobs. Giving them work to do will make them more alert and boost their sense of well-being.
 Besides brushing them regularly, you’ll need to occasionally bathe your dog, keep their toe nails clipped, and see that their coat is neatly trimmed. You can consult with an expert to learn how to do these tricky processes yourself or go to a professional groomer to get the job done.Comb your dog’s coat at least once a week (or more for long-haired dogs) to control shedding and keep their fur from getting tangled and matted. Brushing can also help clean your dog’s skin and distribute its natural oils. Be sure to use a brush that’s appropriate for your dog’s size and hair length.Only bathe your dog when it’s absolutely necessary. Frequent washing can dry out the natural oils in their skins, leaving your pet with constant itches and rashes. When you do, use a mild dog shampoo and warm water. Since dogs have sensitive ears, only wash them from the neck down.
Keep your dog’s nails short to keep them comfortable and avoid them scratching up your house. Be sure to consult with a groomer or vet about how to clip your dog’s nails before you do it yourself. It’s a tricky process that can easily harm your pet if you do it wrong, so learn the right method from an expert or leave it to a trained professional.Some canines are more high-maintenance than others. If you have a breed that requires grooming, like a Poodle or Pekingese, make sure you have a regular appointment set up with a professional groomer.