 Are you looking for a storefront, a repair shop, or to build a factory? Consider your needs such as employee or customer parking, the location, visibility, and infrastructure such as electrical service. Review and tour different properties to find a space that suits your needs and budget.
 A commercial property may look fantastic on paper and during the tour. However, if local zoning doesn't allow your type of business or noise laws may interfere with your hours of operation, then the property isn't a bargain. , This can be critical for retail locations where your sign is your primary advertisement. Ask the prospective landlord if there is a common sign where you can list your business with other tenants and if there are any restrictions on putting up your own signs. , Thinking about these issues before you sit down to negotiate the commercial lease helps you protect your business now and years down the road.


Ask for the right to sublease. This flexibility allows you to sublet some or all of the space to another business. This is important if your business fails or downsizes, you can recoup some of your losses. It can also be important if you plan on expanding and want to lock in extra space now, but don't want to carry the costs until you need the space. Consider an exclusivity clause. This prevents the landlord from renting space in the same development to a direct competitor.
 For example, your business may require that you upgrade the wiring or perform extensive remodeling and redecorating. If your improvements will increase the value of the property, ask the landlord to bear some of the cost via a credit against the rent.
 A new business may want a short initial term. However, if you are planning on major improvements and investments, you may want to lock in a longer term to control your rent costs and to protect yourself against unexpected rent increases.


A typical lease term is 2 to 10 years. If you are confident you will want to stay in the property for several years, try to negotiate a reduction in the rent. , Whether the rent is a flat fee or by the square foot, be sure you know what is included. Find out if you will be charged extra for common area maintenance, for parking, or for grounds-keeping. Ask about who is responsible for repairs and maintenance. Before you sign, make sure you know all the costs.

