 You might be done in about 1 hour if you are diligent, have all the tools ready and use a power drill and socket wrench). You don't need help from anybody. This is a very light job. Plan to change both HID light bulbs at the same time. If one of them failed the other will fail soon. To change one or both bulbs is the same amount of work (it might take 10 minutes longer for both).
 The higher the temperature rated the more blue the lights will be (example: 8000K is much bluer than 4300K (bright yellowish).

D4C / D4S/ D4R HID Bulbs Pair
Heliolite Xenon 4300K Factory D4R HID replacement bulb
8000K 8500K D4R D4S HID Light Bulbs Toyota Prius Avalon.
The D4C HID bulbs use the highest quality GE burner made in Hungary which will produce a super bright and sky blue color to replace your stock yellowish 4300K HID bulbs.
 The WD-40 is to loosen screws, the combination wrench is 10 mm; If you have them, use a 10 mm socket wrench and a ratchet (both not shown in the picture) as they will make the job quicker., You could use other means like lifting with a jack and putting books under the front wheels. Make sure to lock the rear wheels to prevent the car from moving -- lock the rear wheels on both sides (front and back). You have to lie down under the front bumper of the car. Make sure the car is stable and is not going to move., It makes things easier when putting everything back together., These are not regular screws, they are clips. Use a screwdriver on their side and pliers to remove them. Remove a total of 6 plastic clips and the black piece of plastic comes off., Remove 3 plastic clips and 2 screws. These two screws are protected by rubber. It is easier if you remove the rubber ring (by hand) and use pliers to remove the screws. Using a screwdriver to remove the screw might damage the screw if the screw is stuck., It is the part shown in the middle of the picture., Total of 7 screws.,,, Remove the screw with a screwdriver or socket wrench., A total of 6 screws and and 3 clip "screws" (plastic)., Put a cardboard box under the bumper to hold it in place when it falls. Pull out the bumper by forcing out the plastic bumper from the pins where it is secured. When the bumper comes out, disconnect the fog light cables. Put the bumper away. The bumper is just around 8 lb in weight., Remove them., No need to mark them for they are all different and only fit if they are in the correct place.,, This is the finned plastic part on the headlight assembly. It has a very sticky O-ring to keep out moisture and may be very reluctant to turn. Notice the markings for lock and unlock directions. A small punch and hammer was helpful to loosen it initially and then continue the remaining small amount of rotation by hand., Notice the "lock" arrow and twist the opposite direction before pulling up on the silver holder., You are not supposed to touch the HID headlights because dirt or grease might make some regions of the glass overheat when in operation, decreasing the life of the HID bulb. See picture of original Prius (left) and OEM substitution bulb (right), Install the new bulb. Close the assembly, making sure that the black cover fits well and the rubber seal is well positioned. This rubber seal prevents moisture from destroying the HID bulb inside., Before screwing the headlight assembly to the car make sure to test all the functions: low beam, high beam, and turn signal lights. The picture shows a comparison of intensity and color of the new light left, in the picture, with the old original Prius light. If not clear from the picture, the new light is stronger and more blue.,, Test low/high beam and turn signals. Proceed if everything is working well.,, Test all the lights again., (You know how easy it is to deplete the Prius 12 V battery.), You might have to nudge with your hand to get it into place. See figure. Align the screw holders under the bumper with the bumper.,, If the plastic clip is loose now, press its wings with pliers (see picture).,,, See figure for correct position (front vs. back). Align the black part to the screw holder and place the 9 screws. The 5 coarse screws are in the front near the bumper and the 4 fine screws are in the back far from the bumper.,,