 The difference between a mugger and a pickpocket is that a mugger threatens the use of force to get what they want, thus making themselves known, while a pickpocket aims to pluck what they want without you ever knowing. Since this is much harder to do on an otherwise empty street, expect pickpockets to work in areas with lots of foot-traffic, where you are more likely to be bumped into without thinking much of it. This could include:Crowded tourist sites and public events, like urban squares, open markets, and parades.
ATMs, especially those that are poorly lit and/or directly on the street.Transportation hubs, like train and bus stations.
On board mass transit systems, like buses and subways.
 Some pickpockets may work individually, but many work in pairs or groups. Be on guard whenever you are approached by strangers. They may be perfectly innocent, but play it safe and assume they are trying to distract you. Pay attention to what’s going on around you, and especially behind you.If you haven’t already, bring any purses or bags that you’re carrying in front of you immediately.
Alter your position. Don’t stand in one place. Keep changing which way you face so your back isn’t facing any one direction for too long.
Use any reflective surfaces like mirrors or windows to keep tabs on who’s coming up behind you.
 Model yourself after the plainest folks you see on the street. Pickpockets target people who look like they have stuff worth stealing, so leave your designer clothes, logo-heavy articles, and jewelry at home. Dress simply and blend in with the common citizen.When shopping, avoid using branded bags provided by stores, which will announce to the world where you can afford to shop.Instead, carry your items out in your backpack or messenger bag, or bring a plain tote bag that could just as easily be carrying groceries.
 Pickpockets, especially those working in teams, rely on disorienting their victims with distractions so they won’t notice their pockets being picked. Because of this, they love to prey on people who appear lost since they’re already disoriented, so act like you know exactly where you are, even if it’s a bluff. If you become lost:Casually note a landmark or cross-street to get your bearings. Then keep walking until you find a less crowded place where you can sit down, like a cafe or a park bench.
Stroll on in as if this is exactly where you were headed in the first place. Order a coffee, take a seat, and wait a few minutes before checking your map, as if you’re just relaxing.
If you have a smartphone, use that to find a map, since you could be looking up anything. Otherwise, take your physical map out and study it casually, as if looking up something for later.
Once you know where you’re going, wait a little bit before heading on. Cement the idea that you were just double-checking something, not trying to figure out where you are.
 Leave your extra money, plastic, important paperwork, and any valuables you don’t need behind in your room before going out. At the same time, protect them against theft while you’re gone. Research customer reviews, police blotters, and other online news sources about your hotel and any crime they may have experienced. Depending on what you find, consider the following safety measures:Locking important paperwork, extra money and plastic, and other valuables in a hotel safe.
Repacking all your belongings, locking all compartments and pockets of your luggage, and then securing them with cable cords to fixed objects in the room.
Bringing your own lock for storage lockers rather than trusting those provided by the establishment.

