 Temporomandibular joint (TMJ) problems may be caused by traumatic arthritis, osteoarthritis, or rheumatoid arthritis.Osteoarthritis is most common in adults over 50 years of age. All forms of TMJ arthritis cause stiffness, pain, grating, swelling, and limited range of motion., Before you treat for TMJ arthritis, it's important to have confirmation that the problem is, in fact, arthritis. In most cases, an X-ray or cat scan can confirm TMJ arthritis based on the observed flattening and lipping of the condyle, the rounded prominence at the end of a bone.The exception to this is traumatic arthritis, which does not typically show up on an X-ray unless a pooling of fluids or a hemorrhage causes a widening of the joint, which would then be visible in an X-ray.The diagnosis of headache, such as cluster headache, migraine, temporal arteritis, and stroke, must be ruled out before a TMJ diagnosis, especially if you are having headache symptoms.
 Though arthritis cannot be cured, there are a number of treatments that can be administered to reduce jaw pain associated with arthritis.


Many doctors recommend non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs to treat the symptoms of traumatic TMJ arthritis.Try sticking to a soft food diet to avoid unnecessary jaw movement. Use a warm compress. Apply the compress for 20 minutes, then remove the compress and exercising the jaw by moving it open and shut, then side to side. Try repeating this treatment three to five times daily, as needed.Try wearing a bite guard. This may give some patients relief from pain or discomfort., Though this type of arthritis can be painful, especially if the jaws have begun to move closer together, there are steps that can be taken to manage the pain and treat the symptoms.


Wear a mouth guard or bite plate. These can be worn during the day or overnight to help reduce pain and grating in patients with osteoarthritic TMJ pain.Try applying a warm compress for 20 minutes, then exercising the jaw. Move the jaw open and closed, then move the lower jaw from side to side.Stick to soft foods. Avoid anything hard or crunchy.Try an over-the-counter pain reliever, like acetaminophen or ibuprofen, to reduce pain and inflammation during particularly painful periods., The treatment for rheumatoid TMJ pain is similar to rheumatoid pain in other joints. Typical treatments may include:


Non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugsJaw exercises to maintain range of motion when pain is at a minimumA cold compress may be applied to reduce pain and inflammation. Apply the cold compress to the affected side of the jaw for 20 minutes on, followed by 20 minutes off.In severe cases, some doctors may recommend surgery to prevent rheumatoid arthritis from limiting jaw function.Surgery is usually considered a last option when all other alternatives have been exhausted, due to the risk of complications associated with surgery.
 Pain relievers may be used to reduce pain and inflammation in all forms of TMJ arthritis. Consult with your doctor on a medication plan that works best for your symptoms.


Pain relievers, both over-the-counter and prescription-strength, can help manage the pain associated with TMJ arthritis.Muscle relaxants may be prescribed by your doctor for short periods of time (a few days to several weeks in length) to help manage pain and make movement easier.Sedatives may be recommended by your doctor to help you sleep at night, if TMJ pain is keeping you awake.Your doctor may recommend supervised cortisone injections to treat pain and inflammation.