 If your pail is wider at the bottom, you won't be able to pull it out when you are done.


Secure the paper to the pail with tape to keep it steady, if necessary.;
, You will need about 10 to 15 yards (9.14 to 13.72 meters) to make one basket. It is always better to have too much cording than too little; joining cording on baskets is difficult., Draw a ½ to 1-inch (1.27 to 2.54-centimeter) long line of hot glue along the end of your rope. Immediately fold the end over onto the rest of the rope. This ½ to 1-inch (1.27 to 2.54-centimeter) stub will serve as the foundation for your basket.
 Don't squeeze out too much hot glue at once, or it will set before you can press the rope into it, and the bond won't be as strong.
 From time to time, place the rope disk against the bottom of your pail to measure it. Once the disk is the same width as the base, glue down another coil of rope, then stop. You are now ready to build up the walls of your basket.
 Draw a 1-inch (2.54-centimeter) line of hot glue on your rope. Instead of pressing it down onto the side edge of the disk, press it down onto the top edge.Keep gluing the rope down, inch by inch (2.54 centimeters) until you have completed your first row.
 You can make your basket the same height as your pail or a little bit shorter. Be sure to wrap the rope tightly around the pail., When your basket is the height you want, cut your rope down until it is 2 inches (5.08 centimeters) long. Fold the last inch (2.54 centimeters) under itself, and glue it in place. Next, hot glue the remaining 1 inch (2.54 centimeters) to the body of the basket.
 Cut two 10-inch (25.4-centimeter) long strips of leather.They can be as wide as you'd like them to be, but something around 1-inch (2.54-centimeters) would be ideal. You can hot glue the handles to the sides of the basket, or stitch them on using jute cord for a rustic touch.You can also attach them with rivets by doing the following:Use a leather punch to punch a hole into the end of each handle.
Place a rivet into each hole.
Position the rivets against the sides of the basket. Make sure that the rivets go through the cording.
Hammer the rivets in place from inside the basket.
Secure the handles with more hot glue, if needed.

