 It may seem cliché or overdone, but nothing says "I love you" like a beautiful bunch of flowers, especially if they're her (or his) favorite. Make sure they are presented nicely. Attach a romantic note or send them anonymously. Present them in person or have them delivered to your loved one's home or office building. Flowers are a classic romantic gift that will never go out of fashion.


Try to make sure that you send flowers that your partner likes. Sure, it's the thought that counts, but you'll get extra points for choosing the right flowers. If you don't know their favorite varieties and want to go for something classic instead, you really can't go wrong with red roses.;
, Make your loved one a mix CD of the songs that remind you of them or your relationship, or even songs you just think they would like. Maybe ask them innocently to find their taste. A mix CD is a great gift because it shows you put time and consideration into finding music they would like. If you get it right and they love the tracks, it shows that you listen to them and know them on an intimate level.
 Pick somewhere in nature that's special to you - your childhood home or your favorite place to relax and think. Then collect a token from that place and give it to your loved one. Give them a seashell, a pretty rock, a bird feather or whatever small, cute thing you can find. Tell them that you saw it and instantly thought of them. Tell them that it's a piece of you that you would like them to have and keep safe. They will feel special and closer to you as a result.
 Buy or make a coupon book that you can give to your loved one, with coupons they can cash in for romantic activities at any time. These are available to buy online or in certain gift stores, but it's better if you make your own. That way you can personalize it and get more creative with your couponing. Wink, wink.


Think of things like a coupon for a romantic dinner, a coupon for one hundred kisses, or a coupon for a sensual massage.
Alternatively, they could be coupons for everyday activities such as a passes on doing the dishes or walking the dog, even if it's their turn. This isn't as romantic, but your partner will surely appreciate them nonetheless.
 Frame a picture of you and your loved one together. Pick a photograph where the two of you look happy and and are clearly enjoying each other's company. Give it to your loved one and tell them why you chose that particular picture and what memories it brings back. Their heart might just melt a little.


Before framing, date the picture and perhaps write a little note on the back. Then choose a pretty frame, and wrap it in a box or just tie a ribbon around it.
Make sure it's a photo of themselves that they like. They won't want to display it if they have something in their teeth or their eyes are half closed. Present it in a pretty frame.
 If you're looking for something cute and fun to give your loved one, consider a bunch of balloons. Balloons are over-the-top and attention grabbing, so if you're looking to make a big statement, this is it. Just watch their face when they see you coming, it'll be priceless.


Choose a bunch with your partner's favorite colors and tie with vivid ribbons. The louder the better.
Make sure to get helium balloons, they look happier than the non-floating type.
 Surprise your loved one by getting them tickets to see something they like, whether it's tickets to see their favorite band or tickets to a movie they've been wanting to see, or tickets to a sports event. This gift shows that you listen to your partner, that you support their interests and that you would do anything to make them happy.


You'll need to be selfless with this one - even if it's something that bores you to tears, like ballet or monster trucks. The point is that it's something they like.
Make sure their schedule is free before you buy the tickets. Even if they appreciate the thought, it'll be disappointing if they're not able to make it.

