 Make sure that you use food grade diatomaceous earth and not the sort you would use in your swimming pool. Food grade diatomaceous earth is not harmful if accidentally ingested.
 Using a nozzle attachment, vacuum your entire carpet, especially the areas that your pet likes to spend time in, as well as near doorways and along the baseboards.
 Focus on areas that your pet likes to spend time in, as well as around baseboards, near entry ways, and under furniture. Diatomaceous earth is made from tiny, fossilized algae and will actually cut the fleas up.
 If you want to get rid of fleas from your carpet, you will also have to get rid of fleas from other areas as well. This includes your pet's bedding. Simply sprinkle the diatomaceous earth on your pet's bedding and set it aside for two to three days. Do not let your pet sleep on the bedding. After two to three days have passed, vacuum the bedding and, if possible, wash it in the washing machine using a hot cycle.
 If you sprinkled diatomaceous earth over areas that your pet likes to spend time in, some of that dust may have gotten on his or her fur. In this case, you will need to give your pet a bath. Keep in mind that dogs are usually much easier to bathe than cats.


Consider using a soap-free or a moisturizing pet shampoo during the bath. Diatomaceous earth can make the skin very dry; you can solve this by using a soap-free or moisturizing pet shampoo when bathing your pet. Be sure to use a flea comb in order to catch any fleas, larva, or eggs., After four to five days, vacuum your carpet. Be sure to get the areas that your pet likes to spend time in, as well as around the baseboards and doorways, and under furniture.
 Do not throw the bag away inside your house. Take it out of the vacuum cleaner, put it in a plastic bag, tie the bag up, and throw the bag away outside your house. This will prevent any remaining fleas from getting back into your carpet.


If your vacuum cleaner uses a canister instead of a bag, take out the canister and empty the debris into a plastic bag. Tie the plastic bag up tightly and throw it away outside.

