 Face them toward the center and, if they lean at all, lean them inwards and downwards. This is because the tubes, jets and rotating devices spray water outward from the center; down and outward from the top; and, up and outward from the bottom of the dishwasher.


Try to keep all surfaces separated and accessible to the stream of water from the sprayers.;
, Stack the bowls neatly on an incline, so that the washing solution can reach inside the bowl and so that they will drain. This also allows you to fill in more space.
 Because the heating element in most dishwashers is on the bottom, placing plastic items in the bottom rack could cause them to melt or warp.



Do not crowd or overload the dishwasher.
If necessary, hand wash large items or run the dishwasher a second time.
 Place knives, forks and spoons in the cutlery basket, handle down. In general, dangerous or sharp knives should be washed by hand, as they dull in the dishwasher. Any wood handled or wood utensils should not go in the dishwasher.


Distribute the cutlery loosely, and position the soiled surfaces of the spoons and forks apart so that the water can reach them. Separation is key.
Long pieces of cutlery can block the spray from tubes, nozzles and rotating devices. These items should be laid down in the upper basket.
Lay larger serving utensils in the top section of the dishwasher. Arrange serving spoons with the bowl facing down so that water does not collect in them.
 It may be better to just hand wash your cutting boards though as the heat from the dishwasher often warps cutting boards.
 If you have a plastic, mesh-like piece that folds up and down on the top rack, this is lightly meant to hold onto wine-glass stems. This is a great way to keep fragile pieces from getting scratched or cracked.
 Also, make sure that the detergent cups can open fully. If any of these things are obstructed or blocked, it will make it much harder to get a good wash.
 Fill to the designated line.If you use pellet-style detergent, simply use one pellet by placing it on the bottom edge of the dishwasher door before closing, Depending upon the temperature of the water and the length of the washing cycle, some of the wraps from the pellet bag may not completely dissolve which eventually plugs the drain. For this reason, some dishwasher manufacturers may not recommend the use of pelletized soap.


Fill the soap container on the door of the dishwasher first if you have two. It is timed to open after the dishwasher does some pre-rinsing to soften up the dirt on its own.
Only fill the second soap well if you have had issues with cleaning before, or you know a load is particularly dirty.

