 If you're trying to rest and elevate your arm, settling in for a season or two of a show or a long movie can be the way to go. Not only will it help you relax, but it’ll also work as a great distraction and time killer.


Also, with sites like Netflix and Hulu, as well as a multitude of network streaming sites, watching shows and movies is easier than ever. Just make sure you get up every now and again to stretch your feet.;
, If you don't want to waste your days in front of a television, try reading e-books. Holding a Kindle or an iPad is a lot easier to do one-handed than holding an actual book. You will also have access to far more novels without even having to leave your house.If you aren’t sure where to start, try a site like eBooks or Audible. You can also get ebooks directly off Amazon.
 If you’re spending most of your time on the couch anyways, try learning something new! There are plenty of online sites and mobile apps geared specifically towards education. For example, Duolingo and Memrise for languages, and Khan Academy or Great Courses for general studies like mathematics, history, or fine arts.


You can also find some college lectures or TED Talks on YouTube.
 This can be a great, relaxing activity regardless of your age. You can also do it for almost no money as long as you've got some blank paper and markers lying around. However, if you want to change things up, try buying an adult coloring book or a paint by numbers.


Some of these may even include the markers or paint with them, so you don't have to buy them

, Sometimes expressing your feelings, frustrations, and fears can be awesome! Writing can also take your mind off of the pain in your arm. If you aren't able to write with your hand, try typing. You can even keep an online journal about your experience.


For example, you can create a how-to-cope article for other people with broken arms or turn your whole experience into a fictional story.
 When you see people with casts and see all of the signatures on them, it makes you want to sign it, right? Well now lucky for you, you have a cast of your own to write and draw on! You can ask people to sign your cast, or you can just draw on it yourself. It's also a great thing to have for (believe it or not) to-do lists and things you need to remember.If you are going to draw on your cast, get silver or gold sharpies to use because if your cast is dark, you want to use colors that will show up.
 This is a great activity for when you're feeling extra bitter about your cast. Try to plan out all the things you want to do once it's off. You can even keep a list or a little notebook with you to add to when you think of something.


For example, you can list simple things like clapping or cutting your food. Or go for bigger things like rock climbing, swimming, or handstands.
Let your frustration serve as a motivation to try new things once your arm has healed.

