 Remember, seemingly random erections are normal and no reason for concern, and odds are that no one has noticed anyway. Take a few deep breaths, and keep calm. Worrying about your erection can cause you to focus even more on it and make it more difficult to end.That said, anxiety can actually be to your benefit in ending an erection. Stress causes a "fight or flight" reaction in the body, which includes the redistribution of blood towards the arms and legs. Drawing blood away from your genitals can help end your erection.So, the best advice may be not to worry about having an erection, but feel free to worry about other things that may distract and deflate your problem.;
, You may have heard the old joke that men have only enough blood to supply either their brains or their penises at any one time, but there is some validity to the idea that distracting the mind can help bring about detumescence (the return of a penis to its flaccid state).Try to occupy your mind with something besides sex, but don't try to forget about your erection. In other words, don't think to yourself, "OK, I'm thinking about baseball now. Definitely not my erection." Your erection won't go away until you are fully focused on something else. Force yourself to perform a task that takes a lot of mental concentration: play a musical instrument, read, exercise, or solve a math problem.
If you can't distract yourself by doing an activity, try to visualize it in your head. If you're in a social situation and you can't distract yourself without arousing suspicion, imagine yourself doing something different. If you love playing guitar, imagine every little detail: where you're putting your fingers, how you're strumming, how the song sounds.
 Sometimes, the best way to distract yourself is to go somewhere else for a while. If the erection was triggered by someone or something in the room, it might be difficult to end it until you leave the room. Give yourself five minutes to calm down, then return with renewed resolve.Ignore sexual stimuli. Don't allow yourself to see, hear, or experience anything arousing. Distract your senses by diving into things that take a lot of attention. If you can't stop noticing the attractive person in the seat next to you, force yourself to focus on the book in front of you.
 No legitimate medical authority will now recommend that you cause yourself any amount of pain to stop a natural and harmless body process, but the traditional notion that mild pain can end an erection is still out there. So long as you only cause yourself very mild pain (mainly as a distraction), it is unlikely to be a problem to give it a try.


Try, for example, discreetly pinching your thigh. It's easy to hide, it won't seriously hurt you, but it can hurt enough to distract you.
If you're truly desperate, some people may recommend you try flicking a testicle through your pants. Don't flick too hard, though, or you might injure yourself!
Remember, it's never worth injuring yourself over an erection.

