 There is evidence that aloe vera can help fight infection, reduce inflammation, and promote the healing of cold sores.Aloe vera contains glycoproteins, which speed the healing process by stopping pain and inflammation, and polysaccharides, which stimulate skin growth and repair. They are also full of amino acids and B1, B2, B6 and C vitamins.You can buy aloe vera essential oil, cream, lip balm, or juice. You can also grow an aloe vera plant, snip off pieces of it as needed, and apply the gel directly.;
, It may even reduce the chance of recurrence. Lemon balm does not affect cold sore pain or scabbing.Lemon balm oil is also known as Melissa oil, from the latin name Melissa Officinalus.
 Studies have not yet shown that it helps treat cold sores in humans. Do not apply peppermint oil to the face of a small child, as it could cause life-threatening respiratory issues., Tea tree oil has been found anti-inflammatory and active against certain strains of the herpes virus. Use as a gel, or apply mixed with a carrier oil. Do not swallow tea tree oil, and discontinue use if you show signs of an allergic reaction such as rash or swelling., You can buy a lip balm infused with peppermint oil (menthol), lemon balm, tea tree oil, or aloe vera. To avoid spreading your sores, use a cotton swab to apply your lip balm. Do not share your lip balm with anyone, even when you do not have an active cold sore.


Prevent cold sores by wearing lip balm with SPF., Lemon balm, and peppermint oil can be extracted by boiling. Boil a cup of water on the stove. Add 2 to 4 teaspoons of crushed peppermint leaf or lemon balm herb and let it boil for 10 to 15 minutes. Remove the pan from the heat and let it cool, then strain out the plant matter. Apply tea with cotton balls to the sores throughout the day.You can also brew a diluted version for drinking.
Drinking tea tree oil tea is not recommended., Apply aloe vera essential oil or aloe vera gel directly to your cold sore. Aloe vera is mild and should not cause irritation. Use several times a day, as needed. Do not apply to an open wound. Dilute peppermint oil and lemon balm oil with neutral oil or water before applying to skin.Peppermint oil and tea tree oil can cause a rash when applied directly to the skin. Discontinue use if a rash appears., Buy a commercial cream or ointment containing lemon balm, peppermint oil, or aloe vera, and follow directions. Frequency of use will depend on the concentration of essential oil. Lemon balm is most frequently taken as a cream, while peppermint oil is more commonly found in lip balms, and aloe vera is usually taken as a gel.
 Most essential oils can be mixed with a neutral oil, such as coconut or vegetable oil, and applied to the skin. Mix 3-6 drops of essential oil per ounce of carrier oil. Apply to lips, but remember to apply with a disposable swab to avoid spreading your virus., Even aloe vera can cause an irritation when applied to open sores. Do not apply essential oils if they are causing a rash, burning, or irritation. You may be allergic, or you may be applying too potent a concentration of oil. Dilute lemon balm and peppermint oil before applying to skin., If you haven't received your diagnosis, visit a doctor to confirm that you are experiencing Herpes Simplex 1 cold sores. You may want to talk about prescription medications and over the counter salves that can help with cold sores. Talk to your doctor about the essential oils you are using to treat your sores, and ask about possible interferences.


Essential oils can interfere with a number of medications, including those used for diabetes, sedatives, thyroid issues, blood pressure, and HIV.
 Do not great cold sores in children with peppermint oil. Aloe gel may be used on the skin, but should not be taken orally. Lemon balm may be used topically on children. Speak to your child's doctor about appropriate dosages., Peppermint oil is likely safe for pregnant people, and may relieve nausea if drunk as a tea. Pregnant or breastfeeding women should not take lemon balm. Aloe may be used on the skin, but should not be taken orally.