 It's located at https://play.spotify.com/. If you're logged into the Web Player, this will open the Spotify "Browse" page.


If you aren't logged in, click the "Log in here" link that's below the SIGN UP WITH YOUR EMAIL ADDRESS button and enter your Spotify email address (or username) and password to log in.
 By default, this page opens to the "FEATURED" section of music; you can scroll down to view any featured music here. Other sections of music are listed at the top of the page and include the following:



GENRES & MOODS - View the different categories of music, from standard classifications like "Pop" to non-traditional categories like "Gaming".

NEW RELEASES - View newly released music. You can also click the New Music Friday box at the top of the page to see a playlist of each week's new releases.

DISCOVER - View up-and-coming music and genres that are tailored to your Spotify listening habits.
 It's in the top-left corner of the Web Player page. Doing so will place your mouse cursor in the "Search" field. You can search for the name of an artist, song, album, or playlist here.


As you type into the search bar, you should see results begin to pop up below the search bar. Clicking a result will take you to its page.
If you type in an artist's name, you can scroll down on this page to view their complete Spotify library.
 This option is in the top-left side of the page, just beneath the Browse option. Doing so will open your personal music page, where you can click the following options at the top of the page to view your saved items:



PLAYLISTS - View any created playlists, or click NEW PLAYLIST on the right side of the page to create a new one.

YOUR DAILY MIX - See Spotify's suggestions for you based on your saved and played music.

SONGS - See all of your saved music on a per-song basis.

ALBUMS - See all of your saved music on a per-album basis.

ARTISTS - See all of your saved music on a per-artist basis.
 Regardless of your preferred search method, doing this will open the item's page.
 This green button will be either at the top of the page or on the left side of the page, depending on your selected item. Doing so will prompt the song, album, or playlist to begin playing.


If you opened an artist's page, you may have the option of selecting a specific album; otherwise, clicking PLAY will usually play the artist's most popular songs.
You can also click the three dots underneath the PLAY button and then click Start Radio to listen to the artist's radio station.

