 Ask your kids what their hopes and expectations are for the holidays. If they want to try something new and it’s feasible for you, give it a shot! Don’t give them too much to do, however--it might be stressful, especially if they feel torn between both parents. And don't feel bad if your budget no longer allows for the kind of holidays you've had in the past. Chances are, your kids are just happy to spend the holiday with you., Don’t make your kids feel guilty for wanting to get their other parent or their extended family gifts. Take an active role by taking them shopping, offering suggestions, or, for younger kids, giving them money to spend on gifts. Be honest with your kids if your budget has changed since becoming single--you don't want them to think that you're refusing to help them buy gifts., You don’t want your kids to end up with two bicycles, so get in touch with your ex and coordinate gift-buying. Don’t try to compete with your ex over gifts--focus on what’s best for your kids and don’t involve the children in gift discussions. If you don’t have a cooperative relationship with your children’s other parent, it might be a good idea to get your kids a gift card and go shopping for a gift after the holiday.Don't try to compete with your ex. If you can't spend as much on a gift as they can, spend quality time with your children instead.
 This isn’t the same holiday as the ones you had before your split, so don’t try to copy it exactly. This is a great opportunity to add in new family traditions with just you and your kids--visiting extended family, making new foods, or taking a trip., Adding new traditions is a good idea, but don’t replace everything. Your kids need to know that even if the way you celebrate changes a little, the holidays will always be a time for family. Keep your family’s favorite traditions, like reading Christmas stories, eating ham on Thanksgiving, or celebrating Kwanzaa between Christmas and New Year’s., The first holiday after a split is difficult for everybody, but make an ongoing effort to be as positive as possible around your children. Keep them smiling by reminding them of their favorite holiday stories, serving their favorite foods, and showing them new ways to enjoy the holiday.