 You will need to feed the puppies every three hours; if the puppies are weak or at a low weight, you may need to feed them every two hours. Write down a feeding schedule for yourself so that you do not forget. You may even want to set alarms on your phone to remind you.Puppies will often start to cry when they are ready to eat.
 There are two ways to feed puppies by hand: bottle feeding and tube feeding. Bottle feeding is easier, but it takes much more time. Tube feeding is recommended for weak puppies. It takes less time, but it must be done properly. Discuss with your vet the best options for your litter.



Bottle feeding takes more time per puppy. That said, bottle feeding may be a much safer and easier alternative for those with no prior experience with puppies.

Tube feeding is a faster method, and it is ideal for puppies with certain conditions, such as an inability to latch or a cleft palate. It delivers food directly to the puppy’s stomach via a syringe and tube. That said, if done improperly, it can cause respiratory problems. It is highly advised that you have a vet demonstrate how to tube feed before you try it yourself., Puppies cannot live off of cow’s milk. They will need a solution that is nutritionally similar to their mother’s milk. You can buy commercial puppy milk substitute, such as Just Born, Nurturalle, or Ilsaac, at a pet store. Commercial varieties come in both canned “ready to feed” and powdered forms. Powdered milk substitute is cheaper, but you will have to mix it with warm water first. Before feeding, warm the food in the microwave for three or five seconds until it is warm, but not hot.


Newborn puppies under 8 ounces (230 g) may have to be fed one cc of milk per ounce of weight while puppies above this weight can be fed one and a half ccs of food per ounce.Only prepare enough food for the day. Milk kept for longer than a day can attract bacteria.If you can't get a commercial product, make your own by mixing ten ounces of goat milk, one tablespoon light corn syrup, one cup of plain white whole milk yogurt, and one egg yolk.Only use this as a temporary food source until you can pick up a more nutritionally balanced, commercially prepared puppy formula.
 When it is time to feed the puppies, take them out of the nesting box one at a time. Let them eat slowly. If you notice milk coming out of their nose or mouth, stop immediately. Wipe away the milk, and check that they are breathing normally before continuing. If they are wheezing or sneezing, they may have inhaled milk. Contact a vet in this case.


If you are bottle feeding the puppies, set the puppy on your lap. Hold the bottle vertically, and let them suckle the milk. Do not squeeze the milk out; the puppy should naturally suck it out. The puppy will often stop eating when they are full.If you are tube feeding the puppy, you should attach a feeding tube to the syringe. Gently guide the tube to the back of the puppy's throat. Press down on the syringe slowly. It is highly recommended that you ask a vet to show you how to properly tube feed before you try it yourself., There is a chance air might have gone into the puppies' stomachs while they were feeding. This can cause stomach pain in puppies. To prevent this, burp the puppies after every feeding. There are two methods for burping puppies:


You can place them on your hand and massage their belly until they burp.You can rest them against your shoulder and pat their back., Puppies cannot defecate or urinate on their own at first. You will need to help them eliminate by massaging them either before or after each feeding. You can use a warm, damp cottonball, tissue, or washcloth. Gently rub around their anus and genitals until they defecate and urinate.You may want to wear gloves and an apron as you do this, as the puppies’ waste can get on you and your clothing.
 The puppies should begin to wean off milk at about three or four weeks of age. Mix or blend a little bit of puppy food with the puppy milk substitute. It should be soft and easy to swallow. Stick it in their mouth with your finger. They should naturally start to eat it. Slowly increase the amount of solid food that you give them. Your puppies should be eating solid food only by six weeks.