 You can find it at your local home improvement store or online. How much you buy will depend on which appliances you plan on covering.


Stainless steel contact paper is plastic-based, so it cannot withstand heat. It is not suitable for surfaces that get hot, such as stovetops.;
, Having someone help you will not only make your work go by quicker, but also make it easier. You will also get a nicer finish with fewer wrinkles and air bubbles.
 This is very important. If there is any dirt or grease on your appliance, the contact paper may not stick. Use a high-quality appliance cleaner that can cut through grease, and scrub your appliance clean. Be sure to wipe it dry with a clean cloth afterwards.
 This will ensure that your lines are straight and even. If you are covering a very wide appliance, you may need to cut two strips of contact paper.


The grain on the finished piece will be running vertically. If you want the grain to be running horizontally, cut your contact paper accordingly.
 It will take a while, but this will lessen the chances of wrinkles or bubbles forming.
 If you are covering an appliance door, make sure that there is enough contact paper hanging over the edge to cover the side. This will typically be around 2 inches (5.08 centimeters).Have a friend or family member hold the rest of the contact paper away from the appliance's surface; this will prevent wrinkles and air bubbles.
 If you don't have a credit card, you can use any other thin, plastic tool, such as a scrapper or spatula. Avoid anything made out of metal, as this can tear the contact paper.


For added security, consider wrapping the credit card in a thin cloth to further prevent any rips or tears., Keep doing this until you reach the bottom of your appliance. If you get any air bubbles, push them to the side of the appliance, or carefully lift the contact paper away and smooth it down again.If you need to use a second sheet of contact paper, overlap the two edges slightly., If you are covering an appliance door, you will have some excess contact paper hanging over the edges. Carefully flatten these flaps down onto the sides of your appliance's door. Run the credit card from front to back in short rows. Start from the top of the door, and work your way towards the bottom.
 Simply trim the excess away using a sharp craft blade.

