 Kate Middleton never wears anything too low-cut or revealing these days. She is also very careful about the length of her clothing and avoids wearing anything that is too short.



Knee-length is a good option.;
, When Kate and William announced their engagement, Kate wore an absolutely beautiful dress by Isaac. The dress shown in the image here is of a similar colour. This is actually by Gucci, in a colour perfect for Kate who has got beautiful skin tone and stunning glossy brown locks always blow dried to perfection, so the colour really brings out her beauty. Aim to do the same with your own appearance.


Obviously, you can (and should) wear whichever colour you like, the one that suits you best. But you have to bear in mind, if dressing like Kate, she doesn’t ever wear anything over the top. It’s always simple, classic and sophisticated, and she always looks amazing everywhere she goes. So avoid the hot pinks and crazy patterns!

, Kate also has a casual look, so she’s never afraid to wear a pair of skinny jeans and just a casual blouse or jumper (sweater) from Topshop and she also loves other High Street brands. She’s been seen several times in various dresses and as soon as she’s seen wearing them, everybody wants to buy them.


If you do see Kate wearing something from a High Street store, make sure you get there fast because everyone else will be doing it as well.
If you’re going to try to get Kate Middleton’s style, get some nice colours such as in electric blue, an almost purple colour that she’s often seen wearing.
Make sure you get a nice pair of high boots and a nice pair of skinny jeans and always read magazines and look out for what she’s wearing next.
Grab any High Street items as soon as possible, as they sell out very fast. And that’s how to get the Kate Middleton look.
 Kate has long, flowing brown hair that is beautifully styled every time she is photographed. Women have started asking for the "Kate" from her usual hairstylist, Richard Ward Hair & Metrospa in London.But if you can't make it to that salon, take along a photo of Kate's hair and ask your hairdresser to imitate the style.


Keep your hair long and keep the colour as natural as possible. if you must dye it, only dye one shade lighter, and ask for a dye that increases the glossy appearance of your hair.
Keep the hair in excellent condition with quality shampoos, conditioners, and regular cuts and styling.

