 Navigate to airbnb.com and click “Sign Up.” You’ll be prompted to register with either your Facebook information or your email address. If you choose the latter, look for an email from Airbnb; the company will send you a verification message. Click the link to verify your account.


If you already have an Airbnb account, you can simply click “Log In” from the home page and enter your information to get started.;
, If you want to host through Airbnb, a complete profile is crucial: it gives potential renters the impression that you are serious, professional, and trustworthy. Start by entering the basic, required information: your name, birthday, gender, and so on. Add your work or school information as well.
 After entering your basic information, click the “Photos and Video” button on the dashboard, which is on the left side of your screen. To add your photo, select “Take a photo with your webcam” or “Upload a file from your computer,” or, alternatively, drag and drop a photo into the box. To add a video greeting, click the “Create a new video button,” and follow the instructions.


Make sure that any photo you use is clear and that users can see your face. Again, you want to appear professional and trustworthy.
 Click on the “Trust and Verification” section of the site. Add as much verification as you can: your email address, phone number, and social media accounts. Then click the “Verify Me” button to scan and upload a copy of your driver’s license, passport, or other government-issued ID.
 The section after “Trust and Verification” is “Reviews,” but since you won’t have any of those yet, skip to the “References” section. Add email addresses for your friends and family members, and click “Send Request Emails.” Airbnb has already composed the email for you.
 The most important part of this process, of course, is to ensure that you are getting paid for hosting. Fill out this section carefully.
 Click “List Your Space” on the upper right of the home page, and choose your home type. If you have an apartment, flat, or unit in a larger building, choose “Apartment.” If you have a single-family house or a townhouse, choose “House.” If you have neither, click the drop-down menu for “Others.” Add the number of people you can accommodate, and the city where you live, then click “Continue.”

, After you click “Continue,” a message will appear that says, “We’ve created your listing. 6 more steps to list your space.” Click the blue “Finish my listing” button below the message, and go to the next step – the calendar. Choose “Always” if your listing will be available all the time, “Sometimes” if you need to specify certain dates, and “One Time” if you want to offer your space for a single finite period.
 Click on the next section, “Pricing.” Enter your desired price per night in the box, and choose the currency from the menu below.


Price your rental appropriately, offering the space for the amount that you would be willing to pay. You want, of course, to make as much money as possible, but if you charge too much, travelers will either choose a different rental or rent from you but provide negative feedback because they did not feel they got their money’s worth.
 Go to the next section, “Overview.” Create a title for your listing and type it into the first text box. Underneath that, type a summary of your listing. Scroll down to input any extra details.


Aim for a creative, eye-catching title, and optimize your summary: remember, the title and summary are the first items to appear when potential renters use search engines to find accommodations.
 Most people will not want to rent unless there are clear pictures of the space, so provide plenty of attractive photos. Click “Photos,” then the blue button that reads “Add Photos.” Browse and choose pictures of your place, upload them, and arrange the pictures by clicking and dragging them into the desired order.


The first picture you add will be the main picture of your listing and the first photo potential guests will see during their searches, so choose wisely.
You can also add captions to your pictures, so that potential guests will know what they are looking at. Simply type in the text box underneath the photo.
 Click “Amenities,” and a comprehensive list will appear, divided into four sections: common, extras, special features, and home safety. Go through the list carefully, and check all amenities available at your place.


Be honest and careful when you select your amenities. Remember, once they reserve your space, guests will expect that those amenities be available upon arrival.
 Go to “Address,” and click the blue button labeled “Add Address.” Choose your country, then enter your full street address. Click “Next” to save the information.
 Go to “Listing.” You will be prompted to enter the number of bedrooms, beds, and bathrooms and to verify type of space and the number of people you can accommodate.
 Once you have entered all the pertinent information, a yellow “List Space” button will appear on the lower left portion of your screen. You can click it to officially offer your space to renters.


If you want to review your profile and information before finalizing the listing, click the “Preview” button on the upper right side of your screen. Make sure you like what you see, then choose “List Space.”

, From your home page, you can click on “Hosting” to manage everything related to renting your space. Before you do anything else, you should familiarize yourself with Airbnb’s policies. Click on “Policy” to read about everything that is expected of you as a host.
 When you go to your profile, you will see an “Alerts” label on your dashboard. Airbnb uses the “Alerts” section to let you know if you have a message or reservation request.
 Click on the “Inbox” button to see the details of any reservation requests that have appeared. You can reply with questions if necessary, but definitely double-check your availability and respond within 24 hours.
 From the “Hosting” page, you can click on “Manage Listings” at any time to edit and update your information. Make sure to handle this task regularly, editing availability on your calendar and noting any changes in prices or amenities. Potential guests may be annoyed to discover that you haven’t maintained your listing page to reflect current availability or changes in the space.
 From the “Hosting” page, click on “Pricing” to see advanced options. Your standard nightly rate should appear there already. In addition, though, you can offer special weekly or monthly rates. Consider doing that to make travelers who want to stay for a week or more feel like they are getting a good deal.
 From the “Hosting” page, you can click on “Standby Guests” to note that you are willing to host last-minute travelers.
 If you want more people to view your listing, click on “Post to Craigslist,” and a list of options will appear. Edit any relevant information, then click the blue “Post to Craigslist” button below. When Craigslist users click on your ad, they will be redirected to your Airbnb listing.
 Every Airbnb host is ranked in search results. Click on “Search Rankings” to see your ranking and its breakdown.
 Under “Account,” you can update your account settings (including your password), change your payment preferences, view your transaction history, and see any reviews that your guests have provided.


In addition, you can click “Get Reservations” to send your listing directly to people you know.
 Once you receive a reservation request, Airbnb will provide you with contact information for your guests; once you confirm the request, your guests will receive all of your contact information and the precise address for your place. Use this information to discuss important details, including arrival and departure times and how your guests will get their keys.
 Before your guests arrive, clean and scrub all your floors, counters, and windows. Make sure your bathroom is as clean as possible. Empty all trash, and double check that you have stocked all necessary supplies: sheets, towels, paper products, etc.


Consider leaving a welcoming note and gift as well. A bottle of wine or a treat from a local bakery does a lot to set the right tone for your guests.
 If possible, welcome your guests personally, and spend a little time with them. Show them your place and give them any information they may need. If you will not see your guests in person, make sure to leave a note and a list of any information they might need.
 Once your guests are settled, let them know that they can call, text, or email you if they have any questions, problems, or concerns. Check your phone and email often to see if they have tried to reach you.
 After your guests leave, you will receive and email and an alert reminding you to review them. Provide a short and accurate review.
 Your guests will also have the opportunity to review your rental space. This review will be visible to other potential guests who are searching for accommodations on Airbnb. If there are negative components to this review, take them seriously – this is your opportunity to learn what your guests thought about your place and how you can improve the experience for future renters.

