 The Seven Summit mountains are not for any climber other than the well-seasoned one with plenty of climbs already achieved. If you haven't already trained at the following mountains, get started with these ones first:


The Matterhorn – Swiss and Italian border mountain. It has sheer faces, lots of awful weather, and many an avalanche or rock fall. Ideal training ground. The southern face is the most challenging.
Mount Thor – Baffin Island, Nunavut. With the longest vertical cliff in the world, this will definitely test your technical climbing skills to their limits.
Eiger – Swiss Alps. Lots of people have climbed this one over time but the North Face wasn't climbed until 1938. It's a busier climb and some of it has rock fall risks.
Ben Nevis – UK. The north face cliffs provide a good place for training.;
, There is some dispute over a few of the summits, so you'll need to make up your own mind as to what constitutes the Seven Summits by reading what others have tackled, looking at lists of climbers who have done the Seven Summits, etc. The seven climbs are usually considered to be:



Mt Everest, Nepal-Tibet border, highest mountain climb in world, also the most difficult of the seven

Kilimanjaro, Africa
Mt McKinley (Denali), Alaska, USA
Elbrus, Caucus Mountains (see "Tips" though) or Mont Blanc in the Graian Alps of Europe

Aconcagua in the Argentinian Andes
Oceania: either Kosciusko, Australia (Oceania) - an easy day hike most walkers can manage, without oxygen; or Puncak Jaya (Carstensz Pyramid), New Guinea (Oceania)
Mt Vinson in the Vinson Massif, Antarctica.
 Get maps, guidebooks, books by those who have climbed, etc., and learn as much as you can about the mountains. Know well in advance if you have the requisite climbing abilities from rock climbing skills to ice climbing, as well as your usual mountain climbing expertise. Learn about specific challenges and quirks, weather issues, where to base camp, how to get in and out, and the costs involved.
 There are obviously seven choices and your ability to climb then in any particular order will be dependent on a number of factors including weather, season, transport access, costs, etc. It is also probably a good idea to start with the easiest and work your way up the scale! Most people begin with Kilimanjaro, which is an easy climb but can have altitude effects.Kosciusko and Elbrus are also easy climbs.Proceed to Mt. Vinson and Denali next, followed by the technically difficult Everest and Puncak Jaya., As well as the obvious climbing skills needed, there are many other things to take into consideration, including vaccinations, carriage of your equipment (including oxygen), accommodation, transport, visas or permits, medical insurance and transport, and so forth. Keep detailed lists of all the things you need to acquire and do and check them off methodically as you prepare.
 The difficulties of climbing all seven summits are enormous. Not only are many of the climbs technically difficult (although some are easier than others), the costs involved in getting to them and having all the right equipment, etc., are high. Plus, you need to consider the wishes of family and friends, who will express their worries to you, and understandably so.


If you an amateur to intermediate climber, don't even consider climbing some of the training or Seven Summit mountains. It is too dangerous. Keep learning and building up your skills and perhaps some day you'll be advanced enough.
The expenses are tremendous. "Is this the best use of my savings?" is a question you should constantly ask yourself. Even if you manage to get to most of the continents, getting to Antarctica can involve prohibitive costs.
 If you're still hankering for more adventure, or if the Seven Summits don't really grab your interest, consider the Second Seven Summits originally cited by Jon Krakauer.Some of these, like K2, are technically more difficult.

