 Using a tape measure, measure across your forehead. Measure from the peak of one eyebrow arch to the arch-peak of the opposite eyebrow. Write down that number., Using a tape measure, measure the distance across your upper cheeks. Start and end at the bump below the outside corner of each eye. Write down that number., Using a tape measure, measure from the bottom tip of your chin to the bottom of your ears. Stop at the place where your jaw angles upward. Multiply that number by two. Write down that number. This is your “jawline.”, Using a tape measure, measure from the center of your forehead (at your hairline) to the bottom tip of your chin. Write down that number., Using these measurements as a guide, ask yourself the following:What is the widest part of my face?
What is the shape of my jaw?
How long is my face? Is it longer than it is wide, and if so, by how much?

, The forehead is a bit larger than the jawline, and the angle of the jaw is a bit more round. An oval face will look like an egg., A round face has a round chin, full cheeks, and a round hairline. It makes you look younger than other shapes., The forehead, cheekbones, and jawline of an oblong face will be similar in size. Oblong faces may feature high foreheads., In a heart-shaped face, the chin is the narrowest part. A heart-shaped face has a broad forehead and/or wide cheekbones, and pointy chin., The distance from forehead to chin and from cheek to cheek are roughly the same., A triangle face may be any length. Triangle-shaped faces are also known as pear shaped faces., You are blessed with a very versatile look! Pick up whatever suits your mood, as long as the hat is in harmony with your outfit. Women with oval faces can top off any hat.The possibilities are limitless! It only depends on your personal preferences.
Experiment with earrings, necklaces, and bracelets.
 You can perfectly handle a fedora, a newsboy hat, or a baseball cap. This symmetrical face cries out for a new angle: asymmetry. The roundness requires a slimming treatment.Steer clear of round crowns, which can emphasize the roundness of your face.
It is wise to select a hat with a high crown and straight brim in order to give your face more angles.
Your main goal is to choose a hat that helps distract people's attention from your facial curves.
Slanting your hat forward draws out your face and gives a touch of definition.
 The large brim of a sunhat may well offset the length of a long face.Avoid any hats with tall crowns, which only elongate your face even more.
A cloche worn low to your eyebrows can help conceal your high forehead, and, like sorcery, create an impression of shortened face.
The large brim of the fedora also counterbalances vertical curves.
 These are all good choices! These hats balance out the width of your forehead.Slanting the hat to one side will slim your face and draw attention to the eyes.
Actually, any type will work well on you except those with large brims.
Avoid shapes that accentuate the shape. Stay away from wide brims which only accentuate your forehead and narrow your chin.
 Your defined and symmetrical face requires circular features to soften the edges of the face. Round crown and brim will do the trick, smoothing a boxy face and inducing the illusion of height and roundness.Opt for a sunhat, a cowboy hat, a homburg, a cloche or a toque, which gives you a feminine and flirty touch.
A beret will elongate and cushion your facial contour.
Tilting the hat off to one side breaks up the symmetry pattern of your square face.
A sunhat with a pair of sunglasses and a flowing maxi dress adds boho-chic to your ensemble. It is a perfect combination for your beach vacation.
Don't wear a hat with a short brim, no brim or a square hat. These two types of hats will both emphasize your angular face shape.
 A triangle face is like an oval face shape that the options are virtually endless when it comes to a hat. Make sure your hat brings balance to your shoulder line, and accent to your garment. Never get close to a crown that is narrower than the cheekbones.

