 They are generally preferable to quick-kill traps.


Note that in many states and municipalities, using quick-kill traps to dispose of possums may be restricted or prohibited. Live-holding traps are rarely banned, however.
Find out from your municipality if there are any restrictions on trapping. Some cities may require you to obtain a permit. Others may have specific demands about where to release the animal and who can do so.
 Setting it near the suspected den is ideal, but any area that frequently suffers damage due to a possum is an acceptable location to choose.


Sit the trap on soft ground or place it on plywood if setting it on a hard surface. The trapped possum may attempt to dig its way out, and placing the trap on a protective surface will prevent it from damaging its paws.
 Follow the manufacturer's instructions to bait and set the trap.


Set the trap at dusk to increase your odds of catching a possum, which is a nocturnal animal. Close an empty trap at dawn to prevent the accidental trapping of a diurnal animal.
Each cage trap is set in a slightly different manner, but most have a trigger rod or knob that must be pulled or twisted out when opening the door of the cage. When the animal steps inside, it triggers this rod and snaps the door closed. Follow the specific manufacturer's instructions that come with your cage trap for more specific directions.
Place a tennis ball inside the trap to give the animal a way of venting frustration inside the cage. Doing so may cause it to become tired, making it easier to release later.
Use appropriate bait. Fruit, berries, vegetables, raw egg, peanut butter, and sardines are attractive bait options for possums.
 Watch the trap continually so that you will know as soon as possible whether you are successful in your efforts.


Once the possum is captured, move the trap to a quiet spot and cover it with a tarp until you are ready to release it. Use thick gloves or a long pole to prevent yourself from getting scratched through the cage.
 Exercise caution when releasing the animal or call a wildlife professional.


When releasing the animal, point the opening in the direction you want the animal to run off in. Stand at the opposite end of the door and tap the trap with your foot or a long pole until the animal runs out.
If you suspect that the possum may bite you, attach a rope to the door before setting it so that you can open it from a distance.
Know your local laws concerning releasing possums and other trapped animals. Some areas may have few, if any, restrictions, in which case, you should drive the possum several miles away from your property before releasing it into a wooded area. Other areas may require that you release the possum on your property or hire a professional to release the possum.

