 Choose a shirt that has the right fit but you no longer wear. You will cut this shirt to use as a pattern.Pick a shirt that fits just the way you want the new shirt to fit.
Make sure it isn’t a shirt you like to wear because you won’t be able to wear it after turning it into a pattern.
 Cut along the seams connecting the sleeves to the shirt. Open the sleeves into a flat piece of cloth by cutting along the seam on the underside of the sleeve., Carefully cut along the seams on either side of the shirt. You will leave the shoulder seam and collar intact to create a pattern from the old t-shirt.
 Remove the sleeves by cutting along the seam. Cut down the side seam of the shirt.









Open the sleeves into a flat piece of fabric by cutting along the sleeve’s seam.
 Place the shirt on a table and flatten it out.









Place the pattern shirt on top of the shirt you want to resize.
Line up the neck holes of the two shirts.
Pin the pattern shirt to the larger shirt to hold it in place.
 Cut ½ inch outside the edge of the pattern shirt. You will leave the extra half inch of fabric to create the new seam.








Cut the sleeve to match the size of the pattern sleeve. Leave a ½ inch extra when cutting the sleeve to size.
Cut along the bottom of the shirt to shorten the length of the shirt if desired to match your pattern shirt.
 Take the flattened sleeves and attach them to the shirt using straight pins.









Pin the edge of the sleeve to the front of the shirt with the outer side of the fabric facing the front of the shirt.
Keep the sleeve flat to attach it to the shirt.
 Use a serge or zig-zag stitch to connect the sleeve to the shirt. A straight stitch will not work on knit fabrics.









Use a thread that matches the color of the shirt.
Place the shirt and sleeve under the foot of your sewing machine and sew the fabric together.
 Fold the shirt to turn it inside out and sew up the side of the shirt. Start at the sleeve and sew all the way down the side of the shirt on both sides.








Use a sewing machine with thread that matches the color of the shirt to sew the side seams back together.
Keep the shirt inside out when sewing the seams to keep the seams on the inside when you wear the shirt.
 While the shirt is inside out, fold the bottom of the shirt over 1 inch. Fold the fabric so the outside is folded in to create a hem that goes inside the shirt when right side out.


Use a sewing machine to create the hem at the bottom of the shirt while the shirt is turned inside out.
 Use an iron to flatten the fabric along each of the new seams you created.
 Your shirt should now match the fit of your pattern shirt. Save the pattern shirt to use to resize additional shirts.

