 Drink enough fluids to replace any you through a fever or producing mucus.Keeping yourself hydrated can help you feel better and minimize the risk of getting more sick.Women need at least nine cups of liquid daily to keep their bodies hydrated, while men need at least 13.Have water, juice, broth, or non-caffeinated sodas or teas.Stay away from caffeinated drinks including coffee and tea because they can dehydrate you and exacerbate symptoms., Studies now show that the longtime home remedy of chicken soup can help keep a cold at bay and relieve symptoms.Sipping chicken soup may help you nip a cold in the bud or help minimize your symptoms of a cold and flu.Even the steam from the hot soup can help alleviate symptoms.


Eat chicken soup to help relieve the congestion that accompanies cold and the flu.Chicken soup can prevent dehydration.Be aware that chicken soup acts as an anti-inflammatory to your system. It also temporarily increases movement of mucus through the nose, which in turn limits the amount of time the virus is in the lining of your nose., Alcohol and tobacco products may make a cold or the flu worse. Eliminating or limiting these products may reduce the duration of your symptoms and help prevent complications., Gargling with a simple saline solution may help a sore throat.Although the benefits are temporary, you can use this remedy as often as you need it to combat inflammation.Dissolve 1/2 a teaspoon of salt in an 8 oz. glass of warm water to make the saline solution.
Swish a mouthful of saltwater for 30 seconds at least twice a day. This can also help relieve any inflammation in your throat related to the cold or flu., Mild analgesics can relieve a sore throat. Products such as lozenges and sprays containing eucalyptus or camphor can also relieve any cold- or flu-related congestion.Use throat lozenges or apply sprays every two to three hours.Avoid chewing or swallowing throat lozenges because they can numb your throat and cause swallowing difficulties., You may have body aches with a cold or the flu. Take an over the counter medication to help relieve any pain, which may also help you relax and more quickly recover from a cold or the flu.


Take acetaminophen, ibuprofen, or naproxen sodium to relieve body aches.
 Making sure that you allow your body to rest can relieve your symptoms and help you more quickly recover from a cold or the flu. Stay home from work or school, especially if you have a fever. Getting enough rest also minimizes the risk of you infecting family members, friends, or colleagues.Get at least 8 hours of sleep per night and take naps, which can help your immune system fight any developing cold or flu viruses.Sleep in a bedroom that is comfortable, warm, and slightly humid (use a humidifier) to help relieve congestion and coughing.