 Take a deep breath and think about how fast the time will go. To think positive thoughts, promise yourself a reward after the experience, like you might do for children. Go get that burger from your favorite restaurant, even if you're on a diet.


Remind yourself that the shot is going to help you in the long run. Whatever shot you're getting, it's for your own health.;
, Think of the person you most trust to comfort you and not make you feel ashamed of your fear. Ask him or her to come to the doctor's office with you and help you stay calm. They can hold your hand, talk you through your anxiety, or just listen to your concerns while you wait.


Bringing a childhood comfort toy, like a teddy bear, can also make the experience a lot more bearable. Don't be embarrassed about it — do whatever you need to make sure you go through with this shot.You might also listen to music on your phone or iPod to distract you while you wait. You can even do this while you're getting your shot!

, Talking about your fear will both make you feel better and let the person giving you the shot know that they need to be more cautious with you.


Ask them to give you the shot in whichever way causes you the least stress. You might ask the provider to count to three before giving you the shot, so you’ll know it’s coming. Or, you might want to look away and have him give the shot without warning.
Understanding how the shot will help might set your mind at ease. Ask the provider to tell you how it will make your life better. You can request a handout with information about the shot, as well., This prescription lidocaine cream numbs the skin, so you won't be able to feel the injection. When patients use EMLA cream, the feel less pain and anxiety while getting shots.


Adults: Apply 2.5g of the cream to a 7-10 inch (20-25 cm) area of skin on the upper arm/shoulder, where you'll get the shot. Cover it up with a bandage, and leave the cream on your skin for at least an hour.Children: ask your doctor whether you should use EMLA cream on your child.
Side effects include pain, swelling, burning, redness, paleness, and temperature sensation change.

