 Although you should never feel pressured into having sex, if you sometimes play hard to get when you want sex, then your partner may think you're playing hard to get when you truly mean no. Being clear about what you want, through your words and body language, can eliminate the pressure to have sex.Make sure your actions match your words. Saying ‘stop’ while you continue to kiss the person back sends mixed signals about what you want to do.
If you want to have sex, be clear about it. If you're not sure if you want to have sex or definitely don’t want to do it then be clear about that, too.
If you might be okay with sex, you could say something like, "I'm not in the mood... but I'm open to being persuaded. Convince me?"
Talk about it beforehand to make sure that you are both on the same page. For example, if you enjoy playing hard to get, talk to your partner and set up a safe word to use when you really don’t want sex.
 Speak honestly and really listen to what they have to say about it. Having this conversation could clear up any miscommunication and help both of you deal with sex.


Try to have the conversation in a place that is private, quiet, and where you won't likely be interrupted. Put your electronic devices on vibrate or turn them off.
Don’t just talk. Also, listen to what the other person is trying to tell you. Let them explain why they are pressuring you and how they feel about the situation.
Ask questions to make sure you understand what they are saying and what they mean. For instance, you might say, “So, you’re saying my actions make you think that I want to have sex?”

, You don’t have to give a reason (especially to a stranger). However, if your significant other is the one pressuring you for sex, it will help if you explain to them why you don’t want to have sex. You're letting your partner know why you made this choice and why it's important to you.You could tell a friend, "I honestly don't feel that I'm ready for sex at this point in my life” or "My religion is important to me. I want to wait until marriage."
If it’s your spouse or partner, and you normally have a sexual relationship with them, you might try, “I’m not feeling very sexual because of all the stress I have.”
You don’t have to keep explaining yourself over and over, though. Once you’ve explained it, the person should respect you and stop pressuring you.

