 To be a person of the world, you need to see as much of it as you can. Try to visit as many countries as you can, or as many places in your own country as possible. You can even become a local expert by getting to know your local area really well.Take vacations and visit new places whenever possible.
Hit up as many of the hip global cities as you can -- Paris, Berlin, Tokyo, Cape Town -- but try to step off the beaten path sometimes and visit some lesser-known places so that you can talk about unique experiences.
Don’t just visit the major tourist destinations--try to have some unique experiences. For instance, if you visit Paris, don’t just go see the Eiffel Tower. Arrange an exclusive consultation with a sommelier in a historic restaurant so you can learn all about the best French wines.
Keep a travel journal so that you can remember all of the fabulous adventures you have abroad.
Post about your travels on social media while you are away.
Don’t forget to take lots of pictures to show everyone where you’ve been and what you’ve done!;
, Nothing says “worldly” quite like being able to say it in another language. Brush up on your foreign language skills, or start learning a new language that you find interesting. You don’t have to become fluent--even knowing just a few phrases can be useful, impressive, and make you seem quite worldly.You can learn languages by taking classes, working with a private instructor or tutor, using language-learning apps like Duolingo, or trying self-study books and audio materials.
Traveling to and studying in a country that speaks the language you are interested in is the best way to immerse yourself and learn.

Spanish, Chinese, French, Arabic and Italian are all fashionable and useful languages to know, but you should study whichever language interests you, even if it’s a less common one like Finnish or Lithuanian.
 A worldly person will know something about the issues of the day. Make sure you are prepared to say something about the top news stories, and major political and social topics. You can stay abreast of what’s going on in the world by:Reading the news daily (via a website, news app, or newspaper)
Subscribing to and listening to podcasts that cover major trends and topics
Surrounding yourself with a diversity of opinions, including those that differ from your own, so that you stay knowledgeable and worldly.
Following a variety of news sources, from in-depth economic analysis to pop news. Keeping up with world politics is important, but a worldly person will also know something about fashion trends, entertainment news, and sports.
 The benefits to being an avid reader are enormous: you can increase your vocabulary, expand your knowledge of important topics, and build up a pool of interesting stories. Set aside time to read regularly, and you will impress those around you with your worldly knowledge.Start by reading deeply in a topic you are interested in, whether it’s the history of Russia, modern technology, or ethnic cuisines. Seek to become an expert in your chosen field.
At the same time, challenge yourself to read about new topics, and ones you are less familiar with. There’s no better time than now to start learning French, or how to make sushi! This way, you’ll be able to talk with others about a wide range of topics, making you seem very worldly.
Books, newspapers, magazine, and quality websites are all good reading material.

