 Talk to your doctor before going to college about how best to deal with your symptoms. She can advise you on your meds and help to coordinate with new doctors at the school. Keep in mind that you may need to continue getting ADHD meds from your original doctor, as some university health centers will not prescribe them.Ask your doctor for a history of your medicines and your response to them, to provide to any new doctors.
Contact your campus health center to see whether they prescribe ADHD meds, too, so that you have an uninterrupted supply. Some do not offer them because of issues with abuse.
 People with learning disabilities like ADHD have different classroom needs. You may need more time for tests and assignments. You may need more time to process information in class. For this reason, and to level the playing field, you probably qualify for special accommodations. Be sure to take advantage of these.Apply for accommodations soon after you’re accepted. Go to the college website and look for the school’s “Learning Services” or “Disability Services” page. You can also try to search for “office of disability services” or “student disabilities.”
Learning Services will tell you what you need to provide them to qualify. This might include a report from a doctor about your testing and ADHD diagnosis, your Individual Education Program or IEP from high school, and a list of requested accommodations, e.g. more time for tests, recording lectures, help taking notes, etc.
Talk to your doctor about getting reassessed to increase your chances of success. For instance, a person with ADHD might not do well on multiple choice exams, but might do better in essay classes. Think about what classes you did well on and why, and then work on getting the school to cooperate to accommodate you.
You might not feel comfortable with accommodations but think of it this way — it’s better to have them and not use them than to need them but not have them.
 Your meds are supposed to manage your ADHD symptoms. It can be dangerous to misuse them, skip doses, or stop taking them altogether. Using your medications in a way that’s not prescribed can also disrupt your sleep schedule or even make it harder to concentrate in the long run.Resist the temptation to use your own ADHD meds as a study aid, to help you cram before a test or exam.
Also know that ADHD abuse is rising at colleges and that selling or giving away your prescription meds is illegal. In fact, Adderall is a Schedule II controlled substance — the same as cocaine. Selling it (and perhaps even trading or giving it away) is a felony.Other than being illegal, selling or giving away your meds leaves you short on doses and will erode your ability to function.

