 After your vet identifies symptoms of heart disease in your older dog, they should recommend treatment options, including how to best feed your dog. Listen closely to your vet’s advice and follow it closely.Depending on the severity of your pet’s heart disease, your vet might prescribe a regular diet of commercial dog food or a more limited diet of prescription dog food.
Ask your vet questions if anything is unclear.;
, Look for dog foods that are labeled “low sodium.” If you can’t find such a dog food, consider ordering it online, or ask your local pet store to place a special order for you. Check the nutrition labels on the back of doggie snacks and bags of food to ensure your dog isn’t getting too much sodium.The specific sodium limits your dog can tolerate depend on its health and how much it eats. Consult your vet for more information.
 Dogs need fewer calories as they age, but it is important to maintain stable levels of protein intake even as your dog gets older. Protein deficiencies are linked to the development and acceleration of heart disease.At least 25% of your older dog’s calories should be from protein. For instance, if your dog eats 1,000 calories per day, 250 of those calories should be protein.Adequate protein levels will also prevent your older dog’s muscles from atrophying.
 Supplements add needed vitamins and minerals to your dog’s diet. These supplements are available at your local pet store. Always consult a vet before adding supplements to your dog’s diet. Supplements might come in capsule or liquid form. Consult manufacturer directions for more information about how to best administer your supplements. Popular supplements include:Vitamin B, which helps strengthen the the heart so it can pump more efficiently
Taurine and carnitine, likewise, strengthen the heart and also relieve edema (the buildup of fluid in the body, usually in the lungs or elsewhere).
Coenzyme Q. This antioxidant can improve gum health and strengthen the immune system. Poor dental health often causes infections which can lead to or exacerbate heart disease.
Omega 3 fatty acids. These supplements provide anti-inflammatory and inti-arrhythmic properties that will keep your dog’s heart healthy., There are a number of commercially available dog foods that are intended specifically for older dogs. But these dog foods may not be right for your dog. They often have higher levels of fiber and lower levels of protein than normal. If your dog is already getting an adequate amount of fiber and/or needs more protein in its diet, you should not purchase senior dog foods.Follow your vet’s recommendations to decide which type of dog food you should provide your older dog with heart disease.

