 Hold your glass cutter like a pen and cut a straight line onto your glass. Cut towards you if you are making straight lines. Cut away from you if you are cutting curved lines.Snap straight cuts by using breaking pliers. Alternatively, you can hold the piece of glass at either side of the cut you’ve made and snap the glass apart that way too.
Tap curved cuts at the back of the glass along the score line until it begins to break.
 Create designs with 2-3 layers of 1.6 mm thick glass, either all different colors or in a pattern. Place them onto the kiln about 10 mm apart so that they can spread without interfering with the other fusing glasses on the kiln.Add small amounts of the PVA/water mix (half PVA glue, half water) to the glass to help them stick together and to prevent displacement when you move them around.
Make sure that the glue is dried completely before you turn on the kiln to begin firing the pieces.
Consider the location of the glass pieces you place on the kiln. For example, if you want squarer cabochons, position the glass closer to the front where the kiln is cooler.
 Fire up the kiln and begin firing the pieces at different ramps and temperatures to make the glass pieces fuse together and create the bullseye cabochons. If you have an automatic kiln, enter the numbers below and the kiln will do the work. Otherwise, adjust the segments manually.For the first segment, have the ramp at 222C at the target temperature of 677C, and hold it for 30 minutes.
For the second segment, have the ramp at 333C at the target temperature of 816C, and hold it for 10 minutes.
For the third segment, have the ramp at full at the target temperature of 516C, and hold it for 30 minutes.
For the fourth segment, have the ramp at 83C at the target temperature of 371C, and do not hold it. This is a rapid fire.
For the fifth segment, have the ramp at full at the target temperature of 80C, and again do not hold it. This is another rapid fire. Allow the fused pieces to cool afterwards. Be aware that it can take hours for it to cool completely.

