 Pre-made metal or wooden hoops are easy and work great for dreamcatchers. The size of the hoop is really dependent on how big you want your dreamcatcher to be. However, if this is your first time making a dreamcatcher, try a 5 to 8 inch (13 to 20 cm) hoop; these hoops are neither too big nor too small for beginners.You can find these hoops at your local crafts store in the yarn and crocheting aisle.;
, Choose leather or buckskin suede lace. The width of the lace should be no larger than the width of a shoelace. The length of the lace should be eight times greater than the diameter of the hoop you are using.For example, if you are using a 5-inch (13 cm) hoop, then 2 yards of lacing should be enough.
If you do not want to use suede lacing, then you can also use ribbon.
 You want to use string that is strong, but flexible. Artificial sinew, hemp cord, waxed nylon string, or silk thread all work great. The length of the string should be ten times the diameter of the hoop. Traditionally, natural-colored string is used, but you can use any color you want.For example, if you are using a 5-inch (13 cm) hoop, then you will need 50 inches or 2 yards (72 inches) of string.
 How you decorate your dreamcatcher is up to you. You can use feathers, strips of fabric, beads, gemstones, and shells to decorate your dreamcatcher. Choose materials that have personal meaning for you., Holding the end of the suede lace against the hoop, wrap it around the line of glue. When you are wrapping the suede, make sure there are no spaces between the pieces of lace, i.e., you should not be able to see the hoop. Once you have wrapped the glued section, use a small binder clip to hold the lace in place until the glue dries, about five minutes.Use regular, craft glue.
If you are using regular ribbon, then tie a double or triple knot at the starting point instead of using glue to secure the ribbon.
 Continue wrapping the lace around the hoop. At strategic spots, place more glue on the hoop before you wrap the lace around it. This will ensure that the lace stays in place.








Make sure to use the small binder clips to hold the lace in place where the glue is.
The lace should be tightly wrapped around the hoop and touching the adjacent loop of lace, but they should not overlap.
 Wrap the lace all the way around the hoop, i.e., back to the starting point. Before you get to the end, place a final line of glue on the hoop. Finish wrapping the lace and secure it with a small binder clip., Place the hoop aside for 15 to 20 minutes to let the glue finish drying. After 15 minutes, take off the clips. Cut off any extra pieces of lace., Cut 2 yards of string. Start by tying a knot at the top of the hoop. Tie a double or triple knot to ensure that the string is secure., Working clockwise, stretch the string to a spot about two inches over on the hoop. Loop the string around the hoop and back over itself to create a hitch. Make sure to pull the string tight to secure it before moving on to the next loop.








Pulling too hard on the string may warp the shape of the dreamcatcher.
 Loop the string around the entire frame until you reach the top of the hoop where you started. As you do this, go slowly to make sure the loops are evenly spaced. Once you reach the top, loop the string around the hoop next to the starting knot.There should be an odd number of loops.
 Loop the string around the midpoint of the first line of thread. Using the same technique, loop it around the string and over itself to create a hitch. Continue weaving the thread this way until you reach the top of the hoop., As you weave the web, the circle in the middle will get smaller and smaller. Weave the string until only a small circle is left in the middle of the dreamcatcher. Make sure to pull the string tight to secure the web., Once the circle is small, about the size of a penny or dime, tie a knot around the next string instead of hitching it. Tie a double or triple not to make sure the string is secure and will not come undone. Then trim off any extra string with scissors., Cut a 5-inch (13 cm) piece of suede lace. Tie the loose ends into a knot to make a circle. Secure the lace around the top of the hoop by pushing the knot through the loop. Then pull tight to create the hanging loop., You will need to do this as you make the web. Place a bead on the string before you loop and hitch it to the next string. You can either space them out randomly, or create a pattern by placing a bead on every other string.
 Purchase different colors or patterns of fabric. Cut the fabric into strips. Fold the strips in half to create a loop. Place the loop underneath the bottom rim of the dreamcatcher. Thread the ends of the fabric through the loop and pull tight to secure it.You can also do this technique with suede lace, strips of leather, or any other type of string to create a dreamy hanging effect.
 Thread a bead onto your strip of fabric or string. Position the bead to where you want it on the string. Tie a small knot underneath the bead. The knot will hold the bead in place., Group four to five feathers together. Use a small binder clip to hold them together while you tie and knot a string around the tops of the feathers to secure them. Then tie and knot the string along the bottom of the dream catcher.You can also thread various beads onto the strings as well before you attach them to the dreamcatcher.

