 This is an open-source, free utility that can crack Windows passwords using some advanced algorithms. The program has been made available for free by the developers and all of the code is public and peer-reviewed. OPHCrack comes in ISO format, which means it will need to be burned to a CD/DVD in order to work.


Only download OPHCrack from its official SourceForge page. This is the version directly from the developers. Do not download any version of OPHCrack that comes in EXE format. Make sure to download the correct version for the version of Windows you are trying to gain access to.
Some antivirus programs will flag OPHCrack as a virus. This is because the tool is expressly designed for hacking. Using OPHCrack from the SourceForge page will not result in any viruses.
If you can't access your computer because you are locked out, you will need to do this on another computer.
 Burn the ISO file to a blank DVD. This will allow you to boot from the DVD and load the OPHCrack software before Windows is loaded. This guide has detailed instructions for burning ISO files to DVD.
 Insert the disc into the computer that you need to crack and set the computer to boot from the disc drive. This guide will show you how to configure your computer to boot from a disc. When configured correctly, OPHCrack will start automatically when your computer starts up.
 In the initial menu, select "Ophcrack Graphic mode - automatic" and press Enter. After loading files, OPHCrack will load into the main menu. This will let you easily navigate the menus without having to decipher the old text menus.
 Once OPHCrack starts, it will automatically begin attempting to retrieve all of the passwords for the accounts on the computer. This could take some time, especially if the passwords are complex.

In the User column, you will see all of the active Windows User accounts.






Recovered passwords will be displayed in the "NT Pwd" field. If the field displays "empty", then that user does not have a password associated with the account.
 Once OPHCrack has retrieved the passwords you need, write it down, remove the disc, and reboot the computer. You can now log into Windows using the account you want and the recovered password.