


Eggs are usually laid in damp, over-watered plants, and gnat larvae need to develop in moist organic material. Eggs and larvae will dry out and die if exposed to dry conditions.
The infested plant may show early signs of withering, but this is unavoidable. The soil needs to be at least this dry in order to stop adult gnats from breeding.
You can allow existing adult gnats to die off on their own, or you can kill them with fly swatters, rolled up magazines, or other home remedies.;
, If letting the soil dry out does not get rid of the gnats, you may need to completely remove the plant from its current pot and into a fresh, clean pot with new soil.


Carefully remove the plant from its current pot. Use your fingers or a soft brush to remove as much of the soil as possible.
Using fresh soil is essential since the gnats may have laid eggs in the old soil.
Check the plant itself for signs of decay. Gnats are attracted to fungus and decaying plant matter, so if the bulb or roots appear to be decaying, the plant might be beyond saving. Try to remove as much of the dead plant matter as possible, and if there is still enough of the plant left for it to live, proceed with the re-potting.
Transfer the plant into a pot of similar size and material. Make sure that the pot is filled with fresh soil.
Clean out the old pot with hot water and soap. To sanitize it further, you can use a stronger solution made from one part bleach and four to five parts water.
 Throw away rotting fruit and other decayed organic material. Remove the trash from your garbage and set it outside on the curb.


Gnats are attracted to decaying organic material. As a result, rotting fruit and old, tossed out food are highly appealing to them. Removing these food sources will deter the gnats from hanging around that area.
 Fresh fruit should be stored in sealed containers or in the refrigerator.


Gnats can be attracted to fruit left in the open even before it begins visibly decaying. Keeping fruit in an area that gnats cannot get to will also deter them from coming around.
 Make sure that there are no holes in your window screens and that your windows and doors seal tightly.


Gnats are tiny and can take advantage of even small holes in a screen. Similarly, even small gaps at the bottom of the door can invite gnats in from the outdoors.

