 The method of cooking your chicken is extremely important in determining the cut of meat you should use. This is because the thickness, flavor, and texture of a cut will be impacted by the cooking process.


If you choose to bake your chicken, you can pick just about any specific cut of meat, but the amount of time you bake may vary on thickness.
You can fry (pan fry or deep fry) just about any cut of meat, but make sure to fry thicker pieces longer and to pull out smaller pieces so they don’t overcook.
If you decide to grill or BBQ your chicken, you’ll have to make sure you cook specific pieces for longer or shorter amounts of time as they may dry out.
When stewing meat, you’ll want to either drop in whole pieces and allow them to fall apart in the stew or broth, or you can precut them.
Make sure you're prepared for the slow cooking process. You may need to invest in a slow cooker or a crock pot., The more time you have, the more choices you have when it comes to the specific cut of chicken. Thus, you should determine exactly how much time you have before you pick a specific cut of chicken.


The bigger and fleshier the piece of meat, the longer you’ll need to cook it. Thus, make sure you reserve long periods of time, like an hour or more, for large pieces like breasts or even entire birds.
If you have very little time, you should choose a small cut of meat. For example, pick wings or legs if you need to grill chicken in less than half an hour., When choosing the right cut of chicken, you need to consider the costs of each one. Ultimately, the cost of each cut might influence what dish you prepare.


The cost of different cuts of chicken will vary based on region.
Breast fillet and breast tenderloin are the most expensive cuts of chicken.
Wings and drumsticks are often the cheapest pieces of the chicken.
Whole chickens, on the average, are substantially cheaper than buying individual cuts., You can potentially save a lot of money by buying chicken in bulk. In the end, you'll be able to drastically lower the cost of any cut of chicken you want by buying in quantity.


Purchase chicken at a wholesaler like Costco, Sam's Club, or BJ's.
Freeze chicken you won't use within a few days.
Buy chicken from a farmer or at a farmer's market.
Purchase whole chickens and cut them up yourself.