 Your cat’s scooting on the rug will not get better on its own. In fact, the scooting will get more and more painful until it is treated.Schedule an appointment with your vet as soon as your cat starts scooting.Other than scooting, watch for your cat licking obsessively at its anal area.;
, During the appointment, your vet will perform a physical exam of your cat, paying close attention to its hind end. If the anal glands look and feel normal, your vet will perform other diagnostic tests to determine another cause of the scooting, such as flea allergies, worms, or arthritis.Flea allergies typically affect a cat’s rear end, causing intense itching. This itchiness can lead to scooting.Sometimes, tapeworms (intestinal worms) can cause discomfort in the anal area.Hip arthritis could cause a cat to scoot., Treating the scooting’s underlying cause will stop this behavior.Based upon the results of the physical exam and other tests, your vet will recommend a treatment plan for your cat. Potential treatment options are below:


Anal gland expression
Deworming
Allergy management

, Your cat’s anal glands are located approximately in the 4 and 8 o’clock positions around the anus. The liquid in the glands is thin and extremely smelly. Emptying the anal glands, commonly called ‘expressing’ the glands, is not difficult and can be done at home. However, because expressing the glands can get messy and smelly, most cat owners prefer having their vets perform the task.Expressing the glands can be done while a cat is awake. However, if your cat is in a lot of pain, your vet will need to anesthetize your cat to do the expression.To express the glands, your vet will position a towel or paper towel near the anus to catch the liquid. Wearing gloves, they will slowly squeeze the glands to empty out the liquid.
 If anal glands are impacted for a long time, or fecal bacteria enters the glands, the glands can become infected.Infected anal glands can become very painful for a cat. If your cat's anal glands are infected, expressing them will not be enough. Your vet will sedate your cat and flush the glands (rinse them out). To treat the infection, your vet will prescribe antibiotics.If your vet prescribes an antibiotic, give the full course of antibiotics—do not stop giving them when your cat starts feeling better.
Your vet may also recommend a pain medication to relieve your cat’s pain., If your cat’s anal glands were impacted, expressing them (and flushing, if necessary) will stop the scooting within a few days of treatment.Immediately after treatment, your cat may scoot out of habit. However, after a few days, the scooting should stop completely.
 Expressing the anal glands can be a permanent fix, or just a temporary one. Your cat may start scooting again, indicating a chronic anal gland problem. If your cat has recurrent anal gland problems, your vet may recommend regular flushing of the glands with either sterile water or an antibiotic solution.If the recurrent problem is severe, your vet may suggest surgically removing the glands.Surgically removing anal glands has several complications, including pain, difficulty defecating or incontinence, and infection. Careful surgical technique and post-surgical treatment can help prevent and/or manage these complications., After your cat’s anal glands are expressed, switch your cat to a high-fiber diet. This diet will produce firm feces, which will press against the glands during defecation and force them to empty. You can find high-fiber diets at your local pet store.Talk with your vet if you’re not sure which diet to feed your cat.


To prevent digestive problems, switch your cat to the new diet over at least one week.Mix the new diet with the old one, slowly increasing the amount of new diet.Talk with your vet about adding bran to your cat’s diet to increase fiber intake., If anal gland problems are not the cause of your cat’s scooting, your vet will recommend other specific treatments. For example, if your cat has fleas, your vet will prescribe flea treatment. Some flea treatment products kill adult fleas, and others target different stages of a flea’s development.In addition to treating your cat, you will also need to clean your home. Below are strategies for cleaning your home:


Clean your cat’s bedding frequently.
Vacuum weekly, paying special attention to crevices and places where your cat spends a lot of time. Remove and discard the vacuum’s bag each time you vacuum.
 Cats get tapeworms from ingesting infected fleas. Tapeworms are made up of segments called proglottids. When a cat defecates, these proglottids exit the body and can move around on the anus, causing irritation and scooting. To get rid of the tapeworms, your vet will prescribe a medication called an anthelmintic, which will kill the tapeworms.Preventing fleas is the best way to prevent tapeworms in cats.
 Food allergies can also cause scooting in cats due to skin irritation. Protein sources, such as chicken or beef, are common food allergy causes in cats.If a food allergy is causing your cat’s scooting, your vet will recommend a limited ingredient diet for your cat. This diet will not contain the ‘culprit’ protein source.


Diagnosing a food allergy can be a lengthy process, involving the initial feeding of a limited ingredient diet for several weeks, followed by a re-challenge with the old diet. Re-challenging with the old diet will confirm the allergy and determine which specific ingredient is causing the allergy.If you switch your cat to a limited ingredient diet, you can feed only that diet, without any other treats, flavored medications, or table scraps., If your vet has ruled out other causes of scooting, they will take x-rays of your cat’s hips to check for arthritis. If your cat has arthritis, your vet will prescribe medications to relieve your cat’s pain and help restore joint health.Signs of arthritis on x-rays include bone spurs (outgrowths of bone) and joint swelling.