 For women with sexual and reproductive health problems, a primary care physician and/or gynecologist who listens to you and pays attention to your concerns is crucial. You do not want to be rushed into the operating room by a doctor who does not take the time to hear about all of your symptoms and consider less invasive treatment options.;
, Watchful waiting is an option with some conditions, especially if you are close to menopause. Some conditions resolve as your estrogen levels reduce over time. Ask your doctor if watchful waiting is an option with your condition.If you do not have cancer or an emergency hemorrhage, and your symptoms are mild to moderate, rather than severe or devastating, consider adopting a “wait and see” approach. This is often an effective strategy for women who have only mild symptoms and may still want to try to have children.
 Unless you have cancer or emergency hemorrhaging after a cesarean section, you can try other treatments first. Depending on your specific problems, these treatments might include pain medication, hormone therapy, and more targeted surgeries. For most conditions, there is no reason to rush; try these other options first.


Your insurance and physician will likely require that you try some other treatments prior to considering surgery.
 If less drastic treatments do not relieve your symptoms, get a second opinion, even if you like and trust your doctor. It’s always a good idea to protect yourself by making sure that your doctor isn’t missing anything.


If you are worried about offending your doctor, try to let go of that concern. A good doctor will understand (and even encourage!) your desire to get a second opinion.
 If you have a spouse or partner, talk openly about the consequences of a hysterectomy — especially the loss of fertility, the recovery time, and, if your ovaries will be removed as well, the abrupt transition to menopause.


Talk openly about the alternatives as well — what might it be like to live with your symptoms for a while longer? It’s vital that your significant other understands the issues involved and agrees to support you either way.
 Deciding to have a hysterectomy is a major, life-changing decision. If you are feeling very distraught about the decision, you may wish to discuss it wit ha therapist. A therapist can help you navigate your options, examine your own feelings and concerns, and help you come to the best decision for you and your family.


If you decide to have a hysterectomy, a therapist can also help you deal with the emotional and sexual impact of the surgery.
If you decide not to have a hysterectomy, she can help you develop coping strategies for any pain or other symptoms you may be experiencing.
 On some level, you may be dissatisfied with all of your options: you may not want a hysterectomy, but, at the same time, you may feel unable to cope with your symptoms. In these cases, you may simply have to choose whichever option feels least objectionable overall.

