 Pick a place to do your cartwheels that is open and level. You need a flat surface to work on so that you can practice getting your landing right. A cluttered area will be too dangerous and awkward to move around doing cartwheels, so choose a nice, open space.






;
, Doing cartwheels requires a large amount of open space. Make sure that your area is free of any objects that you might run into while doing your cartwheels. If there is something in your way that you can't move (like a tree if you are practicing outside), you might need to change locations. It can be difficult to see objects in your path as you are running and flipping in the air.
 To avoid hurting yourself, it might be a good idea to set up some kind of mat on the ground to lessen the hardness of your cartwheel surface, especially if you are a gymnastics beginner.The cushioned surface will provide more give when you bounce on it and this will help lessen the chance of injury in your wrists and ankles.
 Keeping your arms low (with your hand just a few inches from your side), make beach ball sized circles with your arms moving up and outward away from your body with each arm.You should end with your arms spread out behind you.
 With your prominent leg forward, take a large step and make a deep lunge. The lunge position will allow you to give yourself the extra spring up required for the dive cartwheel, so make sure the lunge is quite deep.
 If you lean your chest too far forward, you won't be able to push yourself up as high to achieve the dive cartwheel lift. Keep your chest upright so that you have the right range of motion with your legs. Lean forward slightly, but not too much.
 If you arch your back, it will mess up your cartwheel arc.So make sure you tuck your ribs in and keep your abdomen lined up with your shoulders.
 Keep your body lined up throughout the movement of the entire cartwheel. If you break the straight line, it can cause you to land awkwardly which could make you hurt your hips or wrists.









If you have trouble keeping your body in a straight line, try breaking the dive cartwheel sequence up into smaller bits and practicing your form for one section at a time. This will help you with muscle memory. And once you've practiced all of the parts, try combining them into the entire cartwheel again, making sure to keep your body in a straight line.
 You need to have some momentum going to give you the extra spring you'll need to perform a successful dive cartwheel. Give yourself a running start to get some speed and power in your movements.









Note: You might want to start slower in the beginning and speed up as you get more proficient.
Note: If you have trouble with the running start, try practicing the dive cartwheel from a standing position. It will be harder to get the lift you need, but this will help you work on the form without the hazard of speed to get in your way initially. Once you have perfected your body form for the cartwheel, try giving it a running start.
 While running, start making the outward arm circles as you simultaneously go into the lunge position. You should end up in the deep lunge at the same moment that your arms end up spread behind you.
 From the lunge position, push up with your forward leg that is bent in the lunge and spring up and bring your legs over your body. Keep your shoulders straight over your abdomen as you go into the air.









Note: If your shoulders go out of whack and don't remain centered over your abdomen, it can cause you to land on your hands in an awkward or dangerous position. If you are having problems getting your hands to hit the ground properly, you should probably focus on this aspect of your dive cartwheel. Try doing regular cartwheels over and over, focusing exclusively on your body form and keeping your abdomen squared under your shoulders. Once you master this, transition back to the dive cartwheel.
 Rather than hitting the ground with both hands at the same time (which could be more jarring and dangerous), you should land with your prominent hand first and immediately follow with your other hand. There will not be much of a time gap between the two hands landing, but just make sure they don't hit at the same time.
 As you bring your legs down, keep your arms up by your ears to help your body remain in a straight line.








Note: You should also try to squeeze your butt during this step so that it will help keep your legs up in a straight line as you come back down.
 You should finish in a lunge with your stomach tucked in, your shoulders squared forward, your arms still up by your ears, and facing in the opposite direction from when you started.







