 The main symptoms of jaundice are a yellowish tint of the skin — most notable in the palms and plantar surfaces of the feet — and a yellowing of the whites of the eyes.Most babies with jaundice don’t require treatment.You should still be aware of indications that the jaundice is getting worse.


A deeper yellowing of the skin is a sign that jaundice may be getting worse.
Watch for signs that the yellow tint is spreading to other parts of the baby's body like the abdomen, arms or legs.
If your baby is listless, it could be a sign that the jaundice is becoming more severe.
If your newborn is not feeding well and unable to gain weight it might mean the jaundice is worsening.
High-pitched cries from your baby are a sign that the jaundice is getting worse.;
, The baby may not have been diagnosed with jaundice at the hospital. If you suspect jaundice once the baby gets home, try a skin test that's reliable, fast and easy.If you have any concerns, don't hesitate to contact your doctor.


If your baby has fair skin, try the following: Press a finger against your baby's skin. This will push the blood out of the skin for a moment. The infant’s skin should turn white. If the skin remains yellow, it’s jaundiced.Perhaps the best place to notice mild jaundice is by gently pressing the tip of your infant's nose which is has many blood vessels and where jaundice is easily seen
Perform this test in a well-lit room so that you can identify skin color changes with ease.
If your baby has darker skin, check for yellowness in the whites of the eyes, nails, palms or gums.Contact your doctor if your baby doesn't pass the skin test.
 Your baby's doctor will measure the level of bilirubin in your baby’s blood by puncturing the heel to draw blood. The level of bilirubin detected in the baby’s blood will significantly contribute to assessing the level of severity of the jaundice and whether the condition needs treatment.


A skin test might also be conducted, using a transcutaneous bilirubinometer to measure the reflection of light shone through the infant's skin. The bilirubinometer is less invasive than drawing blood from the newborn.
It’s possible that your doctor orders additional blood or urine tests if underlying problems are suspected.To determine that treatment is needed, the doctor will look at how well your baby is feeding to assess how your baby is affected by the jaundice. Other factors like whether the birth was premature, whether bruising occurred at birth, and your baby's age might affect the treatment plan.
If your baby has older siblings who have had severe jaundice, this will also factor into the treatment plan., If jaundice is left untreated, bilirubin can enter the baby’s brain, causing a condition called acute bilirubin encephalopathy. Prompt treatment is critical before brain damage occurs. There are behavioral and physical symptoms indicating this condition. Note that your infant should be under the care of a doctor long before these symptoms develop. During acute bilirubin encephalopathy, the newborn may:Develop a fever or vomit
Arch her back or neck
Be listless and difficult to wake
Feed poorly

, Most cases of jaundice subside on their own in one to two weeks. There are also times when it's critical that jaundice be treated. Kernicterus, though rare, occurs when bilirubin has caused permanent brain damage.


Uncontrolled or involuntary movements are evidence of Kernicterus.
Loss of hearing can be an indication of brain damage.
A frozen upward gaze can be a sign of brain damage.

