 If you don't like milk, you should first consider checking if you are lactose intolerant or maybe even allergic to milk. You could try do this with a simple test in a clinic. Do not drink milk if you feel sick after it. Don't do something if you feel it's not right for you.
 Milk at room temperature will smell considerably worse than ice-cold milk straight from the fridge.
 If you're drinking full-fat milk, you might find semi-skimmed or even skimmed far more suitable. Many people can drink one, but find another to have a stronger or different taste. You could even try soy milk, coconut milk or some other variant, depending on the use.
 Can you make it taste less like milk by adding something delicious such as milkshake powder, a syrup, a juice, or even mashed up or blended fruit? Use whatever delicious food item you can find in the pantry or on the buffet table to make it taste better!

, Juice, or even mashed up or blended fruit? Use whatever delicious food item you can find in the pantry or on the buffet table to make it taste better!


If you have milkshake powder, mix in about half a teaspoon more than advised on the packet, to disguise the taste as much as possible.
Your favorite chocolate melted into milk can be really delicious and it may not even taste like you're having milk at all. Of course, this is not such a healthy breakfast option!
For those who don't like chocolate, try strawberry syrup. The benefit is red milk and a good taste!

, Try pinching your nose when you drink it; this may help to lessen the taste impact.


Try to get it to go straight down your throat, and don't let it linger in your mouth. It will taste a thousand times worse if you leave it to swill around your mouth.
Or, be really cheeky and promise to consume your milk if it's "inside" a cake or a cookie (the ultimate "masking")!

, For example, dunk it in bread or cookies and let them soak up the milk.
 Pour as little as possible onto your cereal and use the smallest glass possible for drinking from. Taking the least amount possible will reduce the unpleasantness.


Only consume about a teaspoon of liquid at a time. That way, the taste will not be too offensive, and it will be confined to a smaller area of your mouth.
 If you drink it quickly, then eat something you do enjoy, this will help to get rid of the taste. For example, drink the glass of milk, then eat the cookies or apple straight after.
 If you are being forced to consume milk on the grounds that it's good for your growing bones or calcium intake, find a substitute and have a clear-headed discussion with your parents, spouse, doctor, nutritionist, etc., about the benefits of changing to non-dairy milk or substitute drinks. Many soy, rice, and oat milk substitutes for example come fortified with calcium and other necessary daily nutrients.

