 Chefs don’t recommend scaling a recipe in your head. You should write out the amounts you need ahead of time.


If you have a copier, you may want to copy the original recipe and write in the margins, so that you have the instructions next to the ingredients.;
, Write down the seasonings in another column and the liquid ingredients in another column. Lastly, write down rising agents and alcohol in the last column.
 Write “Times 1.5” above the seasonings” column, excluding hot peppers. Place them in the last column with the exacting ingredients, such as rising agents and alcohol.
 Rewrite your ingredients in list form according to the “double” measure you have calculated.
 This will provide the bulk of your recipe. Write down the new amount in your first column.
 You will change your rising agent later on, according to the amount of flour you are using. Write down the new amount of flour you need.
 Remember that cooking larger chunks of meat may require increased cooking time. Write down the new lb. or g measurement.
, Write this down in the liquids column. If you need 2 cups of water, you now need 4.
 Write this number down in the liquids column.
 Alcohol has a stronger flavor and will become too concentrated if doubled.
 You will use a different ratio with these in order to get the measurements right.
 However, don’t double the amount of olive oil or butter you use in the pan with sautéing. The aim should be to use enough to cover the pan you are using, so if you use a bigger pan, you use as much as you need to cover the pan. , If your recipe calls for 2 tsp. (12.2 g) of salt, you now need 3 tsp. (18.3 g) of salt. You may need to use a calculator to write down an accurate measurement.
 This includes curry powders, garlic powders and fresh hot peppers. , If a sauce has alcohol in it, you may want to only increase it by 1.25 times.
 Try to avoid “eyeing it” and pouring based on instinct, if you are doubling the recipe for the first time.
 To rise properly, you need 1/4 tsp. (1.15 g) of baking soda per cup (125 g) of all-purpose flour. If you now need 4 cups (500 g) of all-purpose flour, your baking soda measurement should be 1 tsp. (4.6 g).


Include extra baking soda, approximately 1/4 tsp. to 1/2 tsp. per cup of acidic ingredient. If your recipe calls for yogurt, buttermilk, vinegar or lemon juice, you will need slightly more baking soda to neutralize the acidity.
If both baking powder and baking soda are in the recipe, it usually means there is an acidic ingredient that needs to be neutralized.
 To rise, you need 1.25 tsp. (4.44 g) of baking powder per cup (125 g) of all-purpose flour. If you have 4 cups of flour (500 g), you need 5 tsp. (17.77 g) of baking powder. 