 Larger cities, counties, or metropolitan areas typically have their own commission to designate landmarks of local historical significance.Since the procedure for registering a local landmark varies greatly depending on the historical landmark registration laws in the state and the rules established by local governments, it's best to contact the commission directly to find out the specifics.
In some states, local designation is more of an honorary thing that doesn't come with many of the benefits available to locations registered as state of national historical landmarks.
Most local commissions, particularly in larger cities and metropolitan areas, have their own website. You also can find information about your local commission by checking with your state historical society.
Each city has its own criteria regarding which properties may be designated local historical landmarks. Typically they must be at least 30 years old and have a particular historical value or interest to the city, or be associated with individuals who have historical value to the city and its development.;
, The local commission typically will have an application form that you must fill out to nominate your location for designation as a historical landmark. If you are not the owner of the property, you typically also must have permission from the owner.In smaller locations, particularly where local designation is only honorary, there may not be a formal application. In those cases, you can send a letter or make a nomination in person at a city council meeting.
Cities with formal applications typically require information such as the location of the property, the name and contact information of the owner, and the reason you're nominating the location as a historical landmark.
Some cities may charge a fee to file an application. The fees typically vary in relation to the size of the property and specific structure you are applying to have designated as a historical landmark.
The fee typically will be a few hundred dollars, but may be more if you are not the owner of the property.
 Typically the formal review process begins with a public hearing at which anyone can testify regarding the location and whether it should be designated a historical landmark.The commission may review the application to confirm the location meets the city's criteria before approving it for a formal review process. Agency staff may visit the location and take photos or collect other evidence of the condition of the property and its historic significance.
You will be notified if there will be a public hearing on your application. The notice will include the date, time, and location of the hearing.
At the hearing, any member of the public can comment on the application. You may want to have family or friends attend who can testify as to the historical significance of the site you want to register as a local historical landmark.
 After the public hearing and additional evaluation of the location, the local commission typically will release a report with its recommendation on whether to designate the location a historical landmark.In some cities, this is the end of the process. After a public hearing, the commission makes a decision on whether to designate the location a historical landmark, and that decision is final.
In other cities, this is only the beginning of the process. If the city's historic commission recommends a property for landmark status, that recommendation is forwarded to other bodies such as the city council to vote on a final resolution.
 Different cities and counties vary widely in terms of what happens after the commission has decided whether a location should be designated a historical landmark. Some require additional rounds of voting by the city council, or approval by the mayor.For example, to have a property designated as a historical landmark in New York City, the commission must complete a formal review and vote to approve the designation at the public hearing.
After the commission vote, the City Council has 120 days to modify or disapprove the commission's designation – however, City Council approval is not required. If the City Council doesn't act within 120 days, the designation becomes final.
New York City also gives the Mayor the ability to veto a City Council vote within five days of the Council's decision. The Council then has 10 days to override the Mayor's vote with a two-thirds majority.
After designation as a historical landmark, you typically will have to fill out additional forms if your city provides tax credits or other benefits to historical landmarks. These applications may come with additional fees.

