 Choose blue, or a variation of blue, wrapping paper. Blue is a standard color associated with a boy.


Alternatively, choose other colors. Yellows, greens and reds are also good choices for the wrapping paper.
Black and white are neutral colors if you don't want to pick an obvious color. However, while all white is fine, black needs toning down to avoid appearing somber, so always team it with plenty or white or another color.;
, There are lots of possibilities with patterns for baby boy wrapping paper. If you are either buying or designing the paper yourself, here are some patterns to consider:


Stripes, polka dots or geometric shapes
Animals or plants
Celebration motifs, such as streamers, balloons and party whistles, etc.
 For example, it might be a Christmas gift (think Santa and sleighs), a Hannukah gift (think dreidels and gelt), Diwali (think lights and lanterns), Halloween (think smiling pumpkins and happy ghouls), etc.
 Trains, planes, cars, and hot air balloon are one theme, although there are many other possibilities, such as:


Sports
Animals (cats, dogs, tigers, lions, bears, etc.)
Cartoon or animated characters
TV show characters
Candies and cakes, etc.
 If you really want to get something that will attract the baby boy as he is opening the gift, ask the parents what his favorite icons, motifs or colors are and go from there.
 Wrap ribbon of the same color as the paper around the gift in a cross formation. Then add a huge ribbon bow in a contrasting or matching color, either to cover the overlapping area of the ribbons, or to the side.
 There is no need for wrapping, as the end result is both gift and wrapping. However, you could wrap in clear cellophane for protection, if wished.
 This is great for a newborn or if you're just catching up with the parents a few months later. Cover in clear cellophane to protect the contents and stop them from falling out, and complete with a large ribbon bow tied around the top of the cellophane.
 As well as adding ribbon decoration, tie on a small trinket, such as a pacifier, a rattle or a teething ring. This makes for a nice additional feature that is both decorative and functional.

