 Keratitis is an inflammation of the cornea in any part of the cornea and conjunctiva, in one or both eyes and may be caused by infection. Symptoms may be short lived, or they may be chronic. Symptoms typically include pain and redness, irritation, discharge or excessive tears, difficulty opening eyes, blurred or decreased visual abilities, and sensitivity to light. See a doctor immediately if you suspect you may have keratitis. Delays in the treatment of keratitis may lead to permanent blindness.There are several types of keratitis, each differentiated by its cause.Bacterial keratitis is typically caused by infection with Staphylococci, Haemophilus, Streptococci, or Pseudomonas bacteria. Bacterial infection frequently follows some type of surface damage to the cornea, and may cause ulcers to form at the site of infection.Viral keratitis can be caused by a number of viruses, including the common cold. It may also be caused by introduction of the herpes simplex virus, or by the herpes zoster virus, which causes the chickenpox and shingles.Fungal keratitis is frequently caused by Fusarium spores, which tend to grow in unclean contact lenses. People with compromised immune systems may contract keratitis from Candida, Aspergillus, or Nocardia fungal spores, though these are quite rare in otherwise healthy individuals.Chemical keratitis is caused by chemical exposure, either from over wear of contact lenses, splashing of chemicals or fumes, or submersion in irritating chemicals, such as swimming pools and hot tubs.Physical keratitis is caused by trauma to the eyes through a number of sources, including prolonged exposure to ultraviolet light and to the light from welding torches.Onchocercal keratitis is caused by a parasitic amoeba that may afflict patients who wear contact lenses. This form of keratitis causes what's known as "river blindness". It is extensively seen in third world countries, but is quite rare in other parts of the world.Keratitis sicca and Filamentary keratitis are superficial inflammations caused by extremely dry eyes and irritation in the tear film., Symptoms typically include:


pain
redness
irritation
discharge or excessive tears
difficulty opening eyes
blurred or decreased visual abilities
sensitivity to light., Anyone can become afflicted with keratitis, but certain factors make some people more predisposed toward developing types of keratitis.


Anyone with damage to the surface of the cornea may be at a higher risk.Wearing contact lenses may increase the risk of keratitis.Chronic or severe dry eyes may lead to a higher risk.Compromised immune systems caused by AIDS or by certain types of medication like corticosteroids or chemotherapy may lead to a higher risk., See your doctor immediately to receive antibacterial, antifungal, or antiviral medication to treat keratitis. Your doctor may also prescribe a course of steroids to treat the inflammation associated with keratitis.Once you've been to the doctor, there are a number of ways you can treat the symptoms at home, in conjunction with the medication your doctor prescribes to you.Use lubricating eyedrops. Though over-the-counter eyedrops won't treat the infection, they may help reduce redness and irritation. Follow the instructions for how often to apply lubricating eyedrops, and let your doctor know about this and any over-the-counter medications you plan to use on your eyes.
Stop wearing contact lenses while experiencing keratitis. Discard disposable contact lenses that may have been worn while keratitis was active.

