 A neglected dog is almost always a hungry dog. If you found the dog, then offer the dog water to drink, and if he is thin or emaciated, offer him a small amount to eat. Chose something bland such as boiled white rice. Giving a full sized meal or rich food is likely to upset the dog's stomach when he isn't used to eating. In the short term, feed little and often, such as 4 - 6 small meals spaced through the day. This allows the stomach to get used to having food in it.


An emaciated or thin dog needs building up, but do this slow over the weeks and months to come. Aim to give 2 to 4 meals a day of good quality food. Avoid foods that are high in cereal content (cereal is listed first on the food label) as this is harder to digest as it ferments in the gut, which is likely to cause stomach upsets.Chose a good quality food that is age appropriate (puppy food for juniors, adult food for adults). Look on the food label and chose one that list actual meat as the top ingredients (as opposed to meat meal, which is processed organ and offal)., Provide a soft blanket in a quiet corner and leave the animal alone to rest. It is best to restrict the dog to one room so that he isn't overwhelmed. Provide him with a bed, and praise him when he uses it to help him realize this is his space.


It is best to restrict the dog to one room so that he isn't overwhelmed. Provide him with a bed, and praise him when he uses it to help him realize this is his space. At this stage you may not know if he is house trained or not, so put puppy pads by the door just in case.
When the dog wakes, give him a chance to go into the yard for a toilet break. Likewise take him out immediately after eating and about half an hour later as food in the stomach stimulates the bowel to move.
 A stray dog may not be house-trained. Do not punish the dog for going potty inside, as this may further damage the animal's already nervous disposition. Watch the dog's habits and bring it outside every few hours, allowing it enough time to sniff around, get acquainted with the area, and then do its business.

