 While on your knees, place your hands on the medicine ball (which should be on the ground in front of you). Push yourself up on the medicine ball with your hands, and place your feet slightly apart while balancing on your toes. Hold this position — with your neck, head, and back aligned — for 10 seconds. Try to build yourself up until you can maintain this position for 30 seconds., Sit on the ground with your legs and feet in front of you, then lift your feet off the ground until you’re holding them slightly suspended in the air. Hold the medicine ball in your hands and rotate your shoulders in to the right and touch the medicine ball to the ground on your right side. Repeat the movement to your left side.Repeat five times on each side, then relax.
 Stand up straight with your feel hip-width apart. Put your left foot about 1 foot in front of your right foot. Then while holding the medicine ball in both hands, with your arms only slightly bent, swing the ball over your right hip towards the wall. Catch the ball when it bounces back, and repeat the movement at least four more times. Repeat the whole process on your other side.You can also perform this exercise with another person, where they catch the medicine ball and throw it back, rather than have it bounce off a wall.
 Stand up straight with your feet beside each other and your knees slightly bent. Hold the medicine ball in both hands, pull it back above and behind your head and then throw it towards the floor with all your might. Imagine you're holding a watermelon or pumpkin and are trying to smash it. Catch the ball when it bounces back and repeat the movement at least 4 more times.For the sake of your neighbours, don’t do this exercise if you live in an apartment that is not on the ground floor!

, Hold the exercise ball in your hands directly in front of you. While keeping your back straight, bend your knees slightly and reach your arms out straight in front of you. While holding your abdominal muscles tight, rotate from your middle and reach forwards and to the left with the ball. Hold the ball in place for three deep breaths, then relax. Repeat the same motion, but to the right. Repeat four more times on each side.You can change this exercise up a little by holding the ball higher and lower while you’re rotating.
 Place the exercise ball on the ground, then lie down on top of it with your feet and hands touching the ground. The exercise ball will be under your belly. Walk forwards on your hand, rolling on the ball, until the ball is under your thighs. Keep your arms aligned with your shoulders while you hold yourself up. Hold for as long as you can, then repeat 4 more time.An interesting variation of this exercise requires you to roll slightly forwards once you’re in position so that the ball moves under your shins, instead of your thighs. This will cause your shoulders to actually be in front of your hands, which should be the only things holding you up., Lie on your stomach on an exercise ball, with your hands and feet touching the ground. Walk forward on your hands until the exercise ball is under your thighs. Your shoulders and hands should be aligned. Move your legs so that your knees are on the exercise ball, instead of your thighs. Essentially you’re kneeling on the ball while you’re hands are on the floor. You will be tilted downwards. Tighten your abdominal muscles to bring your knees forwards, towards your chest and hold for three breaths. Repeat 4 more times., Sit on the exercise ball, with your feet flat on the ground in front of you. Your knees should be bent at a 90 degree angle, and your back should be kept straight at all times. Place your arms across your chest and tighten your abdominal muscles. Lean backwards and hold the position for three deep breaths. Repeat at least four more times., Lie on a mat, on your back, with your shins on top of an exercise ball. Place your hands, palms down, to your sides. While holding your abdominal muscles tight, raise your hips until your legs, body, and shoulders are a straight line. Hold for three deep breaths and relax. Repeat four more times.To add an extra component to this exercise, raise one of your legs (at a time) while in the lifted position and hold for three deep breaths.
If you want an extra challenge, place your heels on the exercise ball, instead of your shins., Lay on a mat, on your back, with your legs resting on an exercise ball. Move your legs so they’re about hip-width apart and then squeeze your legs together so they grip the ball between them. While holding your abdominal muscles tight, lift the ball up off the ground and hold for three deep breaths, then relax. Repeat four more times.To increase the challenge of this exercise, rotate your legs to the right (or left) while you’re holding the ball in the air, and hold for three deep breaths. Don’t rotate your legs too far, just enough to feel the pull of your core muscles.
 Lie on a mat on your right side. Put the exercise ball between your legs. Prop yourself up on your right forearm. While holding your abdominal muscles tight, and keeping the ball between your legs, lift your legs up off the floor. Hold in that position for three deep breaths, then relax. Repeat four more times on your right side, then switch and do the same thing on your left side.