 Humans communicate a lot without saying a word, and body language is a significant part of that communication. Most body language connected to physical and romantic attraction give off two basic signals: “I’m available” and “I’m interested.” Here are some signals that your special someone is really into you:Smiling (especially smiles that involve the muscles near the eyes as well as those around the mouth)
Maintaining eye contact
“Intimate” eye gazing (moving their gaze from your eyes to your lips or other erotic areas)Relaxed, uncrossed legs and arms
Leaning in toward you
Tilting the head while listening or talking;
, How a person holds themselves around you can indicate how comfortable they are with you, as well as how much they want to impress you.


When men want to impress someone or appear more powerful, they take up more space physically. If he’s sitting his with legs spread far apart or standing with his shoulders held back and squared, he probably wants to look impressive to you.
When a man or woman’s legs and feet are turned towards you, it’s a good sign that they’re comfortable and happy with the interaction and don’t want to go anywhere.If their torso is turned towards you but their legs are turned away, they may not be feeling comfortable or happy with how things are going.
When people are comfortable with someone, they are more physically open to that person. For example, your significant other might frequently sit or stand with the front of their body turned towards you if s/he likes you, whereas if you’re at a party and see someone you don’t like, you’ll subconsciously turn away from them., When humans find someone attractive, their bodies automatically display that attraction through a variety of physical responses. Knowing what to look for can help you understand how attractive your significant other thinks you are.


Flushed cheeks suggest sexual excitement. (In fact, this is why some women wear blush.) Flushing may also occur on the neck and chest during arousal. However, some people may also flush when they’re feeling shy or uncomfortable, so this shouldn’t be your only cue.Lips become redder and plumper when someone’s aroused. If your significant other licks their lips when they’re around you, they may be subconsciously (or even consciously) signaling you that they’re interested in a kiss.People tend to touch their face, hair, or body when they’re in the presence of a person they’re attracted to. Twirling hair, flicking the tongue, or someone touching their face or neck with their fingertips are all signs of attraction.