 Buying a home is a big investment. This is especially true for first time home buyers. If you are considering purchasing a home in the near future, consider the benefits and drawbacks of doing so. Use your list of benefits and drawbacks to decide whether buying a home is right for you. If the drawbacks outweigh the benefits, consider waiting. Doing so will help ensure you are ready for home ownership, which will help you protect yourself from possible foreclosure.


The benefits of owning a home include tax breaks, steady payments if you have a fixed-rate mortgage (as opposed to rent payments that can increase over time), home equity, and a possible increase in your home's value over time.
The drawbacks of owning a home include having to pay for repairs and maintenance on your own, the possibility of foreclosure if you miss payments, and a possible decrease in your home's value over time.;
, Create a realistic budget that takes account of your current income and spending habits, as well as how those things would be affected by home ownership (e.g., maintenance costs, mortgage payments). A lot of lenders (i.e., banks) will have worksheets you can use to create a budget and assess your ability to purchase and pay for a home.


The worksheets will often ask you to identify projected and actual sources of income, fixed expenses (e.g., rent, electric, telephone, cable, insurance), creditor payments (e.g., car payments, credit card payments), and flexible expenses (e.g., groceries, savings, entertainment, clothes, doctor). You will then add up all of your expenses and subtract them from your income.
Establishing a budget will help you determine whether buying a home is feasible. If buying a home does not fit within your current budget, do not do it. Buying a home when you are unable to pay for it is a common way foreclosures occur., Buying a home does not just mean taking out a home loan (i.e., a mortgage) and paying it back over time. There are some costs and fees that will not be covered by a mortgage and that will have to be paid up front. In addition, your financial ability to make a substantial down payment will greatly affect the terms of your mortgage, which in turn will affect your overall ability to pay back the loan (and protect yourself from foreclosure).


Recognize that when you purchase a home, you will have to make a down payment, pay closing costs, pay for homeowner association fees, and incur moving expenses.
Think about the dynamics between a down payment and your mortgage. The more of a down payment you make, the less your monthly mortgage payments are likely to be. Therefore, if you can make a larger up front investment, you will likely be able to save on your monthly mortgage expense., If you look at your budget and realize that buying a home is not feasible right now, set financial goals for yourself so you can comfortably buy a home down the road. Figure out when you would like to buy a home, how much a down payment is likely to be, and how much you need to save to meet your goal. Start setting aside money each month to put towards the down payment. If possible, put your savings into an account with compound interest. By doing so, your money will grow by simply leaving it in your account., One of the major indicators lenders will look at to determine if you qualify for a home loan is your credit score. Your credit score is a number that indicates your credit risk. The number is created by certain companies using a statistical program that takes account of all the information contained in your credit report. In general, the better your credit score is, the better your loan terms will be. The worse your credit score is, the riskier it will be for banks to loan to you.


You can look at your credit score, for free, once per year. If your score is above 720, you are in good shape. However, if you are below 600, you should probably work to improve your credit score before applying for a home loan.To improve your credit score, you can pay your bills on time, limit your outstanding debt, create more of a credit history by borrowing money and paying it back on time, and diversify the types of debt you have.If you buy a home and take out a home loan with a bad credit score, the home loan you receive might have a higher interest rate, which means you will have higher monthly payments. The higher your monthly payments are, the likelier you are to be unable to pay them. That could lead to foreclosure. Therefore, raising your credit score before taking out a home loan can increase your chances of avoiding foreclosure.
 Before finding a home, if you think you are financially ready for the process, talk to a bank and get preapproved for a loan. When you get preapproved for a loan, a bank is telling you that you qualify for a certain loan amount at a certain interest rate. You can use this information to find a home that is within your budget. If you do not get preapproved, you may end up buying more home than you can afford, which may lead to foreclosure.


To start the preapproval process, reach out to a number of banks and tell them what you want to do. The banks will then ask for certain information about you.
In general, lenders will look at your income, your income's stability, your credit history, the increase in housing payments likely to occur if you get the loan, how much cash you have for a down payment, and what type of properties you are looking at.If a lender pre-approves you for a mortgage, you will receive a letter stating the type of loan you are approved for. You can use this letter when you go shopping for a home.
 Searching for the perfect home that fits your budget can be fun but time consuming. To lessen the stress, consider hiring a real estate agent. To select a realtor, conduct online searches and talk to past clients. When you find a few you like, sit down with them for interviews. Ask them how they will be able to help you and make sure you feel comfortable working with them. Hire the real estate agent you like best.


A real estate agent will help you find a home that meets your needs within your price range. They will make all the arrangements necessary to tour homes and put in offers. They will also negotiate on your behalf to help you buy a home at an affordable price.Be aware that real estate agents are incentivized to sell you the most expensive house possible, because they get paid based on the cost of the home they sell. If a real estate agent is dishonest, you may end up buying a home you can't afford. Therefore, finding a reputable, honest agent is key to protect yourself from foreclosure. To find an honest real estate agent, carefully check online reviews and past client testimonials. At the end of the day, use your gut and assess their honesty when you sit down for an interview.
 When you and your agent find a good home, ask your agent to put in an offer on your behalf. Make sure your offer falls within the price range of the mortgage you are preapproved for. Do not offer more for a home than you can afford. When you make an offer, ensure your agent is being savvy. Start by offering a lower amount than what the home is listed for, or request that the seller cover the closing costs. All of these tactics can help save you money, which will also help you avoid foreclosure.


If the seller disagrees with your offer, they may make a counteroffer. Negotiate with the seller until a reasonable price is agreed upon.
Once you and the seller agree on a price, you will both sign a purchase agreement, which is a contract laying out the terms and conditions of the sale., One of the conditions within your purchase agreement should state that the purchase is contingent upon a satisfactory home inspection. This allows you to check out the home, before purchasing it, to make sure it meets your standards. A home inspection is incredibly important to help minimize maintenance and repair costs after you purchase the home. If you conduct a home inspection and find problems with the home's foundation, plumbing, electricity, or anything else, you might consider passing on the house.If you buy a home with major problems, you might end up needing to make repairs you can't afford. When this happens, you might fall behind on your mortgage payments, which could lead to foreclosure. Therefore, purchasing a home that passes a home inspection can help you avoid foreclosure.


Your agent will help you find and complete the home inspection.
 Once your purchase agreement is finalized and everything is in order, you need to obtain a home loan. You will do this by submitting a loan application to a lender. In most cases, if you are happy with the loan you were preapproved for, you will apply with the same lender that preapproved you. To apply for a home loan, you will submit an application and provide the lender with certain financial information about yourself. The lender will then send you a loan estimate, which you can accept by paying a certain fee.


At this point, your loan will go through an approval process. The loan will be processed by the lender and, if approved, you will be given the money you need to purchase the home.Remember, only apply for as much loan as you can afford. If you take out a bigger home loan than you can pay back, you may find yourself fighting to keep your home.
 At closing, you and the seller will sit down, sign various legal documents, and finalize the purchase. Once everything is completed, you will receive the keys to your new home., Before you accept your home loan, and even after you finalize the purchase of your home, you need to analyze your loan carefully so you understand what is expected of you. Mortgages can take many forms and each one will affect how much you pay and how problems are resolved. The most common type of mortgage is a fixed-rate mortgage, which is a loan with a fixed interest rate. If you have this type of mortgage, your monthly payments will always be the same (absent some change in your tax or insurance liability). This type of mortgage provides stability because you always know what your payment will be. However, the interest rate on fixed-rate mortgages will often be higher than other loan types.


The other type of home loan is an adjustable-rate mortgage (ARM). With an ARM, your interest rate will remain constant for a period of years, but then it will adjust up or down on an annual basis. An ARM will usually have a lower initial interest rate, but your rate go up drastically after the fixed period is done. While this loan provides a great deal of flexibility, it can lead to very different payments on a monthly basis, which might make it difficult for home buyers to budget properly., Paying your mortgage in a timely manner is the single most important thing you can do to protect yourself from foreclosure. As long as you never miss a payment, you will never have to face foreclosure. To help you make payments on time, set a reminder on your phone or in your calendar. This reminder will help you keep on top of your payments and will make monthly payments a matter of habit.


Foreclosure proceedings can often take place when one person thinks another person is making the home payments, or when someone forgets to make multiple payments in a row. Therefore, simply setting a reminder can help you avoid all sorts of problems.
 When you send in your monthly mortgage payment, consider sending extra money if you can. This extra money will go towards paying off the principal on your loan, which will help you reduce the total you owe. Also, consider sending in one extra, full payment, once a year. This extra payment will also go towards paying off the principal of your loan.


Making these extra payments will help reduce your liability moving forward, which will help you avoid foreclosure. Additionally, by reducing the amount you owe, you reduce the risk of having a financial hardship affect your ability to keep up-to-date on payments.A lot of reputable websites will offer the free use of mortgage calculators, which you can use to see how making extra payments is truly affecting your loan., To help you stay on top of your payments, consider making payments weekly or bi-weekly instead of monthly. This is particularly helpful if you have a hard time saving money. By making more frequent payments, you are ensuring that the money you have is going towards the mortgage and not towards something else. If your bank does not allow you to do this, create an automatic transfer that will take money out of your checking account for the purpose of paying the mortgage., If you are having a financial hardship and you can't afford the current mortgage you have, contact your lender and ask about modifying your loan. When you modify your mortgage, you are changing certain mortgage terms (e.g., the interest rate or the overall time period of repayment). The modification will take account of your current financial situation, which means your monthly payments will be lowered. On the down side, you may have to continue making payments for longer than originally anticipated.


Mortgage modification is a great way to get ahead of financial problems and avoid foreclosure. Talk to your lender as soon as your financial troubles begin., If you are in serious financial trouble and cannot continue to make your mortgage payments, you need to get help immediately. Even with your troubles, you still may not have to resort to foreclosure. The U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) is responsible for overseeing mortgage practices in the United States. HUD offers help to people struggling to make their mortgage payments through the approval of certain counselors. These HUD-approved counselors will work with your lender to find a solution to your mortgage problems. In fact, if you use a HUD-approved counselor, you are 60% more likely to avoid foreclosure.


HUD-approved counseling is free and you can get help by calling 1-888-995-HOPE (4673)., Do not be ashamed to confront your housing and financial problems. The only way to avoid foreclosure and keep your home is to be decisive and talk with your lender. Start talking to your lender even before you miss a payment. Your lender will try to work with you to find a solution. The more upfront you are the better your lender will be able to help you.Try to talk to your lender in person by going to the bank. If this does not work, give them a call. As a last resort, send them an email.


When you talk to your lender, tell them what is going on. Explain your financial hardship and how long you expect it to last. Your lender will take this information and think about what the bank can do to help. When you communicate with your lender, they will recommend various actions to help you keep your home. The options they recommend will depend on your personal situation.
 Mortgage reinstatement occurs when you pay the lender the entire amount that is past-due. This is a great option if you have the money but you have simply forgotten to make payments. This is not a great option when you do not have the money to make your loan current. Reinstatement laws vary from state to state, so be sure to check with your lender about the specifics where you live.


For example, in Oregon, you can make a reinstatement payment at any time prior to five days before the foreclosure sale of your house takes place. When you make a reinstatement payment, you will pay the total past-due amount, plus costs and fees. This payment must be a single, lump sum payment. Once you reinstate the loan, your lender will cancel the foreclosure sale and you will simply start making your normal monthly payments again. Contact your lender to find out how much your reinstatement cost is., If your financial hardship was relatively short-lived, you and your lender might agree to set up a repayment plan so you can keep your home. This option can be attractive because, unlike reinstatement, you will not need to write one big check. If you and your lender can come to an agreement, you will have to make up all of your past due payments over a certain period of time. The lender will apply a portion of your overdue payment to your regular mortgage payment and once the repayment period is up, your mortgage will be current.


Repayment plans typically last from three to six months depending on the severity of your delinquency. Your lender will also take into account how much you can afford to pay each month., A forbearance agreement, unlike a repayment plan agreement, is signed before you ever miss any payments. Under a forbearance agreement, your lender will agree to reduce or suspend your mortgage payments for a period of time. After the forbearance period, you will resume making normal mortgage payments, plus an amount that will help you get current due to your missed payments.


Forbearance periods can differ and depend on the circumstances. Talk to your lender to determine how long you will need. Forbearance agreements are a great option when you know you are going to have a financial hardship before it hits., In some circumstances, the only way to avoid foreclosure may be to sell your home. This option is best suited for people that have a lot of equity in their home (i.e., a large portion of your loan is already paid off). Once your home is sold, you will use that equity money to pay back the mortgage.


If you do not have enough equity to cover the outstanding balance of your loan, you will need to negotiate with your lender to find a way to sell your home without going through foreclosure. While you will lose your home, you will not have the damaging foreclosure on your credit history.