, The Android version of Firefox allows you to clear out your cache and cookies individually. Tap on the ☰ icon and tap on “Settings.”


If you do not see the ☰ icon, it may be located on the hardware menu located at the bottom of your screen.Otherwise tap and hold on any of the hardware buttons to bring up the Firefox menu.
You may need to tap on “More” first before the “Settings” option appears.
 This menu allows you to specify which data to remove from your phone. To bring up this menu, tap on “Clear Private Data” and tap on “Clear Now”.
 Tap on the check boxes next to “Cache” and “cookies & active logins” then tap on Clear data. You will receive a notification that says “Private data cleared” once the process is completed.


You can also choose to remove your browsing history, downloaded files, offline website data and any saved logins.
 You can set Firefox to automatically clear specified data when you close Firefox.In the Settings menu, tap “Privacy” and tap on “Clear private data on exit.” A pop-up window will appear.
 In the pop-up dialog, place check marks next to the types of data you would like to clear then tap Set.


You can also choose to remove your browsing history, offline website data, and any saved logins.
 Return to the main browser window by tapping the “Back” button on your device to get to the main browser window. Tap on ☰ and scroll down to “Quit.” Firefox will perform the actions specified to clear your private data.


You may need to tap on “More” or slide the menu down to show the option.
This option will not appear if the “Clear Private Data on Exit” option is not activated.
 Clearing your browsing data removes some but not all traces of websites that you’ve visited. You'll need to contact your internet service provider or format your hard drive in order to erase everything.


Any personal information you have given to a website will still exist after you clear your cache (in the records of the site itself). They also track your activity for security reasons. Contact the webmaster for assistance in removing your content and activity from their site.
Contact your internet service provider for more information on how your activity is tracked and how it may be possible to remove the activity. Your internet service provider may also track your activity for security and compliance with their terms of service.
Viruses or malware may not be removed from your device even after clearing your settings. The best method of removing this content is formatting your device. Make sure to backup important documents before attempting to format your device.

