 Prayer is a time to get closer to Allah and learn more about your religion. The duties of a believer are listed in something called the Five Pillars of Islam. Adhering to these Pillars of Islam is an important part of being a Muslim. Worship is the second Pillar of Islam, and Namaz is the name for the formal Muslim prayer, the most important ritual of Islamic worship.The rite of Namaz only takes a few minutes to perform, and involves the combination of postures and recitations;
, Search for mosques near you. Depending on where you live, this may prove difficult. At mosque, every Friday and on the two major Islamic holidays, the Namaz will be performed with the whole local Muslim community. Depending on the rules of the area this will include either all the male believers or all the male and female believers, Friday congregation Namaz takes place at noon and is followed by a sermon. Congregational Namaz takes place at mid-morning on the two major Islamic holidays

, Namaz is the recitation of passages from the Qur'an. Muslims believe the Qur'an should be read and recited in the original Arabic, however, many Imams have said translation and prayer can take place in the native language of the person praying as long as he or she is working to learn Arabic., The ritual traditionally includes a cleansing of the body, the use of a sajjada, or prayer mat, and facing the Kaaba, the central shrine in Mecca.Before beginning prayers ablution, or ritual cleansing, must be completed. This involves washing the hands, feet, and face, with water.
Adherents are to act as though in the presence of God. Therefore, fidgeting, glancing around the room, and talking are all forbidden while performing Namaz.
The direction that the Kaaba is in is called qibla. The simplest way to determine how to face the Kaaba while praying is to look at a map and draw a line between your location and Mecca.
 While standing, lift both hands facing forward to the shoulders or ears and proclaim, "Allahu Akbar", or God is great. Then place the left hand under the right hand over the naval or on the chests while standing. During this position, the first chapter of the Qur'an is typically recited or read., Bow with both hands placed just below the knee. During this position one recites the following three times: "Glory be to God, the most Great." Then say, "God listens to the one who praises Him," while standing straight. Once standing, position hands loosely at your sides and say, "To God belongs all praise" 3 times.
 Kneel and touch your head to the floor with your palms, forehead, nose, knees, and toes only on the floor. Say, "Glory be to God, the most high" 3 times.
 Say, "God is great" while moving to the sitting position. A short prayer may be recited or a short silence may be observed. Then say, "God is great" while moving back to the kneeling position. Recite "Glory be to God, the most high".
 Return to the sitting position and recite prayers. To end the prayer turn to the right and say, "Peace be upon you, and the mercy and blessings of Allah." Then turn to the left and repeat.


The complete set of postures may be repeated as necessary depending on the specific prayer being performed.
 Fajr is the morning prayer, and it occurs after the break of dawn but before sunrise.
Dhuhr is the noon prayer, and it occurs after noon but prior to afternoon.
Asr is the afternoon prayer, and it occurs between late afternoon but before sunset.
Maghreb is the sunset prayer, and it occurs after sunset but prior to darkness.
Isha is the night prayer, and is offered anytime at night but usually just before going to bed.
 Namaz is to be performed five times a day, with exemptions made for special situations. The strict following of this schedule is an important part of the Second Pillar of Islam. Nowadays, there are more ways than ever to remember when to pray.


Apps for your smartphone exist which are designed to remind you when to perform the next Namaz. Alternatively, you can use simple alarms on your phone. Be sure to adjust these regularly though, as sunrise and sunset changes throughout the year.
 The Muezzin of the mosque is the person appointed to call the congregation to prayer, lead the Namaz, and recite the prayer. In some Muslim communities, the Muezzin holds the important role of keeping the community on schedule for the Namaz.Some Muezzins also perform their duties over the radio, so that one can follow the Muezzin even at home.
 If you are just starting out in Islam than try your hardest. If you have been Muslim for a while try to do as much prayer as you can. Allah understands in situations that prayer can not be done but try to make up prayer. Some work places and schools however don't allow people to pray inside them but try to make it up later and read Qu'ran as well to be a great Muslim!

