 There are many options when it comes to mail forwarding services. Each company offers the same basic services, but there are often customizable factors that might make one service plan preferable over another.


Many companies offer package tracking, though the tracking options may be limited to the country of origin or the country where you'll be receiving your package.
Most services will forward letters and correspondences. However, some services will also forward packages, magazines, and bulk mail, while others will not.;
, Cost may be the most prohibitive factor for some people setting up a forwarding service. If you plan on receiving a high volume of mail/packages, you may want to opt for an annual delivery plan, which could save you money over paying per shipment.


Look at the service plans, base rates, cubic/dimensional weight rates, and extra cover charges.For high-frequency deliveries and other perks, you can expect to pay a high fee. Some service plans cost hundreds of dollars per year, while others may be somewhat cheaper, depending on your delivery needs.
If you only get mail on an infrequent or irregular basis, paying for an international mail forwarding service may not be worth the cost.
If you're unsure about potential hidden costs, it's best to contact a representative from the forwarding service and ask for a line-by-line breakdown of your anticipated costs.
 The frequency with which you receive your packages and the turn-around time on deliveries may be a determining factor for some users. Depending on your chosen service, you may have the option of receiving forwarded mail weekly, bi-weekly, monthly, on request, or on a customizable schedule.In addition to the options on how often to have your mail sent, some services also allow you to have your mail held for a period (usually up to 30 days) so that you can have it sent in one bulk delivery., One good way to determine a service's effectiveness is to compare user reviews online. Try searching for the service's name and "reviews" in a web search, or look for online compendiums that compare and contrast multiple services., Depending on the service you enroll with, you may have to sign a rental agreement, a forwarding agreement, or both.This is usually done at the time of enrollment, but you may need to sign a follow-up agreement if you make any changes to your account.


Part of your user agreement may involve selecting the delivery method you'd like. For example, you may have the option of choosing USPS First Class Mail, USPS Priority Mail, or FedEx., U.S. Postal Service Form 1583, the Application for Delivery of Mail Through Agent, is required to set up most international mail forwarding services. This form authorizes the US Post Office to transfer your deliveries to the address you provide them with.In order to submit Form 1583, you will need to provide a Postal Service employee with two valid forms of ID.
One form of ID must display your photograph, like a driver's license or passport. Social Security cards, credit/debit cards, and birth certificates are all considered unacceptable forms of ID.
You may need to provide a notarized copy of your completed USPS Form 1583 to the service you choose to enroll with., When you enroll with a mail forwarding service, you will be given a street address based in the U.S. However, you'll need to let the forwarding service know what address you can actually receive your mail at in the country you inhabit. This is typically done as part of the enrollment process, but if you travel frequently you may need to update the address so that you won't miss your packages.Some services let you update your delivery address as often as you need to, while others may impose restrictions or additional fees.
Contact a representative from your chosen forwarding service to find out what your options are.
 There are typically recurring fees associated with mail forwarding services. How much those fees charge will vary depending on your chosen service and forwarding plan. However, there may also be one-time fees associated with setting up your account or receiving your mail.


Most forwarding services charge a fee, which may be charged on a monthly or an annual basis.There may also be a per-package fee in addition to the monthly or annual charges.This may be a flat rate or a calculated cost, depending on the service you use.
If you have to pay by cubic/dimensional weight, you'll need to calculate what you owe. To determine the cubic weight of a package, multiply the package's height times its length times its width, then divide by 5,000., Depending on where you are receiving your mail and what types of packages you receive, you may be required to make a Customs declaration. This may be required by U.S. Customs or by the Customs agency in your country of occupancy.Remember that different countries have different Customs laws. Some are more lax, while others may be more restrictive.
If shipping from the U.S. to Australia, for example, you won't need to file a Customs declaration if the order is below $2,500 US Dollars (USD).
Each country you forward mail to has its own customs requirements. You can find out your country's requirements by consulting the U.S. Postal Service's online guide to international mail., How frequently you receive mail will depend on the service you enroll with and the specific plan you enroll in. Some services will bundle and ship mail the day it is received. Others will ship your mail the next day. Still others bundle your mail for a week and then send you the package at the end of each week.