 Wearing your hair even partially down can be an issue if you have frizz-prone hair and are getting married outdoors. If you are expecting to be in humid or dry conditions that may make your hair frizzy, you may be better off wearing your hair up.If you are getting married outdoors, wind can also be a factor. For example, you may want to choose an updo instead of a half up style if you’re getting married near a beach where there will be ocean breezes.;
, Another important factor in determining whether a half up style is right for you is the length of your hair. The longer that your hair is, the more options you’ll have for your hairstyle, such as working braids into it. If your hair is short, such a chin-length bob, you may not have as much versatility.Keep in mind that it’s possible to add clip-on hair extensions to your hair for length and volume on your big day. That can give you more options for a half up style if you have short hair.
 You want to opt for a hairstyle that works with your veil or headpiece, so make sure that a half up do will complement the style that you’ve chosen. A traditional veil will likely work with most hairstyles, but if you’re wearing a more unique headpiece, check that a half up style will allow it to have the focus that it deserves.A Juliet cap style veil works especially well with a half up hairstyle.
A birdcage style veil is another pretty option with a half up hairstyle.
A blusher style veil pairs well with a half up hairstyle.
An embellished bridal hair clip, hair comb, and hair pins are ideal for a half up style.
For princess-like feel, pair a tiara with your half up style.
 In addition to your veil or headpiece, your dress can help you decide if a half up style is the right option for your wedding. Certain dresses may look better with an up do, so you want to be sure that your hair will work with the dress style.A half up style works well with a V-neck wedding dress.
A strapless or off-the-shoulder dress also works well with a half up style.
In most cases, a half up style isn’t the best choice for a dress with a high neckline, a bateau-neckline, or a one-shoulder design.
 If you’re still unsure whether a half up style is the right option for your big day, ask your stylist to do a trial run. You can be sure that you like the way that it looks, and see how it holds up throughout the day to determine if you want to wear it for your wedding.You may want to do trial runs with a few different half up styles to see which one you like best.
 While curls are a traditional choice for wedding hairstyles, give your half up style a sophisticated, modern look by going for a smooth blowout instead. Pin the top section of your hair back with bobby pins for a simple, flattering look.If your hair is naturally wavy or curly, blow drying it alone may not be enough to get it straight and smooth. Run a flatiron over your hair before pulling it up for the sleekest look.
 If your hair is naturally curly, there’s no reason not to show it off in a half up style on your wedding day. Blow dry your hair with a diffuser attachment that will keep your curls intact without adding any frizz. Pull the top section of your curls back and use bobby pins or a clip to secure it.It’s a good idea to treat your hair with a curl enhancing serum or cream before you blow dry it to ensure the smoothest, most defined curls.
 If you want your half up style to be simple but still special, pull it back in a pretty twisted crown. Gather two sections of hair on either side of your face, and twist each before pinning them back. It’s an ideal style whether your hair is naturally straight, wavy, or curly because it works with all hair textures.You can tuck the ends of each twisted section under the other to hide them, or cross them over each other and let them fall for a more natural look.
Make sure to spray the twist crown with hairspray so it stays in place throughout your big day.
 Curls are a classic wedding hairstyle, so they’re ideal element to add to a half up do when you want a glam look. You can opt for pin curls, loose voluminous curls, old Hollywood waves, or your favorite type of curlers. Curl your hair before creating your half up style so the length of your hair has plenty of eye-catching texture.You can use a curling iron, hot rollers, foam rollers, or whatever your favorite curling method is.
Curling your hair before creating a half up style looks especially pretty if you have long hair.
 If you want a glamorous look for your wedding day half do, skip the bobby pins when pinning your hair back. Instead, opt for embellished clips or combs that will really stand out in your hair. Rhinestones, pearls, silk flowers, and satin details are all ideal options.If you’re wearing an elaborate veil or headpiece, you should probably skip the jeweled hair accessory. It will only take attention away from your veil.
 While the most common type of half up styles involve pulling the top section of your hair back right at the back of your head, you can often get a more glamorous look if you pin the hair over to one side. Take a section of hair from one side of your head, and push it back to the side of your head. Secure it with a hair comb, flower, or clip for a pretty look reminiscent of old Hollywood.If you prefer, you can push the hair back to the side on both sides of your head so your all of the hair is out of your face.
A side half up style looks especially pretty with curls.
 If your wedding day look is more relaxed and Boho-inspired, work some braids into your half up style. You can braid the top section of hair as you pull it back into a French or waterfall braid, braid just the length of your hair after you pull it back, or braid a section of hair on either side of your head and pull them back to form a crown.Even if you’re an expert at braiding, it’s best to let someone else handle the job on your wedding day. You want your hair to look as pretty possible, and it’s not always possible to braid the back of your hair as neatly as you’d like.
 For a pretty Boho look, work some flowers into your half up do. Whether you add braids to your style or not, you can easily stick some wildflowers into your hair when you pull it back. Be sure to use bobby pins to secure the flowers in place, though.Be sure to think about the flowers that will be in your bouquet and other floral arrangements when you’re planning which blooms to weave into your hair. They don’t have to match exactly, but they should have a similar look.
 Instead of smooth, sleek curls that have a more glamorous look, pair your half up style with more relaxed beach-inspired waves. Spray your damp hair with a texturizing or sea salt spray, and allow it to dry naturally. Next, use a large curling iron with a barrel that’s approximately 2-inches (5-cm) wide to loosely curl the hair for soft waves.When you’re going beachy waves, curl large sections of hair so the waves will be loose.
For the most natural look, alternate between curling the sections toward and away from your face.

