 Oftentimes, at the core of procrastination is an emotional regulation issue. You feel overwhelmed, bored, or anxious, so you choose to put off the work for something else. Overcome your procrastination habit by learning to label the emotions that are holding you back.For example, you have a big project to complete, but it's not very exciting. Therefore, you may delay doing it in favor of surfing the web.You might go ahead and label the project you're working on as "boring." You can then prevent boredom by turning on some music or adding a reward to make it more exciting.
 One of the main emotions driving your procrastination habit is fear. You worry about making a mistake. You fear how much your life will change if you are successful. You make up a ton of excuses to disguise the fact that you are afraid. So, you delay. Instead of worrying, take the next imperfect action.Don’t get so caught up in the details or the full picture. Focus on what you can do in your immediate future to improve your progress towards a goal. Identify the very next step and take it. Then, the next step and so on.
 Procrastination often means you have become detached from your long-term goals. You procrastinate to avoid some sort of discomfort in the near future, whether it’s doing a difficult task or skipping out on something more interesting. Reconnect with your “why” and remember why the work needs doing in the first place.For example, if you are getting bogged down in developing activities for a kid’s summer camp, remember the importance of the camp in the long-term rather than dwelling on the short-term discomfort. Look on the bright side: the camp may teach kids social skills, help them overcome confidence issues, and nurture a love for nature.
 Sometimes working in the same space day after day can result in poor productivity. Changing locations for a day may help you to feel more productive. For example, you could work from a coffee shop for the day or occupy a conference room in your office to get a change of scenery. Try doing this once per week for a little variety., Being distracted by your phone, social media websites, and other things may hamper your productivity as well. Try turning off your phone for a few hours to help you focus. You can also log off of your social media accounts to help remove the temptation to check them every few minutes., Overcoming chronic procrastination may prove challenging. Don’t allow your procrastination habit to tank your work performance and ruin future opportunities. If you are having trouble stopping procrastination on your own, seek out help.You might talk to someone in your HR department for helpful resources. Or, you might hire a business success coach or see a therapist for poor self-esteem or perfectionism issues.

