 Bipolar disorder can be a very frightening and confusing condition for both the sufferer and their family, and this fear and lack of understanding can actually make the condition worse. As a result, experts recommend that bipolar patients (and their families) attend psychoeducation classes to learn more about the condition — its symptoms and its consequences.


Psychoeducation helps you to understand how the disorder is affecting your life and will help you to strengthen your coping mechanisms. This is achieved through various educational activities and role-playing games.
Psychoeducation can be done either in groups or one-on-one sessions with a health education specialist. During the sessions, the specialist will explain how bipolar disorder works and why you might be experiencing certain thoughts or feelings.
However, don’t picture a lecture where the professor talks and you sit quietly, taking notes. On the contrary – you are very involved in the entire process and will be invited to share your own experiences, fears and thoughts.
Psychoeducation is an invaluable asset in dealing with bipolar disorder as it helps you to understand the condition and allows for a more objective view on the disorder.;
, Cognitive behavioral therapy (CBT) is a form of individual therapy which is essential in the treatment of bipolar disorder. The goal of CBT is to help you identify the negative feelings and thought processes that lead you to behave in a certain way and the consequences of these behaviors. Once you have recognized the existence of these negative thoughts and feelings, your therapist will help you to change them.


To understand what CBT does, imagine the following situation – you are constantly having thoughts such as “Why does this always happen to me?” This kind of attitude often results in negative experiences and behaviors, such as falling victim to depression. What CBT does is help you transform negative thoughts (like this one) into something more positive, like “Yes, this situation isn't the easiest one, but instead of feeling defeated, what can I do to feel happy?”
This approach is very effective, especially when it comes to avoiding bipolar depressive episodes, as CBT teaches you how to think rationally and search for solutions to your problems rather than despairing and giving up. As a result, your depressive episodes will become rarer and easier to deal with.
CBT does not treat bipolar disorder overnight — you will usually require 10 to 16 sessions with your therapist before you notice a significant improvement in your condition. Also, it's imperative that you and your therapist have an open, trusting relationship for CBT to work., Group therapy involves attending meetings where sufferers of bipolar disorder can discuss their individual experiences and share their coping mechanisms with one another. This can help bipolar patients to feel less alone and has been shown to have a positive influence on recovery and on preventing future manic/depressive episodes.


In group therapy, everyone has the opportunity to speak about their experiences with bipolar disorder — how it has influenced their thoughts and emotions and how it has affected their family and work life. Everyone also has the opportunity to share any wisdom or advice they might have for coping with the disorder and preventing manic or depressive episodes.
For people who don't like the idea of speaking in front of a large group, writing therapy also exists. Writing is a great way to relieve stress and provides an excellent opportunity for self-expression. It can be an effective, creative way to cope with episodes of mania and depression. People are invited to share their writing with each other during the class, but there is no obligation to do so, which makes it an excellent option for shy people.
 Often, it can be difficult for family members to understand what is happening to their loved one and how to deal with it, which results in feelings of frustration and distress for both the bipolar sufferer and everyone else in the family.


Family therapy can be incredibly useful in the treatment of bipolar disorder, as it helps to strengthen the connections between family members, and improve coping mechanisms and communication. This is important because a calm family atmosphere can result in fewer and less severe manic or depressive episodes, as the bipolar sufferer will feel better understood and more relaxed at home.
To begin family therapy, all members of the bipolar sufferer's immediate family (or those living together) will go to the therapist’s office together and discuss their concerns with the therapist and with one another. This allows the therapist to observe the family dynamic and to identify areas that need work.
Afterwards the therapist will set up a separate session with each family member individually – this allows each family member to discuss their thoughts and feelings in a safe, private environment
After the initial therapy sessions, the therapist will give everyone “homework” to do – small tasks that will help to improve communication and understanding within the family. Even though many people feel skeptical about family therapy at first, it helps to bring the family closer together and can improve the effectiveness of other therapies that the bipolar sufferer has to undergo.

