 Place the head shawl on your head, with one side longer than the other. Hold down the short side, and wrap the long side under your chin, then around your head. Continue wrapping until the scarf is completely wrapped around your head. Pin the scarf in the back. Adjust the scarf under your neck into the style you want.A simple wrap might look good in bold colors and patterns, or paired with a trendy outfit.;
, Spread one end of the hijab on your head, with the short end draped over your head. Take one corner of the short sides, pull it under your chin, and pin it behind your ear. The rest of the scarf should be loosely draped over one shoulder.


Fold the material in the back in half and bring over your head, stopping at the hairline. You should now have one short end, one long end, and two scarf layers covering your head.
On the long side, take a bit of fabric from the middle and pull it under the chin and around the top of your head near the hairline. Take the short end and pull over the long side you just wrapped, so the short end lies on top of the piece you just wrapped. This should give you a small tail near the top of your head, while the scarf around your neck is draped.
You can leave the tail hanging, or you can tuck it around your bun and secure with a pin. You can also tuck the scarf into your shirt for an alternate look.Use this look for work, for a nice dinner, or for an elegant evening out.
 Start by folding one corner of the hijab down into the middle of the scarf. With the turned down side facing outward, place the scarf on your head and pin underneath your chin.


Take the corner and fold in half, placing the corner under the material. Then, take a small piece of fabric and bring it forward, covering the fold you just made. This will give you a three-tiered fold on the top of your head. This gives the scarf a bit of volume.
Take one side of the scarf and wrap around your neck. Pin it in the back. This gives you a tail in the front and the back.This look is also very elegant for a night out or a formal occasion. You could also use this technique if you wanted to draw more attention to your shirt.
 Wrap a smaller, colorful scarf around your head, covering your hair completely. Tie it in the back.


Wrap a plain scarf around your head, leaving enough space on the head so the colorful scarf can be seen. Pin the scarf under your chin.
Alternately, you can wrap the plain scarf first and tie the smaller, colorful scarf around your head on top, for a funky, stylish look.
Make sure your outfit matches the colorful, patterned scarf. Wear this outfit when you go out with friends or are going for a trendy, yet casual, look.
 Choose to wear your hijab in a light fabric, like chiffon or Georgette. This fabric looks beautiful because of its sheer texture.


Lighter fabrics are also cooler in the summer, making it both fashionable and practical.
 Many hijabs come in a variety of bold colors, which can add fashion and flare to any outfit along with fitting your personality. Hijabs can also be found in patterns from animal prints to cartoons., Choose fabrics in different colors to give a funky look to your everyday. Go for a patterned with a plain fabric, or try two complimentary plain fabrics.
 Some designers, such as Louis Vuitton, Chanel, and Gucci, make fabrics and scarves that can be worn as a hijab. Wearing a hijab with a designer's logo displays your top fashion sense. Islamic designers sell hijabs, many of which are considered couture fashion., To make the hijab more secure, pins made especially for hijabs are used. Pins come in all sorts of styles: long and thin, round and large. They come with rhinestones and pearls or in bold colors. Choose one stylish pin to secure your hijab with.


You may also use cute brooches instead of pins if you cannot find a specific hijab pin in the style you like.
 Bracelets, necklaces, and earrings aren't just for your neck, wrist, and ears. A creative eye towards beaded necklaces and chain bracelets can create stunning, elegant hijab accessories.


Drape a necklace around the crown of your head for embellishment. This can be done under the hijab so just part of the necklace is seen across your forehead and temples. You can also lay it on top of your hijab, so the entire necklace circles your head.
Wear a necklace around your forehead, tucking the rest under your hijab. This can be treated like a headband, going around the top of your head, or try it across the middle of your forehead for a stylish accent.
Pin a necklace or a bracelet to your hijab in a U-shape along the side. Instead of one brooch or pin, find an ornate necklace or bracelet to pin around your ear. Alternately, try a chain brooch pin collar.
Take a statement necklace and create a stunning headpiece over your hijab. This can lay completely on the outside, or you can tuck some of it under part of the hijab. Let the center of the statement necklace rest on your forehead, or place is perfectly along the side of your head., Wear cute accessories on your hijab, like bow clips and head bands. Place a flower or a peacock feather on the hijab that matches your outfit.Try connecting multiple bows or flowers with beads or chains. This adds a bit of flare and cohesiveness to the accessories on your hijab.
 One of the biggest fashion trends is to use large blocks of color in your outfit. The hijab can be the perfect block of color for any stylish outfit. Pair the bright hijab with simple patterns in your shirt, skirt, or dress. Alternately, wear a patterned hijab and pair it with a dress, shirt, or skirt in a bold block of color., Maxi skirts and dresses are a trendy look that pairs perfectly with a hijab. A maxi skirts and dresses are floor-length styles that can be paired with blouses, t-shirts, heels, flats, jackets, and sweaters. They are one of the most versatile pieces of clothing, perfect for dressing up and down., Jeans are a timeless fashion staple. Pair skinny jeans with a long, flowing top or sweater. Wear boyfriend jeans and flats or sneakers. Buy jeans with rips or in distressed patterns. Choose jeans in black, great, or lighter washes, or try colored denim for a funky, color blocked look., During the winter, pair your hijab with a fashionable long coat. Coats come in every color of the rainbow and an assortment of patterns. Choose one that matches your hijab for a sleek, elegant winter look., The easiest way to add a fashionable flare to any outfit is to wear the right shoes. Knee boots, ankle boots, high heel booties, pumps, gladiator sandals, sneakers, wedges - any of these fashionable shoe styles would go perfectly with a hijab.
 Do you love hip-hop? Punk? Hipster? Skater? Retro 90s? Tie-dye? Wearing a hijab does not mean you cannot express yourself. Create hip-hop style with a baseball cap, music tee, and baggy clothes. Go punk or skater with black fabrics, red and black plaids paired with white and black checkered prints, and chains on your hijab. Get a hipster or 90s retro style with a jean vest and high-waisted pants or skirts.The possibilities are endless for expressing your own fashion sense.
 When outside, choose a pair of fashionable shades to wear with your hijab. There are many styles of sunglasses to choose from: large and round, Rayban retro, or vintage cat-eye. Sunglasses can be bought in a variety of colors, from basic black to tortoiseshell to bright colors and patterns.


Fake glasses are another way to accessorize your hijab. Many accessory shops sell glasses with clear lenses or no lenses at all.
 Add bracelets, earrings, necklaces, and rings to any outfit to make it stylish. Stack bangle bracelets on your wrists, wear large cocktail rings, and place long necklaces around your neck to finish your outfit.
 For baggy skirts or pants, add a belt to give shape. Carry a small clutch or a hobo bag to make your look chic.

