 You may wish to achieve a slimmer look by losing weight. Make sure that this is what is best for you and only undertake the task if it is something you want for yourself. Losing weight and getting healthy is a long, challenging process and should only be done to make you feel better, not everyone else. Your happiness matters most!


Eat right. You hear it all the time in regards to losing weight but it’s true: eating healthy is the best way to lose weight. Calories are really just your body’s way of getting and storing energy, so make sure that you don’t get too many. Most people consume too many calories for the amount of energy they exert because the food they eat has too many things their body doesn't need and too little of the things is does need. When you don’t get enough nutrients, you feel tired and hungry because your body doesn't have the fuel it needs. Eating healthy, well-balanced meals will make you feel less hungry and give your body what it needs to get through the day. Avoid foods that have little nutrients, like chips, candy and soda. These are empty calories that do nothing for your body and serve only to increase your weight.
Exercise. It’s not always fun, especially when you’re out of shape, but exercise will go a long way to getting you healthy. It helps to ensure that the amount of calories you take in is proportional to the amount of energy your body uses in a given day. It doesn't need to be complicated, either. Just doing things like walking more or taking the stairs instead of the elevator will help. Find small ways throughout your day to increase your activity level. You can do squats while waiting for food to cook and a few minutes of planks before taking a shower in the morning will go a long way.
 You need some fat on your body! It’s not just a matter of keeping you warm, either. Fat is how our body stores nutrients, which it distributes during times when we’re not eating or when we can’t eat (due to sickness or lack of food). We need to nutrients in food to keep our bodies running, so it is important not to starve yourself. Doing this will make you tired and lead you to feel sick.


Eat healthy snacks. In order to keep yourself full while still eating healthy and helping to lose weight, eat snacks throughout the day that are high in nutrients but low in bad fats. This works best if you find foods that are high in protein, as protein will give you the most energy. Fresh cut vegetables and fruit, cottage cheese, or nuts make great healthy snacks.
Starving yourself is also counterproductive. When we don’t eat for long periods of time or if we do not consume enough food to power our bodies, our metabolism will change. Our body sees constant hunger as a response to famine or situations where food is scarce. It will then respond by creating more fat, in order to store more nutrients.
 There’s nothing wrong with getting a little expert help. You can discuss your weight with your doctor to find out the healthy level for your body. You can talk to a dietitian to find good ways to eat healthier and tailor your food to your needs. You can also talk to a physical fitness trainer and learn when and how to get the right kind of exercise.

