 Plant allium bulbs once the trees start losing their leaves. Usually, you can plant them any date between late September and late November as long as the ground hasn't frozen yet.


Roots tend to form in the fall. You may also notice a few sprouts in the fall if you live in warmer climates, but most stems and buds form in the spring.;
, Alliums love the sun, so they thrive best when you plant them in a garden bed that receives full sun—six hours or more of direct sunlight. The soil can be of average nutritional quality, but it should drain well.Most alliums can also grow in partial sun to light shade, but the stems might become weaker with less sunlight, and weak stems may not be able to support the weight of the flowers once they bloom.
To determine whether or not the soil drains well, pay attention to it after a heavy rain. If you can spot puddles five to six hours after the last drop of rain, the soil is too compact and does not drain adequately well.
 While starting with well-draining soil will make things easier for you, you can also amend the soil to improve its drainage abilities. Mix in 2 to 3 inches (5 to 7.5 cm) of organic material like peat moss, compost, ground bark, or decomposed manure.


Dig this material into the top 12 to 18 inches (30 to 45 cm) of soil to ensure that the soil near the bulb will drain well.
As a general rule, you do not need to amend the soil for the sake of adding nutritional content. Allium bulbs can grow in soils with poor nutritional quality, but they will rot in soggy soils.
 Dig a hole that is roughly two to three times the diameter of the bulb. This may seem deep, but bulbs do better when planted deep and tend to weaken if planted in shallow depths.


When planting multiple allium bulbs, the bulbs should be spaced 6 to 8 inches (15 to 20 cm) apart.
Consider spreading a 2-inch (5-cm) layer of agricultural grit or spent compost at the bottom of the hole before laying the bulb inside.Doing so can improve drainage conditions.
 The stalk will grow out of the pointed end, so that pointed end must be positioned upward when you place the bulb in the ground.
 To ensure that the bulbs are well protected and well fed, you need to minimize the amount of air pockets in the soil. Do this by using your hands and feet to flatten the soil over the bulb, packing it in as firmly as possible.
 Add enough water to thoroughly dampen the soil. You need the soil to become saturated and heavy so that it settles around the bulb.
 Regardless of whether you keep the containers indoors or outdoors, you should still plant the bulbs in the fall once you notice leaves dropping from the trees in your neighborhood. Fall planting allows the bulbs to develop their roots and makes it easier for them to follow their natural growing cycle.


You may want to consider keeping the containers in a cool location during the winter. Allium bulbs actually thrive when they are allowed to cool down during the dormant season. You do not need to keep the containers outside, but storing them in a garage, basement, root cellar, or shed works well.
 The container you use should be about five to six times deeper than the diameter of the bulb. It should also be wide enough to allow 6 inches (15 cm) of free space in between the bulb and all sides of the container.


There should be at least four moderately sized drainage holes at the bottom of your container. Use a drill to create holes if necessary. Allium bulbs will rot if they are forced to sit in waterlogged soil.
 Most commercial potting mediums work well enough, but you should opt for one that feels fairly light over one that feels heavy and dense.


Keep in mind that allium bulbs do not have many nutritional needs, but they do need well-draining soil. Dense soils that retain moisture can cause the bulbs to rot.
 Allium bulbs can grow in partial sun to light shade, but they thrive in areas of full sun. Place the container in a spot that receives at least six hours of direct sunlight daily.


Large amounts of sunlight will help the alliums develop strong stems, and strong stems are more likely to support large blooms.
If your container is too large to move, make sure that you position it in your desired location before adding the soil and planting the bulbs.
If you are able to move your container, move it to different areas of the house or garden throughout the day so that it receives as much sunlight as possible.
 Roots grow from the rounded end of the bulb and a stem emerges from the point, so you need to make sure that the pointed side of the bulb faces upward when you place the bulb in the soil.


If you plant more than one bulb in each container, make sure that the bulbs are 6 inches (15 cm) apart and 6 inches (15 cm) away from the side of the container.
Dig a hole that is two to three times the diameter of the bulb when planting it. Consider sprinkling in 2 inches (5 cm) of compost before you place the bulb in the hole for improved drainage and nutrition.
 Pack the soil in with your hands as firmly as possible to minimize the amount of air pockets. The bulbs will grow best when protected by packed soil.
 Water the bulb until you can see a little water running out from the drainage holes at the bottom of your container. The soil needs to be saturated and heavy so that it packs itself in around the bulb.
 Allium bulbs need minimal moisture, but they should get about 1 inch (2.5 cm) of water per week. You may not need to water them during regular periods of rainfall, but you should consider watering them lightly during dry periods.


You only need to water the bulbs during their active growth periods—spring, summer, and early fall. Once the plant enters dormancy, you can stop watering it.
 You shouldn't need to worry about pests, rodents, or diseases when you plant alliums.They are not susceptible to any serious plant diseases, and they actually tend to drive off deer, rodents, and most insects. As such, pesticides and fungicides are not necessary.


Since alliums are so good at discouraging garden pests, they are often used as a border plant. Consider positioning alliums around the perimeter of your garden to protect more tempting flowers lying further in.
 If you decide to pick the flowers for decorative purposes, leave behind as many leaves as possible. The bulb will produce flowers each year but it needs to gather as many nutrients through photosynthesis as possible each season. Its leaves are crucial in this process.


Allium flowers can be used in bouquets and similar decorations, just like any other garden flower. Some stalks can have a slight onion scent, but in most cases, the scent isn't noticeable to the human nose.
 The leaves tend to turn yellow by mid-summer. Once you see them die back on their own, you can bet that the plant is slipping into dormancy. You can cut away leaves and foliage at this point.


Do not cut off the foliage after the blooms drop. The leaves still need to gather sunlight to produce energy so that the bulb can be strengthened for next season.
 While not strictly necessary, it can be a good idea to give the bulbs a light feeding of potash during the early spring, before you see any stems peek through the soil.


For average to good soils, this really isn't necessary. Consider doing it if your soil condition is poor, though.
Potash feed will encourage root and bulb formation. It refers to any potassium-rich fertilizer.
 If you notice a decrease in flower production after a few years, you might need to divide the bulbs and replant them to encourage better growth.This especially applies to smaller bulbs. Many large bulbs are self-propagating and take care of the process themselves.
Divide the bulbs after they enter dormancy but before the ground freezes. Dig out the clump of bulbs using a garden fork, working carefully to avoid cutting into the bulbs.
After you remove the clump of bulbs, gently shake off excess dirt before carefully twisting the bulbs apart one at a time. Allow the roots to untangle themselves and do not tear them apart.

