 These cats have inherited the large ears of the African Serval. They are tall and long. Situated directly on top of the head, they point straight up, instead of out., The Savannah also has distinctive eyes. They are slightly hooded and the overhanging skin creates the appearance of eyes that are flat on top. This contrasts with the perfectly rounded eye shape of many other breeds., The most distinctive feature of the Savannah cat is their coat. They have markings somewhat similar to those of a wild African cat. Because Savannahs have been interbred with a variety of domestic breeds, their coats can vary somewhat. But there are important commonalities.


The Savannah’s coat can be brown, tan, silver, or gold, with dark spots. It can also be black with spots of a slightly different shade of black.The Savannah’s spots can be round, oval, or elongated. It should have a series of parallel stripes along its back. Smaller spots will be on the face, legs, and feet.The Savannahs are short-haired cats.
 Servals are medium-sized cats. As Savannahs become more interbred with domesticated cats they will decrease in size. A purer Savannah might be as big as 15 to 28 pounds.More interbred Savannah’s might not be much larger than the average house cat. But they should still have especially long legs that often make them look bigger than they are.
 Because they are nearly wild, Savannahs are not sedate lap cats. They are often friendly, but extremely active. They are curious, playful, and energetic.


Savannahs will be particularly inclined to climb and make long, vertical jumps.
Savannahs’ curiosity and energy can get them into trouble. Be careful with your valuables and put guards over all electrical wires., There is a rather extensive coding system for Savannahs. These codes represent the different types of breeds that the Savannah was interbred with – and thus its physical features – and also how many generations removed your cat is from the wild Serval.


The most basic terminology for Savannahs is their generational rank. An F1 is the direct offspring of a Serval and a wildcat. An F2 is one generation removed, and an F3 is one more generation removed. The closer a Savannah is to an F1 the larger it should be., Savannahs are rare and expensive. The likelihood of finding one in a shelter might be low, but a shelter cat would save you a lot of money and be the most humane option. Using websites like Petfinder.com, which allow you to search through a large database of pets, makes the odds of finding such a rare breed more manageable., Buying a Savannah from a breeder can cost as much as $3000. Purchasing from a breeder might increase your likelihood of getting what you are looking for, but you still need to be mindful of how reputable the breeder is.


Indicates that a breeder might not be reputable include: always having kittens available, having multiple litters on premises, always having your choice of a kitten, and presenting the option of paying online with a credit card.
Be sure to check out the facility where the breeding happens and meet the parents. If the parents have a good disposition and appearance, it is more likely that the children will as well.
Watch for signs at the breeder's house that the animals are sick or poorly maintained. If the cats are sneezing and lethargic or the place appears unclean and has a strong odor, it is possible that the conditions are unhealthy.Veterinarians are often a good resource for referring you to a reputable breeder.