 Plumbing licenses are not issued by the federal government. Each state administers a different application for becoming licensed. You’ll need to find out which government entity issues the license. Then you’ll need to figure out what education and work experience is required.


Most states use the state government to issue licenses, but some are deemed at the local level (county, city, or town) like New York.Certain states issue the license, but then some local governments set different requirements like Chicago.
 Different states and local governments will require different levels of plumbing licenses. For most metropolitan areas, you’ll be required to hold the highest level. These are some of the degrees of licenses:


Apprentice plumber does not need a license because she is in training to eventually hold a license.
Journeyman plumbing license requires at least fours years training under a master plumber.
Master plumbing license usually has the most rigorous requirements. You’ll typically already have a journeyman plumbing license as well as need letters of recommendation.Every states holds different requirements for these licenses.
 Once you consult your state's website, check over all the requirements and be sure you meet them. Some states have their applications online while others require you to fill them out by hand.


Have a record of all your past plumbing experience and have a few references for your file.
 Once you apply to the license that you’re qualified for, you’ll receive a packet of practice tests. Prepare by taking time in reviewing the practice materials and spend as much time as it takes till you understand everything.


It is best to keep your notes and textbooks from your apprenticeship to study.
Try not to cut corners and instead absorb the given material.
The exam will be anywhere from 1.5 to 4 hours depending on what license you're applying for., Once you build up your application and complete all the requirements deemed by your state, you’re ready to take the exam. Being licensed is required to work independently as a plumber.


It is important to understand the materials on the exam because your license will expire at some point. When your license expires you'll need to reapply to keep your title.

