 Learning proper wrestling fundamentals is key to preventing concussions. Many concussions occur because of head injuries resulting when a head connects with another head, a knee, or the mat. All wrestlers should be instructed in proper wrestling fundamentals.Learning how to attack in a controlled manner and mastering the proper form of the moves can help protect the wrestler and his opponent.
 Another way to help reduce the risk of concussions in wrestlers and their opponents is for them to learn proper takedown techniques. This helps wrestlers avoid giving someone else a concussion.There are numerous takedown techniques. As the wrestlers learn them, make sure to they learn how to perform the moves while not using the head and protecting the head.The wrestlers should learn how to avoid getting hit in the head. Learning how to wrestle where one doesn’t go head-first into the move can help eliminate head-to-head or head-to-knee injuries.
Wrestlers should keep a proper stance when they are going into a takedown. Using the proper stance helps protect the head.Coaches should teach and emphasize proper takedown techniques. They should also teach athletes how to perform moves and wrestle without going in head first.
 Learning how to land on the mat is just as important as learning how to attack. Every wrestler will be thrown to the mat, and wrestlers learning to land properly can help reduce the risk of concussion.When a wrestler lands, his supports should be wide and extended. He should ever land with his arms back and down. His hips should be parallel to the floor and positioned lower than his head.Coaches should make sure all wrestlers are taught to properly land and protect themselves from head injury.
 Studies have shown that strengthening neck and shoulder muscles can help prevent concussions. Focusing on strength training moves that build muscles in the shoulders and neck may help absorb some of the impact if hit in the head.Increasing neck strength can help lower the risk of your brain rattling around in the skull, which leads to concussions.
To do an easy neck exercise, a wrestler can start by putting his hands on the back of his head. He should press the hands forward as he pushes his neck backwards. The resistance helps strengthen the neck.