 New Year's Eve (the holiday season in general) is regarded by many to be a holiday that sparks depressive feelings. With a year ending and the popularity of resolutions, the pressure to evaluate your life is high. This holiday unfortunately also falls during the time of seasonal depression in areas with winter climates.Know that there are others out there who feel the same way that you do about this holiday and that maybe you can find someone who feels similarly and spend the night discussing it with a kindred spirit.
 Don't beat yourself up for not completing resolutions from the previous year. There are no rules when you are taking control of your life. If you are unhappy about the circumstances in your life, forgive yourself and allow yourself time to get there.Pay attention to the thoughts you are having, especially those about yourself. Are they kind thoughts or unkind?
Counter each unkind thought with a kind thought about your self or your life. Be patient, this may take some time.
Pamper yourself. Kickstart the new year with a solid nights sleep, a long bath, or a massage as a good way to take care of yourself.
 It may be fun and helpful to add a sense of ritual and tradition to the occasion. It can provide you with a moment to think back over the coming year and it presents a turning point at which you choose to move forward.Additionally, you'll get a boost in self-efficacy knowing that you are being active in changing your experience. Choose where, when, and what type of new tradition would have meaning for you. Some ideas include:


Write down anything that you feel negative about over the past year. After writing them down, get rid of them; toss them in the trash, tear them up, or burn them.
If you want to do resolutions, write this coming year's down and bless them in some way. Place them somewhere prominently to remind you of what's to come rather than what has been.
Create a New Year's jar. Take a jar and, throughout the year, anytime something good or happy happens write it down and put it in the jar. Then on New Year's Eve, read through them to remind yourself of the great year you had.
Light lanterns and set them afloat as a way of sending your hopes or wishes out into the world.
 For your own happiness and comfort spend the night doing what you want to do, not what others want you to.If the thought of spending the night at a party, surrounded by others, or drinking gets you feeling down, then choose to do something else. Nothing is better than starting the new year with something that makes you happy, so whip up your best meal, listen to your favorite song, or watch a great movie. Look to do what makes you feel happier and indulge yourself.


Make sure, however, that you are being honest with yourself. If your habits are to isolate yourself from others and stay in bed all day, notice that these are powerful symptoms of depression and while they feel like you want to do them, they are not the healthiest choice for you. Maybe stay in, but ask a family member or a friend to stay with you as well.

