 It can be really easy to skip a class or two, but attending every class can help ensure two things: you get participation marks (if the instructor is giving them); and you’re more likely to remember something taught in class., Sitting at the front of the class isn’t so you can suck up to the instructor, it’s to increase your chances of paying attention and remembering what is being taught. You’re less likely to be distracted by other students if you sit at the front of the class., If your class is being held in a computer lab, or if you bring your own laptop (or tablet) to class, resist the temptation to use it for non-class related stuff.


Close all your email and social media programs while in class.
If you’re only using your computer to take notes or view presentation slides, disconnect from the internet.
By disconnecting yourself from the internet (and email and social media) you are giving yourself a chance to resist the temptation to pay more attention to your computer than your teacher.
Any activity that is not class-related should be avoided while in class. Use your in class time to pay attention.
 If you have a question in class, ask it. If you think you know the answer to a question the instructor asks, answer it. If class participation is part of your class grade, asking and answering questions in class will help you get those points.Being verbal in class will also draw the attention of your instructor, who may then get to know you and consider you a student who is interested in learning.
 The best person to help you get better grades is the person who gives out those grades. Make an appointment to speak with your instructor about your performance.Let your instructor know that you aren’t satisfied with your grades and you want to improve.
Ask your instructor where you might be going wrong. Ask if there are any specific areas where you should focus.
 Many instructors will allow assignments to be handed in late, but they’ll deduct points automatically for late assignments. Therefore, work it into your schedule to submit your assignments on time to ensure you can get the most possible points for your hard work., Chances are, not all your classes are required or mandatory. For your elective classes, select topics that you actually like and want to study. Liking and enjoying the subject matter not only makes attending class easier, it makes remembering the material easier., Scientific studies have actually shown that cramming for an exam or test the night before doesn’t actually work. You are actually more likely to do better on the test if you stop studying and get some sleep, than if you spend the whole night attempting to remember everything for the test.Teenagers need at least 8 to 10 hours of sleep every night to be able to function effectively the next day.Children between the ages of 6 and 13 need 9 to 11 hours of sleep every night in order to be able to function well the next day.While it may seem like a good idea to grab an extra cup of coffee or drink that can of Red Bull, the more caffeine you consume in the afternoon means you’ll have a harder time sleeping that night. Try to keep drink caffeinated beverages only in the morning.