 You can relieve stress with as little as ten minutes of moderate exercise like walking.


If possible, practice mindful walking in a natural setting. A nearby park that has walking trails or a garden is ideal. Even a neighborhood that has a lot of trees is a good choice. Walking in nature can help boost the stress-relieving effects of mindful walking. Many people find nature peaceful. It can be a good escape from a busy, city life. , Mindfulness is just another word for paying attention.As you walk, take note of how your body feels. You aren't trying to change anything at this point, just be conscious of the feelings in your body.Don't just walk with a flurry of racing thoughts going through your head. Instead, pay attention to your body and your environment as you walk. Mindful walking is about giving yourself a break from all the stressful thoughts that may be going through your mind.Notice how your feet feel with each step. Be aware of your posture; if you are standing up straight or bent forward or hunched over. Notice if your hips feel tense or tight. Take note of how you swing your arms. Notice how you breathe while you are walking.
 After you've taken stock of your body feels, focus on the world around you. Pay attention to colors that are around you. Focus on your environment, whatever it may be.Look at the scenery around you, the buildings if you are in the city, or the nature if you are somewhere that has plants. Look to see if there is anything on the ground, or what the sky looks like on this particular day.
Try to immerse yourself fully in the objects that are all around you, rather than thinking about other things.
 Once you get used to being present in your body and environment, begin to shape your breathing and posture. Stand straight and take deep breaths.


With each step, imagine that there is a string holding you up from the crown of your head. This string goes through your entire body and is connected to your feet.
Become aware of your breathing, and consciously take breaths from the bottom of your belly.
Walk as quickly or slowly as you want and your ability allows, while remaining aware of your movements, environment, and breathing.
 If you find your mind drifting to thoughts about anything other than walking, breathing, or your surroundings, notice your thoughts and let them pass. Return your attention back to your feet, the imaginary string holding up your head, and your surroundings.


You may have to practice returning your attention back to walking, but that is a part of the exercise. All that matters is that you are noticing your thoughts, then returning to mindfully walking.
It doesn’t matter how many times your mind may stray back. The only thing that is important is that you are walking with the intention to relieve stress. Just keep returning your mind’s attention to your walking.

