 Dropbox is a cloud service that's more geared towards accessible, long-term online storage than traditional photo-hosting needs, but you can still easily share your stored images with others. Dropbox allows you to easily store your images online and access them anywhere, but is not suitable for some common features of other services, like embedding images in blogs and websites.



Pros: Convenient, accessible file backup capabilities. Easy-to-use desktop client.

Cons: Requires desktop client download. Free Dropbox accounts come with 2 GB of storage, which may not be enough for some users.

Use for: Long-term backups.
Note that Dropbox requires you to register an account. This is easy — just visit dropbox.com and click the prominent "Sign Up" button to get started.See our guide to getting started with Dropbox for more details on creating a Dropbox account.
 There are three options for uploading files to Dropbox: you can upload images through the Dropbox web interface, through the Dropbox app on your smartphone, or through the Dropbox desktop program.



Adding Files Online: This is the quickest, easiest option. Simply sign into your account and click the upload button at the top of the page (it looks like a white page with a plus sign on it) to get started. Follow the prompts and browse your computer's hard drive to find the file you want to add — it will upload automatically.
See our Dropbox guide for more details on the other methods for uploading files.
 The process of sharing images on Dropbox is a little different than the way you would do it on a standard photo site. With dropbox, you will need to specifically indicate the people that you want to share with. The upside of this is that only people you approve will have access to your files. See below:Select "Photos" from the sidebar.

Select the photos you want to share. You can also select albums to share.
Click the "Share files" button.

Enter the email addresses of the people you want to share with. Alternatively, you may click the "Get Link" button to receive a link that you can give to others.
Note that your images' viewers do not need a Dropbox account

, Like Dropbox, Google Drive is geared more towards personal storage and document collaboration than it is on image hosting, but you can still use it to share images that you've uploaded with others. Free Google Drive accounts come with 15 GB of storage, with more available for purchase. Like Dropbox, you can share your images on Google Drive, but the service is not suitable for embedding images in blogs and websites.



Pros: More storage than Dropbox; also allows online word/spreadsheet/slideshow editing.

Cons: Lacks features of image-hosting sites.

Use for: Long-term storage, file backup.
You'll need a Google account to use Google Drive. See our guide to signing up for a Google account for more information.
 There are multiple ways to upload images to Google Drive. You can use the Google Drive main web interface, the mobile app, or the Google Drive desktop program.


Of these options, the web interface is generally the most convenient. Log into your account at drive.google.com and click the orange button with the upward-pointing arrow next to the "Create" button. Browse through your computer's hard drive and select the image you want to upload.
See our Google Driveguide for more details on the other methods uploading files to Google Drive.
 Sharing images with Google Drive is similar to sharing with Dropbox. You can either share directly with specific Drive users, or you can share the link to your file with whomever you'd like. See below:


Right-click on the image you want to share.
Select "Share..."

Ensure that "Anyone who has the link can view" is present.


Copy the link in the field and distribute it to anyone. You can also use the included sharing tools to quickly share to Google+, Facebook, Gmail, and Twitter.
Alternatively, you can enter email addresses into the bottom field and invitations to view the file will be sent out.
 If you have an email account, you have a free (but somewhat old-fashioned) method of storing images online. Simply attaching your images to an email and sending it to yourself is one way to "upload" them to the internet in a sense — once they're in your inbox, they're easy to access from almost anywhere. However, since email interfaces aren't technically made for this purpose, doing this can feel a little more "clunky" than with the options above. In addition, this option lacks the features of both the social media and traditional image hosting options mentioned above.



Pros: Convenient. Online email accounts are near-ubiquitous.

Cons: Interface of most email programs not designed specifically for this task. Storage available varies from service to service.

Use for: Situations when you need to quickly store images online and don't have access to another option.
 To get started, simply create a blank email. Depending on the email program you're using, this is usually done by clicking a button that says "Compose New Message" or something similar.


You don't have to put anything in the body of this email unless you want to send yourself a memo for later.
 Next, attach your image files to the blank email. Usually, the button for this will have a paperclip on it, though this can vary from service to service. Browse your hard drive and select the file you want to attach.


The maximum attachment size per email can also vary from service to service. For instance, with Gmail, the max attachment size is 25 Megabytes, while Outlook has a max size of 10 MB with the option to send larger files via Microsoft's cloud service., Next, just put your own email address into the "To:" field and click "Send." Within a few minutes, your email should be in your inbox with your files attached — now, you can access them from anywhere you can log into your account.


If you don't see your email, check your spam filter. There is a chance that it was incorrectly categorized as junk mail.

