 If you don't have a lot a friends, talk to new people. She may not see you as a threat if you don't have a group.


You don't have to make hundred of friends. Just make a group of people you know and get to know them.
Choose close friends. That way, they can back you up and you have friends that will be there for you.
Know lot of people. Even if they're not friends, talk to new people so everyone at least knows you and thinks you're a cool person.



Say your name and talk about anything. It's a good idea to read books and watch movies to find topics.
Be friendly and bright, or mysterious if you're shy. But be nice!
Be natural and don't rack your brain thinking of clever things to say. Witty things will come with not thinking about it.
Be fun. You can crack a joke, or do anything funny.
Big Tip: If you're doing this when she is around, don't glance to make sure she's watching. Pretend she isn't there, and talk to your friend.
Remember,  conversations are to talk about something, not just to make someone jealous.
 Do the same! Study and be a good student.


Whether she flunks every test, or is a teacher's pet, do well in your classes. School is meant for learning, after all.
If she is a flunker, just do well and ignore her. She'll be jealous of your straight A's.



Participate in class. Ask questions so the teacher (and students) know you're there.
Pay attention. If you pay attention, you may find things to point out, or points to make. You're be appreciated for having your own opinions.
Ignore her. During class, even if you want to eavesdrop on her for gossip, DON'T. It will look like you're staring at her (awkward) or it will just look weird. Stay focused, it will take stress off having to look popular around her.



If you find other things you like, it will give you new conversation topics.
If you find other things you like, it makes you well-rounded.
Don't try to like what she likes to beat her at it. If she's on the basketball team, so be it. If you don't like basketball, don't do it. If you like tennis, try out for the tennis team.

