 Many nurseries and garden centers will have a bay tree in their herbal area. If you'd rather take a cutting to propagate it, then follow these steps:


Take a heel cutting, a fresh shoot or tip in early summer or in autumn/fall. Cut from a mature bay tree. The cutting should be about 8cm (3") in length.
Remove the upper and lower leaves from the cutting.
Dip the intended root end into hormonal cutting mix. This will stimulate vigorous root growth.
Put the cutting into a container filled with two-thirds coarse sand and one-third peat moss.
Put the container under a plastic bag hanging over wire or similar to keep it from touching or landing on the cutting. This creates a mini-greenhouse for the cutting.

Be patient. It will take around 9 months for the cutting to root.;
, Decide whether you want to grow the bay tree in the garden or in a container. It will do well in both places but the container bay tree will need to be given continuous re-potting and renewed soil to ensure best growth. Spring is the best time to plant a young bay tree.


Bay trees prefer full sun aspects in cool to warm zones. For a hot zone, provide partial shade for very hot or tropical climates. They should also be sheltered from wind.
Select soil that drains well, of a medium richness. If you are placing the bay tree into a container, add a little lime to balance out acidic soil.
 Water more often during hot weather.


Bay trees in a container need more regular watering.
 Do this for both in-ground and container-grown bay trees. The topsoil is adequate. However, be sure to keep any mulch away from the tree's trunk.
 Give the bay tree complete plant food.
 There isn't really a need to prune bay trees unless you want them to form a particular shape or you don't want it to grow beyond a certain height. Bay trees grow to about 10-20 meters (33-66 feet) but if they're in a container, they'll grow much shorter.


The bay tree responds well to being turned into a topiary; this is more commonly done for bay trees grown in containers.
 The leaves are used for cooking and can be picked any time once the tree is established. They're best picked early in the day to preserve their aromatic flavor.

