 Some items can be found underground, but it’s not reliable to just search for the odd Tree or Grass Tuft for your material needs. Bring down as many Berry Bushes, Pinecones, Grass Tufts, and Saplings as you can, and create at least an Alchemy Engine (but don’t place it until you get underground!) to bring with you down below. You don’t need to bring down many Rocks or Flint. You can also bring several other renewable resources underground to make your life much easier, as well as give you an opportunity to farm the necessities.

If you have a Beefalo Horn, you can lure down some Beefalo with you when you venture into the Caverns.
If you can, create other structures like Drying Racks, Bee Boxes, Crock Pots, and Pig Houses (again without placing any of them, before venturing down). This will save you inventory space and let you place many structures as you can without using up your initial supplies.;
, Before running off, take stock of what resources are nearest to you or look for a safe, clear area close to many of your desired resources. This is so you can establish a safe area you can retreat to whenever you need it, as well as an area to keep your possessions and structures., You have two creatures here you can use to help farm hostile mobs, and they’re both fairly easy to befriend. Rock Lobsters eat pretty much any mineral material on the ground and are easily befriended when you feed them the same materials. Bunnymen are a bit pickier since they only accept Carrots, but both of these creatures function much like Pigs. You can take them with you and they’ll protect you from threats and such as long as they’re fed. They’re not necessary for farming but are more than welcome since there’s quite a lot of things trying to kill you in the Caves!

Make sure you don’t have any meat items in your inventory (including backpacks but excluding Chester) when you approach the Bunnymen, since they immediately become hostile and try to kill you.
Bunnymen give you a light Sanity Boost whenever you’re close to a friendly one, which makes them good for companionship if your Sanity is flagging. Rock Lobsters regenerate their health and grow whenever they’re camouflaged, making them perfect for beating up boss mobs or farming hostiles.
 You’ll find these new, interesting plants growing around the Caves, and they provide quite a bit of light in an otherwise dark and dreary area. The Light Flowers yield you Light Bulbs when picked, and will regrow in about 3–6 days, depending on the type you picked.

Light Flowers are available in 3 variations: one with a single stem, one with two stems, and one with three stems, with the three-stem one taking the longest to regrow its bulb.
The Light Bulbs are used primarily to refuel your Lantern and Miner Hat, or can be left in the ground for a short while to provide you a glowing path marker of sorts. They can also be used to prevent the Night Monster from maiming you terribly.
Light Bulbs spoil after 6 days, so harvesting a lot at a time is unnecessary and wasteful despite being easily renewed.
 Occasionally, you’ll encounter an underground biome visually and functionally similar to the surface Forest biome. Sometimes, you may even be luckier to find a Cave Banana tree growing in it. They basically resemble thin, bent trunks with Bananas growing from the stalk. The tree itself isn’t renewable, but the fruit growing from it is renewable every 4 days. They’re not very filling, just about as much as Berries, but they make excellent filler for your Crock Pot recipes., Earthquakes happen periodically in the Caverns. They can also be triggered with explosives or by beating a Big Tentacle. When it happens, Rocks, Nitre, and Flint start falling down from the ceiling (along with some Rabbits and Moleworms in Reign of Giants ), and with a chance for Gold Nuggets, Gems, or even Marble to drop down as well. This makes those materials infinitely renewable, if a bit unreliable for the case of Gold, Gems, and Marble. Be careful not to get hit by them when they fall!, Sometimes, you’ll encounter a huge slimy pile of rock surrounded by slugs with turtle shells. These slimy nuisances tend to devour almost every type of mineral (excluding marble) and also tend to assault you when you carry any gem or rock with you, including the rare Thulecite. When they die, though, they drop the useful Slurtle Slime (which you can use as an explosive or to refuel Miner Hats and Lanterns), the less useful Broken Shells (which you can only use to craft Potted Ferns), or the extremely useful Shelmet (which the second-strongest helmet you can wear). You can also place stacks of Rocks and Flint on the ground for them to eat, which makes them drop some Slurtle Slime without the risk you take when killing them. As long as you don’t destroy the slimy Slurtle Mound they live in, your resource is near-infinitely renewable.

Slurtles are extremely slow, so kiting them or getting your Bunnymen or Rock Lobster minions to deal with them is pretty easy.
There’s a rarer variation of Slurtle called a Snurtle, which flees from you when you come too close, and adds an annoying “hide” ability where it retreats into its shell and become practically invulnerable to attack. You can beat it by attacking it whenever its head pokes out from the shell. Beating one has a huge chance of dropping its shell, which you can use as an armor and to hide from enemies and take no damage whatsoever!

, Aside from regular Spiders, two new kinds are introduced in the Caverns and are spawned from structures called Spilagmites, which look like a set of stalagmites covered in black webbing. The two new Spiders are the Cave Spiders and the Spitters, and they are quite a bit tougher than regular Spiders. Thankfully, though, all you need to do is place Traps all over the Stalagmites to avoid unnecessary conflict.

Spitters have a long-ranged “spitting” attack while Cave Spiders retreat into their shells when attacked. However, they are easy to stunlock, meaning you can just keep attacking them once you have an opening, and they’ll die quite easily. Just make sure you attack them one at a time or have some helpers to prevent swarming.
 These pests spawn sporadically and randomly, and are usually found flapping about in the Caverns, but they die with one hit of a spear. Since they spawn randomly but constantly, you can just keep killing them without any regrets. They drop Monster Meat and Batsilisk Wings when killed, and constantly drop Guano while roaming around., These huge buggers spawn from holes in the ground and spawn Baby Tentacles to murder you whenever you attack it. Since they respawn, you can beat them about once a day. They drop some nice loot, like Tentacle Spikes and Tentacle Spots.

The Big Tentacles only drop Tentacle Spikes, Tentacle Spots, and Skeletons once a day, which makes this not as viable as it could be, but still makes those items renewable.
 These beasties function much like the Hound attacks of the surface, but in a more heinous manner. While periodically they will go out of their way to murder you, sometimes they lure you in with a bright blue plant that glows in the dark, then attack you relentlessly. If you manage to run away from them, they settle back down with only their bright blue lures visible. The maximum you can encounter in a single wave is 3, but with their ridiculous health, fighting them is pretty daunting without good weapons and armors or help from Rock Lobsters or Bunnymen.

When you beat Depths Worms, they drop 4 Monster Meats and a single Glow Berry. While there’s quite a few creative uses for Monster Meat, it’s the Glow Berry you’re actually farming. The Glow Berry spoils in 10 days, but when you eat it, you glow quite brightly for about 90 seconds.
In RoG, you can use a Glow Berry, plus 2 Moleworms and 2 Electrical Doodads, to craft the Moggles, which lets you see in the dark for a total of 12 minutes and can be refueled by Glow Berries before it breaks, making the Berries much more useful.
Their basic attack pattern is to attack from underground, surface once, and attack again without resurfacing. Then the patterns repeats. You can get a good 4–5 hits when they resurface, but you can’t stunlock them. Kiting tactics work best for the Worms but will definitely take you a very long time to kill just one without Rock Lobsters or Bunnymen helping you out.
Don’t use Tooth Traps to deal with Depths Worms, since they don’t trigger the traps while underground. Bee Mines are effective though.
 The Caverns constantly pick apart your sanity the longer you stay, since it’s perpetually dark and all that, making this place excellent if you want to farm Nightmare Fuel. All you need to do is neglect to heal up your sanity until the first of your hallucinations turn solid. You’ll want the ones that look like huge ticks and not the ones with huge beaks, since the tick-looking ones are easier to kill. Now lower your sanity until it reaches 30%. Simply run up to your hallucinations, and start killing them! Kiting tactics work best on both enemy types, but the tick-looking ones are weaker and thus easier to kill. Attacking or being close to your solid hallucinations eats away at your sanity, but slaying the shadowy creatures will boost it back up. They only drop Nightmare Fuel, but seeing as it’s a vital ingredient to make many magical items, you’ll be needing them all soon enough.

Better stay away from your Bunnymen friends if you plan on getting insane, since they transform into fearsome Beardlords. While they are neutral towards you and can also be befriended with Carrots, they drain your Sanity, much like normal monsters do. If you try to kill these guys, they will drop Beard Hair and Monster Meat upon death.
If you want a high-risk, high-reward challenge, go look for Nightmare Fissures in the Caves. The Fissures look like small holes in the ground and their light grows and wanes in cycles—the brighter the light, the higher the chance of spawning Nightmare creatures. Those creatures spawned are functionally like your hallucinations, but more aggressive and don’t heal your sanity upon defeat. The Fissures also drain your sanity the brighter the light, so be very careful.

