 Before giving in to revenge, try telling your enemy exactly what it is that you want him to stop doing. Stay calm and take control of the situation.Get specific with the person that hurt you. Don't resort to name-calling and insults. Tell him the exact incident that upset you. Let him know how it made you feel, and that you'd like him to stop.Maybe your enemy happens to be someone you work with, or even your boss. If this is the case, then you need to be especially careful with your wording. Be clear and direct, and offer a solution to the issue. It's important to assert yourself, but don't get aggressive.For example, say something like, "When you (insert problematic behavior), I feel (insert emotion)." If your boss is making jokes at your expense, ask to speak with him in private. Tell him, "When you make jokes at my expense, I feel undervalued."You could also try saying something like, "I don't appreciate the way you make jokes at my expense. I notice you only do this to me, and I'd like you to stop.";
, Sometimes all it takes to put your enemy in their place is a well-timed comeback.To pull off a witty comeback, you'll need to be able to think quickly. Observe the behavior of your enemy, and try making a comeback based on his actions.A comeback has to happen in the moment, so it can be difficult to practice. Look up some videos of comedians dealing with hecklers to see some examples of good comebacks. Do an online search and you'll find that a few historical figures gave the best comebacks.
A famous example of a witty comeback comes from Dorothy Parker. When confronted by a drunk man who said, "I can't bear fools," Dorothy Parker replied, "Apparently your mother could.", If talking hasn't worked and your enemy is still causing you stress, you might be thinking of pulling a prank on him. While taking action against your enemy might make you feel better at first, you may regret it in the long run. Think about your actions before you do anything you may regret.Fill a doughnut with mayonnaise for your enemy. Buy a few doughnuts on a day you plan on seeing your enemy. Take a syringe and fill it with mayonnaise, and inject the mayonnaise into the side of the doughnut. Offer the doughnut to your enemy and wait for the look on his face.If you work in an office, drive your enemy crazy with a hidden radio. Get to work early and hide a small radio with a long battery life near his work station. If you can remove the ceiling tiles, hide it in the ceiling. Keep the music just loud enough to distract and annoy him.Enlist the help of a professional. Several websites will offer to send your enemy embarrassing or irritating mail. You can mail your enemy glitter, or send him dead flowers.Think of pranks that will annoy your enemy without hurting him. Don't focus on causing him pain. The best you can hope for by pulling pranks is that your enemy will be distracted enough to ignore you for a short time. Eventually, your enemy will figure out who was behind the prank, and then you'll be on the defensive.