 Though you may take productive steps to make your child feel part of a community, your feelings of guilt may still be there. Rather than bottle these feelings up, reach out to family and friends. Talk about your feelings of guilt and be honest about where it is coming from. You may just need someone you respect and trust to listen to your thoughts.For example, you may confide in a close friend or family member that you are feeling guilty about having an only child. Be willing to listen to any advice or counsel offered to you. Take comfort in others and try not to keep your guilt hidden from others.
 You may notice one child parents at your child’s school, in your neighborhood, or in your circle of friends. Reach out to them and talk to them about your feelings of guilt. Many one child parents experience feelings of guilt and speaking to other parents can help you feel better.You may end up being part of an informal or formal one child support group with parents who are experiencing similar feelings you are. Build a community with other one child parents so you can all talk about where you are at and feel less alone.
 If you are still struggling with feelings of guilt despite talking to family or friends, you may consider professional counsel. Set up an appointment with a therapist or a counselor. Ask your primary care doctor to recommend a therapist or ask parents you know for recommendations for a counselor.Be willing to speak honestly and freely about your feelings of guilt with the therapist or counselor. Sharing your feelings with a trained professional can give you a sense of comfort and help you cope with these feelings more effectively.
 As you speak to others about your worries and your guilt, try to work on accepting your situation. Think of all the positives of having one child and remind yourself that you are lucky to have a child you love. You may think of positives like not having to deal with any fights between siblings, not having to divide your time between two children, and not having to worry that your child has to compete with a sibling for your attention.As you talk to other one child parents, you may also realize that your situation is completely normal and okay. You may have your own reasons for having one child and you should not feel pressured or judged by others. Draw on those around you as well as your own sense of self to accept and enjoy having one child.

