 Before you begin altering the size of your waistband you will need to turn your pants inside out. This way, any alterations you make to the pants will not be visible when you are wearing them. For instance, all incisions and sewing will be done on the inside of the pants.;
, Once they are inside out, measure the width of the waistband. You will need to use an elastic that is approximately 1/2 centimeter (¼ inch) to 1 ½ centimeters (½ an inch) smaller than the width of the waistband., To insert an elastic into the waistband of your pants, you will need to cut an opening for the elastic. Make a vertical cut approximately 2 centimeters (1 inch) from the button hole, and then again in the same place on the other side of the waistband.Only cut the inner layer of the waistband. Pinch the inner layer of the waistband and make a small cut using fabric scissors.
Do not cut any closer than 0.5 centimeters from the edges of the waistband. You do not want to accidentally cut the edge of the band.
 Before inserting the elastic, you will need to measure its length. To do this, take the elastic band and wrap it around your waist exactly where the waistband of the pants sit. Pull the elastic tight so that it is comfortable and can hold the pants onto your waist. Create a mark on the elastic to save the measurement., From this measurement, you will need to subtract the length of the waistband that the elastic is not covering. For example, measure across the front of the pants from the one cut you made in the waistband to the other cut. Subtract that measurement from the elastic and cut the elastic using scissors., Attach a safety pin to one end of the elastic and insert it into one of the holes you created in the waistband. Guide the elastic through the waistband until the safety pin comes out the other hole.To avoid pulling the elastic all the way through the waistband and out the other side, you can pin the end of the elastic to the waist band.
 Tuck the end of the elastic into the waistband. About 1cm (¼ inch) of the elastic to should tuck into the button side of the hole. The elastic should overlap with the incision made on both sides of the waistband. Using a thread that matches the color of the pants, sew the hole closed.Make sure that you sew over the elastic in order to secure it in place.
Sew both of the holes closed.
Use a thicker needle if you are working with denim or any other thick fabric.

