 Shut the Box, also called Batten Down the Hatches, Canoga, High Rollers (the game show of the same name derives from it), Klackers, or Zoltan Box, is normally played with two to four players for money, although it can be played as a solitaire game.


When played for stakes, each player kicks a certain amount of money in the pot, which the winner will collect when the game is over.
 The box in Shut the Box is labeled with tiles numbered from 1 to 9. At the beginning of the game, all the tiles are open.


Another form of box is the “Full House” box, which features tiles numbered from 1 to 12. A variation of this form of Shut the Box is “The 300,” which has a second box with tiles numbered from 13 to 24.
The game may also be played with some of the tiles already closed. In Even Stevens, only the even numbers are open, while the odd numbers are closed. In Against All Odds, only the odd numbers are open, while the even numbers are up. In 3 Down Extreme, the numbers 1, 2, and 3 are closed, while the rest are open. In Lucky Number 7, only the 7 tile is open and the box is passed around the players until one rolls a 7 to close it., This can be done by having the players roll one or both dice, with highest roll going first., Depending on the version being played, the player must roll both dice as long as the 7, 8, or 9 tiles remain open. Once those tiles are closed, the player may choose to roll one or both dice on each turn.


In some versions of the game, if a player rolls doubles, the player gets an extra turn.This option was used on the game show High Rollers, where an insurance marker was given to the player if he or she had a legal play with the value rolled.
In other versions of the game, a player must roll both dice until the sum of the values of the only tiles open is 6 or less (1, 2, 3; 1 and 5; 2 and 4; or 6). , Tiles whose face values add to the same values as the value rolled on the dice may be closed. If the value of the roll was 7, any of the following closures are legal:


Closing the 7 tile only.
Closing the 1 and 6 tiles, whether the individual die values are 1 and 6 or not.
Closing the 2 and 5 tiles, whether the individual die values are 2 and 5 or not.
Closing the 3 and 4 tiles, whether the individual die values are 3 and 4 or not.
Closing the 1, 2, and 4 tiles.
If the game is played “Thai style,” only one tile can be closed on each turn, either one of the two face values on their dice or their sum. If a value of 7 was rolled as a 3 – 4 combination, the player could shut the 3, the 4, or the 7 tile, but not any others, and not any combination that added to 7.
Other variations of the game require a certain tile to be closed on the first turn, or the player loses. In “2 To Go,” the 2 tile must be closed first; a first roll of 4 means an automatic loss. In “3 To Go,” the 3 tile must be closed first; a first roll of 2 means an automatic loss.
 Once a player rolls a number that cannot legally close any of the tiles still open, that player’s turn is over. At this point, the player adds the values of the still open tiles to determine his or her score; if the 2 and 3 tiles are the ones still open, the player scores 5. (This is known as the Golf variation.)


In the Missionary variation of Shut the Box, a player’s score is the number of tiles still open. If the 2 and 3 tiles are the ones still open, the player scores 2 for two still-open tiles.
In the Digital or “say what you see” variation of the game, the player’s score is a number made using the digits still displayed after making a roll that can’t shut boxes. If the 2 and 3 tiles were still open, the player’s score would be 23 instead of 5.
 The tiles are re-opened, and the next player tries to shut them by rolling the dice until no more tiles can be shut. This repeats until all players have had a chance to try to shut the box. The player with the lowest score wins the pot.


If any player succeeds in shutting all the tiles on the box, that player wins the game automatically and gets double the stake from the other players.The game can be played in rounds (Tournament style), using the Golf scoring variation, where each player’s score for a round is added to his previous score. Once a player reaches a total of 100 after a round is over, the player with the lowest score wins. It can also be played elimination style, where when a player reaches a total score of 45 or greater, that player is eliminated.
In the Unlucky Number 7 version of the game, if a player rolls a 7, the game ends.

