 Each state should have an agency that collects complaints about unpaid wages. You can find this agency online by searching for “your state” and “unpaid wages.”


In Texas, for example, the agency is the “Texas Workforce Commission.”, Your state agency probably has a complaint form you can use. Visit your agency’s website or call and request the form.You will need to complete and submit the form.
 Use a typewriter or print using black ink. Each form will be slightly different, but they generally will request similar information. For example, the following may be requested:your name and contact information
contact information for your employer
the type of work you performed
when you started working for your employer and your last day working (if you stopped)
your regular scheduled payday
your rate of pay
your agreed work schedule
whether taxes were deducted
information about the unpaid wages
your signature under penalty of perjury

, Make a copy of the completed complaint for your records. Then mail the complaint to the address listed on the complaint form. You can mail it certified mail, return receipt requested so that you will know when the agency has received it.


You should also include helpful documents, such as a recent payroll check or stub, as well as a copy of your employment contract (if you had one)., You don’t have forever to submit a complaint. Instead, your state will set a deadline. In Texas, for example, you have 180 days from the first day that wages were owed to you.
 After receiving your complaint, the state agency should reach out to your employer to ask for a response. Your state agency may also assign an investigator to your case. He or she could call you and your employer to ask questions.After hearing from your employer, the state agency will make a decision. It should send the decision in a letter to both you and your employer.
 If the agency agrees with you that your employer owes you wages, then the agency should get the money for you. The agency may have to sue if the employer will not cough up the money. The agency could also put liens on your employer’s property to encourage payment.

