 Keeping your feelings about the bullying and how it makes you feel about yourself and your sexual orientation bottled up can cause you long-term problems. Deal with the homophobic bullying by writing about it in your journal.You can use your journal as a way to document the things that are happening in case you need it later.
Write about what feelings you have when you are bullied and afterwards. Write about why you think the bullying makes you feel this way.
Write an entry or two about how the bullying is affecting how you feel about your sexuality and your decision to come out (if you are homosexual and haven’t come out yet).
 Bullying of any kind can have a negative impact on your physical, mental and emotional health. You may find that you are anxious, moody, or that you have trouble concentrating, sleeping, or eating. Taking care of your health helps you deal with effects the homophobic bullying may have.Make sure you are getting regular physical activity. Walking, doing yoga, or playing sport can improve your health and help you deal with the stress of being bullied.
Have a regular sleep routine and schedule. It can be easy to lose sleep over a bully, but doing so will cause you to be even more anxious, irritable, and stop you from thinking clearly.
Try not to skip meals or eat just because you are emotional. Eat meals and snacks that are healthy on a regular schedule.
Avoid using drugs and alcohol as a way to cope with the bullying. Doing this will cause you more long-term problems than the bullying will.
 You may feel that you have done something to deserve the bullying or even that because you are homosexual, it is something you just have to deal with. It’s not. Understanding that being bullied is not your fault will help you deal with it happening to you.Remind yourself that the bully is the person with the problem and their words and actions prove it.
Remember that whether you are homosexual or not, or out or not, you don’t deserve to be bullied.
Tell yourself, “This bullying is a reflection of them, not me. I didn’t do anything to make this happen. I don’t deserve it and I won’t tolerate it.”

, They can help you deal with bullying when it is happening, but they also are a way of being less stressed and more peaceful long-term. Making an effort to regularly reduce your overall level of stress will help you deal with homophobic bullying when it happens, too.


Even just regular deep breathing and stretching (like right when you wake up) can have positive effects on your mood and health.
Regular meditation can help you with anxiety when you experience and help you handle everyday stress better.
Physical activity on a regular basis can improve your health and allow you to blow off steam when you need to.
Doing things like painting, sculpting, and gardening can calm you as well as give you a sense of purpose.

