 The length of your drapes can convey a casual or a more formal look, so be clear on what kind of atmosphere you want to create in your room so that your drapes can reflect that feeling.


For a casual look, measure the distance from the bottom of the drapery rod or drapery rings, to the floor and subtract ½".
For a more formal look, choose a length that allows the drapes to sit or "puddle" on the floor. Measure the distance from the bottom of the drapery rod or drapery rings to the floor and add anywhere from 1" to 10".

A 1" puddle (also called a “break“) will just touch the floor.
A 2"-4" puddle will allow for just a slight spill of fabric.
A 5"-8" puddle has enough extra length to allow the fabric to "fan out" onto the floor.
A 10" puddle creates the most opulent look and works best with draperies made from heavy material such as velvet.
If you plan to open and close your drapes a lot, puddling is not a good idea since the bottoms will get dirty quickly from dragging on the floor.
 When deciding on fullness, stick to your aesthetic. If you've chosen to go with a casual look in length, use panels that cover your window with fewer folds. If you've chosen a formal look, use panels that are wider and will create lush folds.


Measure your window’s overall width. Multiply it by 1 for a casual look, 2 for a mid-range or standard look and 3 for a full or formal look.
To reduce gaps that can let in light and compromise privacy, add 2" to 8" so that the end panels can extend beyond the window frame.

For example, if you want a full look and your window is 45" wide, you'll need roughly 135" of drapery fabric (45"x3) plus a maximum of 8" to cover any light gaps.
 The approach you take will depend on whether you've chose to go with a traverse rod or with a stationary rod.



Traverse rod - Place drapery hooks/pins into the openings next to each pleat on the back of the drapery panels. Insert the hooks into the carriers attached to your drapery rod. Begin at one end and insert the first hook in the top hole of the end bracket. Wrap the drape around the bracket at the end and place each subsequent hook into a carrier. Keep moving unused carriers towards the other end of the rod as you work. When the drapes completely cover the rod, insert the last hook into the top hole of the end bracket.

Stationary rod - Slide the rod through the pocket, tabs or grommets at the top of your drapery panels. Spread the panels out evenly across the rod and set the rod in place on the hardware you installed.

