 Your spine should be in alignment (i.e.: with your slight natural curve, as if you were standing straight up). Keeping your hips back and chest up prevents a rounded spine. Most people start to get lazy as they get tired, and their back starts to curve. This is dangerous and ineffective. No matter how tired you are, you must focus on your spinal alignment.


A rounded spine can lead to very serious injury.
If you can't do a rep right, don't do it at all -- bad form is much worse than none at all.
 You should be able to lift and wiggle your toes if you wanted. Resting on your toes puts stress on your knees, whereas you have a much more solid base on your heels.
 Do not let your knees pull or "cave in" while squatting. This is bad for your knees. Actively push your knees toward proper position throughout the entire squat to ensure against bad alignment. You need to keep your knees mostly quiet, bending but otherwise leaving them in roughly the same place throughout the exercise. If you feel extra muscle exertion through your glutes (hips), you are doing it right.









Focus on keeping your knees outward, pushing through the heel, not the toes.
Never let your knees extend beyond your toes, as this will increase the likelihood of damage to the patellar tendon and ligament in the knee.
Your knees might move slightly forward as you squat, but this is okay -- just keep them over your foot, behind the toes.
 You want the bar to rest on your traps, (upper back muscles). You'll know if it's on your neck if you can feel the bar digging into your neck-bone, as one of your hard vertebrae will be right in the way. Lower the bar a bit and distribute/balance the weight evenly across your upper body.


A slightly wider grip may help.
 This most effectively utilizes your body's natural rhythm, allowing you to access the most air and move through the squat fluidly.









In general, inhale as you "enter" an exercise, like a stretch. Then exhale as you exert action.
 As with any athletic endeavor, warming up and stretching is necessary to prevent strain or injury. Warm up first by getting your heart rate up and then following the directions below for a warm up squat, but with a very small amount of weight.









Static versus dynamic stretch: Static stretching is a type of stretch where you hold a position for a certain amount of time (usually 15-30 seconds). Dynamic (active) stretching involves controlled movements through various ranges of motion. Dynamic stretching is sometimes recommended because warming up by moving may offer less risk of injury. Shoulder rolls, light kicks, sumo squats, leg circles, and knee bends are all good examples of dynamic stretching exercises.

Start with no weights at all—or an unloaded barbell, if you're new to squats and weight training.
If you're more experienced, or you find an unloaded barbell too light, select weights that are appropriate for your strength and set them up on the barbell. If you have the option of adjusting the height of the rack, bring it to a level below your shoulders, to about your armpits. Do not use too much weight because you can hurt yourself.
 A lifting belt keeps your back supported and aligned with the rest of your body which you need to train yourself to do on your own. However, when you are at a level where your back strength (lower and upper) is sufficient, a belt may be desirable in order to brace the back and core for heavy lifts.

