 Focus on one recipe at a time and give yourself enough time to improve your cooking.;
, Do you want to use fresh basil in your dishes? If so, follow the steps as listed below:


Put lots of fresh basil into a glass.






Next, put water on the stems until they are covered. It will remain fresh for weeks, just sitting on the kitchen counter! In fact, if you periodically freshen the water, the herb may even sprout roots.






Trim your basil plants once in a while to promote more growth, and enjoy your fresh basil for quite a long time.
 Your spices should be stored in any area that is dark and cool. Storing spices in lighted areas or warm areas can reduce their length of freshness. Try to find a cool, dark cupboard if you want to increase the flavor and lifespan of your favorite spices. If you use fresh spices, your food will taste better.
 Sticking a citrus fruit in the microwave can help when you're trying to juice it. Follow the steps below to achieve this excellent method:


Put the fruit inside the microwave and heat it for about ten seconds, depending on size.






Immediately after removing the fruit from the microwave, gently roll it on a flat surface. Now you are ready to begin juicing.
 Meals that are full of color are healthy and visually stunning. Some colorful garnishes you can add to your meals include cherry tomatoes, cilantro, parsley and carrot curls. Do a little experimentation with different foods and colors to produce dishes that are both awe inspiring and appetizing.
 Tomatoes and other juicy ingredients should be on the bottom layer and lettuce along with any other ingredients which might wilt or get soggy should be on the top.
 Metal skewers will work better if they are twisted or squared.
 One of the ways is to warm an oven up to 350ʡF (177ʡC), and then place the tortilla right on the oven rack until it reaches the crispness you desire.


You can also crisp your tortilla on the gas burner of your stove-top. Just turn the flame on low and place the tortilla on the burner above the flame. Watch it carefully! It only takes a moment! A hot, fresh, crunchy tortilla is within reach when these simple techniques are used.
 Hard utensils like wood or metal can scratch your cookware and the coatings on them that provide that non stick surface. This doesn't taste great, and can also be dangerous.
 Make meals that will relax you and that you can enjoy and your family will appreciate them as well. Learning to cook can help you to improve your diet, and it can also enhance your quality of life. The kitchen should be the centerpiece of your home.

