 Glue removers that are xylene or orange oil-based work well. Pick a liquid-based product able to soak through fabric. An adhesive remover that comes in a spray bottle will be much easier to work with for this purpose. Common brands are Goo Gone, De-Solv-It, and Goof Off.


Rubbing alcohol can also be an effective alternative., Even if the adhesive remover is advertised as fabric safe, it is still possible that it may stain your particular item. You will need to test it out first before using the remover on a patch. Do this over a clean sink to avoid making a mess.


Find a small, inconspicuous area on your item that is not easily visible during normal use. For example, the inside back bottom edge of a hat or jacket would be a good choice.
Dab a small amount of adhesive remover onto this spot.
Work the adhesive remover into the fabric using your fingers or a clean rag.
Rinse off the adhesive remover and check for discoloration.
 If your item is a T-shirt, a hat, or a pair of paints, turn it inside out. You will need to access the fabric that is bonded to the patch. If your item is a canvas bag, simply lay it out flat upside-down.
 Squirt or pour the glue remover liberally on the back of the cloth. Use enough that is soaks through your item completely. Make sure you cover the whole area behind the patch. Work the remover into the fabric using either your fingers or a clean rag. Wait about one minute for the remover to loosen the patch.
 The adhesive remover should successfully soften the glue, making it sticky. The patch should now easily come off your item.


Turn the item right-side-out. Hold it with one hand.
Grip the edge of the patch between the index finger and thumb of your other hand.
Pull back to lift the edge of the patch up and off your item.
Work your way around the patch until it has been entirely peeled away.
 If part of the patch is still stuck to your item, try repeating the process, focusing on the spots where the adhesive did not soften properly.


Reapply the adhesive remover however many times it takes to completely remove the patch. However, if the glue remover you used has not softened the adhesive at all, you will likely need to try a different one.
If you don't plan on keeping the patch, trim off what you've already peeled off with a pair of scissors. This will make it much easier to work with and keep the patch from sticking back onto your item.

