 While olive oil is almost always perfectly safe for healthy people, certain injuries and conditions can make your ears too sensitive for it. If you have any of the following problems, speak to your doctor before taking any action.Perforated eardrums
Frequent ear infections
Hearing loss in either ear
Mastoid cavity
Any condition for which you've been told to keep your ears dry;
, Olive oil helps soften the wax in your ears, making it easier to drain on its own.Before putting any of the oil into your ears, however, you should warm it roughly to body temperature—98.6°F. This is the temperature of your inner ear, and the oil will be more comfortable at a comparable temperature. You should warm two to three tablespoons of pure olive oil.


Ensure you don’t overheat the oil since this can cause damage to your eardrum.
Note that while olive oil is a common option, it’s not the only option. You can also safely use hydrogen peroxide, glycerin, baby oil, or mineral oil., Blockages can also trap bacteria, which can lead to infection of the ear.Some people choose to add essential oils with antibacterial properties to help with excess bacteria that may be present due to the blockage. However, the olive oil alone has shown to be effective in simply helping to break up the blockage.Make sure to test a drop or two of the oil on your skin to check for irritation before adding it to your ears. Add about four drops to the warmed olive oil. Some essential oil options include:


Garlic oilEucalyptus oilLavender oil, which is safe for childrenOregano oilSt. John’s wort, Once you’ve mixed the olive oil and any essential oils you’ve chosen, pick up some of the solution with an eyedropper.This will help you deliver the correct amount of the solution, and it’s much easier than trying to pour olive oil into your ear.
 Rather than filling your ear with the oil, you can apply just a few drops, which will soak into the wax.Keep your head titled to stop the oil from escaping for five to ten minutes.


You can keep a tissue next to your ear to catch any remaining oil that drips out when you straighten your head—if any.
 Using the olive oil isn’t likely to work in a single application. You should try to repeat the process two to three times each day for approximately three to five days.This should be sufficient time to help dissolve and break up the blockage.
 Though the olive oil may have softened the blockage, some cases require more to actually dislodge it. You can irrigate the affected ear as an additional step if necessary. Use a rubber-bulb syringe (such as those used for babies), tilt your head, and gently squirt warmed water into the canal of the affected ear.Be very gentle since you can damage your eardrum if you squirt the water with too much pressure.
You can pull your ear both up and backward to help straighten the ear canal for best results.Your doctor can also irrigate your ear. He or she will have a safer method with tools using an exact pressure of water to avoid damaging your ear., If the process of softening the blockage and irrigating your ear doesn’t help, then consider seeing your doctor. He or she will have several methods available to safely remove the blockage.Your doctor will also be able to exam your ear and form a proper diagnosis. Your problem may not have been an earwax blockage in the first place. Other causes of a congested sensation in your ears include:Sinusitis - inflammation of the sinuses
Meniere’s Disease - an inner ear disorder with hearing and balance problems
Cholesteatoma - a cyst in the middle ear
Acoustic neuroma - a tumor of the acoustic (hearing) nerve
Fungal infections
Serous otitis media - a middle ear infection
Temporomandibular junction (TMJ) dysfunction

