 Poor sleep habits can increase stress levels and anxiety, especially in people who already have GAD. Aim to get eight hours of sleep every night. If you have a hard time falling or staying asleep, work on your sleep hygiene to get a better night’s rest.You can improve your sleep hygiene by sticking to a consistent sleep schedule, making sure your bedroom is comfortable, avoiding caffeine, and doing something relaxing right before you go to bed. Also, make sure to shut off electronics before you go to bed. The blue light emitted by electronic devices disrupts your natural sleep rhythm.;
, Decrease your day-to-day stress levels by managing your time, setting reasonable boundaries, and making time to relax every day. If you’re feeling anxious, unwind with a relaxation technique like yoga, deep breathing, or journaling.Consider saying no to requests that you know will stress you out.
Set aside time to work on your hobbies regularly.
 Spending time around other people can help reduce your anxiety levels, so don’t isolate yourself. Try calling a family member, going out for dinner with a friend, or joining a club where you can meet new people., Mindfulness, the practice of focusing your attention on the here and now, has been shown to help people with GAD manage their symptoms. To become more mindful, spend a few minutes every day focusing on what you see, hear, and feel in the present moment, without thinking about the future or the past.Regular meditation is also an effective way to establish the habit of mindfulness.
Go outside and spend some time in nature to reduce stress and become more mindful., Anxiety can be exacerbated by poor diet and lack of exercise. To feel better, avoid processed foods and eat plenty of vegetables, fruits, lean protein, and whole grains instead. Relieve stress and increase your endorphin levels by incorporating a type of exercise you enjoy into your daily routine.Avoid or cut back on alcohol and caffeine, which can make anxiety worse.
Aerobic exercises like dancing and running relieve anxiety more effectively than anaerobic exercises like lifting weights.
 The scents of certain herbs and herbal combinations, like lavender, are reputed to help reduce anxiety. Try burning sticks of incense, taking scented baths, or warming your own essential oil blends in an oil warmer.Lavender, bergamot, frankincense, and clary sage are a few good choices for reducing anxiety.
Never leave burning incense unattended.

