 Get a pen that can be unscrewed and stuffed with notes. A good pen for this would be one that you can unscrew for removing and replacing ink cartridges. Empty the pen and write small notes that you then roll up tightly and fit inside the pen.


You could use a mechanical pencil.
You can also buy barrel pens. These are pens with a small window that click to rotate messages.You could also purchase a special pen that has a roll of paper included in its side that you just roll out and roll back in.
You might want to pull out the notes while taking a bathroom break. There's less of a chance of getting caught this way!
Get rid of notes. Once you're finished with the notes, throw them away, preferably somewhere not close to the classroom where the test was. If you do throw them away in the classroom, shred the paper to cover your tracks.
 Tape notes to the bottom of your shoes. During the test, rest on your outer foot and turn your head down at angle so you can see the notes. Try not to look to obvious doing this; make it look like you are just stretching your neck.


You could put cheat sheets or notes into your shoes and take them out as needed. Keep in mind, though, that notes are hard to remove from your shoes during a test without attracting attention. This method might work if you take a bathroom break, however.
 Write formulas and other material that wil help you on the inside of your sleeve (on the underside of your wrist). Then, wear a sweater over top of that shirt. This will help not make it too obvious when you pull back the first sleeve to see the notes written on the inside of the second.


You could also tape pieces of paper into a hood or hat liner.
 Using an ink that is close to your skin tone, write notes onto ankles, legs, arms and hands - basically anywhere that is visible to you but not too visible to the outside eye.You could also try wearing shorts or a skirt and writing the formulas just above the line that your shorts cover. Lift them slightly if you get stuck, and then cover them back. Instructors and teachers might be too embarrassed or worried about confronting you if you cheat this way because it would involve them having to investigate your body., Write notes on the desk in pencil and then remove and wipe away after you're finished to get rid of the evidence.
 Write your formulas on tape, place the tape on your leg, place another piece of tape on top so it doesn't bleed, and voila! This works best for people with long pants/skirts.