 It has a round red, green, yellow, and blue icon.

If you’re using Windows, you’ll find it in the Windows menu (also known as the Start menu). In macOS, look on the Dock or Launchpad.
If you don’t have Google Chrome on your computer, download it for free from https://www.google.com/chrome.;
,, It’s at the top-left corner of Chrome., You’ll see a list of extensions that match your search, including Bitmoji (which should be at the top of the list).,, Bitmoji will now install to Chrome. When the installation is complete, a green and white Bitmoji icon button will appear at the top-right corner of Chrome., It’s to the right of the address bar, near the browser’s top-right corner.,,

If you already have a Bitmoji account, enter your account information (or click Log in with Facebook) to sign in now.
If you’re new to Bitmoji, tap Sign up for Bitmoji at the top-right corner of the page, then follow the on-screen instructions to create your account.
 You can skip this step if you’re new to Bitmoji. Otherwise, it’s the green button at the top-right corner of the screen., If you already had an avatar, you can skip this step., Choose Bitmoji style for a simple, cartoon-like avatar, or Bitstrips style for a more detailed character., Select an option from the first category, then click the right-pointing arrow (at the top-right corner) to proceed to the next category.

The Bitmoji and Bitstrips styles have different customization options.
To view all possible categories at once, click the name of the category (e.g. Face Shape, Hair Type, Outfit).
 It’s at the bottom-right corner of the screen. Your Bitmoji avatar is now ready to use!, You can use the Bitmoji Chrome extension on almost any social media/communication website that supports image sharing.

Twitter, Slack, Facebook, and most web-based email sites all support Bitmoji., It’s the green and white winking chat bubble icon at the top-right corner of Chrome. The Bitmoji pop-up menu will appear., You can click through the various categories by name (e.g. Hi, Yes, Funny) or by clicking the icons at the bottom of the pop-up window., If your computer doesn’t have a right mouse button, hold down the Ctrl key as you click with the left.,,

If you’re making a social media post, right-click the box where you’d normally type your post.
To add Bitmoji to a web-based email message, create a new message, then right-click the message body.
 The Bitmoji you selected will appear in the post or message once its sent.