 Start by having your dog “sit” and “stay” in an area in your home that is quiet and free of distractions. You should also have a lure food on hand, such as a piece of bread, and a high value treat like a piece of ham or steak.Put the lure in one hand and the treat in the other hand or in your pocket so it’s within reach.;
, When your dog moves towards the lure food, say “leave it” in a calm, clear voice. Place your hand over the lure food with your hand as you say “leave it.”Your dog should stop paying attention to your hand or give up trying to get at the food with your hand over it.
 Once your dog stops paying attention to the lure food, reward them with the treat. You may also say “Good job!” or “Great going!” to your dog to let them know they acted correctly. As your dog enjoys their treat, you should remove the lure food so your dog does not notice it.Repeat the “leave it” command with your dog in the same setting, rewarding them each time they leave the lure food alone under your hand.
 The next phase is to get your dog to leave the lure food when it is not covered by your hand. To do this, place the lure food in front of your dog, within reach of your hand. Then, say “leave it.” Wait for your dog to leave the food. Once they do, reward them with a treat.If your dog does not leave the food, cover the lure food with your hand. Then, wait for your dog to calm down and ignore the lure food. Reward your dog and try the command again.
 Once your dog seems confident with the “leave it” command indoors, you should put on their leash and bring them outside into the yard. Play with your dog on the leash with their favorite toy. Then, present the lure by placing it in front of your dog. Say “leave it” and wait for your dog to back away or ignore the lure food. Then, reward them with a treat.Do not throw the lure food during the training session on the leash, as this will trigger your dog’s retrieval instincts.
If your dog does not leave the lure food and you end up trying to get it out of your dog’s mouth, you may need to backtrack and focus on getting your dog to learn the command indoors not on their leash. Be patient and work with your dog on each phase of the command until they are confident.
 If you feel your dog is following the “leave it” command on their leash, you may up the challenge and try the command in a distracting area. Bring your dog to a dog park, keeping them on their leash, or to an area with people. Use a lure food or practice with items your dog comes across in public, such as trash or food on the ground. Say “leave it” and wait for your dog to ignore the food or step away from it. Then, reward your pup with a treat.If your dog does not follow your “leave it” command in a busy or distracting area, they may not be ready to do the command in public. You may need to backtrack and work on the command with your dog on the leash or indoors until they get comfortable with it.

