 Most situations which would have you creeping around your own house will likely happen at night. It is recommended that you keep the area as dark as possible as you clear your house. Darkness gives you a few advantages: You surely know your house better than an intruder, and if you have a flashlight with you, you have the ability to completely remove the intruder's night vision.
 There is also the option to have an additional attached flashlight. Most tactical, or combat, weapons have the ability to attach certain lights to the frame of the firearm.


Hand-held light gives you options that the attached light does not, so while an attached light is a great feature to have on a weapon, it cannot always replace the hand-held light.
 Night sights are a welcome feature because they allow you to line up your sights when there is no light. This isn't a panacea, however: If you can't see your sights you may not be able to see your target, and you will have an even more difficult time identifying your target. (Make sure you're not dealing with your next-door-neighbor's son!)


Laser sights are also options. Laser sights will allow you to see where your firearm is pointed without having to use the sights to aim. This can be very helpful if you don't have your corrective lenses in. As always, you must identify your target as hostile before firing, which means that you will want to have a flashlight, even if you are using a laser.
 Your best "accessory" is your own body. If something happens while you are sleeping, your eyes are already adjusted, but if something happens and you are around light (but you must go into a dark area) be sure you let your eyes adjust before you proceed. It can take up to 30 minutes for your eyes to fully adjust.
 You do not want to be silhouetted against the light behind you, or highlighted by light on you. Try to approach danger areas from the shadows or from behind other areas of concealment or cover.
 Aim the light right at the head and turn it on for only a moment (a flashlight with a temporary-on switch is preferable). You need a flashlight with at least 50 Lumens to temporarily disorient an attacker at night.
 This action will also get a reaction which will give you an idea into the intruder's head. They now know you know where they are, and being blinded is not a comfortable situation. The chemicals in his eyes which allow humans to see in almost complete darkness will have been burnt away and will take up to 30 minutes to fully return, which gives you a big advantage.
