 Optometrists believe that one of the leading causes of dry eye among contact wearers is lens soilage. This means that contact lenses accumulate dirt and residue each time you handle them, so the more times you do that the worse the problem will be.Transitioning to daily disposable contacts means that you only handle them once before using them, which minimizes the amount of irritants that come into contact with the eye.
 Just as changing shampoo brands can improve your hair’s luster and shine, switching to a new brand/type of contact lenses can eliminate (though perhaps only temporarily) the symptoms of dry eyes. This is often attributed to a change in the material the contact lenses are made of. A material change means your eyes must adjust to wearing the new kind of contacts after the switch.Make sure you confer with your optometrist before you make any decisions about switching bands. And be sure to get new contact lenses that are also meant for dry eyes.
 If you suffer from dry eyes, be sure to get a high moisture solution that you can use to store your contacts in each night. Make sure you use the brand recommended by your doctor, because using contact solutions that aren’t compatible with your lenses can degrade the lens quality over time.People can develop sensitivities over time, so even if you have just recently developed dry eye symptoms don’t discount changing your contact care regimen simply because it has worked in the past.
 If you choose to wear your contact lenses all day and are worried about your dry eyes, carry eye drops with you. In case your eyes feel dry, use artificial eye drops to keep them moist. This can reduce the discomfort you feel from dry eyes.These drops are available without a prescription.
If you find yourself using the drops more than every two hours, make sure you purchase the kind that is preservative-free.
 If you have trouble with dry eyes, you might think about adding an omega-3 or omega-6 supplement to your diet. These fatty acids have been proven to improve comfort and reduce eye dryness for contact wearers.Additionally, you could try fish oil, flaxseed oil, or krill oil, as all three have also been shown to have positive effects on reversing dry eye symptoms.
Drink plenty of water. This will help keep your eyes moist.

