 The best local resources for retro clothing are thrift shops, Salvation Army stores and resale shops.These places also have the lowest prices, but a little digging is usually required to unearth quality items. Don’t be overwhelmed by the massive selection, but be prepared to really dig in. Move boxes around, look under things and pull out clothing from the bottom of the bins. You never know what you might find!


Check the glass cabinets near the registers, as well. These are generally locked, and for good reason – the best things are often in them.
Find out from store management how often they replenish their stock and check back frequently., The same is true for antique shops. The selection is often much better and less digging is required to find the good stuff. Unfortunately, you can also expect the price tags to be higher than what you’d find at a thrift shop. If you’re considering making a significant purchase at a boutique, ask the shop assistant to go over the details of the piece with you.


If a garment is very expensive, look for designer tags. If it’s not a designer piece, ask about the price.
Don’t make a purchase unless you are completely satisfied with what they have to say.
 Look for holes and stains. You can’t expect perfection from used items and signs of wear should be expected. However, don’t let a minor defect stop you from buying a piece you really love. Evaluate any flaws you find realistically. Sometimes garments can be dry cleaned or repaired, but not always.


Think about the size of the defect, where it’s located on the item, and whether or not it’s still wearable if you can’t fix it.
In general, the older a garment is, the more fragile the material will be.
Moth damage is a risk, especially with natural fibers. Hold pieces up to the light to look for threadbare fabric and holes.
 Websites like eBay and Etsy can provide a vast selection of additional items that would be difficult to find in a resale shop. The downside is that you can’t touch the fabric or evaluate the size before you buy something online. Inspect the images closely. If you aren’t satisfied with the provided images, request additional ones from the seller.


Online retailers should provide measurements. Don’t rely on the size identified on the tag.Make sure details are provided about any damages or irregularities.
Find out the seller’s return policy and keep that in mind when making decisions. Often, sales are final., Sizes can vary from decade to decade, and also by manufacturer.Because of this, it can be difficult to figure out if something will fit you just by looking at it. Do a little research on basic sizing systems for the eras you’re interested in.


When in doubt, go for pieces that appear slightly too large. These can always be tailored to fit you just right, but there isn’t much you can do with a garment that is too small for you.