 One simple solution is to wear a hat you have at home, anything from a baseball cap to tiara. You can also borrow one of your parent's hats or a neighbor's hat. Look around to see what you have.


It doesn't even have to be a traditional "hat." For instance, you could wear a mascot head.
You could also just tie a pretty scarf around your head to create a "hat" or gather a handful of fake flowers into a simple floral hat or headband.
 You've probably seen pictures of ladies wearing fun and crazy hats to events like the Kentucky Derby. These hats are very dramatic and often involve lace, ribbon, feathers, beads, and/or flowers. They're often very tall or wide, though some of them are small and dainty.You may be able to find a suitable derby-style hat at a thrift store for cheap, though you'll need to get lucky.
Another option is to start with another style of hat and turn it into a derby-style hat. For instance, you can find lady's straw hats at the craft store. Cover one in fabric. Flip up one edge by sewing it into the top of the hat, then add any decorations you'd like.
 One option is to find an old hat around the house or at a thrift store that you can dress up with crazy things, though ask your parents before using a hat you find at home. You could use things you find around the house or pick up a few things to make a crazy hat.For example, you could cover an old hat in comic book paper or playing cards.
Another option is to spray paint a baseball cap in crazy colors, then glue pipe extending off it like an alien head.
 For the most fun, consider making your own crazy hat. Come up with an idea, and then gather the supplies you'll need. You may need to run to the craft store, but you also may be able to make it from stuff you have lying around the house.For instance, turn a tiny Christmas tree into a hat by adding your own headband. You can even add a small strand of battery-powered lights and tiny ornaments. Try to secure them to the tree by gluing them in or wiring them in more securely, so they don't fall off throughout the day.Create a hat from cardboard or foam core, and then add all sorts of crazy decorations. You could even just go around your house and see what crazy things you could glue to it, with your parents' permission, of course. For instance, you could make a "chef" hat by gluing various kitchen utensils to it, such as whisks and spatulas. (Skip the knives, though!)

