 Many people get stressed out about the idea of moving countries, so close your eyes and breathe deeply; clear your mind, and accept the fact that you are moving.;
, Make sure you have everyone's numbers, e-mail addresses and home addresses. Try not to create false promises of visits because it will let you and them down if you cannot afford it, as the first year living abroad is usually an expensive one.
 Know that they are going through exactly the same emotions. Decide before you arrive to your new home that you will embrace this new experience., Remember no one is going to force you to change, and be sure to take alone time because it will help you process your emotions and experiences.
 This is always a nerve racking phase but first impressions aren't everything. Most classmates or coworkers will be kind and even curious about you. They will help you get oriented. For those classmates or coworkers that are unkind - learn how to read their tones, faces and those around them. "This is a very important skill," as tones and body language often say just as much as words.
 Your new country may financially support it, but if not, it's well worth the investment. You will meet other expatriates in your language classes; it's always helpful to know you're not alone. If you make friends with locals, you will catch onto the language that much faster.
 In the best of schools they will give you at least a year before they set your grades. Because of your lack of fluency in the language they will not be able to really grade you so at the end of the year, you'll have 75 in literature even though you got 13 on the exam.
, There is no need to panic if buying your "new" home takes time but when you finally have your "new" home, take time to make it your own with décor and pictures.
 It will help you relax and meet new friends. Join an art club or athletic team. Skateboard or go for a run at the local park. Enjoying the same hobbies you did at home helps you from feeling overwhelmed and connects you with others who enjoy the same things.
 It will often make you nostalgic and will disrupt your new way of life. Embrace your new life, be positive, and enjoy your clean slate. Remaining in the past will only negatively affect your future.
 Pets instinctively understand how a person is feeling. A pet is another responsibility but it will help you gain more confidence and get you out of the house. Your new pet could help you make new friendships with other pet owners.
 Food, mannerisms, language, and clothing will all be different. Different doesn't necessarily mean bad. Focus on similarities, and try to embrace the things that are new. The younger you are when you move, the easier it will be to adjust to and learn new languages and customs.

