 Every cat is different. Depending on your cat's health condition, your vet will suggest different types of food and supplements. Make sure you follow your vet's recommendations regarding your cat's diet. Ask any questions you have at the vet's office and feel free to call the vet if you have questions when you get home.You should know the type of food to use, the amount to feed your cat each day, and how much to feed at a time. Tube fed cats are not fed meals all at once.
Your vet can also give you general advice on how to get your cat to cooperate. Vets have vast experience dealing with stressed animals, so your vet's guidance regarding getting your cat to behave is invaluable.;
, Food should be served at room temperature. Prior to blending the food to serve to your cat, make sure it is at roughly room temperature. If you can store food out in the open, do so. If food must be refrigerated first, leave it out for an hour or so prior to feeding. Use a blender or food processor to get the food into a spreadable consistency that flows easily., To tube feed a cat, you feed the food into the tube through a syringe. Your vet should provide you with a syringe or advise you where to purchase one. Draw the correct amount of food from the syringe and then feed it into your cat's feeding tube.You usually measure the food first. Most syringes have measurements on the side you can use. You can also measure out the food first using measuring cups and then draw it into the syringe.
 Do not simply dump the full contents of the syringe into the feeding tube. Press down on the syringe slowly. Allow the food to flow through the tube and into your cat a little bit at a time. If food is moving slowly, you may want to pause and wait for it to go through the tube before pushing the remaining food into the tube., It's important to keep the tube clean for your cat's well-being. After feeding is done, flush out the tube with a small amount of water. Make sure you remove any lingering traces of food from the tube.If any food is clogging the tube, place a small amount of soda or juice in the tube. This should flush out lingering food.
 Tube feeding is fairly easy once you get the hang of it. Most people can successfully tube feed their cats at home. However, if tube feeding becomes a problem for your cat, contact your vet. They should be able to help you troubleshoot any problems.If you're really struggling with tube feeding, see if you can schedule a time to come into the office and have your vet show you how to tube feed. Going through a tutorial with your vet can help you learn how to tube feed successfully.

