 Once you spawn, take a look around.  Head for the nearest tree.;
,  Hit the 'E' key on your keyboard.  This will bring up your GUI, and you should get the achievement "Taking Inventory".,  Click and hold the left mouse button until the block breaks and a miniature version of the block falls onto the ground.  It may automatically go into your inventory, or you may have to walk over to it to pick it up.  Once you do, you should get the achievement "Getting Wood".
 Place the block of wood in one of the four slots under the word "Crafting". To the right side of what is called the crafting grid you will see a different type of item with the number four on it. Pick this up and place it in one of the slots in your hotbar. Your hotbar is the row of 9 slots at the bottom of your inventory. This will show up when you are not on the inventory screen.
 These are wooden planks. Place your mouse over one of the slots in the crafting grid. Click and drag the block over each slot. You should see another item appear on the right side of the crafting grid (the crafting output). Pick it up. You should receive the achievement "Benchmarking". This is a crafting table. Place it into your hotbar and exit your inventory by pressing E.
 It should appear in your hand in front of you.
, Turn these into wood planks again. Wooden planks are a type of "stackable" blocks, which means that you can make wooden planks, put them in your inventory, and place more blocks of the same type on top of them. This is useful for conserving inventory space.
 The bottom left is 2A. The top right corner is 1B and the bottom right is 2B.


In slot 1A and 2A, place wooden planks by clicking and dragging the blocks. You might notice that it leaves more than one block in each slot. This is because it divides the blocks you are holding evenly among the slots in which you drop them. You should have four wooden planks in both 1A and 2A. In the crafting output, you should see 4 sticks. Click this once. You will now be holding four sticks, and there will now be three wooden planks in each filled slot of your crafting grid.
 Close your inventory, and the blocks in your crafting grid will fall on the ground. Just pick them up, it's no big deal.
 You should see a bigger version of your crafting grid. This one has 3 slots across and 3 slots down. You'll use the same type of format for this crafting grid, but now there are 5 more slots. Just remember that the furthest column on the right is C and the bottom row is 3.
 Place wooden planks in 1B, 1C and 2C. You should get a wooden axe. Place it in your hotbar and select it.
 24 blocks is a good start. The axe might break when you use it, that's okay. Just follow the previous steps to make another one.
 A fast way to do this is to place all of the wood blocks in the crafting grid and then hold shift when you click the output block. This will grab as many blocks of the type you're making as possible. This is a quick way to get lots of stuff.
 Place it in a spot someplace close to where you were born, a.k.a. your spawnpoint.
 Build a small building around your crafting table with the wooden planks. Place the table in the corner of your house, with a wall 3 blocks long and three blocks tall in both directions, closing it in. You may want to cut corners on the outside for the first few days of your Minecraft world.
 Add 2 more 3X3 walls so that you have a box with nine blocks of space to move around on the inside. Top it off with a ceiling, and cut corners. It will be dark.
 Break (or mine, as it is often called) the two blocks in the middle of that wall. This will be your doorway. Open your crafting table and make a door by placing wooden planks in each of the slots in the A and C columns. Place this in the hole you made.
 Find the sun and watch it for a moment. Determine whether it is falling, and how close it is to setting. Once night falls, you will most likely be overwhelmed by monsters. If you think you still have some time, look for animals in the world around you. If you can find a sheep, kill it. It should drop a block of wool and possibly some raw mutton. You need three blocks of wool to make a bed. Once you have 3 blocks of wool, go back home and craft a bed. Use your crafting table, and fill row 1 with wool and row 2 with wooden planks. Place the bed in the corner of your house.
 If it is dark out, look for the sun. If you can't see it, go back inside your house and right click your bed. You will go to sleep, and the game will skip to dawn. Congratulations. You have survived the first night.
 Build a shovel with sticks in B2 and B3 and a wooden plank in B1.
 Place it next to your crafting table.

