 Must surveys are done on tributaries. These can be very different depending on the area you are surveying. Water clarity is very important to complete a proper survey. Substrate is another key factor. A muddy sediment substrate can cause visibility issues while walking. With this in mind always try to walk up stream so the sediment cloud does not impede your visibility as well.
 In general the best areas to conduct your survey will be located in portions of tributaries off the main stem of a river. (note1. do not trespass on private property), Slowly begin walking up stream looking under logs, large rocks, and undercut banks for live or dead salmon., (do not step in redds)., These could be log jams, beaver dams, or culverts.,

Do not step in Redds. Salmon redds are the area where salmon move substrate creating a divot in the steam bed, to lay their eggs. Redds typically consist of small to medium sized gravel around the outer edge with larger gravel at the base of the divot.
,

When crossing over a logjam use extreme caution. Try to walk around it if possible. If not, make sure you have a stable footing with each step. Do not break up logs no matter what the size is.

Keep a live count on your paper noting sex, and specie if possible.
Mark a way point in the general area that saw the salmon.

Turn the coded wire tag (CWT) wand on and scan the top of the head for a tag. If the wands beeps, make a note of it.
Using the cloth tape, measure from the front (mouth) the end of the tail. record.
Using the forceps, remove three scales and place them on the scale card.
Using the hole punch, punch a whole in the cuddle (tail) fin and place the sample in the contain with a label.
If your test for a coded CWT was positive, you will now remove the head.
Make a downward cut behind the eyes of the fish to the corner of its mouth. At this point the top portion should be free.
Place it in a new contain with a the same label number as the genetic sample.
Finally, you will cut off the tail and place the carcass back in the water. This is done so that fish can not be recounted at a later date.
Record all data taken and the date as well as the name of the body of water you are surveying.

