, Put a halter on her and pull on her head or tap her hindquarters to encourage her to get up.
 No matter if it's a simple problem that is easy to correct or a more serious and complicated problem, you will have to try to correct it while you wait for the vet to arrive.


Most serious malpresentations will result in a dead foal.
 Cleanliness is a priority when handling the birth of foals.
 These are the following types of malpresentations, from the simple to the more complex:



One foot turned back: The foot may be flexed at the knee or at the fetlock, and will be easy to correct, by simply pushing on the leg that has already appeared, at the same time pulling on the missing one. If you can't find the missing foot, however, you will need vet assistance or try to get it back up yourself.

Wash up and lube up again, then go in and push the foal's nose back into the uterus and try to reach farther in to find the missing leg. Once you have gotten the leg flexed up enough that you can grasp the hoof with your hand, cup the hoof in your hand and bring it in and up so that it is under the foal's neck and over the pelvic rim.

Once the foal's back to normal, you can start pulling on the foals legs. Check and double check that the nose is in the right place and not pushed back too far.





Nose but no feet: Usually a foal in this position is one that is already dead. Push the foal back in the uterus far enough that you can manipulate both legs into the birth canal. Then pull the foal out.

Head turned back: Only attempt this if your vet cannot get there within the next 20 minutes. Push the foal back into the uterus with one hand and find the head with the other. The head may be turned back or down to one side. Try to get hold of the lower jaw and pull the head up into position. Often foals with this malpresentation die by the time they come out.

Belly presentation (Three or Four Feet at Once): This is a rare condition, and may only be discovered until you've already started pulling on the foal, thinking it is just a large foal. This type of dystocia is pretty well impossible to correct. A Caesarean section may be the only option to get this foal out, or if it's already dead, the vet will have to cut the foal in pieces.

Rotated transverse foal: This position, though rare (but more of a problem in draft mares) is where the foal is upside down and the head is turned back, often twisting in and upwards so much so that it is impossible to correct. Each part of the foal's body is also often in the uterus. The uterus can be tipped so that the foal cannot be reached from the birth canal. A C-section is the only way to safely deliver this foal.

Backward presentation: The foal can still be delivered, but more quickly so that he won't suffocate or inhale any of the surrounding fluid before he's completely out. You need at least two people to help you with this: one to hold the mare up, and another or two to help pull out the foal. Put OB chains on the rear legs of the foal, one half-hitch above the fetlocks and another below the hock joints, and pull with all your strength when the mare strains. Don't stop when the mare stops, as you need to get this foal out as quickly as possible to have it come alive. Get him breathing as soon as possible once he's out.

Breech: This presentation is much worse than a normal backwards presentation. This is because nothing protrudes as the mare is in labour, and when you reach in, all you feel is rump and tail. You need to get both back feet up so that you can get the foal out. To do this you will need to try to reach the hock and flex it as much as possible. Reach for the cannon bone and slide your hand to the foot. Cup the foot in the palm of your hand and bring it up over the pelvis into the birth canal. Repeat with the other leg and foot. Then follow the procedure above for delivering a backward foal.

If the feet cannot be reached either by you or the vet, a C-section will be necessary to deliver the foal.


Placenta previa is a condition where the placenta detaches too early and appears first before the foal. You will see a dark red mass coming out instead of the clear white amniotic sac. You will need to break through the thick membrane with your hands to get to the foal, then reaching into the birth canal to get a hold of the foal's legs and quickly pull him out.
