 This is the most vital step for most players. By now, you probably explored a nice chunk of the surrounding area, which is good if you want to settle down somewhere you like. Choose an area where a lot of resources are easily accessible in just a few game hours, preferably in a biome like the Grasslands or the Savannah. Make sure that the area is about a screen wide and that you can easily clear out the area without any problems. Make sure too that you’re a short distance away from nearby mobs, like Spiders or Beefalo, or things like Frog Ponds so you won’t be constantly under assault whenever you’re hanging around the camp.;
, This is the first structure that you need to make, and probably the most important. A Fire Pit is like a Campfire and is made under the same crafting tab, but is a permanent structure that can be rekindled at any time. The fire even lasts longer than a Campfire too! You’ll need 12 Rocks and 2 Logs to make it though, but is definitely worth the effort and resources. When you place it down, it will generally serve as the centre of the camp.
 If you haven’t found any Gold Nuggets yet, now’s the time to hunt them down. You can normally get Gold from dark boulders with yellow streaks, but you can get them from other sources as well. The Gold boulders are normally found in the Rockylands Biome, which is characterized by the solid rock floor and the many boulders. They can also be found in the Mosaic biome, which is a very patchy biome with various turf types dotting the floor and an abundance of scattered Rocks, Flint, and Boulders.


If you’re lucky enough to find an overlarge Pig lying around, then congratulations, you found the Pig King! You can hand him some Meat and Meat items (excluding Monster Meat), and he’ll hand you a Gold Nugget in return. You’re better off just handing him Morsels, though, since Meat is much more filling, but they’re worth the same amount of Gold to him. The Pig King is normally found near Pig Villages, but can sometimes be found surrounded by Pig Guardians instead.
If you find a Mosaic biome, chances are that you might also find a Graveyard. It’s basically a patch of forest ground surrounded by mist, with graves and headstones scattered around. You can pick up some Gold scattered around it, and later on, when you have a Shovel, you can dig up the graves for some nifty loot. Trinkets, which are seemingly-useless items like the Gnome or the Gord’s Knot, can be traded to the Pig King for quite a bit of Gold as well. Keep in mind that digging up graves will sap your Sanity and have a chance to spawn some really nasty Ghosts.
In the latest update and in an upcoming DLC, called the Shipwrecked DLC, a new structure found next to the Ocean called a Sunken Boat spawns with a parrot named Polly. You can trade meat and trinkets with Polly in exchange for a Red Feather and a random selection between a Gold Nugget, some Flint, or some Dark Petals. In Reign of Giants and the upcoming Shipwrecked DLC, you can also fish out some floating junk with a Fishing Rod, which would yield you some new trinkets that you can trade only to Polly for a Red Feather and some Gems or Gold, depending on the trinket. You’ll want to hold on to the original trinkets for the Pig King, since he gives out Gold Nuggets, but trade the Soaked Candle to Polly for your gold. You can only trade with him once a game day, as well.
 Now that you have your Gold, it’s time to build a Science Machine. It costs 1 Gold Nugget, 4 Rocks, and 4 Logs. You can use this to learn new things to make, like new tools and new materials you can use to build better stuff with. This will be your first crafting station and would definitely improve your gameplay, and since the Science Machine is a permanent structure, like your Fire Pit, it’s best if you place it where you can easily access it. You can find it in the Science tab, which is represented by an atom icon.
 If you managed to scrounge up enough items, you can use the Science Machine to learn how to make the Alchemy Engine, which opens up even more items you can learn to craft. In the original game, it costs 4 Boards, 2 Cut Stones, and 6 Gold Nuggets, while in the Reign of Giants DLC and the upcoming Shipwrecked DLC, it replaces the 6 Gold Nuggets for 2 Electrical Doodads, effectively making the recipe cheaper.


Boards and Cut Stones can be crafted through the Refine tab, represented by a white diamond icon, for 4 Logs and 3 Rocks, respectively; and Electrical Doodads can be crafted in the Science tab for 2 Gold Nuggets and 1 Cut Stone.
 Now that you have your basic necessities, you can feel free to make quite a lot more items! There are a lot of structures that can improve your life in this game, and several tools you can make to help you out further. Don’t be afraid to explore and experiment with the creations since they can all be useful to you when surviving in the long run.


One of the most popular structures you can make is the Crock Pot. You can learn to make it with a Science Machine in the Food tab, represented by a buried carrot. It costs 3 Cut Stone, 6 Twigs, and 6 Charcoal. You can obtain Charcoal from burning down trees and chopping up the burnt remains. The Crock Pot is one of the most loved items in the game since it lets you cook full meals that heal you in all 3 gauges when done right, and lets clever players take advantage of “poisonous” food, like Mushrooms and Monster Meat, and turn them into actually healthy meals.
You can also use the Charcoal to make a Drying Rack, which dries any and every Meat item placed on it into delicious, long-lasting Jerky.
You can also learn how to make Backpacks and Chests on your Science Machine. Backpacks can be carried and dropped in your camp, and you can store 8 items there, and Chests are more permanent structures and can keep 9 items. Backpacks can be found in the Survival tab, represented by the looped rope, and can be crafted for 4 Twigs and 4 Cut Grass. Chests can be found in the Structures tab, represented by the wooden hammer, and costs 3 Boards.

