 Set up a committee of 4-6 people to distribute the workload by mid-August to end of August. At your first meeting, choose or assign responsibilities and review your contacts. "Who knows who" may help everyone choose responsibilities.;
, Contact churches and other organizations to inform them about the exhibit and invite them to loan creches for the exhibit, by the end of August to the first week of September.



Invite other church/school choirs for participation by mid-September.
 Meet a second time with the committee in mid-September to review ideas and progress for implementing the exhibit.
 Send a first press release to announce the exhibit and invite the public to pre-registration of creches by the first week of October.


Contact the other churches and organizations to invite their members to pre-register creches, by the third week of October.
 Start signing up volunteers and making social contacts for the event.


Send out a second press release and posters in early November.
Finalize and print a program by the first week of November.
 Mail/email copies of the program, along with posters to put up, to other involved churches and organizations by the second week of November.
, Begin to set up your display area a day or two before the event, likely the first or second Saturday in December. Your display area is probably a gym, fellowship hall, cultural hall, multi-purpose room, etc. Your aim is to advertise the best you could.


Set up should include display booths and/or tables, staging, piano, couches, chairs.
Set aside some changing rooms and clothes racks and a practice room for choirs.
 Put up lights in display area, install roping to guide visitors, and arrange childrens' activities room(s) a day or two before the exhibit.
 Put up interior directional signs, set up chairs, and finish decorating the evening before the exhibit.
 Most importantly, receive the creches and put them on display. Identify each creche with its own owner. If the owner wants to set up, provide an escort.


Arrive early on the opening day of the event and put up outside directional signage.
Assign ushers (watchdogs) during the event to stop pilfering and touching.
Invite all who attend to exhibit next year too.
 Make sure everything is attended to and packed well in the end. Box up creches after closing. If the owner wants to box up, provide an escort.


Clean up and tear down and put everything back where it belongs.
Arrange pickup or return creches to owners the same day or the next day after the exhibit.
 Schedule a follow-up committee meeting in January to review and improve for next year.

