 Inflammation to the area of a Baker’s cyst can cause muscle tightness and joint stiffness.You should perform pain-free flexibility and strengthening exercises to help rehabilitate the area and keep joints and muscles active. This will help prevent future weakness and/or stiffening of the surrounding muscles and joints.


You should focus on your quadriceps, hamstrings, buttocks, and calf muscles., Find a stool or object that is about 1.5 feet (50 cm) high. Rest the foot of your uninjured leg on the stool with your knee slightly bent. Lean forward and down—keeping your back straight—until you feel a stretch in your thigh. Hold the position for thirty seconds.Perform three repetitions twice daily, as well as before and after other exercise.
If you do not feel much of a stretch, try leaning slightly to the side of the leg you are stretching as well as forward., Lie flat on your back. Bend your knee on the leg you want to stretch. Place one hand on the back of your thigh and the other on the back of your calf. Pull your leg toward you with your hands, keeping your knee bent around 20°. You should feel a stretch at the back of your thigh. Hold the position for thirty seconds.Repeat three times per session twice daily in addition to before and after exercise.
If you can’t reach your leg to pull it, try placing a towel around your leg. You can then achieve the same stretch by pulling on the towel instead., Sit down on the edge of a chair for this exercise. Bend your good leg in a normal sitting position, and place your injured leg in front of you with your knee bent only slightly. Lean forward from this position (keeping your back straight and head up) until you feel the stretch around the back of your thigh. Remain in this position for thirty seconds.


Do three repetitions per session twice daily or before and after exercise., While sitting, alternate between bending and straightening out your knee as far as you can without causing additional pain. This exercise will help you maintain your normal range of motion.Perform once a day with up to twenty repetitions if you feel no pain.
 Place a rolled towel under your knee with your leg out straight. Push your knee down against the towel to tighten your thigh muscles (quadriceps). Place your fingers on your quadriceps in order to feel the muscle tighten as you contract.Hold each repetition for five seconds and repeat ten times as hard as possible without producing pain.

