 Vaginitis and vulvovaginitis are the medical terms which describe an inflammation of the vagina and/or vulva from bacteria, viruses, or chemical irritants contained in creams, soaps and lotions.Bacterial vaginosis is often the result of normal bacteria in the vagina growing at abnormal rates. There are some steps you can take to reduce your chances of developing vaginitis.


Do not douche. Douching changes the pH of the environment in the vagina and increases the risk of a bacterial infection.
Limit yourself to one sexual partner. Those with multiple sexual partners are at a higher risk of developing bacterial vaginosis.
Do not smoke. Smoking is associated with increased risk of developing a bacterial infection in the vagina.
 Bacterial infections in the throat are called pharyngitis. This refers to the inflammation and infection of the pharynx, or the back of the throat. There are specific strategies you can take to reduce the potential that you will get a throat infection.Wash your hands after you’ve been in public or have been around anyone who has an upper respiratory condition.
Wash your hands after blowing your own nose or caring for a child with a runny nose and/or sore throat.
Do not share eating or drinking utensils with children or with an adult who appears to have a throat infection or a sore throat. Keep a sick person’s utensils separate from the rest and wash them thoroughly with hot, soapy water.
Wash any toys that a toddler with pharyngitis has been playing with. Use hot soapy water, rinse well, and then dry thoroughly.
Dispose of any used tissues right away.
Avoid kissing or sharing eating utensils with someone who has the flu, a cold, mononucleosis, or a known bacterial infection.Do not smoke and avoid exposure to secondhand smoke.Use a humidifier if the air in your home is dry.Keeping your neck warm with a scarf during colder months can also protect you by keeping a body temperature that is less hospitable to bacterial and viral growth.
 Pneumonia is an infection in the lungs which can be caused by bacteria, viruses, or fungi. This infection is very serious and can cause death. Some groups of people are at higher risk of developing pneumonia and should practice preventative measures carefully.Take extra precautions if you:


Smoke cigarettes or use other tobacco products
Have recently had a respiratory infection such as the flu, a cold, or laryngitis
Have a medical condition which impairs your ability to swallow, such as a stroke, dementia, or Parkinson’s disease
Suffer from chronic lung conditions such as cystic fibrosis, COPD, or bronchiectasis
Have other serious medical conditions such as heart disease, liver cirrhosis, or diabetes
Have recently had surgery or a physical trauma
Have a weakened immune system from an underlying medical condition or certain medications

, If you are at risk of developing pneumonia, you should do everything that you can to protect yourself. Preventative measures for pneumonia include:Getting a flu shot every year
Getting vaccinated against pneumococcal pneumonia if you are an at risk adult
Discontinuing your use of tobacco products, especially cigarettes
Washing your hands after blowing your nose, going to the bathroom, caring for others who are sick, or before eating or preparing foods
Keeping your hands away from your face and nose.
Aspiration pneumonia can occur when food or liquids are swallowed down the wrong pipe. Avoid eating in the prone position, or feeding someone who is not sitting upright.
Taking care of your own general health, since pneumonia can follow other respiratory infections

, Children are more likely to suffer from internal ear infections, which are painful and can lead to other health problems. You may be able to reduce your child’s chances of getting a middle ear infection by following some simple suggestions.Do not smoke in your home or around children. Ear infections are more common in children who are exposed to secondhand smoke.
If possible, breastfeed your children when they are infants. Breast feeding helps develop a stronger immune system, which reduces the risk of ear infections.
Never let your baby drink from a bottle while he or she is lying down. Because of the structure of the ears and tube which drains the middle ear, lying down while drinking significantly increases the risk of an ear infection.
Reduce your child’s exposure to other children who are sick. Keep your child’s hands clean and washed, as children often enjoy putting their hands in their mouths.
 Swimmer’s ear is an infection in the outer ear canal triggered by water remaining in the outer ear which creates a warm, moist environment for bacterial growth. This is also known as acute external otitis or otitis externa.To reduce your chances of developing swimmer’s ear:


Keep your ears dry after swimming and bathing.
Dry your outer ear with a soft towel or cloth. Tip your head to one side and then the other to assist water to drain out.
Dry the ear canal with a hair dryer on the lowest setting and holding it at least one foot from your head.
Do not put foreign objects in the ear such as cotton swabs, paper clips, or hairpins.
Put cotton balls in your ears when you apply irritating products such as hair sprays and hair dyes.
 Bacterial infections can also affect your brain. Between 2003-2007, there were 4,100 cases of bacterial meningitis each year, including 500 deaths.Antibiotic treatments improve survival rates, lowering the risk of dying from meningitis to below 15%, but prevention with vaccination works best.Take the following steps to help reduce your risk of contracting bacterial meningitis:


Wash your hands often.
Do not share drinks, eating utensils, lip balms, or toothbrushes with anyone.
Maintain a good immune system by getting at least seven to eight hours of sleep each night, drinking at least 64 ounces of water each day, getting 30 minutes of exercise each day, taking a multivitamin and eating a well-balanced diet.
Consider getting vaccinated against bacterial meningitis. Some forms of bacterial meningitis are preventable with vaccinations. Ask your doctor about getting vaccinated to help protect yourself.
Bacterial meningitis can be spread through airborne droplets, so if you know anyone who has bacterial meningitis, it is best to avoid close contact, and to wear a face mask.
 Septicemia or sepsis is uncontrolled bacterial infection blood. When bacteria is growing in the blood it can also infect other organ systems in the body, such as the kidneys, pancreas, liver, and spleen.Different types of infections can lead to sepsis, such as those on the skin, lungs, urinary tract, and abdomen, or it can be a primary infection in the blood.
Some people are at higher risk of developing sepsis, including people who have a weakened immune system, infants and children, elderly people, those with a chronic illness such as diabetes, cancer, liver disease or HIV/AIDS, and people who have suffered from a severe physical trauma or severe burn. Take extra precautions if you are at risk.
You can help to prevent sepsis through preventing other primary bacterial infections, helping to boost your immune system, and taking care of any chronic health conditions.

