 The day after Christmas, most stores have no use for their holiday supplies, so they'll offer major price discounts to get rid of them. Buying next year's Christmas supplies early will cost money now, but you'll save loads of cash compared to what you'd pay in November or December of next year. Below are a few seasonal goods you may want to look for deals on:



Christmas lights: Normally, it can cost over $100 to light a good-sized tree, but after Christmas, the price for these lights plummets. To save even more money on your utility bill, try to find energy-efficient LED lights, which are normally more expensive.Ornaments: If you end up not liking them, you can always save them to give as gifts next year.

Holiday cards: Before you buy these, make sure they aren't dated!

Wrapping supplies: If you see any, try to buy plenty of discounted wrapping paper, ribbons, boxes, and so on with non-Christmas patterns. This way, you can use these things throughout the year.;
, Every year, a few popular products top the list of sought-after Christmas presents. After Christmas, the demand for these products plummets, so you can often find incredible deals on them. A few items that tend to get discounted every year include:Laptops and electronic gadgets: Keep in mind that the Consumer Electronics Show (CES) typically falls in January. If a new product unveiled at this trade show makes another product obsolete, you'll be able get an even better deal on it, so you may want to wait until February for these goods.

Clothing: Many clothing outlets (like, for example, The Gap) hold their biggest sales of the year the day after Christmas. Seasonal clothing will be especially cheap.

Fitness equipment: Deals tend to get best after mid-January when people start to give up on their New Year's resolutions.

Furniture: Not an obvious choice, but since most new collections debut in January or February, it's usually possible to find discounts on last year's.
 If you use an artificial tree, you can sometimes save hundreds on your purchase by waiting until after Christmas. High-end artificial trees can easily retail for over $600, making post-Christmas price cuts on this item especially attractive.Over time, the savings from an artificial tree can add up, especially if you originally bought it on discount. Compared to "real" trees, artificial trees are generally more expensive. Use an artificial tree year after year, however, and it will eventually pay for itself. On average, this takes about 2 1/2 years., After the month-long hullabaloo of the Christmas season, it's easy to forget that there's another big holiday right around the corner. Get a leg up on other party-throwers by keeping this simple fact in mind as you make your shopping list. Many discounted seasonal goods and decorations are appropriate for a New Year's party. This is especially true if they don't have Christmas symbols or markings on them.


Don't worry too much about finding holiday goods that don't have Christmas trees, stars, or other obvious symbols on them. For most casual parties, your guests will probably be comfortable using Christmas versions of cups, plates, napkins and so on.
 When something works well, does it really matter if it has a Christmas tree on it? If you answered "no," you're in luck! All sorts of leftover Christmas goods can be used throughout the year as long as you aren't picky about what they look like. A few ideas include:Kitchenware: Plates, china, aprons, baking sheets and so on work perfectly whether or not they're red and green.

Strings of lights: These are a cheap way to add ambiance to a bedroom or dormitory.

Decorative baskets: Good for storage, room accents.

Pillows and Linens: Many Christmas symbols (like lambs, stars, doves, etc.) look fine outside of the season. Solid-color fabrics are even more versatile.

Bath Items: Soaps, lotions, shampoos, and so on are great as gifts or for personal use.

Candles: These add atmosphere and smell great any time of year.
 Most seasonal food products will be discounted after the holidays. Since non-perishable items last the longest, these products can be the smartest buys. For example, buying price-cut treats like candy canes in bulk can give you a taste of the holiday spirit all year round.


Perishables will have the biggest discounts of all because stores will want to get them off the shelves before they spoil. However, if you buy these, you'll need to be prepared to use them right away. Stores won't usually stock seasonal perishables after they stop being in demand, so the things you buy may have been sitting on the shelf for a while.
 Many of the goods above aren't the sorts of things you'll use right away. Some, like Christmas decorations, probably won't be used until next year. As long as you're out shopping for these things, take the time to invest in quality storage materials. You'll get the most value for your money if you can prevent the things you buy from breaking or going bad before you use them. Luckily, things like plastic storage containers are usually cheap year-round.


Artificial Christmas trees require special mention. If you store an artificial tree in the open, it will gather dust, cobwebs, and other unappealing debris. Buy a tree storage bag (usually sold in the same place as the tree itself) to save yourself a time-consuming cleaning session. Be sure to choose a bag that's the proper size for your tree.