 Bridget is really pretty naturally, however it is said she wears a lot of makeup, as we re-call Rory asking Bridget "Do you even have a face?" She usually wears her hair down, in later seasons she has straight across bangs, she also wears her hair in sleek ponytails, or very curly. She has perfectly shaped eyebrows which has become a hobby for her.;
, Bridget tends to wear revealing clothing, which is okay for around the house but not really okay for school. She really dresses to impress, but mostly to look better than her frenemies. Skirts, cute shirts, and dresses are encouraged. However she is also known to wear her fathers Michigan sweats, so it might be a good idea to buy some Michigan sweats for yourself to add a little twist to your look.
 Bridget is not the smartest girl, however she is known to have intelligent moments. So, to be like her, never show off good grades and don't try to act like a brainiac except for a few rare times.
 Bridget has had a part time job at a trendy fashion store called "Strip Rags" where she did extremely well until she realized she had spent more than she'd earned. She has also worked as a lifeguard where she only liked the blonde girls.
 Bridget usually finds a way to love her sister Kerry. They are known for fighting but always working it out. Bridget and Kerry tend to gang up on Rory and have a bit of fun with him by doing things like rolling him up in the carpet. She gets along with her siblings better after Paul dies.
 Bridget is very close to her mom, and although it is not shown she loves her dad very much. She usually tells her dad that she hates him, he's an idiot etc. She truly loves him though.
 Bridget keeps a very messy bedroom, as she loves clothes but puts them on the floor.
 Bridget has lots of makeup and facial cleansers, creams, and scrubs in her and Kerry's bathroom.
 Bridget is boy obsessed and she has a new boyfriend every few weeks. This part of Bridget is the most shallow part so be careful with this one. However, when you see guy that you think is cute or hot, then flirt with him and if you like him still, then become friends with him until you get up the nerve to ask him out.
 Use the tips in this article for help.
 A noticeable lipstick or lipstain, blush, sparkly eyeshadow, mascara, concealer, and some eyeliner is great. If you'd rather wear less makeup, go for some flirty coloured lip gloss, some mascara, blush, and a bit of eyeshadow. If you

, Bridget is called "Barbie" by her brother Rory, she is called "Beach" by her father, and most other people tend to call her "Bridge".
 Bridget uses the words "Totally, Oh my god and So" tons. She is known to talk like an airhead (unfortunately). When speaking to her dad it usually starts with "Daddy" in her baby voice.
 Bridget dreams of having a car, lots of boyfriends, to be a beautician, and to always be beautiful.
 Bridget is a big party girl. She is usually at parties every weekend, and she attends lots of concerts.
 She has tons of friends so make sure you are very popular. Befriend lots of cool kids (girls mostly) and be friends with a few nerds to help you with your homework. Also, if you can, get a boyfriend that's older than you as if this guy is a popular older kid, then it'll boost your popularity leaps and bounds.
 Bridget is an amazing tennis player and in one episode she gets a scholarship for it. In another episode she is going to try out for cheerleading, but ends up never really wanting to be a cheerleader after her sister Kerry makes the squad instead of her.
 For school, use a cute pink backpack. For outside of school use handbags that are the same colour as your shoes or t-shirt. Also try wearing a few cute bracelets, necklaces, and earrings.
 Everyone wants to be Bridget and she is very well liked. For some episodes she is an outsider, but she always makes her way back to the top! She has enemies, but keeps a strong bond with her best friends.

