 It's not always possible to make plans ahead of time, especially if something comes up last minute. However, when possible, ask early. You're more likely to get a "Yes" if the person you're asking has a heads up.
 Oftentimes, people feel guilty when asking for a favor. If you go into the situation experiencing guilt, you may not ask directly enough. If you don't make your needs clear, you're less likely to have them met by your relative. Try to abandon feelings of guilt before making the request.Remember, raising children is a difficult and at times demanding task. Almost everyone has to ask for help on occasion when raising children. There is no shame in needing extra help.
 People are more likely to say "Yes" if they have some warning first you're asking for a favor. If people feel you're being indirect, they may feel resentful or annoyed. Even if you feel awkward asking for help, be direct when requesting a favor of someone. Your relative will probably appreciate you being straightforward.Start with a brief heads up. Say something like, "Mom, could I ask you for a favor?" Start with this instead of, "Mom, can you watch the kids for me Saturday night?"
If you make it clear you're asking for a favor first, your relative will not be caught off guard. Once you've stated you're asking for a favor, make it clear what you want. For example, "Could you babysit for me Saturday night if you're not too busy?"
It can also help to explain why you need help. In general, people like to know why they're being asked to do something. For example, "Because I have my office Christmas party that night and I don't want to miss it. Our regular sitter cancelled."

, You do not want to make your relative feel locked in. This can lead to feelings of resentment. No one wants to feel like they're required to do a favor simply because they're asked. Remind your family member watching your kids, while appreciated, is absolutely optional. You understand they are busy too and they are by no means obligated to help you out.After making your request, say something like, "Of course, I totally get it if you're busy. I just thought I'd ask in case you're able."

, People want to feel their relationships with others are balanced. If you're requesting a favor of a relative, make sure you let them know you're willing to provide a favor in return. For example, "If you ever need anything from me, let me know. I owe you one.", After the person has agreed to watch your kids, give them a sincere "Thanks." Watching children is not an easy task, and you want to show the person you appreciate their time. Let them know how much the favor meant to you.Be specific about how much they helped you. For example, "Thanks so much for watching James this afternoon. I wouldn't have made it to my dentist appointment if you hadn't helped me out."

