 You should set your grill over some newspaper or trap outside. When you do things like remove grease from the lid, newspaper can catch dirt and debris as they fall.
 Before you start cleaning the inside of the grill, examine the bottom of the grill. This is where food is likely to fall off during cooking. Put on a pair of gloves and remove any bits of charred, burnt food that are clearly visible., To start cleaning, clean the exterior of your grill. You do not need a specific cleaner. Warm water mixed with soap, such as dish soap, can easily be used to wipe down the exterior of the grill. Put on a pair of gloves. Dip a sponge in a bucket of warm, soapy water and gently wipe down the exterior of your grill. Get out any stains, such as bird droppings, as well as wiping off built up dirt and dust. Then, let your grill dry off.If there is buildup that is difficult to remove, use a mild glass cleaner and a terry cloth after applying soap and water. This should break down anything that isn't coming off.
 When you open your lid, you will notice some built up grease. This a black, tarry substance you should remove from the top of the lid. You should be able to peel off most of the grease with your fingers. Peel off as much grease as you can and then brush any remaining grease off using a stainless steel grill brush., At the bottom of your grill, you should find a handle you can turn that will sift out any excess charcoal into a removable container below the grill. Simply turn the levers until all the leftover charcoal is gone. Then, remove the container and discard the charcoal.Refer to your grill's instruction manual for specific directions regarding using the cleaning system.
 Clean the inside of the bowl using a stainless steel brush. Use this to scrape off any food particles and debris you missed earlier. Then, wipe down the interior of the grill with a sponge dipped in soapy water. This should clear off any built up dirt or grease along the side of the grill.When you're done, rinse off the grill's interior with a clean sponge dipped in plain water.
Then, dry the grill's interior using a terrycloth.

