 Since helping the drunk drivers is a random event, it does not appear on the GTA V map. You will have to navigate to either of the two locations to begin the mission. This GTA V random event is only playable during the daytime.


Once you are in the region where the drunk drivers are located (Armadillo Avenue or La Puerta District), you can spot their location by the “blue round marker” on the map.
The first location that you can interact with a drunk driver is at the La Spada restaurant in the La Puerta district in the Western part of Los Santos. The second event takes place on the Armadillo Avenue in Sandy Shores (central region of Los Santos), where you meet a drunk couple.;
, Get out of your vehicle and approach the drunk driver to start interacting with them.


The drunk driver outside the La Spada restaurant will request you to drop him at his house in Vinewood. You can identify him easily, as he is having an argument someone and seems completely wasted.
The drunk couple outside a bar in Sandy Shores will call out to you and request your help driving them back to their motel, since they are too drunk to drive the car themselves.
You will be using the drunk driver’s car to take them back to their place, which means you will have to leave your vehicle behind. If you need to use your vehicle again, make sure you take it to your garage and save it before you begin the mission.
 The navigation system on the map will highlight the path to the destination you have to drive the drunk passenger.


You must avoid any speed bumps or accidents, and drive at a moderate speed. Driving recklessly will scare them and may even cause them puke, which will end the mission.
 Drive carefully and park the vehicle on the round yellow marker at the destination to successfully complete the mission.


The drunk passengers will not only thank you for your help, but also give you $80 as a reward for your service.
The drunk guy from the La Spada will drop an extra $10 outside the car when he passes out. You can collect the extra cash by stepping out of the car and moving towards him.

