 Scotland is known for its unpredictable weather. In the summer, it might be sunny and beautiful one day and rainy the next. The winter is typically quite cold due to the northern climate. Check the weather forecast for the period of time you’ll be traveling in Scotland so you’ll have an idea of what to bring. In any season, it’s usually a good idea to bring an umbrella or rain jacket.In the winter months, you’ll want to dress warmly. Bring clothes that you can layer in case the weather varies. And be sure to pack a warm winter coat.
In the summer, you can usually dress for warmer weather with short sleeves. But you may need a light jacket for the evenings or on rainy days.;
, Once you’ve decided when you’ll be traveling to Scotland, make a list of all the places you would like to go and try to decide how long you’d like to spend in each place. Perhaps you’ll spend three days in Edinburgh, one day in Inverness, two days in the Highlands, and two days in Glasgow. Whatever you want to do, it’s up to you. But you have to decide first so that you can start searching for accommodations.Consider visiting a variety of locations in Scotland – the cities and the countryside. There are beautiful castles, breathtaking views, and a lot of history to absorb throughout the entire country.
 Consider bringing your camera, extra batteries and charging cables, phone charger, a power adaptor, and a small daytime bag to carry with you while you are out exploring. You may want to bring some of your favorite snacks, a book to read on the plane, and any bathroom accessories you can’t live without.Remember that Scotland uses the same electrical outlet style as the rest of Great Britain, so you’ll need an adaptor to plug in your electronic devices.
Some devices (like hairdryers, hair straighteners, etc.) may also require a voltage converter.
 You should call all of your banks to let them know you’ll be traveling abroad so they don’t restrict your credit card while you are in Scotland. You may also want to check about adding an international plan to your cell phone. Using your phone abroad can get quite expensive if you don’t add the international plan.Also remember that they use the Great Britain Pound (GBP) in Scotland, so you’ll need to use that currency when you are spending cash there. You can withdraw pounds from an ATM in Scotland with your debit card, or you can request some ahead of time from your local bank before you leave. Most banks can order foreign currency for a nominal fee.
 When traveling abroad, you’ll definitely need to bring your passport to gain entry in the new country. Your passport should be in good condition and, in most cases, should not expire for at least six months after you plan on leaving Scotland.


If you are a citizen of the European Union, you won’t need a visa to visit Scotland. If you are a citizen of another country, you may need a visa – though these are often simply stamps you receive in your passport as you enter the country. Be sure to check visa requirements online before you plan your trip.Keep in mind that these rules could change once the “Brexit” negotiations (which will presumably take Scotland out of the EU) are completed.

