 Many people who would happily send their cousin an email soliciting a donation for their crowdfunding campaign are reluctant to make the same approach in person. Many others will have solicited their family members for donations before anyone else.The advantage of going to family for donations is that they can take into account factors like your determination and overall character when considering loaning you money. They also don’t usually charge interest. The disadvantage is that you’ll probably know them for a long time to come, and adding loaned money into the family dynamic can create tension.
There is no helpful script to give a person in this situation. You know your family. You know the kind of appeal they will sympathize with. Just give it some forethought, explain the work you've put in already, and how a certain amount of money will help you get to the goal.
 Two types of hybrid financing to consider are peer-to-peer lending and equity crowdfunding. Both combine features of crowdfunding with another type of lending, and they can be a good option for individuals who are struggling to get financing in other ways.


Equity crowdfunding combines features of crowd funding with angel investing. Like crowdfunding, the borrower makes a pitch to a wide audience on an online platform. Like angel investing, the investor loans money on the basis of getting a stake in the business. Some popular platforms are AngelList, Fundable, and EquityNet.Peer to peer lending combines the wide audience of a crowdfunding platform with personal lending. The peer to peer platform vets the borrowers for a minimum level of creditworthiness. If they pass, then they make a pitch and receive a personal loan if there is any interest in their project. Some popular platforms are Prosper, Peerform, Upstart, and Kiva., While the terms of personal loans are usually only a little better than a credit card, the borrower can often access more, which sometimes makes them attractive. Don’t be fooled though, some of the loans have harsher terms than a credit card. Just make sure you read the fine print before you sign.


Take Kabbage as an example. Kabbage is a lender that promises approvals within minutes. They offer to lend more on a personal loan than most traditional banks and with less paperwork. The trouble comes when the interest starts to accrue—Kabbage actually makes loans at 100% interest and more. Notwithstanding the fact that interest rates that high used to be illegal, paying them off can require a superhuman effort, and the near certain default can be a quick road to financial ruin.
 Financing your start-up through credit cards should be your last resort. The interest rates are too high and the credit limits are often too low. While that doesn’t dissuade many would-be entrepreneurs from doing it anyway, it’s never a good idea. A great many startups fail before they hit the two year mark, and cash flow usually has something to do with it.

