 The doctor will do a physical exam of the leg and talk to you about how the injury occurred. She may also do imaging testing, such as an X-ray, an MRI, or an ultrasound to check for more severe injuries.


You should also see your doctor if the injured area is still painful despite the use of home care for five to seven days.
 If your injury is severe, your doctor may recommend a massage therapist or a physical therapist. The physical therapist may then apply electrotherapy to the injury using ultrasound, laser, and pulse shortwave.


The therapist may also recommend stretches that you can do before any physical activity to prevent another hamstring injury.
She may also suggest using a foam roller to stretch and massage your hamstring once you can walk on the injured leg without any pain. The foam roller is a foam tube that you can put under the injured leg. You can then roll back and forth on the foam roller to massage your hamstring. You can find a video on how to use the foam roller here., Your doctor may recommend surgery on your hamstring if the muscle is seriously injured, with a tear of the muscle or a detachment of the muscle from the bone.During the procedure, the surgeon will pull your hamstring muscle back into place and remove any scar tissue. She will then reattach the tendon to the bone using stitches or staples. If you have a complete tear within your hamstring muscle, it will need to be sewn back together with stitches.
During recovery from the surgery, you should keep weight off of your injured leg and use crutches to get around. You may also need to wear a brace so your hamstring stays in a relaxed position. Your doctor will likely suggest a physical therapy program that involves gentle stretches and strengthening exercises. It usually takes about six months to recover from proximal hamstring reattachment surgery, and three months to recover from distal hamstring re-attachments. Your doctor can also give you a timeline of when you can return to normal use of your injured leg.

