 When you apply to Oxford, you need to know what course of study you'll follow from the start.;
, You're going to need to work very hard to get admitted to Oxford, not to mention once you start your university studies. Learn to love studying and to thrive under a rigorous study schedule., Genuine enthusiasm and curiosity can get you very far in the admissions process.Go beyond the standard curriculum. For the ideal Oxford candidate, things learned in school and for standardized tests are still fairly limited in scope.Broaden your knowledge as much as possible.
If you have the financial resources, take extra classes at a local community college, summer school, or tutoring center.
If you can't afford to pay for additional courses, teach yourself more about your subject by reading as much about it as you can get your hands on. Go to a nearby university library and check their collection of books, do Internet searches on your subject, etc.
 As rigid as this may seem, it's important. Oxford has extremely high standards when it comes to grades, so they need to be perfect.
 It's a myth that you must be incredible well-rounded to be accepted into Oxford. While some Oxford students have lots of extracurricular interests, others may be solely focused on their passion for study.This doesn't mean you should give up an activity you really love and bury yourself in books all day, every day. Passions and talents are always attractive in candidates–and besides, they make your life more enjoyable.
 At Oxford, students belong to a department or faculty as well as a college or hall. The university is comprised of over 30 colleges, which function as academic communities where students have small-group study sessions called tutorials. (Lectures, testing, grading, etc. is organized by the department.) Each college also has its own dining hall, common room and library, plus groups and societies.


Find out which colleges accept applications for your course of study by visiting the course page of the university website.
Browse information about the colleges on the website. You'll find they differ in terms of accommodation, location, funding opportunities, and whether they are for graduates and undergraduates alike.Your application is judged by the department, not the college, so your candidacy will not be affected by your choice of college. You might also be reallocated to a college different from the one you applied to.
You also have the option of making an "open application" by entering the specified code on your application (see application instructions for more details). In this case, the university will assign you to a college or hall., The fastest way to do this is by visiting the course page of the website, as well as the general undergraduate admissions information page. Admissions requirements include certain scores on standardized tests, coursework in high school, and examples of written work.


You'll also need to write a personal statement about the subject you've chosen to study, and a reference from a teacher or advisor., The application process takes place online only.


Students with a science degree who are applying for the Accelerate Medicine course have a separate application form.Check about application deadlines well in advance. You need to plan ahead to make sure you have all requirements complete on time.
 Accepted standardized tests include IELTS, TOEFL, CAE, CPE, the English Language GCSE, International Baccalaureate Standard Level in English, and the European Baccalaureate., If the department you've applied to thinks your application is strong enough, they'll shortlist you. In that case, you need to attend an interview. However, sometimes applicants receive notice that they've been shortlisted just a few days before the interview is scheduled. In that case, you should be ready to go.


Check the interview timetable on the university website for dates when they're holding interviews.
The interview schedule is very tight, and rescheduling is generally not possible.Keep in mind that accommodation and meals are free of charge when you come for your interview.
If you have a disability, let the university know as soon as possible so they can accommodate you during the interview scheduling and process.
International students living far from the UK may be able to schedule an interview over the phone or Internet. The exception is applicants for Medicine, who must come to Oxford., You'll receive a letter from the college if you've been selected to come to an interview. As mentioned above, it might be very short notice, up to a week in advance., During the interview you'll be asked questions whose aim is not for you to regurgitate what you already know, but rather to apply the knowledge you have to solve new tasks. The interview tutor wants to hear you think aloud, so practice this in advance with a friend or teacher, with them asking you questions and you talking through your response.


An applicant to psychology might be asked why studies have shown that Welsh speakers have more difficulty memorizing phone numbers than English speakers. Hopefully, the interviewee would be able to make the connection that memory and arithmetic depend on how easily pronounced the words are (Welsh numbers are longer than English ones).
A would-be art history student might be asked to discuss a painting that they've never seen before.In this case they could apply their analytical skills, refer to relevant influences or movements, etc.
Remember, the best preparation you can have is a broad knowledge of your area of focus.
 The university's website features clips of mock interviews. This is a great opportunity to get a sense of the interview format.


You can also find sample questions on the Interview section of the university's website.
 The tutors who interview you tend to be casually dressed, and formal dress on your part is not at all required.
 The tutor will try to put you at ease by asking you some simple questions to start off with, such as about your personal statement. Be sure you reread your statement and any other written work you've submitted with your application so you're ready to talk about it.Your letter of invitation will specify any documents you need to bring along, but it's a good idea to bring a copy of your personal statement.

