 UberX is the standard service offered by Uber. Given its high level of demand, this is the most common service and therefore often the quickest service to arrive at your pickup location. Its base fare is $2.20, and operates at 1.30 per minute. All uberX cars:Can carry up to 4 passengers.
Have 4 doors or more.
Are newer cars (though exact requirements vary by city).;
, This service functions as a "carpool" service. If two or more riders request an Uber and are traveling in the same direction, they may share the ride on the way to each destination. Though UberPool will not always find multiple riders to pick up and drop off during the course of a trip, when it does, it will often be slightly slower than UberX.Because it is a shared ride service, you can reserve up to only 2 seats in an UberPOOL.
All UberPOOL cars can carry up to 4 passengers.
All UberPool cars are newer models (though exact requirements vary by city).
 To qualify for the UberSELECT service, drivers and cars undergo a more rigorous "vetting" process that is used to ensure a high-end service to those who request it. These cars are roughly twice as expensive as uberX per mile (with a base fare of $5). These cars must fulfill certain prerequisites, namely that they must:Be a 2007 model or newer (as of 2016).
Be higher end sedans only (exact requirements vary by city).
Have leather/vegan leather seats.
Have at least 5 working working seatbelts.
 UberBLACK also aims at being high-quality, but to an even greater extent than UberSELECT. These cars are roughly 2.9 times more costly than uberX (with a base fare of $8) and fulfill the following prerequisites:The car is a luxury sedan (model & year requirements vary by city).
The car must be newer, black, have black leather interior, and very clean.
The driver typically follows by a dress code and may provide service amenities and refreshments.
 SUVs operate a higher-end service, much like UberBLACK and UberSELECT, but seat up to 7 passengers. Because of the high-end nature of this service, it is more expensive per person than uberX., UberACCESS offers vehicles with size and functional requirements that are inclusive to people with less physical mobility. UberACCESS consists of two options:UberWAV, which accommodates people requiring wheelchair accessible vehicles.
UberASSIST, which is a service equipped with drivers who are specially trained to assist seniors and people with other mobility limitations.

