 Even when you're recovering from surgery or other treatment for a DVT, it's possible to do leg lifts while lying in bed. Leg lifts will improve the circulation in your leg and help prevent further blood clots.To perform leg lifts in bed, lay on your back with your legs straight out in front of you. Raise your leg a few inches off the bed, breathing deeply as you hold it for a few seconds.
Then lower your leg in a controlled movement — don't simply drop your leg to the bed, but lower it at roughly the same speed as you raised it. Or, if you feel strong enough, lower the leg very very slowly. Just remember to keep breathing — do not hold your breath.
Repeat this exercise 10 to 20 times with each leg. Try to do this exercise three or four times a day.
 Particularly if you've had surgery for your DVT, it's important to give your body adequate time to heal. Even if your DVT was treated without surgery, recognize that you are now at increased risk for another blood clot.If you had surgery, you typically will need several weeks to recover before you can start doing more vigorous exercising.
However, your doctor usually will advise you to do what you can to start being active again as soon as possible.
This typically includes bed rest for about an hour, and then brief walking for a few minutes before returning to bed rest.
Your doctor may give you additional exercises to improve the circulation in your legs.
 If you had surgery for a DVT, a physical therapist will provide you a list of exercises you can safely do that will improve your circulation and help restore your strength and range of motion.Get the physical therapist's approval before you deviate from these exercises.
Keep in mind that exercising too strenuously following a DVT puts you at risk for another blood clot.
 Swimming is a low-impact way to get a full-body workout that improves circulation while also giving you a cardiovascular workout. Even if you don't think you're a strong enough swimmer to swim laps, hanging off the side of the pool and kicking can help improve circulation in your legs.Be careful not to overdo it. The low-impact nature of swimming means you may not realize you're going too hard until the soreness hits the next day.
Get permission from your doctor or physical therapist before you begin a swimming program, even if you only anticipate being in the water for a few minutes a day.
 Even once you're out of the recovery period following a DVT, you're still at increased risk for developing another blood clot. If you are going to be traveling or have a sedentary job, it's important to stay as active as possible.If you're at work, set an alarm or timer to go off each hour. When the alarm goes off, stand up and move around for a few minutes to get the blood moving in your legs.
Every other hour, take a brisk walk around the office or outside. You can also do jumping jacks or jog in place. This will get your heart rate up and improve circulation to prevent blood clots.
Try to stay active throughout the day. This can be difficult if you have a sedentary job, but focus on standing as much as possible.
For example, you might stand or pace while you're talking on the phone, rather than sitting at your desk.

