 Safe sex is a good way to help reduce your risk of getting bacterial vaginosis. While remaining abstinent is the only way to significantly reduce your risk of getting bacterial vaginosis, it’s not the most practical solution. Always use condoms during sexual contact to reduce your risk of getting BV.If you are in a monogamous relationship and don’t normally use condoms, use them if you are being treated for BV to avoid causing further problems for yourself or your partner.;
, Doctors do not understand why, but the more sexual partners a person has, the higher the risk of getting bacterial vaginosis is.Try to limit the number of partners you have to minimize your risk of getting BV.


If either you or your partner isn’t faithful, this will also increase your risk of BV, especially if you are not using protection.Communicating openly with your partner may help both of you avoid getting or transmitting BV.Having BV and multiple partners can significantly increase your risk of getting sexually transmitted diseases., There are some studies that suggest using an intrauterine device, or IUD, for birth control can increase your risk of getting BV. If you have a history of bacterial vaginosis, speak to your doctor about using other forms of birth control.Condoms are an excellent way to decrease your risk of pregnancy and contracting BV.
Other forms of birth control you could use are the birth control pill, patch, or vaginal ring; a diaphragm; hormone shots, or a cervical cap., Bacterial vaginosis is caused by an imbalance in the good bacteria in your vagina. Helping your vaginal bacteria stay in balance can keep you from getting BV. Daily cleansing and wearing appropriate clothing in warm weather may help keep your vaginal bacteria from potential imbalances.Wash your external genitals and anus every day with mild soap, such as Dove or Cetaphil.After you go to the bathroom, always wipe from your vagina to your anus.Keep your genital area cool by wearing cotton undergarments and avoiding tight pants. During summer months, it’s a good idea to avoid wearing pantyhose., Avoid using douching products to clean out the inside of your vagina. Don’t using vaginal douches if you have or have had bacterial vaginosis. Douches kill good bacteria in your vagina and increase your risk for infection or recurrence.Your vagina cleans itself naturally, but if you feel like you need to clean it, wash it with warm water only in a bathtub.
 Seeing your gynecologist regularly for pelvic exams is important to maintaining not only your overall well-being, but specifically the health of your genitalia.Your doctor may discover BV during a regular exam and prescribe you a course of treatment.


If you don’t have a gynecologist, most general practitioners can perform annual pelvic exams.
 It is important to take all of the medication that your doctor has prescribed in order to treat BV. If your doctor discovers that you have BV, make sure to finish all of the medications she prescribes and contact her if you have concerns. Discontinuing treatment can increase your risk of a recurrence of BV., Some theories hold that eating probiotics or using lactobacillus colonization therapy, which tries to increase good bacteria in your vagina, can help you prevent BV. Consider eating foods such as fermented cheese for probiotics or yogurt as a form of lactobacillus colonization therapy. These foods may help keep your vaginal bacteria healthy.The number of lactobacilli is lower in women with BV, hence the theory to use lactobacillus colonization therapy as a form of treatment.There is little research to determine if consuming foods high in lactobacilli such as yogurt or bananas will prevent BV.Consider taking an over the counter probiotic. Some studies suggest that using probiotics helps to prevent BV.You can get probiotics in foods such as kombucha, miso, and kefir. Fermented vegetables and cheeses including sauerkraut, kimchi, Gouda, cheddar, and Swiss are high in probiotics., There are many different symptoms of BV that you may have. Learning the symptoms of BV can help you identify them and know when you need to schedule an appointment with your doctor for potential treatment.


Some women don’t show any symptoms of BV.The most common symptoms of BV are a thin vaginal discharge, a “fishy” odor, and pain, itching, or burning in the vagina.You may also experience pain when urinating., If you have any symptoms of BV, see your doctor. She will confirm a diagnosis and prescribe medication, which is the only way to treat BV.Your doctor will examine your genitals for signs of BV. She may also perform lab tests on your vaginal fluid to confirm a diagnosis.The most common medications used to treat BV are oral or topical metronidazole, the cream clindamycin, or the oral pill tinidazole.It’s generally not necessary to treat male partners of women who have BV.In some cases, BV will go away on its own, though it’s always advisable to have a doctor diagnose and treat you., If you suspect or know that you have BV and don’t get treatment by your doctor, you may put yourself at increased risk for serious health conditions. Knowing the risks of not getting treatment may sway your decision on seeing your doctor.


BV can increase your risk for other sexually transmitted diseases, including HIV.BV can increase your risk of transmitting sexually transmitted diseases, including HIV, to your partner(s).If you are pregnant and have BV, not getting treatment can increase the risk of premature delivery or low birth weight., Just as you should know how to prevent BV, you should also know what does not cause the disease. You cannot contract bacterial vaginosis from toilet seats, bedding, swimming pools, or touching objects in your vicinity.