 One great calorie burning exercise to try is jogging. It's a higher impact exercise that requires the use of many large muscle groups to perform.


To burn at least 300 calories in a half an hour, you have to jog or run. Aim for your pace to be around a 10 minute mile or 6 mph (if you're on the treadmill).Keep in mind that the number of calories you burn during any type of exercise will depend on factors like your sex, age, weight, and effort level.
Note that the faster your pace, the more calories you'll burn in that 30 minute time span.
Although it's commonly believed that walking burns the same calories per mile as running, it'll take you more than 30 minutes to walk 3 to 4 miles.;
, A high intensity aerobic exercise you can also try is a spin class. These classes are notoriously challenging and will help you torch calories in a short amount of time.


The reason why a spin class is so good at burning calories is that it alternates between moderate and high intensities, requires you to use large muscle groups (like your legs) and keeps your heart rate elevated.You may burn around 400 calories in 30 minutes of spinning depending on your age, weight, sex, and effort level.
Note that you need to make sure you're working at a minimum of moderate intensity to reach this calorie goal. This means keeping the resistance up and not taking many breaks.
Many spin classes run for an hour. Check your gym’s class schedule to see if they offer any 30 minute classes.
 If you're more of a group exercise type of person, consider signing up for some aerobics classes. Many of these are high in intensity and will help you meet your 300 calorie goal.Look over the fitness class schedule at your gym. See if there are any fitness classes that are designed to burn a lot of calories.
For example, some high intensity Zumba, kick boxing, high intensity interval training (HIIT), circuit training or step aerobics classes will help you meet your calorie burn goal.
Many of these classes can help you burn around 300 calories in 30 minutes. Make sure you're working at a higher intensity.
 A fun exercise you can do is jumping rope. Bring back childhood memories and torch about 300 calories in 30 minutes.You might be surprised to know that jumping rope is a great calorie burn. While you do need to work harder than a game of Double Dutch, it's a great form of exercise.
In general, moderate to high intensity versions of jumping rope can help you burn about 350 calories in 30 minutes.But remember that the amount of calories you burn may be more or less depending on your weight, age, sex, and effort level.
Increase the intensity or difficulty by changing speeds, crossing the rope in front of you or jumping on one leg.
 Some forms of swimming can also help you burn calories in a short amount of time. Plus, these pool workouts are easier on your joints.


Swimming, like the rowing machine, recruits just about every major muscle group in your body. This is why it's such a great exercise for higher calorie burns.
In general, treading water or swimming laps may burn just around 300 calories in a half an hour.However, if you do harder or more difficult strokes, the total calories you burn will increase. For example, doing the butterfly stroke or crawl may burn around 330 calories in a half an hour.
 If you want to use a machine, the rowing machine might be a good option for you. This may help you meet your 300 calorie goal.One of the reasons that the rowing machine can help you burn so many calories is that it requires you to use large muscle groups.
When you have more muscles engaged, your body needs to use more energy (or calories) to fuel those muscles.
Remember that calories burned will depend on factors such as your age, weight, sex, and effort level. For example, in a 30 minute time period, a 30 year old 180 pound male working at 75% of his full capacity may burn about 316 calories.