 Practice every single thing you will do, such as canter departs from the walk, rein-backs, turns, jumps, patterns, setting up, or whatever you'll need to do in the class.;
, A good way to do this is to walk, trot, and canter/lope them out on foot. It really helps the pattern stick in your memory.
 Don’t know how to pack for a horse show? Check out the packing page (after you read this one, of course).
 You will not want to be disqualified for simply having the wrong spurs on!

,, Rumpled clothes make a lousy first impression.
 Don’t know how to groom your horse for a show? Check out the grooming category after finishing reading this article.
 Put a tail wrap, head bumper, and shipping boots on your horse, and if it’s cold, put on a sheet as well. Offer the horse hay and water, and bed the trailer floor with a thick layer of shavings to reduce the vibration.
 When you get there, check with the show steward and get any information you need, including your number.
 Also, you'll want to take this time to walk the course if you're entered in a jumping competition. It’s no fun rushing into the ring at the last minute!

, In most Western classes, attach it to your saddle pad. For Dressage, your number hangs on your horse’s bridle, and in jumping classes, thread a black shoelace through the holes and tie it around your waist, centering the number on your back. In most other classes, the number is pinned to the back of your shirt.
 Ask them to wipe off your boots and clothes, dust your horse’s feet and coat, brush his tail, dust off your tack, and re-apply the shining spray, fly spray and highlighter to your horse right before you enter the ring. And ask them to offer moral support!

,, For dressage, enter down the center line at A. In jumping classes, enter wherever the gate is and circle to the first jump, and for gaming classes, enter straight through the gate at the appropriate speed.
 Hang back a little and find a good spot on the rail. You want the judge to see you.
 Sharp posture, quiet hands, and properly positioned legs will cause any judge to take you seriously. You want a straight line from your shoulder to your hip to your heel.
