 Graphic shirts & skirts, sweater & dresses, stripped clothes, jean jackets and (more) dresses, slip dresses and cardigans, shorts and khaki's, turtlenecks & shorts, bright jackets and oxfords, scarves and funky jeans, cropped tops and glam pants, oxfords and sweaters, trenches and utility pants, studded heels, mini skirts,knee high socks, pretty blouses and light jeans. Just a few ideas to get you started.;
, Get girly with floral dresses, bow necklaces, soft shorts, patent bags, soft tanks and bright belts. Add a tomboy feel with bow hair-clips ,high waisted shorts, boots, messenger bags, and suspenders. Add a little glam with leather jackets, sparkle tanks, rock looking earrings, glitter high heels, chain bracelets and earrings, see through sweaters, heart necklaces, and tight skirts. Finally, add an artsy touch with plain dresses, floral painted bangles, coin necklaces, beach necklaces, plain sweaters, purple skirts, and floral high heels.
 Like that bag from Burberry? Make your own version. How about that shirt from Marc Jacobs? You can make it yourself. The best part of this is not only is it free, but you can add your own touch to it, not have the same look everyone else is rocking.
,,,, They have great lingerie like tops, funky skinny jeans, boots, and lotions.
 CHANGE IT. Maxi skirts, half tucked shirts, skinny jeans, heels, shorts, sweaters, and scarf all look good when you need to look taller. Or if you on the heavy side, try black clothes with little peep holes, deep V's, anything a-lined, and platforms. No curves at all? Pick soft poofy pieces with lower neck lines. Ruffled tops, tight dresses, shredded jeans, and wide belts add curves.
, Make it only one. Maxi skirts, blazers, dresses, docs, tunics, graphic shirts, khaki's, leggings, dusters, and sweaters are all fall staples, but you could probably work all year round.
, The best skirts will work year round. Metallic will look cute at the up coming holiday parties or at the pool. Mini pleats will look preppy now, or fun at the clubs. Body con looks cozy or sexy. Paper bag looks casual or comfy. Knit looks fall ready or fun. High low is dramatic or a breeze.
,, Go ahead and wear your winter boots now. Use your jean jacket with a dress. Bring out your blazers. Don't be afraid to wear a sundress. Bring out boyfriend jeans, wear your new cardigans!!

,, Yes, please!

, Make sure it's structured, but soft. Let some flyaway show, add a headband, and tease it!

,, You should always have 2 shampoo's, 2 conditioners, mousse, some sort of frizz fighter, a styling cream, a hairspray, a gel, and a heat protectant.
 You should always have mascara, eye shadow, lipstick, lip gloss (in a range of shades), foundation (liquid or powder), bronzer, eyeliner (I prefer gel and liquid), and some nail polish shades.
 You should ALWAYS have a cleanser, a spot treatment, and a moisturizer. If you want, pick up some razors, perfumes, lotions, self tanners, bronzing lotion, and face scrubs. It's a matter of personal preference.
 Try new hairstyles like Haiwe, try shiny hair like Kendall, and Kat's bold makeup.
 Whether you do it yourself, have your mom of friend to help you, or if you go to a salon is your call, not mine.
 Fairs-beige's should wear yellow's a peach foundations, metallic and neutral eyeshadow, peachy and bronze blush, and melon and pink glosses. Meanwhile, Olive-Golden tones should wear honey and sandy foundations, dark glittery and pinkish purple eye-shadows, bronze and grapefruit blushes, and peach and pink lips. And Bronze-deep ebony's should wear tinted moisturizers with warm and deep caramel tints (SHOW OFF your beautiful skin color!), champagne and jade eyeshadow, apricot and rosy blushes, and orange and berry glosses.
 Waves, stand-out headbands, twists, knots, side parts, ponytails and braid are always cool... and SUPER easy.
