 If you have another brand of mp3 player, it's important to know whether or not it has internal flash memory, has a flash memory card in it, or is a hard-drive based player like the iPod. Many Creative mp3 players look, feel, and function like USB flash drives. You can plug them directly into a free USB port on your PC, wait for Windows to recognize the disk, and you should be able to find your music on your player through Windows Explorer.


Copy it and import it into Windows Media Player. Some require a connection cable, usually from a mini-USB plug to the standard size. If you do not have this, it is most likely required in order to transfer music between the computer and the mp3 player.
Hard-drive based mp3 players require special drivers that must be installed so that Windows knows how to work with them. Generally these are bundled with the player itself, and can be installed easily from, for example, a CD. If you have since lost or damaged the original driver disc, you may be able to get the installation program necessary to install the drivers from the manufacturer's website.The details of which vary per manufacturer.
After installing the drivers, connect the mp3 player to your computer with the appropriate cable (it's almost always best to use the cable that came with the player, if one didn't come with it, use any brand you trust) and Windows should recognize the player and set it up for use. More often than not, Windows will recognize mp3 players as either removable disks, or possibly portable media devices. Windows will usually also bring up a menu of tasks when you connect your player, which list things such as "Synchronize with Windows Media Player" and "Take No Action". Cancel or close such a window if it appears.
If your mp3 player appears as either a removable disk or an MTP Device/Portable Media (audio) player, Open "My Computer", then right-click on the icon that corresponds to the device and select "Explore". Sometimes Windows may allow you to "Open" the device, which may do the same thing. Once you do this, you are now browsing through the files on the device as you would files in any folder.
Copy the ones you want into a place on your hard drive (for example, "My Music") and then, once finished, open Windows Media Player. You should have Windows Media Player 10 or 11 for this particular method. If you have an older version, upgrade. It's free, it's easy, there's more features. No reason not to. In Windows Media Player, select "Add to Library", and then you can choose single files or an entire folder.
Pick the ones you want to import, and Windows Media Player will import them into your media library. If the music is stored in "My Music", Windows Media Player may import it automatically when the program starts.

