 Sit on the toilet and urinate either on the testing stick or into the small plastic cup provided, depending on the type of test. You should try to use a midstream sample, which means you should pee a little first before you collect any urine in the cup or insert the stick.If you need to urinate directly on the stick, make sure to follow the instructions carefully. With some tests, you need to urinate on the stick for a very specific time, for example exactly 5 seconds, no more no less. Use a stopwatch to help you time it, if necessary.
When urinating on the stick, make sure to place the absorbent end of the stick into the urine stream and turn it so that the display window faces upwards.
 This is only required for the plastic cup method. Drop the urine into the well indicated on the stick. Alternatively, some brands require that you dip the absorbent end of the test stick into the collected urine. Hold it there for 5 to 10 seconds, or for the amount of time indicated in the instructions.
 Place the testing stick on a clean, level surface with the result window facing up. Wait time is typically between 1 to 5 minutes, though some tests may take up to 10 minutes to give an accurate result. See the instructions to find out the required amount of time for your particular test.


Try not to stare at the stick for the duration of the waiting period; time will seem to go slower and you'll become even more anxious. Do something to distract yourself, like making a cup of tea or doing some stretches or exercises.
Some sticks will have a little timer symbol or line to show that the test is working. If your test stick is supposed to have this function and nothing appears on the screen, it is likely that your test is not working properly and you may need to use a different one.
 Once the amount of time stated in the instructions has passed, check the test stick for results. The symbols used to indicate whether you are pregnant or not vary from test to test, so read the instructions again if your are unsure. Most home pregnancy tests use something like a plus or minus sign, a coded color change, or the words "pregnant" or "not pregnant" on a digital display.Sometimes a line or symbol will appear only very faintly on the display screen. If this happens, you should still consider it a positive result as this indicates that the test has picked up on hCG in your urine. False-positives are very rare.If the results are positive: You should make an appointment with your doctor to have the pregnancy confirmed. This is usually done using a blood test.If the results are negative: Wait another week and if you still haven't started your period you should do the test again. False negatives are fairly common, especially if you miscalculated your ovulation date and took the test too soon. This is why many home pregnancy tests come with two test sticks. If the second test comes back negative, make an appointment with your doctor to find out if there is some other problem affecting your menstruation or causing symptoms of pregnancy.