 Some causes of paralysis, such as a slipped disc, may be partially treated by physical therapy. You'll likely need to take the cat to a physical therapist, which may just be someone at your vet's clinic. In addition, the specialist may give you exercises for the cat at home., Uncontrolled diabetes can lead to weakness in the back leg. Evening out your cat's disease can help the cat regain strength.The main ways to control your cat's diabetes are through insulin, medication, and a weight-loss diet.The type of diet your cat should be on depends on the cat. Some cats do best on a very high-protein diet, while other diabetic cats do best on a high-fiber, complex carbohydrate diet. Talk to your vet about the best one to start your cat on.
Ask your vet about supplements. Some pet owners have had success with potassium, L-carnitine, and/or methylcobalamin.
 In some cases, surgery may be the only solution. Surgery can help with problems such as spine issues or tumors. If the cat had a traumatic injury, amputation of one or both of the back legs may be necessary.After surgery, your cat may stay in the hospital a few days, or it may come home. You'll need to keep the cat calm by keeping it in a small, quiet area. Your vet may advise you keep the cat in a crate for a day or two.
Give it small amounts of water and food throughout the day. Also, administer any medications prescribed by the vet.
The cat may also need to wear a protective collar so it doesn't lick the stitches., Saddle thrombus is a condition where your cat has a blood clot that travels from the heart. The arteries in your cat's back narrow just before they get to the back legs, so clots often stop there. In turn, your cat's back legs don't get enough blood flow.The main treatment for this condition is medication to dissolve the blood clot and pain medication to help keep the cat comfortable. However, some vets may not want to take this course of action. The disease is very painful for the cat and often indicates heart disease, as well, so some vets may recommend putting the cat to sleep.Some cats don't recover the full use of their back legs. Also, the condition has a high chance of recurrence.

