 Many different plans fall under the umbrella term “defined contribution.” They differ in the amount that employees can contribute to the plan. They differ from “defined benefit” plans in that they do not guarantee any amount of money on retirement:Profit sharing. You can make discretionary contributions to a profit sharing plan. However, if you do make a contribution, you must come up with a formula for allocating contributions to different participants in the plan. The maximum contribution is 100% of compensation or $53,000 per employee, whichever is less.

Traditional 401(k). Employees defer a portion of their salary on a pre-tax basis. As the employer, you can choose to match or make another contribution. Employer contributions are usually not taxed until distribution. The employee can contribute a maximum of $18,000 in 2016 (and up to an additional $6,000 if 50 or older).

Safe Harbor 401(k). This is an ideal plan if you have highly-compensated employees whose contributions might be limited under a traditional 401(k). Employees contribute a percentage of their salary and the employer is required to contribute. The employee can contribute a maximum of $18,000 in 2016 (and up to an additional $6,000 if 50 or older).

Automatic Enrollment 401(k). This plan requires employees to opt out if they do not want to participate. There are also default contribution rates. Automatic Enrollment 401(k) plans are ideal if you want high participation and have highly-compensated employees whose contributions might be limited under a traditional 401(k). The employee can contribute a maximum of $18,000 in 2016 (and up to an additional $6,000 if 50 or older).
 You can set up a plan yourself. However, you would probably benefit from meeting with a financial institution or finance professional. These people can help you set up the defined benefit plan and answer any questions that you have.
 This document will describe the day-to-day operations for your plan. If you hire a financial institution or retirement plan professional, then they should provide the plan document for you., You cannot just dump your employee’s retirement plan contributions into your savings account. Instead, you need to create a trust. The trust will manage the assets solely for the benefit of the plan’s participants.A “trustee” handles the trust’s assets. You should choose this person carefully. If you create the plan through a reputable financial institution, then they should have experience either acting as trustee or hiring one.
 You must keep proper records which track contributions, earnings and losses, as well as plan investments and expenses. An adequate record-keeping system will help you complete required reports that must be filed with the federal government.The financial institution you work with should have a record-keeping system in place. Be sure to ask during your consultation what kind of record-keeping they have in place.
 Finally, you can’t create a 401(k) plan without giving employees required information so that they can decide whether to participate. You should give your employees information about the plan’s benefits, features, and the rights of those who choose to participate.


You also must give all employees who enroll in the plan a summary plan description. You usually create this with the plan document., Even if you hire a financial institution to create and manage the plan, you still retain certain duties. For example, you must act in the best interest of the plan’s participants when you select and continue to employ the financial institution. This means you must continually monitor the institution:Always read any reports that the financial institution provides. Follow up with the institution if you don’t understand something.
Check the actual fees charged. Make sure they are the same amount as what the institution claims.
Always follow up on complaints by plan participants. Keep detailed information about the person’s complaints and document how you raised the issue with the financial institution.
Regularly review the institution’s performance. Raise any concerns you have with the institution in writing.

