 If you stay in contact and the continued interest in one another seems mutual, convey your interest in potentially maintaining a romantic connection. Look for a chance to say something along the lines of “I had a great time on vacation and have still been thinking about you.” Your fling’s response to a statement such as this will strongly reflect the potential for a more serious relationship. If they don’t respond receptively, remind yourself that they may have viewed your time together as simply a fling after all., If your fling is located geographically far from you, you need to assess whether you have the budget and time to visit one another regularly. You may also both be willing to have a relationship with an extremely limited amount of time spent in one another's physical proximity, though this may prove more challenging than you anticipate. The point is to be honest with yourself: if it's more work than it is fun, you should consider letting your vacation romance just be a fling after all.
 Another important way to determine whether the relationship is worth pursuing is establishing whether your values are compatible. Some people have an entirely different approach to life when they’re on vacation. The point is, you may have only seen your fling’s vacation side. If you stay in touch and the affection for one another persists after the vacation, you should start to talk more about what matters in each other’s lives. There are a few topics in particular that matter quite a bit to a couple’s compatibility.Ask about family and friends. Have a discussion about how each of you feel about your family members, and about other meaningful relationships in your lives. You can learn a lot from someone when listening to how they speak about those they care about.
Discuss your careers. Each of your lives will in part be determined by what you both do professionally. It’s important to know where each of your stand regarding your career goals and intentions.
Mention any strong political or religious views that you hold. If it’s important enough to you that it affects whom you interact with in daily life, or how you treat other people, your fling should know about it, for both of your sakes! While it’s understandable not to mention your affection for Dick Cheney while letting your hair down, you should be honest about things that are important to you if you’re hoping for a longer-term relationship.
 People’s relationship goals may make them perfectly compatible – or may simply prevent a more serious relationship from being possible. Take the time to assess what it is you’re looking for in pursuing the romantic fling a bit further. For instance, can you see yourself settling down within the next few years, or is it more likely that you may move across the country for a new job?Be honest with yourself – and with your fling, about what you want. Maybe you’d both like to visit one another from time to time, but keep your relationship as an ongoing, albeit intermittent, fling.
Know that it’s also totally fine to want to wait and see what happens! You don’t have to be exactly sure about what you want to know you’d like to see where your affection for one another takes you. You can simply continue to stay in touch and bring up the possibility of reconnecting when-so-ever the moods strikes.

