 It will be easier to help co-workers understand gay and lesbian issues if you get to know them first and they view you as a colleague and friend. Give yourself some time to get to know co-workers before bringing up issues in conversation.


Co-workers will be less receptive to learning about gay and lesbian issues if they don't know or trust you.;
, It's important to conduct yourself professionally and responsibly when educating co-workers about gay and lesbian issues. It's admirable to be an advocate for the gay community, but letting it distract you from your duties could get you in trouble.
 Remember that not everyone will want your insights into the issues faced by gay and lesbian people. This could be because they don't agree with it or just because they don't feel the workplace is the right place to discuss it. Respect the wishes of individuals that don't want to discuss gay and lesbian issues at work.
 Bring up topics related to the gay and lesbian community casually to begin the discussion. Relate them to something already being discussed. Co-workers will likely be more receptive to discussing issues if you reference current news items or events that are related than if you just bring it up suddenly.
 Diversity training gives workers the tools they need to be sensitive to the differences among their fellow employees, as well as the differences among the people they come into contact with as a part of their job.
 Offer co-workers resources for further information if they want to know more than time in the workplace permits. Suggest articles or websites that will further educate them and help them understand the process of coming out, the meaning of pride activities, and current issues in the gay and lesbian community.
 If you are gay or lesbian, you can educate co-workers by just being your normal self while out. Be honest about your sexuality and try to represent the gay or lesbian community in the best way possible.


Remember that co-workers that know you're gay may view you as a representative or advocate of the gay lifestyle. If you are interested in educating them, be kind and willing to teach them about your life and the struggles you face due to being a gay or lesbian person in a homophobic society.
 Help co-workers that you know are gay or lesbian feel comfortable by asking about their partner and their home life. Joining in office discussions about home life, pastimes, spouses and future plans is a normal part of work life, and gay and lesbian workers should be included in that.


If you are gay or lesbian, you can mention your partner, gay pride events and advocacy groups you support during these "water cooler" conversations. This shows co-workers that you want to talk about your life and it could show them how many similarities exist between your life and theirs.
 Because of pervasive homophobia in some communities and businesses, many gay and lesbian workers choose not to come out. This is their personal choice and that choice should be respected and followed., One of the ways that gay and lesbian employees will feel comfortable in a work environment is to make them equal in that environment. If you are gay or lesbian, or just interested in creating a positive work environment for gay and lesbian people, have discussions with management about your benefits. For example, make sure that the partners of gay and lesbian workers are covered by your medical coverage in the same way that straight partners are covered.


Your company should also have a non-discrimination policy. This should outline a variety of things including appropriate and inappropriate language around sexual orientation, a list of penalties for incidences of discrimination, and how employees will be protected from retaliation., It's important to walk the fine line between making a gay or lesbian employee feel like they can be open about their life, while also not making them uncomfortable by putting a spotlight on them, so to speak. Have conversations with gay and lesbian employees about how comfortable they are and whether they want to be out to the whole office or company.


You should also avoid asking a gay or lesbian employee every question you have about gay life, culture, or issues. It is up to you to figure these things out and not put the burden on them.
If you are a gay or lesbian employee, feel free to set some personal boundaries. While you may feel good about helping others to understand the issues you face, don't feel obligated to. Being burdened with educating a whole office or company can quickly become one of the issues that bother you in an office.
 There are a variety of ways that a company can do this, from putting pictures of same-sex couples on advertisements or pamphlets, to making a bold and clear statement about diversity.If a company actively fosters an atmosphere that is inclusive, it will make gay and lesbian employees feel more at home, more welcome, and more invested in the company they work for.

