 Sweet Shrub requires little in the way of maintenance, but you may like to prune it to keep the plant in shape and prevent it from growing too wide. Pruning should be done immediately after flowering, which means in the early summer.

Due to the fact that this plant spreads by producing side shoots known as suckers, you can control the width by pinching these off as they emerge.






Thinning out old growth will usually ensure the new growth comes through more vigorously the following growing season.
 After you have planted Sweet Shrub, it's important to keep it watered until it is well-established, regardless of whether you planted it from seed, cuttings or nursery plant.


Once established, Sweet Shrub is very tolerant of dry conditions. As a result, it will only need light watering during periods of drought, when you should water it once a week.
 Sweet Shrub doesn’t tend to be bothered by disease but root rot can occur in poorly-drained soil. To avoid this, don’t plant the bush where puddles form and don’t easily drain away.

If you observe warty growths on stems close to the ground, this may indicate bacterial crown gall.






The best solution is to remove the plant and surrounding soil to prevent re-infection.
 If you need to transplant Sweet Shrub, do it in fall or winter. Take cuttings in July if you wish to quickly reproduce from a parent plant.


To reproduce a plant from suckers, take a rooted sucker and replant it until a proper root system is established before planting on.
This is usually the fastest way to get a mature flowering plant.
 Wait until the seed pods turn brown if you wish to harvest the Sweet Shrub seeds. Don’t wait any longer though – the seeds are best planted mature but fresh.


The seeds are best planted immediately. If this isn't possible, keep them for up to 3 months wrapped in moss inside a plastic bag in the refrigerator.
 Although it has been eaten as a spice in the past, Sweet Shrub is poisonous in large enough quantities, especially the seed. Don’t confuse it will true Allspice, which is best purchased from the grocery store!