 Attach your yarn to the crochet hook using a slipknot, then work 35 chain stitches to create a foundation.


This part will circle your leg, so you can determine whether you need a larger or smaller chain by wrapping it around your calf. Since the yarn will stretch as you work, though, your chain should have about 10 fewer stitches than you think you will need for the two ends to meet.
If you do not know how to make a slipknot or chain stitch, check the "Tips" section of this article.;
, Work three chain stitches, then double crochet in each of the stitches from your foundation chain until you reach the end of the row. Turn the work when you finish this row.


The first set of three chain stitches made in this step will act as one double crochet.
Check the "Tips" section for instructions on double crocheting.
 Work another chain of three stitches, then work one double crochet into each double crochet stitch from your previous row. Continue until you reach the end of the row, then turn your work over.


As before, the three chain stitches you make at the beginning of the row serve as your first double crochet.
 Repeat the previous step another five times, or until you have a total of seven rows made from double crochets.


Chain three at the beginning of each row, double crochet into each stitch from the previous row, and turn your work over at the end of each row.
You can make fewer rows or more rows depending on the look you want and the boots you'll wear this cuff with, but this amount is a good starting point to work with.
 Fold the boot cuff in half, keeping the right sides together and the wrong sides out. Chain one, then slip stitch in each of the stitches along the short sides, joining a stitch from both ends with each slip stitch you make.


If you do not know how to make a slip stitch, check the "Tips" section for more information.
 Cut the yarn, leaving a tail measuring 2 to 3 inches (5 to 7.5 cm). Pull this tail through the loop on your hook to tie it off, then weave any excess into the wrong side of the cuff.
 With this step, you have completed one boot cuff.


If you want to personalize your boot cuff, consider sewing a decorative button on it using a sewing needle and embroidery thread. Doing so is not necessary, though.
 Repeat the above steps to complete a second boot cuff for you to wear with your first as a set.

