 Even if the composition you're writing isn't ultimately meant to be heard on the piano, hearing other finished compositions when you're trying to get inspired can be just the thing you need.


Classical and jazz are the two most noteworthy styles of piano playing. Even if you're only going to be playing in one or the other (or a more contemporary style like pop) it's a good idea to give a listen to these different styles. Keep an ear out for the different chords the players use depending on the style.
Look into the work of Liszt, Chopin or Satie for great classically-based piano works.
For jazz, Bill Evans, Dave Brubeck and Chick Corea are all players worth looking into.;
, Whether you're starting out or an advanced player, warming up your fingers with scales can encourage creativity to flow more freely once you get into the thick of composing. If you know a few scales, try warming up with one you're not as familiar with. Hearing the distinctive tone of a scale might spark the first ideas of a fresh composition.


Scales are a very handy thing to know when it comes time to write melodies. While there's no sure method to write a great melody, knowing which scale you should be using will give you an idea of which notes to use and which to avoid.
 Unfortunately, a lot of the time, this happens to fall on the least convenient times where you're either far from an instrument or about to fall asleep. This is why it's a good idea to bring a notebook and/or sound recorder with you wherever you go. If you think of a great melody or rhythm, you can hum it into your mic and adapt it once you're by your piano again.


Most cellphones have a recorder option. If you don't have a cellphone for this purpose, basic handheld recorders tend to be very affordable.
 Creativity cannot be forced. If you're trying to break through the writer's block and nothing's working, it may be time to give yourself a break from things. Go do something that has nothing to do with the creative process. Clean your house. Talk to a friend on the phone. Pet a cat. Better yet, take a nap. When you return to it, you don't want to feel any of the frustration you were grappling with before. Creativity is best when you're feeling relaxed.


Going for a walk is a fantastic idea if you're getting frustrated. Many artists have some of their best creative epiphanies when they're out for a stroll.
 In some cases, the composer is driven by love and longing. Other times, he's trying to vent out bad emotions. Take a look at your life and single out some of the things that have most affected you in the past while. Have you gone through a break-up? Did you recently go on an unforgettable vacation? Anything that sparks feeling in you is fair game for musical inspiration.

