 You should have clean hands whenever you are touching the area around your band-aid to prevent the spread of bacteria and possible infection.Use clean water from a tap to wet your hands. Warm or cold is fine.
Turn off the tap and apply soap to your hands.
Rub your hands together to create a lather with the soap making sure to coat the back of your hands, between your fingers, and underneath your fingernails.
Continue scrubbing your hands for 20 seconds. This is about as long as it takes to sing the “Happy Birthday” song twice in a row from beginning to end. Rinse the soap off of your hands with clean water from the tap.
Dry your hands with a clean cloth towel, paper towel, or you can air dry them.
As an alternative to washing your hands, you can use a hand sanitizer that is at least 60% alcohol.;
, Like washing your hands, cleaning the area around your band-aid can help prevent infection or the spread of bacteria during removal.


Fill a clean bowl with clean tap water and mild liquid soap. Warm or cold water is fine, although warm (not hot) water may feel more comforting.
Soak a clean washcloth in the soapy water and wring it out to remove excess moisture.
Gently wash the skin around and on top of the band-aid with the wash cloth. Avoid putting direct pressure on top of the band-aid as you do this. Instead, give it a quick wipe with the cloth.
Gently pat the area dry with a clean, dry washcloth.
 Making this tab will help you keep control over the band-aid as you pull it off.
 Paying attention to your breath will signal your body to let go of stress and helps you get ready to pull off the band-aid., Contrary to what many think, ripping the band-aid off as fast as you can can be less painful for some.Exhaling while you pull the band-aid off can trigger your body to relax rather than tense up. Likewise, the faster you pull, the faster your discomfort will be over.
If the skin is really irritated, apply a chunk of ice or a cold compress to the area to help soothe the skin.

