 The official treatment for heartworms is a medical injection of Immiticide (Melarsomine). This treatment starts off with one injection given to your dog at the vet. Four to six weeks later, this is followed by two more injections that are given 24 hours apart.This treatment kills the adult worms, which will disintegrate over time and be absorbed by your dog's body.
There is a risk of the worms causing a physical obstruction in your dog's blood vessels. Your dog may also have an anaphylactic allergic reaction from the alien proteins in their blood stream. Because of this, it is crucial that your dog is cage rested for the duration of the treatment.
Sometimes steroids may be necessary to help suppress your dog's allergic reaction, but this makes your dog more vulnerable to a secondary bacterial infection.;
, When your dog has heartworms, your vet may prescribe them antibiotics. The larvae and worms can release bacteria when they die which can cause bacteremia, or a massive release of bacteria into your dog's bloodstream.


In order to prevent this, your vet may give your dog a four-week course of antibiotics prior to treatment so your dog doesn't get blood poisoning., There is another medication that is starting to be tested to treat heartworms, though it hasn't been officially licensed to do so yet. During this treatment, your dog receives low doses of the medication ivermectin over the course of several months.


Ask your doctor about this option for your dog to see if it's viable.
 There are certain cases where your dog may already be in advanced heart failure when they are diagnosed. If this is the case, the prognosis for your dogs may be bleak because they may not survive killing the worms within their blood vessels and heart. First, your vet will appraise your dog's likelihood of surviving treatment and discuss if treatment or putting your dog down is the kinder option.


If your dog decides that your dog can survive treatment, they must be stabilized before any medication can be given to kill the heartworms. Your vet may use drugs such as diuretics, which will shift your dog's heart fluid and make it easier for their heart to pump blood. The vet may also prescribe ACE inhibitors and beta blockers to regulate your dog's heart function. , Once your dog has been successfully given treatment, they should be checked for heartworms. About six months after your dog completes treatment, have your vet run tests to see if there are any heartworm antigens in your dog's blood.This will prove that the treatment killed all your dog's heartworms.
 Once your dog has been treated for heartworms, you should put them on heartworm preventative medicine in order to help them not get heartworms again. These preventative methods include medications from the Ivermectin family that you can get from your vet as well as store bought products such as Heartgard, Heartgard Plus, Sentinel, Interceptor, Revolution, and ProHeart 6.


Although the heartworm prevention is very effective in keeping heartworms from coming back, your dog should be tested for heartworms once a year. There have been cases where heartworms were contracted even if the dog was on preventative medication., Heartworms are discussed using three classes of severity. Class I heartworms may not present any symptoms. However, one common sign of heartworms at this level is a soft, persistent cough. At class II, the dog may cough more insistentlyYour dog may experience shortness of breath or rapid shallow breathing., Your dog may show signs of fatigue and lethargy. Class II and III dogs may have a severe intolerance to exercise. This means your dog may lay around the house more, not jump around or be as lively, and refuse to exercise when the dog used to enjoy exercising.In class III, the dog may faint or pass out during exercise.
 Heartworms can lead to your dog having a poor or decreased appetite. This means that your dog may refuse to eat or want to eat less food than is normal. Because of this, your dog may experience weight loss.Watch to see if your dog has changed their eating habits. A decreased appetite and weight loss is a symptom of many different problems.
 If you notice any signs of heartworms, take your dog to the veterinarian as soon as you can. Your vet will examine your dog, observing their breathing for signs of distress. Your vet may listen to your dog's breathing with a stethoscope to listen for crackles or harshness within the lungs as well as abnormal heart sounds.Your vet will need to rule out other causes of lung or heart disease, such as pneumonia or structural heart disease.
If after the examination, heartworms remain a possibility, a blood test will be administered to see if the body has produced antigens against heartworms. This shows that your dog is mounting an immune response against the worms.
This test may produce both false negatives and false positives in 20% of cases, so your vet will need to run other tests.This most common second test is the Knott's test, which is where a sample of your dog's blood is examined under the microscope to check for the physical presence of the heartworm larvae.If a false negative is suspected, your vet may double check to see if a negative test is accurate with a retest a month or two later to confirm the result.Your vet may also run blood tests to look for organ function, take x-rays, and a heart ultrasound scan to assess your dog's health.
 Heartworms are a condition spread through mosquito bites. A mosquito carrying a heartworm in its larval stage will bite your dog, which is left behind on the skin and introduced into your dog's bloodstream through the bite.


Once the larvae enters your dog's blood stream, it generally takes six to seven months for the heartworm to develop into the adult worm form., The fully grown adult heartworms live in your dog's heart chambers, which is how it derived its name. These adult worms interfere with your dog's heart's ability to pump blood. This causes problems with your dog's normal heart function, which effects the rest of your dog's health.


Heartworms can spread and also infect your dog's lungs and arteries if they are left untreated to reproduce.
Once fully grown, heartworms can live in your dog for five to seven years., One of the best ways to help prevent your dog from contracting heartworms is to prevent mosquito bites. The most problematic areas for mosquitoes are those with plenty of standing water, such as lakes and waterways. Mosquitoes like to breed in these areas, which means they are an intermediate host for heartworm.


Whereas heartworm was once limited to south and southwest regions of the United States, now it is widespread all over the world.