 If you are having a hard time accepting your large bust and want to explore non-surgical options to reduce your bust size, focus on doing daily cardio exercises for 45 to 60 minutes. This will help you lose body fat, and since breast tissue is composed mostly of body fat, you will likely notice a reduction in your bust size, and improved general health.Since it can be uncomfortable for women with large busts to run and jog, try lower-impact cardio exercises such as walking, using an elliptical, or riding a bike.
 Building and toning your chest muscles, especially the pectorals, may decrease your bust size and help improve your overall health. Here are a few exercises that will tone and tighten your chest muscles:Push ups.
Barbell Bench Press.
Dips.
Even if you do not notice a reduction in breast size, these exercises can help tone and strengthen your body, preventing the back pain and discomfort that often plagues women with larger busts.
It’s a good idea to work with a personal trainer who can tailor a workout plan and recommend specific exercises to tone and tauten your chest.
 If you are unable to accept your large bust size or are experiencing health problems as a result of your bust size, conduct research on breast reduction surgery. This procedure, also known as reduction mammaplasty, removes excess tissue and skin from the breasts so they are reduced in size. If you are a teenager or young adult uncomfortable with their larger bust size, physicians usually recommend waiting on the surgery until your breasts are fully developed.
Some doctors also suggest waiting until you have had children or your family is complete since pregnancy leads to changes in breast tissue, which may impact the results of the surgery. Research suggests that breastfeeding after this surgery is also more difficult.
If you are considering breast reduction surgery, meet with a board-certified plastic surgeon to discuss the procedure, learn about the cost, and decide if you think it would improve your health and body image.
 Before you decide that surgery is the best way to deal with a larger bust, talk with your doctor or a medical professional about your concerns. If your large bust size is affecting your health or causing you discomfort, your doctor might have a way to address these issues and alleviate these problems.
 If you are struggling to accept your large bust, consider meeting with a counselor or mental health professional. They can provide support and advise you about how you can learn to accept your body.


While it is natural to feel unhappy about a certain aspect of your physical appearance, if these thoughts become overwhelming and interfere with your daily life, you may be experiencing body dysmorphic disorder (BDD). People with this condition tend to focus on or obsess over a perceived flaw in their physical appearance. A mental health professional will be able to diagnose and treat this condition.