 Use your stud finder to locate the wall studs. Mark their locations with a pencil. Scan the wall to check for load-bearing framework, pipes, or electrical wires. If you locate an obvious obstruction, consult a professional before cutting or drilling into your wall.If you have the blueprints to your house, check to see if they include any information about what’s behind your wall. If you do identify a large vent, pipe, or load-bearing framework, your best solution will be to install a surface-mounted cabinet., Hold the cabinet in its intended position and use a level to make sure it’s straight. Use a pencil to trace its complete outline. When you’re finished tracing, set the cabinet aside in a safe place., Most wall framing sets studs at a distance of 16 inches (about 41 cm). However, many medicine cabinets are 18 inches (about 46 cm). If your cabinet is larger than the stud distance, you’ll have to notch, or cut away, part of the studs when you create the recess and supporting frame for your cabinet.If you purchase a cabinet with a width less than 16 inches, you’ll most likely be able to install it without notching the studs.
 Drive a drywall screw into the wall in the middle of the outlined area. Don’t drive the screw entirely into the wall, but leave enough of its length to use as a tab to pull out your inspection hole. Use a keyhole or drywall saw to cut a circular hole with a diameter of about 6 inches (15 cm) around the screw, then use the screw to pull out the cut section.Use a flashlight to look into hole and inspect the area where you want to cut your recess. If you see wires or pipes, call a plumber or electrician to have the obstructions rerouted., If there are no obstructing wires or pipes behind your wall, use a drywall saw to cut along the cabinet outline you traced. Take care to only saw through the wall where you’re installing the cabinet, and don’t cut so deep that you come through the wall in the next room.Try to use careful, even strokes to avoid disfiguring the remaining drywall outside of the cabinet outline.
 If your cabinet is wider than your stud distance, take a hacksaw and slide it behind the obstructing stud to cut any screws holding the next room’s wallboard to its back edge. Use a handsaw to cut through the stud flush with the top and bottom of the drywall opening.After removing the section of stud that's in the way, place the cabinet into the recess to check its fit. Make sure its door opens without obstruction. Use a utility knife and coarse file to fix any tight spots, like bits of protruding drywall or wall stud.

