 Even though network principles are common to all networks, architecture, equipment, and software utilities differ among network vendors. Select the network training based upon the equipment to be networked and how the network will be used if creating the network is the goal. Select the training based upon the current network system if use and support are the goal.;
, The goals for short term courses include better understanding of existing networks, creating a network, becoming recognised as a network expert, maintaining a network. The goal may also include whether or not certification or college credit is desired.
 How long the class lasts often reflects depth of coverage and cost. Determine how much time, effort and money can be invested.
 Individuals learn best when the style of the class matches their learning style. Learning methods include self study, self paced distance learning, class based distance learning, lecture classes, and lecture with hands on laboratories.
 If no outside certification or recognition is required and if the student is self disciplined and self motivated then just a good bookstore can be the institution required. If the goal is only this class and distance learning through the internet is the expected method then investigation through the internet is required. Face-to-face classes can be found at local community colleges, technical colleges, universities and vocational education centers.
 Investigating the age, checking certifications, talking with graduates, reviewing faculty and facilities are all necessary actions in determining what institution to use.
 Some employers will pay for classes that help at work. Some institutions will assist with tuition. Some on-line institutions will offer discounts if there is a commitment to more than one class.
 Doing the investigation is not a substitute for actually taking the class.
 There is often a lot of pressure to not complete the class. This includes, family, friends, work and a sense that the understanding is good enough part way through. Finish the class and collect the completion certificate to prove that the work was completed.

