 Pick a particular person in your life. Then, focus on that person and write down everything that you are grateful for about them. Try to write down at least ten observations. Repeat this process with a new “person of focus” each day immediately prior to meditating. This will put you in a positive mindset.If you want to extend the positive energy even more, you can send your list to the person in question.
 If you are the type of person who is extraordinarily busy, set aside five minutes before each meditation to sit down and write out a list of tasks that you need to complete that day or week. Once they are on the list, do your best to banish them from your mind. You now know that they will be dealt with after you are finished.This is also a good way to not feel guilty about taking some “me” time for meditation. Your list shows that you will handle your obligations to others as well.
As opposed to a list, you can also just free-write your thoughts. Write anything that comes to mind. You can use this as a way to vent any negative energy too. For example, you might write, “I’m so tired to being taken for granted at work.”, As you start the winding down process, go ahead and place your phone away from you and silence it. Your phone has the potential to distract you and to pull you back into the current day’s events. Removing your phone allows you to escape for a bit.If you are meditating with a group, it is also common courtesy to silence all electronic devices, unless the group decides otherwise.
 Carry a small book of poems with you. Or, perhaps a book with inspirational quotations. Some people find reading biographies calming as well. There are even special meditation books available that can help you to focus your thoughts. Go to your local bookstore, or online, and search out a few texts that appeal to you., Picture in your mind one person, place, event, idea, or location. It can be anything that you choose. Push all of your mental energies toward that area and try to focus on it as much as possible. Go back to this area whenever your mind tries to wander when meditating.


For example, you might focus on how much you love the city of Paris. Try to think about everything that you love about it and then steer yourself back to a blank mind.
 It’s okay to engage in a dialogue with yourself while preparing to mediate. If you begin to lose focus, tell yourself, “Let’s avoid distractions. Focus on breathing.” If you start to attack yourself for being “bad” at meditating then you will lose all focus and control. So, keep your mental comments positive and uplifting.When in doubt, assume that you are doing everything right. After all, if you get something out of meditating, then you’ve succeeded.