 In order to continue, you will need to first show the Recycle Bin on your desktop. In order to do this, press the Windows key. Type “Show or Hide,” and hit Enter. The top search result should say “Show or hide common icons on the desktop.” Click this to continue.;
, A small box should open that says “Desktop Icon Settings.” Near the top of this box, you should see a tab that says “Desktop Icons.” Under this section, again near the top, you should see a series of checkboxes. There are more icons available here than just the Recycle Bin. These should include Computer, Network, Control Panel, and User Files. These are optional, and not required to enable the Recycle Bin icon. Click the checkboxes to the left of each option if you would like that option.
 Check the checkbox to the left of the “Recycle Bin” option. Then click “Apply.” The “Apply” button should turn gray. Once it does, click “OK” to finish and close the Desktop Icon Settings window.
 You should be able to find the Recycle Bin on your desktop once you’ve enabled it. Check all of the corners if you can’t find it.
 While this may seem like a strange step to take, it is a necessary one. So many people have highly populated desktops, meaning that they have a ton of icons already on them. This can make it hard to find the Recycle Bin. Once you find it, try dragging and dropping it to a location that is easiest to see.
 Once you have relocated your Recycle Bin icon to a convenient location on your desktop, go ahead and give it a right-click. This should open a context menu. On this menu there should be six default options.
 Find “Pin to Start”. Click this option to Pin the Recycle Bin and continue to the next step.
 Click the Start menu, or hit the Windows key. On the right-hand side, in the tiles area, you should see your newly pinned Recycle Bin. If you do not for some reason, you may just need to wait a moment for the system to respond. If it still doesn’t pop up, simply repeat the process.
 Single left-click and hold the Recycle Bin icon on your desktop to grab on to it. Now drag it down near the Start button, to any blank space to the right of your taskbar icons.
 Once you are in the right place, you should see a option appear around the on-screen cursor that says “Pin to File Explorer.” Simply let go of the mouse click to drop the Recycle Bin. The File Explorer should pop up with a context menu. Near the top of this menu, you should see the Recycle Bin now pinned there.
 Open a new File Explorer by tapping the Windows key and typing “file.” The first result in the search results should be File Explorer. Click this to open.
 On the left-hand side of the File Explorer window should be a series of different options available. Near the top of the pane you should see “Quick access” with a series of file locations listed underneath it. You should see Recycle Bin in this list.


You should also see the Recycle Bin is now listed under the “Frequent folders” menu when you first open a File Explorer window.
To remove these, simply right-click either one and select “Unpin from Quick access.” Doing so will remove Recycle Bin from both the Quick access and File Explorer locations.

