 Make sure that Music is selected in the upper-left corner. This will display all of the music currently in your iTunes library.
 Before adding your music files to your iPhone, you'll need to add them to your iTunes music library.


Open the folder on your computer that contains the music files you want to add to iTunes. You can add most popular audio formats including MP3 and M4A.
Highlight all of the files and folders that you want to add to iTunes.
Click and drag the selected files and folders onto the iTunes window.
Release the files in the iTunes window to add them to your iTunes music library. You'll see the songs appear in your music list.
 You'll need to connect your iPhone to your computer using its USB cable the first time you want to add songs to it. You can enable wireless transfers later so that you won't need to connect it in the future.


If you've previously synced music from a different iTunes library, you'll be prompted to delete it before you can proceed. This is to prevent music piracy.
 Doing so will allow you to easily decide which music from iTunes you want to add to your iPhone. To enable manual music management:Select your iPhone at the top of the iTunes window.
Click the "Summary" tab in the left frame and then scroll to the bottom of the Summary page.
Check the "Manually manage music and videos" box then click "Apply."

, Return to the Music library screen and select all of the songs in iTunes that you want to add to your iPhone. You can hold ⇧ Shift and click to highlight multiple items in a block, or hold ⌘ Command / Ctrl and click individual items to add them to the selection.


You can also drag playlists, albums, artists, and genres.
 You'll now be able to copy the music to your iPhone, which will appear in a sidebar on the left side of the iTunes window.
 When you release the selected music on the iPhone, it will begin syncing to the device. You can monitor the progress at the top of the iTunes window. It may take a while to copy a lot of music.
 You can set your iPhone to appear in iTunes whenever it's connected to the same wireless network as your computer. This can make adding music files much easier since you don't need to worry about connecting it via USB.


With your iPhone connected and selected in iTunes, click the "Summary" tab in the left frame.
Scroll to the bottom and check the "Sync with this iPhone over Wi-Fi."
Disconnect your iPhone and you'll still see it in iTunes as long as it's on the same network.

