 You will need a pair of skinfold calipers, also known as body fat calipers. These are sold in most fitness stores. These calipers may come with digital readers or analog dials.

Calipers may sometimes give measurements that are higher than your actual body fat.A doctor or personal trainer may have more accurate methods of body fat measurements available, including water displacement methods, body fat scales, or DEXA scanning., Find the midpoint between your knee and your hip on the front of your thigh.You can roughly find this by stretching your hand with your pinky on the top of your knee and your thumb towards the middle of your thigh. You can also use a measuring tape to measure the length of your thigh and mark the halfway point.

Once you find this spot, you may want to mark it with a felt-tipped pen so that you can remember it when you have the calipers ready.
 For the best accuracy, you should bend your knee so that your leg forms a 90 degree angle. The best way to do this is to sit on a chair or bench.You can also stand and bend back your knee, resting your foot behind you on a box or chair., Pinch the tissue so that you have a small vertical fold of skin. To do this, your fingers should be side by side as you pinch, not one over the other. As you grasp the tissue, gently tug it forward., Press on the calipers to close the tips around the fold of your thigh. Release the handle when done. The calipers should be just below your fingers. The dial may rapidly swing before settling. Once, the dial has settled, read the measurements.If you do not have calipers, you may be able to get a rough measurement by measuring the distance between your fingers with a ruler.You may need a friend to help with this.
 If you are interested in the body fat percentage, you can calculate your overall body fat. You can use an online calculator to find a rough estimate of your overall body fat, or you can do the math yourself. If you're not interested in the percentage but just want to track how your thigh fat changes, write down the measurement, and keep track of it over time.To use a formula, men should measure their body fat at their abs, chest, and thighs. Women should measure at their triceps, suprailiac, and thighs.There are many different formulas you can use to calculate body fat percentage, such as the Jackson and Pollack formula.