 You can make this pattern with just one color, but it looks great with 2 or 3. You'll need about 50 bands total, so count up to make sure you have enough of each color.
 Hold a fork so that the handle is up and the tines are facing you. This will act as your loom. Take the first band and loop it around the outer right tine. Lift it with your finger and thumb.
 Take the looped band and twist it. Loop the end of the band over the next tine in line. Then pull the end toward you, twist it, and loop it over the next tine in line. Finally, pull it out once more, twist it, and loop it over the last tine.


This sounds tricky, but once you get the hang of it you'll be able to do it really quickly. If you need help handling the tiny band, you can use a crochet hook to help you pull it out and twist it.
Once the band is twisted around all of the tines, push it down a bit so that the twists are in an even line. Pull on either end to adjust the band so that all the twists are the same size.
 Using the exact same technique, add a second band. Choose the next one in your pattern, whether it's the same color or a different one. Loop it around the outer right tine, twist it, loop it over the next tine, twist it, loop it over the next one, twist it, then loop it over the last tine. Push it down so that it's stacked up against the first band.
 Orient the fork so that the tines are pointing down. Take a look at the outer right tine of the fork: you'll see a stack of two loops. Take the top loop (the one closer to the handle of the fork) and pull it over the bottom loop and over the tip of the fork tine. Do the same with the other tines: take the top loops and pull them over the tips of the tines.
 Take the next color in your pattern, loop it over the outer right tine of the fork, twist it, then loop and twist it around the remaining tines. Now you have a stack of 2 looped bands on the fork again.
 With the fork oriented so that the tines are pointing down, look at the outer right tine. Take the top loop (the once closer to the handle of the fork) and pull it over the bottom loop and over the tip of the tine. Do the same with the other tines: take the top loops and pull them over the tips of the tines.
 Loop the next band in your pattern around the tines, then weave the loops by taking the top loop on each tine and pull it up and over the tips of the tines. Keep adding new bands and weaving the loops until the bracelet is big enough to fit your wrist.
 Transfer the remaining loops from the fork to your finger, then hook them into a C-clip to hold them all together. Finally, pull up the first loop from the beginning of the bracelet and connect it to the other end by slipping it into the C-clip. Your bracelet is complete.

