 How often do you wash your hair? If it's every single day, you're actually hurting your hair in the long-term and preventing it from getting thicker. Washing your hair every day removes the natural oils produced by your scalp to protect your hair and keep it healthy.


Washing your hair three to four times a week is a healthier routine. This gives your hair a chance to get the benefits of the oils your scalp produces. Your hair might look a little oily when you first start this new routine, but it should balance out in a week or two.
If you feel that your hair needs shampooing more often, try dry shampoo. You can use dry shampoo between regular washings, which can be great for people who sweat a lot or have really oily hair.
Wash your hair with cold water. Hot water is hard on the hair, causing it to dry out and get brittle. Washing your hair with cold water helps the hair shaft lie flat, protecting it from breakage and damage.;
, Don't ball it up and wring it out when you get out of the shower - this causes the hair to break. If you want it to grow thick, take care of the hair you have by gently patting it dry with a towel and then letting it finish air-drying. This natural method for drying hair is easy, free, and produces great results., Brushing your hair while it's still wet is yet another way to break it, causing it to thin out. Use a wide-tooth comb to gently work through the tangles. Save the brush for when your hair is dry, since it's less fragile in that state.
 Do you blow dry your hair every day? It's tempting to go for the sleek, glossy look on a daily basis, but this is one of the best ways to thin out your hair. You're pulling on the roots and heating the shaft, damaging it every time. Instead, let your hair air dry and style it using natural methods.


Save the curling iron, blow dryer, and hot rollers for special occasions only.






To curl your hair without using heat, try the t-shirt method. To use the t-shirt method, cut a t-shirt into fabric strips ranging in size. A good size to start with would be 3-in by 12-in (or 7 cm by 30 cm). Wrap your hair around the fabric, rolling it until you reach your scalp. Then tie the fabric into place. For best results, smooth on a bit of conditioner while your hair is wrapped. Wait several hours or overnight before unrolling your hair.







