 Local theatres, cinemas, schools and function rooms are open to be rented.

However, once you find it talk to the manager to make sure it's within their rules to hold a live event. Your best bet is to use a theatre, as many theatres have the option of holding a seated or standing gig and already have a PA system and stage installed; this cuts costs.
There are also an increasing number of pubs dedicated to live music, these are generally around 100-300 capacity and should also have sound engineers on their books and an in house PA. This last point is vital, if this is your first time putting on a gig, having an in house PA not only cuts costs but means that A)this is a venue where people come often enough to warrant an in house PA B)the system should be set up to work with the room making your sound engineers job easier and C) this will greatly reduce the amount of time and hassle before/after the gig as there is one less thing for you to sort out and there will only be a minimal amount of gear going in/ coming out of the venue.
, (sometimes venues want a cut of the ticket sales instead, don't let them have more than 40% as that's already far too much if you have extra costs), When it's a standing gig, you can usually have a larger capacity and the public often prefer standing gigs as you can dance and mosh if it's a metal gig.
 People usually prefer general admission because everyone has a shot at front row for the same price. However, a seated, assigned seat gig requires less security and less hassle for you.
 Theatres and venues often have door staff employed, but you may need to pay extra for their services. If this is a very localized gig with few people you may be able to get some of your larger, more confident friends to do security at it. However, laws often require that you get professional security staff. Add this cost to your budget

, If the venue has a bar, decide whether it will be distributing alcohol or not. If it is, it must be an over-age event. Alcohol being sold may increase your Insurance costs.
 Public Liability Insurance (PLI) may be included with the venue but always check. 200 bucks for insurance for the night is better than a million dollars lawsuit. All insurance companies have an option for PLI, but shop around for the best price. Also, with each gig you organize, as long as there are no accidents, the cost of your insurance will go down because you have proved you're responsible and there is less risk. Add the cost of insurance to your budget.

