 Good traits for hippies are:


Artistic
Green Thumb
Loves the Outdoors
Technophobe
Vegetarian
Animal Lover (comes with Pets EP)
Avante-Garde (comes with University EP)
Eco-Friendly (comes with Ambitions EP);
, Stereotypically, hippies have long hair, but if you prefer you can give them whatever hairstyle you please. Consider giving a man facial hair (a beard or perhaps stubble).
 For a female hippie, consider a long skirt or shorts. T-shirts and jeans work for either gender. In the way of shoes, go barefoot or wear flip-flops or sandals. Use Create a Style to give their clothing bright, vivid colors and patterns.
 You'll find a wider variety of potential hippie clothing (as well as décor) online. Try Mod the Sims (requires an account to download) or one of the many Sims blogs you'll find around the net.
 If you use Free Will, your hippie Sim will do whatever they please, which might mean some non-hippie things.
 One of the "starter homes," affordable from the beginning of the game, will suit the purpose well. If you prefer to build your own houses, make it humble and possibly dated-looking.
 Put up posters and paintings. Customize furniture in Create a Style to give it a hippie flair. Try to use candles instead of electric lighting. Exterior-wise, have a lot of trees and flowers.
 Purchase a bicycle and bicycle rack for your Sim so they don't have to use a taxi or car to get around. It's bad for the environment! You could also get around on foot, although a bicycle is faster.
 Scientific experiments? Military? Big business? None of the careers in The Sims 3 are great choices for a hippie, except for Music. The part-time job options are also good. If you'd rather not have a job at all, make money playing guitar in the park, painting, or harvesting plants. (You'll only see good profits when you have high skill levels.) If you have Ambitions, any one of these can be an official career.
 Hang out at the park or in your yard. Start a garden outside your house. Visit the beach and swim in the sea. There are many ways to enjoy nature in the Sims.
 Don't get into fights when you're around town, and try not to get into arguments, either.

