 Doing straight leg sit ups can put a lot of pressure on your rear end so you may want to choose a fairly soft surface such as a yoga mat, carpeted floor or a grass covered area in your yard. This will be the “down” and rest position for this exercise. You can adjust this down position to compensate for any injuries or limitations you may have.Ensure the surface you do your sit ups on can support your weight and won’t fall over.
Too much cushioning can compromise your ability to effectively execute the movement, so keep cushioning limited if you use it.
If you have issues with sciatica pain in your back, you may find turning your feet or bending one knee slightly will relieve it.;
, When you lay down to do your straight leg sit ups, extend your legs straight out as though you’re laying at the position of attention. Your knees should be completely extended and locked.


Make sure both your knees and feet are touching one another.
Your legs will remain in this position for the duration of the exercise, so make sure they are in a comfortable position while outstretched.
 Although it may be common to see people placing their hands behind their heads when doing sit ups or stomach crunches, doing so creates the risk of applying pressure to your neck with your hands. To avoid this, cross your hands over your chest like an “X”.If you have difficulty crossing your arms over your chest, simply lay your arms and hands down on your chest in a comfortable way.
It’s important that you not use your arms to assist you as you execute the sit up movement, so if you have limitations that prevent you from placing your hands on your chest, simply ensure they are out the way.
 Without moving your legs at all, engage your core muscles to lift your abdomen off of the floor. Keep your back straight, as though your waist is a hinge and your upper body is a door. Sit up until your body reached a ninety-degree angle. This is considered the “up” position for this exercise.









You should be able to do this without any pressure on your feet, but some people may need a partner to put pressure on their ankles to prevent them from lifting off the floor.
Your abdominal muscles are engaged during the up movement, but are not once you reach the up position.
 Reverse your previous motion by lowering your back and shoulders to the floor. Be sure to keep your back straight, as rounding or arching your back can limit the effectiveness of the exercise and even cause back pain.








Your shoulders should come into contact with the floor first.
When completely lowered, you should find yourself back in the down position.
 Once you have mastered the traditional straight leg sit up, you may want to make it slightly more difficult by applying more pressure to your core muscles. You can do this by changing the placement of your hands.








In the down position, hold your hands straight up, perpendicular to your body, with your fingers extended.
As you sit up, rotate your shoulders so your hands continue to point straight at the ceiling.
Reverse that movement on the way down, until you find yourself in the adjusted down position.
 Use a mirror or ask a friend to make sure you aren’t falling victim to any of the common mistakes people make when executing straight leg sit ups. By failing to utilize the proper form, you can reduce the effectiveness of the exercise or even injure yourself.Make sure you don’t use your arms to assist you in any way when sitting up.
Ensure your feet do not lift up off of the floor at any point.
Be sure to sit all the way up to a ninety-degree angle.
 Straight leg sit ups should not create any significant pain to execute. If you find yourself experiencing pain during the exercise, you may want to seek guidance from a trainer or discuss it with your doctor.


Straight leg sit ups can exacerbate lower back injuries by placing pressure on your lower lumbar. If you feel pain in your lower back, you may want to see a doctor.
If it hurts to conduct this exercise, you should stop doing it until you have an opportunity to discuss it with a trainer or coach, to ensure you are executing the movement properly.
 You can alter the difficulty of straight leg sit ups by utilizing different rhythms. You can change the speed in which you do the entire exercise, but depending on your fitness level, it may be in your best interest to alter the speed in which you go up and down independent of one another.Beginners should go both up and down slowly until they develop the core strength to move on to more difficult rhythms.
Intermediate level people should go up fast, then lower themselves down slowly.
Advanced athletes can try going up fast and lowering themselves back down quickly as well. Lowering yourself quickly is difficult, because your abdominal muscles must prevent you from impacting the floor too hard. Do not simply drop back to the floor.
 You can make your straight leg sit ups significantly more difficult by pausing halfway up, and then completing the exercise. This will force your core muscles to hold you in place and increase the amount of time they are engaged with each sit up.Begin to sit up just like normal, but pause briefly halfway before completing the movement.
Try counting to five at the mid-point to increase the difficulty further.
 Instead choosing to do a number of sit ups and stopping when you reach that number, try challenging yourself by doing sit ups in time intervals. Try to do as many sit ups as you can within each interval.Do as many sit ups as you can in 60 seconds, then allow yourself to rest in the down position for 60 seconds.
Do as many sit ups as you can in 45 seconds the second time, then rest for another 60 seconds.
Repeat the process with a thirty second interval to complete the workout.
 Holding a medicine ball in your hands while executing straight leg sit ups can dramatically increase the difficulty of the exercise. Choose a medicine ball that is the right weight for you and hold it over your chest. You can replicate this using other forms of weights that you can hold comfortably on your chest as well.

Intermediate athletes should hold the medicine ball in place on their chest as they execute the exercise.
Advanced athletes can press the medicine ball out from their chest until their arms are extended on their way up, and bring it back in on the way down to further increase the difficulty.

