 You can easily make up your own sport with sporting equipment you already have at home. Something as simple as a baseball bat and a kickball can be combined to create tons of different games. Draw inspiration from other made up games as well. Think about what the goal of the game is. Is it about accuracy, speed, getting the most points, or being the last person standing?
The equipment you already own can help you narrow down what kind of new sport you create. Maybe you have a basketball hoop and a pair of rollerblades. You can create a sport like basketball but played while rollerblading around.
 You can combine your favorite aspects from your favorite sports to create your own super sporting game.


You can use equipment, terms, positions, and scoring methods from other games to help you create your own.
For example, if you like football and baseball, you can take a bit from each game to craft your own. And feel free to go as far away from the original sports as you can. Maybe you decide to use the football. But you want the three strike rule from baseball. So you decide that a player has to kick the football a certain distance to start the play. The player also has three chances to do it correctly or that player is out until the next round.
 Knowing what kind of equipment you have to use will help you figure out what to do with it, and help you start making up the rules to your sport.


Work with your friends to come up with rules together. Decide how people score points, win, what players have to do to get points or where players have to move, etc. Come up with rules on what happens if a person breaks a rule or fouls. Decide how long the game will be played. Is it a certain time, or to a certain score?
Feel free to use and adapt rules from other sports. Perhaps you like soccer and make a rule that only the goalie can touch the ball with his hands. If you are using a football with that rule, you’re bound to have a fun and funny time playing your sport.
 You can’t play most sports alone so gather up your friends and pick teams. Tell your friends the rules of your sport as the rules currently stand. Explain the game’s dynamics. Then get input.


The best made up games come from a group collaboration. Get your friends to pitch ideas to make the game more enjoyable from everyone. You may find that someone has a really great idea that you didn’t think about.
Pick a name for your sport. Try to come up with something creative and memorable with your friends. It can have something to do with the sport like “Baseball” or “Football” does, or it can be a made up term like “Quidditch”.
 Now that the rules have been laid down and you have everyone present, it’s time to test out your sport.


You may find that not everyone remembers the rules right away or plays it correctly. That’s ok. Part of the fun of making up your own sport is to adapt and change it as you go along.
Take note of any parts that you should change after your first playthrough. Then go ahead and make those adjustments for next time.
Try not to keep score or get really competitive the first time. You’re all learning together so take it slow and make sure that you all understand the mechanics of the game.
 With a revised version of your game ready to go, it’s time to play it again for real.


Gather up your buddies, pick teams and play it for real this time keeping score and trying not to stop if something gets messed up.
You can get as invested as you want and even design uniforms and pick team names if you and your friends play your game often.

