 A cover page helps to distinguish one binder from another binder. At the very least, the cover page lists a title. If your binder only holds papers for one course, this title may be the title of the course. If you are using the binder for multiple classes, you may wish to create a more general cover page. Label the binder “Monday/Wednesday/Friday Classes” or “Morning Courses.” You may also wish to include your name or the semester.There are several ways to create a cover page:


Download a cover page from the internet and personalize it with your information.
Design your own cover page using word processing or design software.
Make a cover page from scratch—use scrapbook paper or cardstock, permanent markers or colored pencils, and stickers or stencils.;
, Section dividers distinguish one section from another section. Create one section divider per course, a “To-Do Now” section divider, and a “To-Do-Later” section divider. Divide the sections with a labeled and or decorated piece of paper.There are several ways to create a subsection divider:


Download a template from the internet.
Use word processing or design software to design your own section divider. Experiment with cool fonts and add clipart or pictures from the internet.
Make a section divider from scratch—use scrapbook paper or cardstock, permanent markers or colored pencils, and stickers or stencils.
You may wish to include the following information on your course section dividers: Course title(s), classroom number(s), the name(s) of your professor(s) or teacher(s), and the semester or school year.
Label the two “To-Do” section dividers “To-Do Now” and “To-Do-Later.”

, Tabs are labels that protrude from a piece of paper that serves as a divider. They allow you to easily locate and turn to a specific point in your binder. Each tab represents one subsection. You will need two tabs per course and one tab for your “To-Do” section.Label the first tab for each course, “Handouts.”
Label the second tab for each course, “Notes.”
Label the “To-Do” section tab, “To-Do List.”
You may use a permanent marker, label maker, or printer to label your tabs.
 Retrieve your first section divider and first course tab. Slip the divider into a sheet protector or three-hole punch the divider. Place the section divider followed by the first tab onto the binder’s left rings.If you want additional folder pockets without the bulk of the traditional folder, purchase tabs with pockets.
 In the beginning of a course, you will receive several important handouts from the teacher. You may receive a course syllabus, assignment calendar, and or style guide. Slide these papers into sheet protectors and place them at the front of the “Handouts” subsection. As the course progresses, you will receive more handouts. File these behind the other handouts in chronological order.Create an “Important Dates” sheet for each course. As the school year progresses, it often becomes increasingly difficult to keep track of important dates. Compile a list of all important assignment dates, due dates, and test dates for each course to help yourself stay up-to-date. Type or record the dates by hand and place the paper at the front of the course’s “Handouts” section.
 Retrieve the course’s “Notes” tab. Insert it into the binder. Behind the “Notes” tab, place 25 to 50 pages of lined binder paper or graph paper.
 Insert your second section divider and the course’s “Handouts” tab into the binder. Insert your handouts. Insert the course’s “Notes” tab and paper., After organizing each course, insert your “To-Do List” tab into the binder. Place the “To-Do Now” section divider into the binder—this section will contain assignments you have to complete within the next one to two days. Insert the “To-do Later” section divider into the binder—this section will contain assignments you can complete at a later date., An organized binder is easy to navigate—you should know the approximate location of each paper. This is not possible when you insert loose sheets in between papers or fill folders full of papers. Three-hole punch the papers you wish to keep in your binder. Insert the papers into the correct section and subsection.If the paper is important, place it into a sheet protector.
 An overstuffed binder is more difficult to keep organized. In addition to throwing away unnecessary papers, you should remove returned assignments and tests from your binder. Organize these assignments and tests and place them in a filing cabinet or box., Even in the best organized of binders, it is possible to lose sight of an essential fact or important date. Find a way to catch your own attention. Consider using a flag to mark significant information or highlight dates you need to remember.