 Using the first step in Method 1 of this article is a good reference point for cooing beer quickly. A cool Corona will be necessary for all mixed drinks.
 Add one to all of the following to a mixer or empty cup with half a Corona in it: lemon, Tabasco sauce, spicy tomato juice, salt and/or pepper.These ingredients are most common in corona, besides the lime and salt combination. Adding these elements of flavor to your Corona will really improve the taste and can be fun to experiment with.


If you decide that you want to only add one or two of the ingredients, you can go ahead and put the ingredients directly into your Corona bottle and skip putting them in a mixer.
Make sure that you'll enjoy each flavor that the different ingredients create. You can do this by tasting each ingredient mixed in a shot glass with Corona.
Place a few ice cubes into the mixer or cup with the ingredients if the Corona becomes warm in the process.
 Add 1 shot of vodka, 1 teaspoon of grenadine syrup and 1 slice of lime to a 7/8 full bottle of Corona.Remember that putting your thumb over the top of the beer and slowly turning it upside down a few times is a good way to mix the drink. Be careful: Turning the beer upside down at a fast rate will cause the beer to release carbonation and explode.
Try adding these ingredients to a cup or mixer if you have trouble mixing them in a Corona bottle.
 Add 1 ounce of tequila, 7 - 10 ounces of margarita mix and 8 - 10 ice cubes into a blender. Blend the ingredients into a homogeneous mix. Pour the mix into a 16 ounce (or larger) drinking glass and place an upside-down Corona bottle in the drink.Make sure that the drinking glass' rim is wide enough to support a Corona bottle without tipping over. If the only drinking glasses that you have are small, you can try using a Coronita (a smaller Corona).
 Whatever you way decide to mix your Corona, it's going to be delicious - it's Corona. Don't forget to add a lime garnish and salt if you haven't already.

