 There is a big difference between online classes that are run through a program specifically for a high school and one for colleges. There is more work involved in a college based program, and you are expected to manage your time like an adult. For that effort, you will get 6 quality points in your grade point average instead of 4 though in most cases.;
, In many schools it is considered a privilege, not a right to take online classes, as schools have to pay by the student for the classes so they want to be sure they are only paying for those who have the highest chance for success. Speaking of paying for the class, if you go to a private school, you may have additional class fees for online classes, so be sure to ask about that, too.
 Some online programs, for example don't offer core classes online, but they offer some electives.
 Most colleges have moved into the 21st century, but the last thing you want is to find out that the only thing that will keep you from your dream school is some antiquated policy.
 This doesn't vary from any other type of class. There may be more spaces available, but there will still be a limit.
 There will likely be an enrollment verification that you need to complete and a deadline by which it needs to be done. High school classes may be somewhat flexible, but college classes will likely drop you from the class if you miss the deadline.


The first assignment will likely be something simple like introducing yourself on a discussion board or taking a quiz to show that you understand the rules and policies of the course.
 This is the only way your teacher has to communicate with the class. Your teachers in your classrooms stand up in front of the class every day. Your online teacher uses the announcement forums. You must read them.


You also have to read the assignment postings and the syllabus. In a traditional class you might be able to get away with filing your syllabus in the round metal cabinet at the end of the teachers desk on your way out of the room, but you can't do that with an online class. Your teacher isn't there in front of you every day to remind you when your work is due. You have to read the announcements, the assignment postings, and the syllabus.
 In college classes if you miss a due date, you will likely get a 0. A lenient teacher might give you 10 points off for every day it's late. People tend to make the mistake of thinking an online class is a work at your own pace class. It isn't. It is a flexible schedule class to some degree, but there are assignments and there are due dates and more so than any other type of class, you have to manage your time effectively.
 If it can go wrong it will. Technology fails. Power goes out. Computers crash. The proverbial dog will eat your proverbial homework and your proverbial teach won't give a proverbial -- you get the point. If you wait until the last minute, you will end up missing something. It's never a good idea, and with an online class, it is a terrible idea. Just don't do it.

