 Encourage them to talk to a doctor and reach out. Early detection can help your friend get help sooner and start working on becoming more functional before the disorder can worsen. If you can, offer to go with them or make the doctor's appointment for them.


If your friend doesn't feel ready to get help, try offering to go to a support group with them. They may be more open to this.Cognitive Behavioral Therapy (CBT) is the best treatment for OCD.
 Learning about the disorder can help you better understand what your friend is going through, and how you can be helpful.Information is available online,including the references of this article.
 Therapy is done by experts for a reason, and it is done with the patient's consent. You can be supportive and helpful, but you can't imitate or replace real therapy. Leave that to the professionals.
 However, this is the opposite of helpful: it reinforces their fears and enables them to keep going without treatment, potentially worsening the OCD.Support the person, not the disorder.


Instead of offering short-term reassurance ("Yes, the doors are locked"), gently encourage them to examine and stand up to their intrusive thoughts. "You already checked the doors. Why do you feel the need to re-check them?"This avoids enabling the OCD and encourages them to trust their judgment.
Offer emotional support, such as a hug or hand on the shoulder. You can also gently remind them that this is the OCD talking. Try a lighthearted remark like "No, I would not like to play the OCD game today; I think Monopoly is better.", OCD is sort of like a bully residing in their mind: it repeats intrusive thoughts and compels them to perform rituals. You can act like a cheerleader when they stand up to the disorder, helping them feel good about their efforts and reminding them that you're on their team.Congratulate them when you notice they're doing really well. It reminds them that you notice and you care.
 Your friend is fighting a difficult battle, and your support is invaluable. Be kind and patient towards them, and reassure them that you're here for them.

