 The overall length of your fingers is measured relative to the size of your palm. On average, the longest finger is about seven-eighths the size of your palm. If it is as long as your palm, then your fingers are considered long. Short fingers are shorter than seven-eighths of the palm. The overall length and size of a person's fingers can denote a common personality.


Long fingers signify a detail-oriented idea person. They think things through completely and tend to be critical of small details.
Short fingers signify a physically-oriented big picture person. They focus on real world items; usually in an overall manner.;
, The index and ring fingers are compared to each other. If the index finger is even a fraction longer, it is considered long. The ring finger must be 1/8 inch (1/2 cm) longer than the index finger before it is considered long.
The line drawn between these two fingers should be about halfway up the final joint on the middle finger. If more than half is above, the middle finger is long; less than half and it is considered short.
The pinkie finger should reach the joint line of the ring finger. If the pinkie starts low (first joint is less than half-way down the ring finger), you will need to adjust for this when measuring.
The thumb is usually measured against the index finger. Most thumbs end between 1/4 and 1/2 way up the first section of the finger.


The index finger is usually considered the most important in a palm reading. It is sometimes called the "mirror" finger as it describes a person's self-image.

A long index finger indicates a natural leader. They are used to responsibility and have high standards for themselves and others. They tend to be drawn to self-reflection whether it is keeping a journal, therapy, or an interest in astrology or palm reading.
A short index finger indicates a lower self-esteem. They may hide behind a persona they create and have trouble expressing their true feelings and thoughts. They are more likely to suffer from health issues that stem from self neglect such as smoking, alcoholism or unhealthy eating habits.


The middle finger, called the "wall" finger, represents your attitude towards authority and mental boundaries.

A long middle finger is found on a person who takes rules seriously. They respect not only the letter of the law, but also the intent behind it. They are serious, and can sometimes be called boring.
A short middle finger indicates a free spirit who marches to the beat of their own drum. Alternative paths seem highly attractive.
A difference between the dominant and non-dominant hands shows a difference in attitude between career (dominant hand) and family (passive hand).


The ring finger can only be long, it is never considered short. A long ring finger shows a need for attention and high self confidence.
The pinkie finger measures a person's communication and financial skills.

A long pinkie finger indicates good communication skills and a natural ability with money.
A short pinkie finger indicates a difficulty in expressing yourself. Developing the ability to communicate effectively may seem more difficult, but will greatly help to relieve frustration.
A low-set pinkie can indicate the need for a supportive father figure.


Your thumb is used as a measure of your willpower and self-control.

Short thumbs indicate a lower ability to stick things out when they get tough.
Long thumbs indicate high levels of self discipline and perseverance.
 This is an indication of the overall flexibility of your mind. Try to lightly push them back towards your wrists. Stiff fingers will barely move an inch. Flexible fingers will move almost all the way back; four inches or more.


Stiff fingers indicate stubbornness and significant mental willpower. Once you make up your mind about something, you are not open to changing it.
Flexible fingers indicate an impressionable and spontaneous mind. New ideas are welcome, and you may change your mind with each new viewpoint pointed out to you.
 Place your thumb at the outside base of their thumb and use your index finger to flex the thumb toward the person's wrist.


Stiff thumbs barely move. They indicate a strong personality that can accomplish things based on willpower alone. They may indicate a strong desire to stick to rules, and a low tolerance to people with lower self-control.
Average thumbs flex an inch or two.
Bendy thumbs can flex almost to the wrist. They indicate spontaneity and adaptability. But this comes with a tendency to be easily distracted, and a need for support from others to stick to tough plans.
 Knotty fingers and joints tend to reflect an argumentative, analytical nature. This only applies if the knots are not due to arthritis.


If your joints are generally smooth, then you may tend to be passive, letting others control you, but at the same time quite impulsive which may sometimes lead to carelessness.
If your top knuckles are smooth and your middle ones are internally rough, then you are a person whose intellect and practicality work well together. A strong instinctive drive is a characteristic of well-developed knuckles.
 You want to look at the size and fullness of the fleshy pad at the base of the thumb. This area describes a person's energy levels and basic physical nature.


Full and soft. This person enjoys the finer side of life, and is not very active. They love pleasurable things like food and drink, and have a hard time finding the motivation to exercise.
Full and firm. This is a sign of lots of energy and warmth.
Full and hard. This person is tough, both physically and emotionally. They find it hard to relax and open up.
Flat and cold. This is a sign of low energy levels. They are also less social with others, but can be considered survivors.
Average. If the thumb base is semi-raised and neither soft nor firm, this is average. This can be considered a sign of normal energy levels.
 It is also important to note the way fingers are spaced apart. With your hand in a relaxed position, examine how some fingers stand apart from others and how some stick close to the adjacent fingers.


If your middle finger and the index finger stick close together, it shows that you will gain authority and rank through your own goals and dreams. If they stand apart, then your position will come from other means.
An art related life is shown when the ring finger sticks close to the middle finger. Your fate will also aid in your success.
An independent mind is signified when your little finger stands apart from the ring finger, with a great deal of space between them.

