 No one can leap to the top of Mount Everest in one step. Shrink that daunting mountain into a series of more manageable goals.Write a checklist, then ask yourself what obstacles prevent you from achieving the first box.


For instance, if your goal is to become a doctor, one looming obstacle might be getting a college education. After breaking it down, your new first goal becomes filling out a college application form. Overcome your first obstacle by picking up a pen!

, Once you've listed your obstacles, take a moment to think of alternate paths to your goals. Is there any way to reach your goal while avoiding the obstacles entirely? These shortcuts don't happen often, but it's worth taking the time to brainstorm.


Talk to someone who's already attained the goal you're aiming for. She may be familiar with routes you've never heard of.
For example, many companies prefer job candidates from inside the company.Maybe you can get hired at your dream company for a less competitive position, and work your way up the ladder, or transfer to a different department.
 Put your plan in writing, starting with what you'll do today and ending with achieving your goal. Now recognize that your plan will change. This is just the first stage, which will set your feet on the road. As you learn, grow, and encounter new obstacles, adapt your plan to find the best path forward at each moment., As you work toward your goal, keep a journal or chart of your progress and your setbacks.Set yourself several milestones along the way, and make sure to reward yourself for each one.
 Find people with similar goals, or encouraging friends. Make yourself accountable by sharing your goals and milestones. Seek advice from people with more experience than you, who may have overcome the exact same obstacles.


There are thousands of people who share your career, hobby, bad habit, or relationship struggle. Look for local organizations and online forums where you can talk about your experiences and trade advice.
 Even if they aren't the obstacles you are trying to avoid, bad habits can set anyone back. Treat these as a whole new obstacle, overcoming the habit with goals and milestones just like any other.
 When you get discouraged, close your eyes and picture yourself after you've overcome the obstacle. Remind yourself frequently why you're putting in the hard work and making the sacrifices. It will all be worth it when you shatter the last obstacle at your feet.
 If you tend to make decisions based on gut instinct, try a more analytic approach. Here are a few possible approaches when you're trying to make a decision:


Cost-benefit analysis: Write down what you would gain from a decision, and what you would lose. Decide whether the benefits worth the drawbacks.
Worst case scenario: If you attempt something and it fails completely, where do you end up? Come up with a backup plan for this scenario.
Write a list of all your concerns, and treat each as a separate problem. Anxiety over a long-distance move might include finances, losing touch with friends, and your child transitioning schools. Solve each problem separately.

