 The first three days after you decide to quit will be extremely hard on your physical body. Your body takes 72 hours to pass nicotine out of your system.

Drink lots of water during this stage.






Channel your anger into some activity, whether it is working out, journaling your experience, or making art.
 While the worst of the physical ailments will be over by this point because the nicotine has passed through your system, you will begin to have to develop mental will-power. Your body has to figure out how to operate without nicotine.


During this stage, you may encounter cravings, irritability, insomnia, fatigue, inability to focus, headache, sore throat, tongue, and/or gums, constipation, gas, stomach pain, and dry mouth.
Focus on your mental stamina and health during the second stage.
Avoid triggers. Triggers are certain behaviors that bring up the desire to dip. These may be places where you usually dip, people you usually dip with, or activities you usually complete with a dip in.
 By day 50 or so, you should be experiencing less symptoms and be slowly transitioning to a normal routine. Sores may form in your mouth, but don't be alarmed, this is your mouth healing small ulcers that may have developed from dipping.


Visit your dentist if the sores become painful, discolored, or seem to be infected.
You should be sleeping better by this stage. If you are not, think about visiting a doctor who can evaluate your body's progress.
 During this stage, some people suffer from anxiety attacks as a result of the inability to use tobacco to calm themselves down.


If your anxiety attacks are really bad and physically alarming, contact your doctor. S/he may prescribe an anxiety medication or an anti-depressant of some sort.
Think about talking with a therapist or joining a community of ex-dippers to quell stress by talking about your anxieties.
 Expect to feel sluggish, unclear, and experience scattered cravings at this stage. Some people experience just a few days of feeling like they just started the process, but stay strong.
 By this time, you should be pretty much past the physical side-effects. You may still experience cravings every once in a while, but stick to your guns and be strong. 