 If you are a chronic worrier, you may find that no matter what you do to distract yourself or relax, specific worries come back again and again. Taking action can help you feel less helpless.


Get a notebook and pen and write down your worries. After you have listed each one, go through and judge each concern as either productive or unproductive. Productive worries are those you can take action against, such as a broken down car. Unproductive worries are those for which you have no control, such as a major hurricane moving into your area.
Handle productive worries by immediately brainstorming solutions to overcome them. For example, if your car is broken down, you may need to call and consult with mechanics, buy a part, or go rent a temporary replacement.
 Unproductive worries are generally those for which there is no obvious or feasible solution. Overcoming such worries requires that you learn to accept uncertainty.The best way to embrace uncertainty is to recognize that not knowing what’s going to happen does not automatically mean something bad will happen. Uncertainty is not negative, it is neutral.
For example, you are meeting with a friend with whom you lost touch. You worry that things will be awkward. Consider this: if this person is your friend, odds are, you had similar worldviews and interests. Those things may continue to connect you even though time and/or distance separated you. Things could be awkward, but they could also go fabulously. What’s more, even if they are awkward at first, they could improve as to two of you warm up to each other.
 An effective method to reduce the time you spend worrying about something is to schedule a “worry-time”. Also known as stimulus control training, this technique involves you writing down or pushing away worries to attend to at a later time. This way you have more time to spend on positive and productive thoughts and activities.Decide on a time in the morning or afternoon to attend to your worries. Limit this to a 15 to 30-minute period.
During your worry time, either write down or think over all the things that are worrying you right now or at some point during your day. You do not have to problem-solve these worries, but doing so may help you feel more accomplished.
Outside of your worry-time, when you notice yourself worrying, push away these concerns by telling yourself you will spend time thinking about them later.
 Another way to get control over worrying is to challenge anxious self-talk. The first step to challenging anxious thoughts is identifying them. These are thoughts that frighten you or stimulate a fight-or-flight response. After you become aware of these thoughts, test how realistic they are. The goal is to recognize that these thoughts are usually irrational and unrealistic, thereby, reducing their effect on you. Challenge negative or anxious self-talk by asking yourself these questions:Am I 100% sure that this will happen?
Have I mistaken a thought with a fact?
What evidence do I have that this is true? What evidence do I have that it is not true?
Am I confusing “possibility” with “certainty”? It may be possible, but is it likely?

