 Realize that it's probably best to wake up a bit earlier now and hit the haystack before midnight. Know that school is around the corner, and that it's time to get prepared.;
, It would not be great to go school supply shopping the night before the first day. A few weeks before school starts, make a list of what you need for school.


If you get a supply list in the mail, follow it. If you don't, write out what you think you need. (Note: you may have to return to the store to get a few more items after school has already started). Set a budget, and head off to the store. This is more fun with a friend.






Some ideas are binders, notebooks, pencils, pens, erasers, correction tape, paper clips, lined paper, pencil crayons, highlighters, etc. If you can, reuse some things you still have from the previous school year. It is best to start fresh with new supplies.
 Again, make a list of what you want/need. It's also more fun to go shopping with a friend, sibling or another family member.


A list of what you might need includes the following:






At least 2 pairs of new jeans (one dark wash and one light wash is probably a good way to start)
2 pairs of new leggings (black is an essential in any girl's wardrobe)
2 pairs of sweatpants, new shoes are essential (you should get running shoes for gym; some good brands include Nike, Adidas, Puma, etc.)


You may also want some new sandals/flip flops if it's warm where you live or if it's getting chilly, you may want combat boots or Ugg boots. Toms, Converse, Vans and Keds are also good choices).



Try having 1 pair of gym shoes, and 3 good pairs of shoes you can wear to school. If you already have these shoes, you probably don't need to purchase more.


You should make sure you have enough undergarments that fit well, as well as tank tops. You should get a few new shirts, like flannels, t-shirts, long-sleeve shirts as well as hoodies and sweaters. For pants, shirts, sweaters and undergarments, try stores like American Eagle, Hollister, Abercrombie, VS Pink, Macy's, Brandy Melville, Topshop, etc.


You may also need smaller items, like new hair accessories (bobby pins, hair elastics, headbands, etc.), makeup (small makeup bag for your backpack, mascara, lip balm, concealer, etc.) and more.
You may also need a new backpack. Some prefer backpacks, and others tote bags. Get one that's big enough to fit all of your stuff, but not too large.
You may also need a new gym bag, which you should fill with your gym uniform/clothes, deodorant, a small body spray, extra socks, running shoes, a water bottle, and etc. You probably don't need to bring this on the first day, unless specified by your school. You may also need a lunch bag if you bring your own lunch.
 You may be taking the bus, carpooling, riding in the car or biking/walking.
 Make sure it represents your personality and that it looks exactly the way you like it.


Try wearing skinny jeans and a cute top with flip flops, sandals, Converse, Keds, Vans or Uggs, depending on the weather. If it's warm enough, you can wear cute denim shorts, as long as they pass your school's dress code. If it's cool out, put a cute cardigan over your shirt.
 Get a copy of your class' timetable so you know what lessons you are having, then you will know what equipment you will need. If you are not sure, ask the teacher of that lesson for what you are doing and what you will need. They will not think you weird, they will be delighted to tell you!

