 Little badges, pins, scarves, jewelry, hair, and makeup can really enhance the look. .;
, Try a pretty pair of flats, unique sandals, or a cute new pair of boots.
 If not :) just stick to the traditional backpack for everyday use.
 From pretty colors, textures, to fun keychains, make it scream you!

, Layer on the stretchy bracelets, loose bangles, and fun watches for a hint of casual glam for school. This attention to your arms is both elegant and sexy but perfect for a school setting.
 With a variety of cute rings, make sure you also paint your nails in a hot color to finish the look off for that wow affect.
 Try a store with a great selection like Target and stock up on fresh notebooks, pencils, pens, sticky notes, etc to help start you off in the new year feeling organized, refreshed, and ready to go. Try not to hold on to supplies form last year, that stuff is usually really gross and ready to meet the trash can. To help you feel ready to clean that slate for a new you, try getting as much glossy, new materials as you can afford.
 this is an amazing idea for sparking someones attention or simply reminding yourself of everything there is to love on a bad day. Inspiration much? Also add a cute little white board inside along with pictures of friends and family and some loose magnets for hanging up papers.
 So, try a lint roller, tissues, powder, hair bands, wipes, blotting papers, lip gloss, a hairbrush, and breath mints.
 So, try loose waves on Monday, pin straight with body on Tuesday, fishtail braid on Wednesday, dressy bun on Thursday, and some type of french braid style on Friday, If you aren't good at doing complex styles, turn to a friend or youtube video before school starts so you will know what o do by the time school rolls around.
 You can use all these products, just in moderation so it doesn't look caked on or frankly stupid.
 Also use black mascara (I recommend splurging on a mascara before you head back into school so your lashes will look incredible). Also use an eye liner only if you are good at it. I know it sounds harsh, but it you don't know how to use eye liner, skip it and don't use it. You will look crazy if you pile on uneven, weird amounts on liner in all the wrong places.
,