 You could choose a horizontally-oriented glass aquarium tank, or a vertically-oriented screened cage. Both are readily available for sale at your local pet or lizard store. Chameleons can grow up to 24 inches long, so you should get a cage that has enough room for it to move around. A tank that holds 210 gallons should be sufficient.Alternately, a screened cage should be at least 20 inches wide, 20 inches deep, and 45 inches tall.


When it comes to choosing a chameleon cage, bigger is always better.Chameleons love to climb, so a screened cage is probably your best choice.
 A true bottom habitat is one in which the tank is entirely self-contained, and water is absorbed directly into the substrate and/or evaporated out into the tank. However, true bottomed tanks can be problematic: plants might get waterlogged and humidity levels might fluctuate. A false bottom is one that allows excess water to drain through the bottom of the tank or habitat and into, for instance, a drip tray. False bottomed vivariums provide better drainage.Alternately, the false bottom could connect a water source below the substrate to a waterfall or drip wall.
To make a false bottom, install short pieces of PVC piping across the bottom with the open end facing up. These will act like stable pillars for your false bottom. Lay plastic egg crate frame wrapped in landscape fabric on top of the piping. These materials are available at most hardware stores. This arrangement will allow excess water to drip below the substrate and false bottom.
 If you want to include a drip wall or stream in your habitat, you’ll need to connect the bottom of your tank (where the water accumulates under your false bottom) with return lines to your drip wall. If you have any questions about what you need, talk to your local pet store or lizard store proprietor for advice.


Connect your water system to a reverse osmosis machine. These machines will dissolve salts and other impurities from the water, and will help you avoid mineral deposits on your habitat. They will also prevent potential skin problems with your chameleon.Connect a small sump pump to the water beneath the habitat.
If you do not include a pump system, you’ll need to mist the vivarium with a spray bottle twice each day for about thirty seconds each time.
 Substrate is the bottom layer of the vivarium that the chameleon will walk on. There are many choices for chameleon substrates. You might choose coco coir bricks, shredded tree fern, orchid bark, or a mix of these. The best option is shredded newspaper. There are also chameleon substrate mixes available at most pet stores.


Avoid kitty litter, sand, corn cob, gravel, and bedding that traps moisture.Change your substrate when you notice it is soiled or excessively damp.
 A few faux rocks, artificial plants (or real plants), and vines will make your vivarium comfortable for your chameleon. Attach driftwood and faux rocks to the back of the tank with silicone binder.Including plants in the layout is crucial for your chameleon. Chameleons prefer to drink from leaves, so you must spray the leaves at least twice a day to ensure the chameleon stays hydrated.
 In order to keep your chameleon from escaping and getting into trouble, you’ll have to secure the terrarium with a lid. In the case of aquarium tanks, you need to strike a balance between keeping the environment humid -- which chameleons love -- and having it so humid that the vivarium’s interior is obscured by moisture on the glass. An easy solution is to keep only a thin strip of the top open to the air.This strip should be of fine screen or wire.This way, fresh air will flow through the cage but it will still stay relatively toasty within.

