 Consider talking to the host's parent(s) or guardian(s) about what your child's warning signs are, so that if they notice that your child is beginning to get overwhelmed, they can step in and have your child take a break.

Talk to your child and choose an adult your child can tell if they notice they are feeling overwhelmed or if something else is wrong. It can help to have a "safety person" they know they can reach out to if there is a problem.;
, This way, they can carry stim toys, medications, AAC cards, and/or comfort objects. Write their name on the bag, and tell them to show it to the adults in case they need help finding it later.

If they're using something from the bag, they should keep the bag with them and put the item back in it when they are done. This will lower the chance of something getting lost.
The bag can also keep any party favors they receive.
 It's possible that your child will want to leave early, and many parties may take a shorter or longer time than planned. Go over the plan with your child so that they feel prepared.

Does your child reliably remember your phone number? If not, do the adults at the party know it, or could you put it in the bag?
Will your child carry a phone? If not, whose phone can they use?
Will you have a phone with you so you can get the message?

, Your child will feel more prepared if they already have a general sense of what is going to happen. Read the invitation with them, and tell them about how many guests there will be, what the setting is, what they'll eat, and other things., Does your child have any worries about handling the party? How can you assuage these fears? Should you call the host's parents to ensure that:

If they are afraid of dealing with people they don't know, you can either assure them that the party is full or people they know, or say that the unfamiliar people are friends of their friends, and they can stick with the friends they already know if they prefer.
If they are afraid of being exposed to alcohol, assure them that there will be a chaperone. You can also teach them the phrase "No thanks, I don't drink" so that they know they're prepared even if the worst case happens.
 Explain that most people feel awkward sometimes, so they will be able to relate if they see your child feeling awkward and uncertain. This feeling is more common than they might think, and others will most likely respond with understanding rather than judgment. After all, they can remember times when they felt awkward too., You will be the one who the people will look at when they walk in, not them, hopefully comforting your child., Whom they talk to is their choice, and they can engage with other children as much as they feel comfortable. Assure them that they can talk to adults as needed, and that they can leave early if that is what they want. Knowing that they can choose what they feel is best for them can help them feel confident at the party and enjoy their time.