 If you’re fully cognizant after your procedure, you can likely have this conversation with medical personnel alone. Otherwise, it’s advisable to have whoever is accompanying you in the room after the procedure is complete, if only to keep track of important information.While facility staff will likely offer you information on your procedure without prompting, make sure you know whether the procedure was as successful as expected.
For more information, ask questions like, “Did the procedure have any immediate effects on my condition?”
Don’t be concerned about grogginess or nausea. If you feel hazy, groggy, or nauseous after your procedure, don’t worry. This is entirely normal, and it’s partly why many facilities require another adult to accompany you and ensure you get home safe., Even if you feel fully cognizant after your procedure, anesthesia can sometimes affect your memory. This is one of the reasons it’s worth having someone in the room with you, to help remember and record conversations with medical staff.Most importantly, make sure that you have written information about any ongoing treatment that will be administered at home, such as pain medication you may need to take during recovery.
Ask whoever accompanied you to take detailed notes, especially with regards to any directions, warnings, or recommendations the medical staff provide.
 Before leaving the facility where you got your procedure, feel free to ask about anything you are worried about, or anything that is unclear. This may be easier after resting a while at the facility.Information you want to make sure you have include who to call if you have concerns once you’re home, what you should or shouldn’t be doing on your own, and how much pain or other side effects you can expect.
Good questions to ask include, “How quickly should I expect certain side effects to subside?”; and “How long before I will feel like my old self again?”

, You will likely be inundated with information before and/or after your procedure. Again, this is why it’s highly recommended (and potentially required) to have someone accompany you to the procedure. Before you leave the facility, make sure you have the following:Written guidance on how to care for any wounds associated with the procedure, and the types and dosages of painkillers you should use, if needed.
A list of any equipment you need to care for yourself at home, such as bandages, splints, or crutches.

