 Sports journalism is a competitive job market. While an internship can give you an edge, doing freelance work while you are searching for a more stable job can enhance your resume. Find freelance work by contacting websites, magazines, newspapers, and radio stations that have regular sports reports. Come up with several writing pitches, and e-mail your best ideas to the editor of the blog, magazine, or newspaper. Do this regularly. Once you start publishing regularly, you will be able to develop a writing portfolio.
 Once you have published several well-written pieces, begin compiling your best pieces for your portfolio. You do not need to include all your writing pieces. A few solid articles are better than a lot of mediocre pieces. Your writing pieces should represent you and your writing interests. If you have several pieces that cover different sports, categorize them as such. For example, have a separate category for football, tennis, and soccer.The number of writing pieces to include varies; some jobs will specifically request a certain size portfolio. As you put yours together, be sure to include at least 8 to 10 strong pieces.
Your portfolio should also have a brief biography detailing who you are, why you are passionate about sports writing, and why you are a great fit for the job.
 Before you go to a job interview, take time to learn about the company. Also, be ready to give examples of some of your outstanding writing pieces, and remember to bring your portfolio.


Brainstorm different writing ideas and angles before you go into the interview, and make a list of your top three.
 Remember to network during your undergraduate studies, internship, and freelancing experience. Create relationships with your supervisor and other writers. These relationships can lead to job opportunities in the future. You can create relationships with your supervisor by being proactive and by creating quality-writing pieces.


Remember to showcase your stuff. Post your best writing on social media outlets like Twitter and Facebook.
You can also create your own professional website showcasing your best work. Having a professional website is an easy way for an employer to assess your skills, experience, and qualifications for a potential job.