 Internet Explorer (IE), Microsoft's browser of choice, makes it easy to block specific sites without a lot of extra work. However, these changes will not carry over to other browsers, like Firefox.
 This will bring up a settings window that allows you to adjust the sites that are blocked. There are numerous tabs on top of the window that allow you to adjust your settings.


On newer versions of IE, this is represented by a gear icon, not "tools." Click on the gear, then select "Security Settings."

, Type in the site address that you want to Block and Click OK. Remember this technique only blocks one site at a time.


On newer versions of IE, you must click "Restricted Sites," then "Sites.", In order to block sites on Microsoft's new version of Internet Explorer, which has been overhaul and renamed "Edge," you need a Microsoft account. With it, you can adjust your preferences online to block any sites you want from your account.


To do so, visit https://account.microsoft.com/family/about?refd=windows.microsoft.com, Firefox and Chrome do not have a built-in way to block sites, but you can download a free plug-in that makes it easy to block certain sites from the browser.


In Chrome, you need the Chrome Web Store. For Firefox, these additions are called "Add-ons."

, Click on the three gray bars in the upper right corner of Firefox, then choose "Add-Ons" to browse the selection of parental controls and website blockers. For Chrome, click the "Apps" button in the upper left corner, then click on "Web Store."

, Mozilla has a handy page illustrating all of the best blocking and parental control pages here. For simple blocking of websites on either site, your best bet is the simple but effective "BlockSite."


To find more robust programs, search for "parental controls or filters" in the web store or add-on library. These programs come with special controls that will block all types of web sites, such as a pornography filter.
Once downloaded, the plug-in will open up and ask you what sites you want to block.
If you cannot find the plug in, click on the three bars in the corner and click "Add-ons" (Firefox) or "Extensions" (Chrome).
 This brings up your options and preferences. Safari doesn't block websites, it lets you choose which ones to allow, making it much more restrictive., This allows you to block sites and set yourself as the "parent account," letting you choose what other users can see on Safari., This requires the administrative password -- the account used to log into the computer when it starts up. Once input, you will open up the Parental Controls window., This starts up the restrictions on Safari. You can add need pages using the "+" button and "Add Bookmarks."

To regain full control, simply uncheck "allow access to only these websites."

