 If you’re new to this trend and haven’t played around with metallics before, don’t go big right away. Try adding a few small pieces to a room first, just to get a feel for how it works in your home – and to confirm you like metallic décor! Adding a metallic gold vase as a table centerpiece or hanging up a mirror with bronze trim are examples of ways you can add a bit of bling to your space without feeling overwhelmed., If you aren’t a professional interior decorator, you might not have a grand vision for your space. That’s OK! You can always buy a few items that can work in several places around your home, and you can play around with them. Look for pieces that can work in your bedroom or your living room, or the bathroom or the kitchen. You can move things around and experiment.A metallic picture frame is a small touch that can add a lot to a space, but can also work in virtually any space. The same goes for metallic lamps, trays, bowls, and so on.
 If you aren’t ready to fully embrace this trend yet, why not purchase a few temporary metallic accessories? For example, consider using fun golds and silvers in your holiday or seasonal décor. You can find festive throw pillows, table settings, display trinkets, and so on. If you still love the metallic trend when the season or holiday ends, you can get some décor that is more permanent.
 If you don't want to fill your home with various metallic pieces, or simply only have one metallic piece that interests you, why not just use it solo to make a statement? Whether it's a metallic tea tray on your coffee table or one metallic piece of art on your mantle, one statement piece will draw the eye immediately. You don't need to add metallics to every corner of the room to embrace this trend in your home.
 After all, not all metallics are created equal. A shiny, smooth gold will create a different effect in a room than a hammered gold. Any metallic with an antiqued finish will look darker and older, and a metallic with a brushed finish will be more matte. If you’re not interested in traditional gold or silver, don’t overlook copper and bronze décor! Also, don’t be afraid to mix and match metallics to create a lot of interest.Again, if you aren’t sure which one you’ll prefer over time in your home, try out a few smaller, temporary pieces! You can get an idea for your personal preference without committing to anything or shelling out a lot of cash.
Don’t buy a certain type of metallic simply because it’s recommended with your color palette or someone suggested it. Choose a metallic that you personally love, and you won’t get sick of it., If your space needs a makeover, try heading to Pinterest before heading to Home Goods. You can also find decorating ideas from interior design magazines and websites. Even if you have experience decorating your home, it never hurts to check out what other people are doing. You can see how the professionals are using metallics in homes, and you might discover combinations or ideas that you never considered.
 Giving your own furniture or décor a metallic makeover is a great way to save a little money and extend the life of your belongings. Instead of tossing that plain wooden dresser you’re sick of, give it a makeover. A coat of black or white paint with some metallic knobs or accents will make it look like a whole new piece. The same goes for old chairs, tables, desks, and so on. You can find metallic spray paints in every hue at a home improvement store., To bring balance to the room you’re decorating, it’s a great idea to pair opposites. In other words, try blending your metallic décor with soft fabrics. A vibrant gold bowl placed on a faux fur place mat creates a beautiful contrast. Adding a metallic throw pillow to a soft velvet armchair strikes that same balance.Not only do these pairings create balance, but they also allow the metallic element to really stand out.
 Using metallics to decorate your home is a pretty bold choice, and it’s typically best to let those elements be the focal point. In order to do this, try to keep the rest of the room fairly neutral. Pair your metallics with colors like gray, white, cream, black, and so on. Not only is this extremely modern and on trend, it’s also much more welcoming and “livable.”Pairing some already flashy metallic décor with colors like hot pink or electric blue is certainly a bold choice, but you’re likely to get a bit sick of it after awhile.
 The other tips have alluded to it, but the key to using metallic in your home décor is to let those pieces have the spotlight. By keeping the rest of your décor neutral, soft, and simplistic, you’ll ensure that your space doesn’t become overwhelming. For example, if there’s a metallic coffee table that you love, go for it! Just keep the couch and rug neutral, and let that table have the spotlight.


The added bonus of keeping your spaces pretty neutral is that you will be able to swap different metallic pieces in and out as you like!

