 There are several companies online that design binders specifically for trans men. There are also trans men who sell used binders that either no longer fit or aren't of any use to them. You may also be able to purchase a binder from your local sex positive merchant.


Binders are not only used for trans men but also for males who have gynecomastia. You can find binders that specialize in helping men with gynecomastia.
If you can't afford a binder, there are many programs that you can apply for to receive cheap or free binders. However, most of these exchange programs are geared towards helping low income trans men when they're transitioning.;
, If you know your bra size, most merchants will be able to help you convert your bra size to a binder size. If you're buying online, a chart or online conversion tool may be available on the merchant's website.


It's important to get the right fit for your binder. A binder is not always comfortable to wear but you should always be able to breathe when you're wearing it. You should never feel restricted to a point that you can't.
 Short binders end right at your waist, or underneath your bust. Long binders reach several inches past your waist and about an inch before your belly button (depending on your body type).


Long binders tend to roll up and may need adjustment, while short binders stay unrolled easier. A binder that rolls can cause unsightly lines to show through your clothing. A way to counteract this problem is to fold up an inch from the bottom of your binder to stop it from rolling.
Choose a long or short binder based on your body type and the comfort of your fit. If you have a heavier body type, you may benefit more with a long binder as it will not roll up as often.
 Binders are put on differently than regular bras or sports bra. Start by:


Putting your binder inside out and upside down.
Step into your binder and pull the bottom up towards your head to your waist.
Use the shoulder sleeves to pull the binder outside.
Put your arms through the sleeves.
Pull out the bottom of your binder for it to lay flat. Some people will leave it folded to prevent the binder from rolling up when they're out and about.
 After putting on your binder for the first time, you may notice you have something that looks like one boob or a uni-boob. There are several ways to adjust your binder to fit you better:Make your chest look flatter by separating your breasts from each other. Reach your hand into your binder and push your breasts apart towards your arm.
Push your breasts down to achieve a flatter look. Reach your hand into you binder and push your breasts down to lay them flat.
Trim or alter parts of your binder to prevent bulging or chafing. Your binder may be too long or it may fit too close to your armpit. With a scissors, needle, and some thread, you can alter the binder to fit you better.
Alter the fit by adding velcro, spandex, or other materials to your binder. Maybe the bottom of your binder is too snug but everything else fits perfectly or the bottom rolls up all the time. You can add velcro or spandex to the bottom of your binder to help.
 For some people, a binder may not be enough, especially if you have a larger bust size. Or a binder is too uncomfortable or inconvenient to wear. Some tips to better your experience with binder wearing are:


Wear a shirt underneath your binder. It makes wearing a binder more comfortable and reduces the possibility of your binder moving around.
Wear layers of clothes to get a flatter look. Loose or baggy clothes can help you disguise the look of a bust.
Check the mirror for a better view of your chest. It may look bigger when you look down on it. So adjust your appearance based on what you see in the mirror.
Move, slouch, sit, and jump around when you're trying on your binder. It may look good while you're standing up, but it might feel or look differently when you start moving.
Apply cornstarch or baby powder on your body before putting on your binder to absorb moisture or sweat. Some binders may not be breathable and cause you to sweat in hot weather or when you're exerting yourself. Cornstarch and baby powder can help prevent your skin from getting irritated from the tightness of the binder.
 It is extremely important to wear a binder safely to protect your body from permanent health issues and damage. An extremely tight binder can result in restricted breathing, broken ribs, damage to chest tissue overtime, and cause fluid build-up in your chest.Do not wear your binder for more than 8-12 hours. If you wear your binder for long periods of time, you risk bruising and restricting oxygen to you body.
Chest binding is only a short-term solution. Long-term chest binding can cause permanent tissue damage. If you plan to bind your chest daily for any reason, consider looking into safer long-term options.
Never sleep with your binder on. Wearing a binder at night can affect your breathing and/or cause skin irritation.
Do not put bandages or duct tape over your binder. In fact, never use duct tape or bandages to flatten your chest. These tactics restrict movement and oxygen from entering your body.

