 Because GTA V takes place in an area based off of California, finding a body of water isn’t exactly challenging. If you’re playing as Michael, you can practice swimming in your own backyard. If you’d like to try swimming in a more open area, there are a few open lakes that feed into the rivers.


The Tataviam mountain range has a large body of water in its center, and is located just outside of Los Santos, in the Northeast.
To the north of Los Santos, located in the middle of Vinewood, is another large lake.
Aside from the ocean, the largest body of water is the Alamo Sea, which feeds into several small rivers. The Alamo Sea is located to the west of Sandy Shores.
The world of GTA V is surrounded on all sides by water, so if you continue in one direction for long enough, you’re sure to find the ocean eventually.;
, You can enter the water simply by walking into it. Once the depth passes over your character’s head, they’ll immediately begin treading water.
 To swim forward in the water, use the toggle stick (PS3, Xbox 360) or directional keys (PC). To accelerate your character’s speed, repeatedly tap the X Button (PS3), A button (Xbox 360), or the Shift key (PC).
 If the water is over your character’s head, then you can try diving beneath the surface. Press the R1 button (PS3), RB button (Xbox 360), or Q key (PC) and your character will dive below the surface.


Once under the water, swim using the same controls that you would on the surface.
 While in the water, the only weapon you can use is the knife. In case you need to defend yourself from sharks, you can equip the knife by pressing the L1 button (PS3), LB button (Xbox 360), or Tab key (PC). With the knife equipped, attack by pressing the Circle button (PS3), B button (Xbox 360), or the R key (PC).


You can attack while submerged or while treading water on the surface.
 Because your character is only human, you can’t stay submerged forever. There is a light blue meter in the bottom left-hand corner of the screen, next to your character’s health. This indicates how long they can stay underwater. Once the light blue meter runs out, your character will begin to lose health very quickly. If you do not surface before their health runs out, you will die.
 If the health meter is running low, surface quickly. To reach the surface again, simply press the toggle stick/directional arrow key upwards towards the surface of the water. To reach the surface more quickly, tap the X button (PS3), A button (Xbox 360), or Shift key (PC).

