 This is where the vocal folds are located; it's also known as the voice box. When it's level, it's in the optimum position for singing. Unfortunately, as we sing and sing higher, it has a tendency to raise.


Releasing the “swallowing muscles” is a good step toward reversing a rising larynx. If that doesn't do it, you can start singing in a hooty tone, which will also help release the larynx down. Finally, spreading your vowels (like smiling) also can cause the larynx to rise, so instead think of making the vowels taller and more narrow.
Put your hand on your throat and feel your larynx. Move your tongue as far back as you can; you should feel a drop. Consciously keep the drop while you move around your mouth and tongue; this may be difficult at first, but with a few minutes' practice, you'll get it down.;
, Most people have a bad habit of breathing from the top of their lungs. Place a hand on your stomach and watch it move up and down. It should be expanding and contracting while you sing, not your chest.


Go ahead, sing while laying down! Place a book on your chest and don't let it move. This is a visual reminder that you should breathe from your diaphragm.
 Each voice has a specific sound or two that makes it easier to reach higher. As you do warm ups, experiment with different ones.


Stick to darker vowels. That means "ah," "eh," "ih," "oh," and "oo." Mimic an opera singer if you must. Do not mimic a Canadian.
 This is absolutely imperative to singing healthily and expanding your range. Everybody has their favorites and what works for them. Work with a bunch to determine what you like best.


Start at the low end of your range and do arpeggios going up.
At the higher end of your range, quickly stop your breath making a "hup" sound and release with a siren-like "mo". Go higher and higher with each turn.
Start on a lower note making a tuba sound, go up an octave and release at the top with an "aww" back down to the starting note (you may do arpeggios if you desire).

Remember to have your mouth, lips, and entire body ready for optimum warm up.
 If your voice is telling you that you're going too high, listen to it. Singing should be natural; if you have to push, it will sound strained.


If it starts to hurt, rest. You can pick up again in a few hours if you need to. The vocal folds are just like any other muscle -- they need time to get used to the workouts you inflict on them.

