 To play Noise Rock, you must first know what instruments you can play. For example, the classic ones are, of course, guitar, drums, bass and vocals. But we're in a brand new musical era, so you can play keyboards, make your own mixes like Trent Reznor of Nine Inch Nails or any innovation you can create, like an alternative drum set made from old junk. Use your noisy imagination.;
, Of course you know Noise Rock isn't new. Bands like the Butthole Surfers (at least until Hairway to Steven), Scratch Acid, Glazed Baby, Big Black, Jesus Lizard, and some of the Melvins' material are great places to start, but it also helps to remember that more conventional bands like the Grateful Dead, Black Flag, Iggy Pop and Nirvana (at least for Bleach and parts of In Utero) either influenced or dabbled in what could be considered noise rock; study them, catch the vibe on their songs, the way the lyrics are written and the dissonance in their music, and go from there.
 They don't need to be philosophical or save the world at the note. You write about the things you know the way you know it. If you want to be a noise rock musician, you must feel some noise that wants to go out, let it out in a song, in words and noise itself writing your own original songs. What leads us to the next step.
 Maybe the most important thing is that you have to be yourself. One admired thing about Noise Rock it's the authentic of their musicians. There's no other goal that take your instrument and go out on stage with only one mission: ROCK OUT! money doesn't matter anymore, just go out there bathed in spit and beer and rock!

, Let your inner beast go out for a walk on the stage. Imagine that the things in this world that makes us fail as humanity all compressed in your strings or drums and then play the brains out of it, perhaps destroying the whole instrument against your amplifier in the process.
 That's for sure. You can be noisiest rock band in the world, but if you don't innovate, you'll be dead. So make sure that your band is always fresh, new instruments, new ways of writing songs and new way of tuning. Be in constant change. Avant garde it, baby.
 After you made your own songs, go out and search for a bar, friend's house or any party. Any place where you can play will do, jam nights, open mic nights, you got to innovate that too!

