 A thick piece of plywood will add stability to your table. Buy a 4x8 foot (1.2x2.4 meter) piece of plywood, which will become the surface of your table. When looking for plywood, look for variations that are a 1/2 an inch (12.7 millimeters) or 3/4 of an inch (19.05 millimeters) thick.
 Measure four feet from the end of either side of the table, lengthwise, and make a mark with a pencil in the center. Use a straight edge to draw a line width-wise on the plywood. The line in the center of your plywood will be where the table folds. Use a circular saw, miter saw, or table saw to cut your plywood in half., Set your two tabletops on the ground with the top of the table facing down. Arrange planks of wood around the outer edges of your plywood to create the frame. Because each piece of your table top measures 4x4 feet (1.2x1.2 meters), the frame under your plywood must also be 4x4 feet. Create two frames for each side of your tabletop. Make sure that the plywood and the planks of wood run flush on all four sides. Once your frame is the right size, you can set your plywood to the side.


If your wooden planks are too long, then you may need to cut them down with a saw.
The frame will look like a shallow wooden box on top of your plywood.
You can purchase the framing lumber at most hardware stores.
For this project, a 2" x 6" (38 x 140 mm) piece of lumber could work for framing material.
 Once the frame is set up, nail the pieces together so that it forms two frames that are 4x4 feet (1.2x1.2) meters big. Put two nails in each corner of your frame, attaching the two pieces of wood together to form an L. Once all sides of your frame have been nailed together, you should have a square made out of your lumber.
 Position the plywood over your frame and make sure that the edges run flush. Once it's in the correct position, put nails or screws into the surface of your plywood, attaching the frame to the plywood. You may need to put multiple nails along the surface of the plywood to safely secure the top of the table to the frame.Repeat the process on the other piece of plywood.
 A piano hinge is a metal hinge that can be used to connect both sides of your table together. Flip the table over, so that the surface of the table is facing the ground. Bring the two piece of tables together so that the frames are flush with one another. Place the piano hinge to both sides of the frame and center it. Once the hinge is flush, put screws into each of the holes to firmly attach it to the table's frame., Purchase folding table legs at a hardware store or online. This will make it so that your folding beer pong table has something to stand on when deployed. Lay the legs under the table, inside of the frame. Test the legs and fold them out to see how they will function. Once you're satisfied with the placement, screw them in with an electric drill.Folding legs allow your table to be folded up and transported easily.
Do not get legs that are longer than 3.5 feet (1 meter), or they may not fit inside of your wooden frame.

