 Cast off the oppression of the flavor packet! The first rule of Ramen club? Let no one tell you how to eat your Ramen noodles. Instead of tossing in that little package of meat-flavoring, cook up the noodles and flavor the soup yourself. With some basic condiments you can get for cheap at most grocery stores, you can customize your Ramen into a delicious restaurant-quality meal.Try flavoring your broth with any combination of the following ingredients, after you remove it from the microwave:









miso paste
Hoisin sauce
rice vinegar
lemon/lime juice
Sriracha or red chili paste
soy sauce
honey
green onions
basil

, Adding a bit of spinach, fresh chopped Thai basil leaves, or other vegetables to your Ramen can up the flavor and the health content. It's a simple way to hot-rod your Ramen.










Before you cook the noodles, consider adding celery, finely chopped carrot, garlic, or onions to the soup. Frozen peas work perfectly to add texture, as well as any other pre-cooked frozen vegetable you've got in the freezer.

After you cook the noodles, add greens, or top with chopped herbs of any kind. Basil and cilantro are especially delicious, but why not toss in some rosemary and a tablespoon of half-and-half to chicken-flavored ramen? It's a savory treat that smells like Thanksgiving and changes the dish completely.
 A common addition to Ramen is the incredible edible itself, the egg. While it's somewhat difficult to do the egg-drop method of cooking eggs in the broth itself, you can still use the microwave to cook an egg right in the broth, or simply chop hard-boiled eggs and put them on top.









If you want to crack an egg into the soup to add density and flavor, remove the noodles after cooking them and crack the egg in. Stir it vigorously with a fork or a chopstick, and return to the microwave for another minute or so. The hot water should temper the egg itself, but you can return it briefly to make sure.
 Toss out the flavor packet and make your own Thai-style peanut noodles from a package of Ramen, all with stuff you've probably already got in your kitchen.









In a bowl, mix 1 heaping tablespoon of salty peanut butter, preferably an all-natural variety. TO that, mix in a sprinkling of brown sugar, a teaspoon of soy sauce, and Sriracha or hot sauce to taste. If you've got any ginger, it's also good to add in, or grate.
When you take the noodles out of the microwave, pour off most of the hot water, leaving some to mix into the sauce. Pour the noodles into the bowl with the sauce and stir them around vigorously. Top with chopped cilantro and carrot. It's delicious.

