 Many different versions can be found online and downloaded free of charge. This tutorial will use a pattern for Connor's hood, which can be easily modified to suit any assassin.


Download the pattern here: "Connor's Hood Template," by "Yulittle.", One will be used for the right side of the hood, and the other for the left., Using sharp scissors, cut the patterns out as neatly as you possibly can. The neater you can trim the patterns, the easier it will be to lineup the edges of the hood pieces.
 The more wrinkles that you can work out, the easier it will be to pin and trim your patterns.
 Carefully arrange the patterns on the fabric one at a time. Be sure that the patterns are laying perfectly flat on top of the fabric.
 Sewing pins (not needles) have a round ball at the end opposite the tip. This helps hold the pin in place and prevents it from sliding out of the fabric or pattern.
 Use tailor's chalk to make sure that you do not stain the fabric. Do your best to make clean lines.
 This margin will be your seem allowance, which has not been included in the pattern., The first section that should be sewn together is the back-right section of the hood. Start with the two straight and narrow pieces.


Be sure to lineup the outline marks that you made with the tailor's chalk to ensure that the pieces are properly aligned before they are sewn together.
 Sew on the third and final piece to finish constructing the back-right section of your hood.


Do not trim off any of the excess. These margins will continue to provide you with a seam allowance as you sew all the pieces of your hood together.
 Just as you did with the back-right side, sew together the three panels that will form the back-left portion of your hood.


Start with the two straight and narrow pieces.
You will be constructing five sections that will need to be sewn together to form the final hood.
 Each side section (left and right) of the hood will be composed of three pattern parts that will need to be sewn together.


Start with the bottom two pieces of the section.
 Sew on the final piece of the section to complete the section.
 Once you have completed constructing the other side of the hood, you will be ready to begin sewing together all of the sections.


You should now have four separate sections: left, back-left, right, and back-right.
 Start by sewing the right sections of the hood together. Be sure to align the adjoining edges up as best as you can to make sure that all of the pieces of the hood are aligned properly.
 Just as you did with the right, sew the left two sections of the hood together.
 You should now have a left and right side that is ready to be sewn together. As straight as you can, sew the left and right sides together beginning in the back of the hood. Stop just as the seam begins to deviate, forming a diamond cutaway.
 This diamond piece will form the pointed beak that has become the trademark of an assassin's hood.


If your sewing skills are up to it, try making a liner for the hood in a contrasting color.Traditionally, assassins wore pure white with crimson red highlights, but this was never a rule and was often deviated from.

