 Reducing your use of paper products in order to save trees can seem abstract, since millions of new trees must be planted each year to sustain the paper industry. But it's important to start seeing the connection between the trees you love and the products you use. If you're passionate about saving trees, you may want to look for ways to use fewer paper products in your daily life.Use cloth towels instead of paper towels. It's a simple change that can reduce a lot of unnecessary waste.
Use cloth napkins instead of paper napkins. They're more elegant, anyway.
Use handkerchiefs instead of tissues. It might take some getting used to, but handkerchiefs are actually softer on your skin than tissues, so you might like them better.
Use reusable containers instead of paper lunch bags.
If you must use a paper product, always buy the recycled version. At least you'll know it's not made from virgin pulp.
 Going completely toilet paper free is not in the cards for most people, since it would require a significant lifestyle change. However, just making the choice to buy recycled toilet paper, even though it costs a few cents more, can make a difference. Here are a few other things you can do to cut back on toilet paper use:


Use only as much as you need, rather than using whirls of toilet paper each time you use the bathroom.
If you're really hardcore, consider using a bidet or washing rather than using toilet paper.
Some people have even made the switch to using cloth toilet paper., If you're a daily coffee drinker, and every morning you buy your latte in a disposable cardboard cup (usually with a disposable cardboard sleeve) there's a more tree-friendly system you can start using. Get a plastic or ceramic reusable coffee container and start bringing it with you each morning. As a bonus, most coffee shops offer a slight discount when you bring in your own container.
 This simple switch will make your life less cluttered and reduce the number of dead trees on your conscience. If you still get paper bills sent to your house, go online and make the switch to the paperless option. You can opt to receive notifications that a bill is due via email, rather than having to check the mail.
 If you're in the market for new furniture or building materials, think twice before buying lumber at your local big box home improvement store. Take the time to track down wood products that have the Forest Stewardship Alliance seal, which indicates that they were sourced in a sustainable way with minimal impact on the forest.If you're buying furniture, another option is to buy antique furniture instead of brand new wooden furniture. Antique furniture is often made with strong, durable wood that will last many years, so it's a good investment.
 The production of meat in general requires tons of resources. Factory farms need space, water and food for animals they raise for food. Beef products are particularly hard on trees, since Amazonian rain forests are being cut down to make way for cattle ranches.Avoid ordering beef in restaurants if you don't know where it came from. When you do eat beef, buy it from a local farmer or a source you know and trust.

