 The more often you wash your hair, the drier it becomes. If it’s dry, it will look more frizzy than curly. You can, however, use conditioner on your hair more often.


When using shampoo, try to use more on your scalp, and less on the ends of your hair.
When using conditioner, try to use more on the ends of your hair, and less on your scalp.
 Sulfates are harsh cleaning agents, and they can make your hair dry, brittle, and frizzy. That is why it is best to avoid shampoos and other hair products that contain sulfates.Look for hair products that are labeled as “sulfate-free.”
You might also consider only washing your hair every other day, or every third or fourth day.
 Never use a hairbrush on your hair when it is dry. This will break up the curl pattern and cause your hair to frizz. Instead, use a wide-toothed comb to tame your curls.Always start from the ends first, and never comb your hair from the roots straight down. This will cause your hair to snap and break.
You can, however, use a hairbrush on your curls while they are still wet. Make sure that you are brushing in small sections, starting from the ends first.
 If you must blow dry your hair, spray your hair down with a heat protecting spray first. Then, use a low or medium heat setting and a diffuser attachment. This will help maintain the natural pattern of your curls.


While your hair is still damp, try forming curls with your fingers. Wrap a curl around your finger tightly, then gently slip your finger out of the spiral. Repeat this for the other curls. This will help shape your curls, and make them flow in the same direction.
 Regular towels tend to be too rough on curls. The fibers can snag the delicate hair strands and cause them to rip or tear. Instead, try blotting your hair dry with a towel or t-shirt.
 There are many different products available at beauty stores and salons that will bring out your natural curls. Most of these need to be applied to your hair while it is still wet, while others can be used while your hair is dry.Here are some ideas to get you started:


Use mousse and gels on damp hair to enhance curls. Start with a grape-sized amount, and apply it with your fingers.
Use oils on dry hair to tame frizz. Start with a pea-sized amount, and focus on the ends. Try using natural Argan oil, coconut oil, or jojoba oil.
Use a sea salt spray to create beach waves. Keep in mind, however, that this can make your hair sticky. You can also make sea salt spray at home by just mixing sea salt with water.
Use an anti-frizz cream on dry or damp hair. Start with a grape-sized amount, and focus on the ends of your hair, as well as the outermost layer.
 Getting your hair trimmed regularly will help to eliminate split ends. You can also use this opportunity to even out any layers, or add layers to your hair. Layers are great for bringing out curls; straight, non-layered hair will weigh down your curls and make them appear straighter.