 If you are in doubt as to your own particular growing zone and its compatibility for growing cherries, contact your local garden center or landscaping and nursery store to explore your options.;
, Some varieties may do better in certain growing zones than in others.


Select a cherry variety that is compatible with the climate in which you live. Choosing the wrong variety of cherry can result in problems such as cherry leaf spot, brown rot and fruit cracking.
 The type of cherry that you decide to grow should depend on your growing zone and how much work and effort you are willing to put into growing and caring for them.


Choose a tart variety of cherry to grow if you want to use them primarily for cooking such as in preserves and pies. Tart cherries are hardier, tend to have less disease and are more tolerant of extreme temperatures. Tart cherry trees are ornamental and tend to be smaller overall in size, which makes them easier to care for through pruning and harvesting.
Select a sweet variety of cherry if you want to grow them primarily for eating. Growing sweet cherries requires more time in pruning and spraying to protect against disease. The sweet cherry is also the variety that attracts birds more often so extra efforts will have to be made in protecting your cherry trees.
 Choose an elevated site over 1 that is located in low areas where colder temperatures settle.


Do not plant your cherry trees in a location that has previously been used to plant tomatoes, melons, strawberries or peaches. Cherries are very susceptible to several diseases including Verticillium wilt.
Provide space for your cherry trees to grow after you plant them. Allow approximately 12 feet (4 m) spacing between dwarf size cherry plants. Standard size cherry plants require twice the amount of distance between plants.
Use good, rich soil as you put your cherry plants into the ground and cover the roots. In gauging the depth of the hole, it should not be too much deeper than the original container in which it was placed prior to its purchase.
 Once they start to bear fruit, wait until after harvesting time to fertilize the trees.
 Remember that some varieties are hardier than others.
 There are several methods that you can use to protect your cherry trees.


Explore possible options including netting as well as fencing to surround the perimeters of your cherry trees. Birds can easily get caught in netting unless you use the correct gauge and drape it properly. Contact your local garden center to learn about methods to safeguard your cherry trees that will not harm nearby wildlife.
 The initial cherry blossoms that flower during spring will produce a beautiful display. With proper care, your cherry trees can provide you with many years of enjoyment as well as a harvest of fresh fruit for both eating and cooking.
 Cherry fruit flies, common across the united states cause cherry worms making cherries unusable. There are also organic ways to handle birds, pests and fruit flies. Another common pest after cherries are harvested are Japanese beetles.

