 Meditate for at least 20 minutes a day. There are different ways to meditate, but the objective is to calm your mind and slow down your autonomic processes, like breathing and your heartbeat. You can just sit quietly and try not to think about anything, or use guided imagery to focus your attention on positive ideas.


Lie or sit comfortably and pay attention to your breathing. Don’t try to control it, just notice the pattern and sensation of air going through your body. When thoughts or pain surfaces, think of them like a cloud passing over the sky quickly, acknowledge them, and watch them fade into the distance.For guided imagery, imagine blocking off the pain physically, like putting it behind glass.Or, sit and breathe deeply for at least 10 minutes a day while imagining a tranquil scene. Picture it as completely as you can, with sounds, sights, smells, etc., so you can imagine you are actually there., Yoga is a great tool for both maintaining fitness and relieving stress. It involves stretching and rhythmic breathing and teaches you to pay attention to your body over external stimuli. Learn yoga and practice it daily to increase your activity level and decrease overall stress.


Find a yoga class at your gym or a local yoga center to try it out. Having a schedule of classes can help motivate you to keep doing it regularly.
Find tutorial videos online at home. Make sure to choose one for beginners at first. Then, pick a theme. Some are specifically for morning practice and others for before bed, for example.
 Doing an activity like meditation or yoga everyday will help lower your overall stress, but no doubt you will still have moments of intense stress caused or exacerbated by symptoms of menopause. Relaxing decreases your heart rate, drops your blood pressure, and allows your muscles to relax.There are several breathing techniques you can use in those moments to calm your mind and body.


Try “equal breathing.” Breathe in and out through your nose, each for a count of four. When you master this, increase to a rate of six. It’s also a great exercise to do when you get in bed because it stops your mind from racing.Roll breathing, or abdominal breathing, is best done lying down with knees bent, but can be done in any position. The object is to full your lungs with each breath while placing your hands to feel the lungs and abdomen rising and falling.Couple focused breathing with progressive muscle relaxation if you have a quiet place to sit or lie down. Close your eyes, and inhale deeply and slowly through the nose while tensing one muscle group at a time. Exhale through the mouth and release all tension in those muscles. Start at your feet and work your way up through the body., Along with other lifestyle changes aiming to reduce stress, adding weekly massages can help calm your mental state and relax your body. Therapists can focus attention on the lower back and abdomen to ease symptoms of menopause, and even include aromatherapy during your sessions to increase relaxation.In general, the more stress a woman feels, the worse her symptoms tend to be. Therefore, using multiple techniques to reduce stress is the best approach.
Getting regular massages feels luxurious, and can improve your overall mood by being a way of treating yourself kindly and taking care of your needs first.
 Some women report significant relief from symptoms of menopause with acupuncture, but more large-scale studies may be needed to prove a direct correlation.However, there is little doubt that acupuncture is useful for pain management, including low back pain and menstrual cramps, as well as for sleep problems.