 Being part of a positive group can do a lot to motivate and inspire you. Consider joining a sports team, a drama group, a band or chorus, or an organization for a cause you believe in. Being surrounded by people who are positive and work together for a common purpose can help you stay positive and motivated.For example, if you enjoy sports, consider joining the soccer, track, or basketball team. Go out for community theater, join your church choir, or join the school band. Get involved in a local animal shelter or recycling organization.
 A good way to find positive people is through positive actions, such as volunteering. Volunteering not only allows you to be positive by giving back to your community, but it also puts you around like-minded people. You may be able to surround yourself with other people who care about your community and others.Look into volunteer organizations in your area. Find a cause you are really passionate about, like animals, autism, or the environment, and volunteer for those organizations in your area.
 Another great way to meet people is to go to events. School, community, or group events puts you around a lot of other people who may have similar interests to you. This can include school sports games, campus events, or community festivals.


You can try local professional sports games or music concerts.
Many communities have events in the park, like movies or plays in the park.
 You may meet people who have similar interests to you by visiting local establishments. You can go to museums, coffee shops, or libraries. Try a music shop or comic book shop. These places can put you around people who like the same things you do.


Some of these places may hold get togethers or events you can attend. Libraries often host events, coffee shops may have music, poetry, or game nights, museums have open houses and mixers and comic book shops have game nights.
 If you are looking for positive peers, be proactive about it. Smile at someone you think is a positive person. Speak to them or try to start a conversation. If they are as positive as you think, they will probably welcome the interaction and respond to you.For example, smile at the person you always see in the library or speak to the person who is always in your gym class.

