 Try to figure out what caused the crash. This can sometimes be found by running windows in safe mode then opening Windows Log Files, or if there's a blue screen, you can see the problem written after the memory index (like: ffff01230x230) . To open Windows Logs, follow these steps:


Click the Start button, and then click Control Panel.
Click Performance and Maintenance, then click Administrative Tools.
Double-click Computer Management.;
, In some cases, computer failure is the result of inadequate power supply or an electrical short-circuit.


Restart your computer then double check the connections.
Reconnect all cords and wires, and try to restart the computer.
 Minor hardware driver errors or other software bugs that relate to sensitive processes or hardware may also contribute to a computer crash. This can be done from "Add/Remove Programs" under Control Panel. You can also Do a System Restore, which can automatically restore programs, drivers, and other system software to a previous, stable state without deleting any user files or other important data.
 Windows operating system has an option that includes several fail-safe menu for repairing boot problems. Access Last Known Good Configuration and other options by pressing F8 before reaching the log on screen.
 XP operating systems have a Safe Mode option which allows the computer to run in a limited state. (Access Safe Mode and other options by pressing F8 before reaching the log on screen.)

, Boot the PC using a repair CD or Operating System installation disc. Most operating system installation discs are bootable (or, have an OS of their own), allowing one to start their computer via the CD/DVD. Oftentimes, these discs can fix problems that are preventing the PC from starting correctly. They can also be used to access System Restore and other helpful features. This is only recommended if you know what you are doing.
 Some computers have a recovery partition(usually the ones which comes pre-installed with an operating system). The way to access it varies between computers. Your best guess would be Alt-F10 pressed repeatedly right after pressing the power button to turn it on. Be warned, however, that re-installing the Operating System will result in a total loss of any documents or other data stored on the computer.
 If all else fails, take the computer to a computer technician or repairman.

