 When spending time with your girlfriend's dad, dress in a way that will make you look trustworthy. Adult clothing is best, ideally in a "business casual" style. You want to look non-threatening and clean-cut.Wear a shirt with buttons and some clean, well fitted pants. Don't wear clothes that are dirty or have images or words on them that might be offensive to her dad.
This is especially important the first time you meet her dad.
 When you greet your girlfriend's father, give him a firm handshake and look him in the eye. This shows respect and friendliness.Don't grip his hand too hard and hurt him, but by the same token, don't give a limp, weak handshake. This can lead to a less favorable impression of you., Whenever you spend time with your girlfriend's dad, be respectful and polite. Say "please" and "thank you," don't curse, and generally use your best manners.Many people see good manners as a sign of good moral character.


Always address your girlfriend's dad respectfully. Either call him "sir" or "Mr. ," unless he tells you to call him something else. A formal address is a sign of respect and good judgement., However nervous or awkward you might feel around your girlfriend's dad, act as confident and comfortable as you can. Look him in the eye when you talk, stand up straight, and avoid fidgeting.


Showing nervousness can sometimes suggest you are hiding something.At the same time, don't be overconfident or showy. This can also be off-putting to people or suggest you aren't genuine., When you talk to your girlfriend's dad, talk about things you like and feel good about. Don't brag, but talk about things that cast you in a positive light. Involve your girlfriend in the conversation, and talk about things the two of you enjoy doing together.Talk about things you like about school, work, or hobbies. Most people prefer talking to people who are positive. Don't gripe or complain.
If you have hobbies or interests in common with your girlfriend's dad, talk about those. Whether its sports or spirituality, people are more likely to trust others who they feel are similar to themselves., If you are old enough to drink and are offered a drink while you are spending time with your girlfriend's father, it's fine to have one or two (unless he disapproves of drinking altogether). Don't overdo it, however.If you have too much to drink, you are more likely to say or do something that might seem untrustworthy to your girlfriend's dad.
Even if you don't actually do anything that raises red flags, many people see over-drinking as irresponsible or as a sign of weak moral character.

