 Your pot should have a somewhat large gap in it from the broken section of the pot. However, the base of the pot should be intact. Fill the pot a quarter of the way with soil, with the soil sloping upwards away from the broken section of the pot.Depending on the size of your pot and its broken section, you may need to use more or less soil.
The goal at this point is to put enough soil in your pot so that you can nest your large potsherd in it.
A general potting soil, which is sometimes called potting or container mix, should work well for the plants in your fairy garden.;
, If both the upper corners of your large potsherd are still attached, put on safety glasses and use a hammer to break off a corner. If you've broken the right corner, nest the large potsherd in the soil inside the pot so its left side touches the left side of the pot, or vice versa.The gap in the corner will allow a space for you to use smaller potsherds, stacked on sloping soil, to create a potsherd stairway.
 With your hands or a hand spade, add more soil to your pot. Fill it about ¾ of the way full, and arrange the dirt so it holds the large potsherd in place. Your dirt should slope upwards away from the broken segment of the pot, with the greater portion of the soil in the main part of the pot, behind the large potsherd.The shape of your large potsherd or the size of your pot might require you to adjust the amount of dirt you add at this point in the project.
 If you don't have small potsherds, take your hammer and break the corner you removed from your large potsherd into pieces. If you already have small pieces of potsherd:Layer the small pieces of potsherd on the sloping dirt in an ascending fashion. These should spiral up the sloping dirt to the gap in one of the corners of the large potsherd.
Press the potsherds into the soil or add a little soil to firmly fix the smaller potsherds in place.
 Now that your potsherds are in place, you can add plants. Choose those that look like normal, everyday plants (like trees, shrubs, and so on), but miniature. This will give your garden the atmosphere that it was cultivated by little fairies.


Succulents, bonsai plants, and moss are well suited for creating this kind of atmosphere, but feel free to experiment.Tiny flowering plants will make your fairy garden appear to be a miniature flower garden tended by little fairies. Try plants like Baby's Breath, Alsike Clover (Trifolium hybridum), Black Swallow Wort (Cynanchum nigrum), Blue Curls (Trichostema dichotomum), and more.