 Try to limit shopping to two hours and even people who have the highest phobias towards shopping will accommodate the activity. The use of the word “date” makes it sound more fun and implies less pressure than shopping because you’re not a fan of his or her style., Don't bring them shopping with you if they hate shopping. Be sure to get their measurements to know exactly what sizes they are in shirts, pants, jackets, and shoes.Keep the tags on the things you buy and if they don't like it, return it.


Buy things that you feel matches their personality and style. Think about what they would feel comfortable in and make purchases accordingly.Use items in their closets that they currently love. If you notice they are looking a little aged or worn, find suitable replacements for those items., A little extra affection won't hurt either.


If your partner is wearing a shirt, a pair of jeans, or a dress that makes them look incredible, make it a point to voice that to them. Wrap your arms around him or her and pull them into a delicate kiss. Say something genuine that expresses you like what you see, “How am I going to keep my hands off of you when you look like this?”
Say what it is specifically about the article of clothing that you like. Your partner will get to know your tastes and might subconsciously cater dressing that way based on the response you gave them. If you think short sleeved tees on him make his arms and torso look more defined, say that. If you like the high waisted jeans she’s been wearing lately because they make her curves look even more apparent, say that too.
Refrain from saying mean, overly sarcastic things that take a knock at what your partner is wearing. ”Oh wow, you’re wearing that hoodie again?” is a question you should stay away from, even if in a humorous tone., Because you’ve added newer pieces into his or her closet, suggest throwing out older pieces that might not match your newer looks. Donate what you throw out to a local secondhand store like Goodwill. Make sure to include things from your wardrobe in the donation box too to show that it is more about donating than it is about getting rid of his clothes.
If your partner is at all resistant to throwing out their things, let it go. He or she might eventually be into it, especially if they see you conducting closet purges of your own. Again if not, let it go. It’s just a suggestion, not an effort of aggression.

