 Expressing your feelings on paper can make them seem more manageable, as well as providing an emotional outlet. Start with obvious reasons that the relationship won't work, and put “she doesn't feel the same way about me” at the very top of the list. Follow up with any other reason you can think of, even if it seems flimsy: overlapping schedules, different religious backgrounds, people she likes who you dislike. The goal is to build a strong argument against a relationship by sheer weight of numbers. A dozen so-so reasons can do as much to ameliorate your suffering as one ironclad reason.


Add to your list whenever you think of something else that fits on it. If you think of something while you are away from home, simply try to remember it. If it is important enough, you will still have it in mind by the time you get home. Don't write it down anywhere temporary.
 Don't show your words to anyone or leave them out where they can be found. Keep them at home in a safe place. If you are lucky enough to have your own bedroom, do your writing there, and hide it in your best hiding spot. Otherwise, find a place in your home where you can be alone for a while and write there instead. Hide your writing wherever you're confident it won't be found.


Write by hand rather than on a computer. Computer files get discovered too easily.
Never take your writing to school or work with you. If someone finds it, you'll have your privacy violated and only end up feeling worse.
 Read over your list whenever you are feeling upset or sad about the girl you have feelings for, as well as any time you find yourself daydreaming about her. Seeing every reason you have ever thought of to move on from your feelings for her will give you the boost of strength you need to keep going.
 Most often, this will be a parent or other close adult relative. One of the most effective ways to cope with grief is to share your feelings with another real person. If you have a figure in your life who you can trust implicitly, ask him or her to listen and help support you. Having a sympathetic ear will take a lot of weight off of your shoulders.
 Not everyone can afford the time and money that counseling costs, but if you are one of the lucky ones, it can be a great help to speak to a counselor for a few sessions. Your counselor will provide a safe and confidential way for you to share your thoughts and feelings with another human being, face to face, and provide gentle suggestions to help you manage them outside the counseling room.
 Art is possibly the most powerful tool mankind has ever devised for expressing thoughts and emotions. It could be prose writing, poetry, essays, sculpture, painting, collage, singing, playing an instrument, composing music, or anything else that combines an act of creation with a need for understanding, whether or not you have any talent for it. Whatever you choose to do, let it be an avenue for you to safely express your feelings and thoughts in a way that creates, rather than destroys.


Write out the story of your feelings, from the first time you met the object of your affection to the steps you are taking to try to move on.
Write poems, substituting metaphorical stand-ins for real people and emotions.
Slash a canvas with a paintbrush and let your frustration guide your hand.
Get together with a friend and have a long jam session.
If you are not at all creatively inclined, simply write a letter to yourself stating everything you want to say as plainly as possible, and tuck it away with your list when you are finished.

