 Explain how you have been feeling, and what struggles you have been going through. You may be prescribed therapy and/or antidepressants. Your family doctor can help you by listening to your symptoms, referring you to a specialist, and possibly prescribing medication.
Therapies such as CBT (Cognitive behavioral therapy) and DBT (Dialectal behavioral therapy) can help you counter negative thoughts and learn strategies for handling rough times. Making the step to get professional help can be difficult if you are depressed. Feeling bad because you can’t control your mood on your own is normal. Making the decision to get help is a positive action which will help you to begin fighting depression and anxiety.
Look for therapists or doctors who you like and feel comfortable with. Don’t be afraid to interview several before picking one you like.;
, Once you meet with a doctor you may get a prescription for medication to help fight your depression or anxiety. It’s extremely important that you take the proper dose and stay consistent. Many of these medications change the chemical imbalance in your brain and affect your serotonin levels. Low levels of the brain chemical serotonin are a factor which can lead to depression.
When you don’t take your medication regularly, your body experiences withdrawal and can make you feel worse than before.
Battling depression and anxiety is a constant in most cases. You may not find the right medication for you right away. It may take several months to get it right and you may have several different prescriptions along the way.
It’s extremely important that you keep honest and open communication about your medication and how you are feeling with your doctor.
 Exercise releases endorphins and improves your overall health. Go for walks, play backyard sports, swim, hike, or play with children or pets. Try exercising with a loved one to make it fun and help you stay motivated.


If you suffer from depression and anxiety staying active can be a big challenge. On those days when it’s an impossible task to even get out of bed, the thought alone of physical activity is exhausting. Therefore, it’s a great idea to take measures that keep you dedicated. Get a personal trainer and join a gym. The commitment and cost can help you keep on top of a routine.

Try doing yoga. Yoga helps you strengthen your body while also exercising your mind and spirit. The breathing techniques and poses you learn from yoga combined with the physical activity can energize you and help you feel happy and relaxed.
 It is essential to get the right type of nutrition. Your body cannot function on junk food alone. Multi-vitamins cannot replace a balanced diet, but they can help make sure you're getting the nutrition you need.


Figure out what your favorite fruits and vegetables are. Focus on ones you enjoy eating. Try adding these fruits to a dessert (e.g. bananas or strawberries with honey or Nutella).
Be careful of how much caffeine you drink. Caffeine, like your coffee in the morning, can seem like a great way to feel awake, especially when depression and anxiety make you feel tired. But caffeine can make it harder to sleep, increase your anxiety, and alter your mood. Watch how much caffeine you consume and don’t drink any before bed. Cut back on alcohol. Alcohol is a depressant, meaning it can lower your mood. When you drink a lot you not only harm your body and lower your immune system, you’re more likely to make impulsive decisions you regret. Depression and anxiety can also make it easier for you to become more dependent on alcohol. Instead of reaching for a beer, try tea. , The way you are feeling could be caused by an insufficient amount of sleep. Try to get a longer night’s rest and develop a better sleeping routine.


Try practicing relaxation exercises at night if you are having a hard time falling asleep like meditation.
Drink chamomile tea or try melatonin if you are experiencing insomnia.
If you have depression and anxiety, getting adequate rest can be difficult, but is also very important. Try keeping a sleep routine that puts you in bed at the same time each night. Aim to sleep for 8 hours. 