 Loving a man doesn't mean trying to do each and every last thing with him. In fact, if you really want to love a man, then you have to show it by letting him do his own thing once in a while. If he likes reading in his study or working on his carpentry skills in the garage, you don't have to hover around every two seconds asking what he's up to or if he needs anything. Sure, it's great to share interests with your loved one, but it's equally important to respect the fact that he'd like to do his own thing from time to time.


If you really want to love a man, then you have to be able to tell when he really wants to be left alone. Leaving him alone when he just wants some peace is a way to show him your real love.;
, If he's going out with the guys, then let him do his thing. Though he shouldn't go out boozing with his buddies without you every night in the week, every once in a while, a man needs to just unwind and hang out with a bunch of other men. There's nothing wrong with that, just like there's nothing wrong with the fact that you want time with your girlfriends. The next time he has "guy time," don't be suspicious, call him a million times while he's out, or resent him for spending time with his friends. If you're cool with letting him hang out with his friends sometimes, then he'll appreciate you even more when he comes back to you.


Obviously, this doesn't mean he should go womanizing and binge drinking with his rowdy friends every chance he gets. If this is the case, then you will have to have a talk with him.
 If you're committed to always proving that you're right, then it won't get you very far in your relationship. Though sometimes it may be important to get your message across, it's not as important as being part of a positive, mutually-beneficial relationship. Okay, so maybe your man was wrong about something, and he already feels bad about it. Ask yourself if it's worth it to say, "I told you so," and to make him look and feel like a bigger fool. If you really care for him, then you'll sympathize with him instead of making him feel worse.


Sure, there are times when you really feel like getting your point across and want him to get the message so he doesn't make the same mistake again. That's okay, too, as long as you know how to pick your battles.
 Sometimes a man may just need a little quiet time to himself. If he just got home from work, or you just got home and he seems like he's doing his own thing, you don't always have to start talking about everything and hanging out over a glass of wine. Though this is the way many women unwind, this is not the way that most men always like to relax, so you have to be understanding of the fact that he may just want a little quiet and some TV time to relax a bit.


Sure, it's important to spend time together, but you shouldn't make him feel guilty if he needs some alone time. Try not to take it personally.
 Yeah, many women like to sit and talk about all of their problems because they think that this is the best way to solve them. But not so with men. Though it's important to talk about the things that are bothering you, many men don't like to talk the second they are upset and need some time to think everything through on their own. If you know he's had a bad day or you're going through a rough patch, try giving it a little time instead of trying to talk it over the second that it happens.


It may be your thing to talk about something the second it's happened, but you have to respect the fact that he may not want to talk right away. On the other hand, that doesn't mean you should never talk about your feelings.
 An important part of loving a man is listening to what he has to say. You don't always have to be the one who is talking, telling him how much you love him, or starting a conversation about how his day went. If he's talking to you, then don't interrupt or wait for the time when you can say something. Hear him out, especially if he doesn't open up to you as often as you'd like. Once he's said his part, you'll have a sense of what he wants -- either some advice or just a sympathetic ear.


Listening is a skill that can be developed. Work on latching on to the details of what he says and mentioning them later -- he'll be impressed by how much you care.
 Though you don't have to make your man feel like a macho man or a superhero all the time, one of the worst things you can do is to make him feel like he's about two feet tall. Hold your tongue instead of calling him names or making him feel like a loser or a disappointment. You should especially hold off on saying anything demeaning to him in public or in front of your friends. If you're disappointed in how he acted, then you should have a productive discussion about it, instead of calling him names.


Think about it: you wouldn't like him to demean you either, would you?

, Sure, you and your man can both benefit each other and make each other better people in the long run. But that doesn't mean you shouldn't be true to who each of you are and try to turn into completely different people. If you really love your man, then you have to accept him for who he is and stop trying to make him into someone else. You can certainly help him improve a few qualities, but on the whole, you should love him for who he is, not who you hope he will be.


If you're trying to change him, he'll catch on to it fast, and will feel hurt, and like he's not good enough for you.
 Remember that he's a man, not a mind reader. If you really want to love a man, then you have to give him something to work with. While you don't have to tell him about every little thing that made you upset, you should be able to tell him if something's on your mind. Women often get frustrated because men can't somehow divine what they're thinking at all times, and this can lead to nasty and pointless arguments. Spare him the hard work and tell him something if you feel strongly about it.


Okay, so if you're clearly upset and he's completely oblivious, then you can get a little angry, but don't expect him to know every little thing on your mind -- you don't know every little thing he's thinking, do you?

, This is another important aspect of showing a man that you love him. If you do, then you'll be able to suck up your pride and to tell him when you've made a mistake. Don't just hope that he forgets about it and still thinks you're perfect. No one is perfect when it comes to relationships, and it's best for you to tell him when you're wrong and to avoid doing it again, if you can. He'll appreciate your honestly, and will feel like you respect him more for it.


Nobody said it was easy to say you're sorry, but the more you get in the habit of doing it, the easier it'll be.
 If you really want to love a man, then you have to make him feel good about himself. You can certainly say, "You're so hot" or "I love it when you…" but you can also dig deeper and let him know what you really like about him, or just say something unique that makes him see that you care. Don't ever take your love for granted and assume that your man knows exactly how you feel about him. He should always know that you love and appreciate him for who he is. Here are some great compliments you can give him:


"You're so good at making me feel better when I've had a bad day."
"It's amazing that you're so dedicated to running when you're so busy with work. I wish I could get motivated like that!"
"You know that you can make almost anyone on the planet laugh, don't you?"

, Let him know that you're grateful and thankful for your awesome relationship. Don't just assume that he knows you're grateful for it because you've stuck around so long. Take the time to let him know how much you love being with him, and for thanking him for whatever he does for you. (Of course, he should also show his gratitude towards you.) This will make him see that you really do love him and appreciate the time you spend together. Here are some things you can say:


"I just feel so lucky to have found someone as special as you. I can't imagine how hard it is for all of my single girlfriends to try to find someone half as amazing as you are…"
"I can't believe I found you. We're both so lucky to have each other, aren't we?"
"No matter how bad my day at work is, I'm always comforted by the fact that I have you in my life. At the end of the day, I'm just thankful to have someone like you by my side."

, Sometimes, your man may need you to pump him up a bit. He may be upset about a professional setback or a conflict with his friends and family. You'll need to step in to be his cheerleader, and to make him feel good about himself, like he can accomplish whatever he wants to accomplish, or like the setback he had can easily be overcome. He may not ask you to make him feel better, but you'll have to be able to recognize when he really needs your support.


Say something like, "I know you may be disappointed because of….anyone would be. But I know you can get through it."
Or, if he's unsure about achieving a future goal, you can say something like, "Don't ever doubt yourself. I know you'll be amazing at anything you put your mind to doing."

, Some women think that men just really want women who can take care of them, and that's true, to an extent. However, you shouldn't spend all of your time taking care of him, cleaning up after him, cooking for him, or doing the kind of stuff his mother might have done for him, or he may stop seeing you in a romantic light. Sure, every man needs to be mothered a bit, especially when he's sick, but that doesn't mean that you should be his primary caretaker.


You want your relationship to be fun, supportive, and sexy. If you mother him too much, you'll forget that you're also his lover.
 Though sex shouldn't be a deal-breaker, yeah, sex is an important part of many relationships. You should make time for some fun in the bedroom -- when you're in the mood, of course. It's easy to put off sex because you're tired, have too much work to do, or just don't feel like putting in the effort. But making time for sex at least once or twice a week will make both of you feel more intimate with each other, and it will also make you feel happier! Don't just do it for him -- do it for yourself, too, and for the sake of your relationship.


A lot of couples who have been together for a while get into the same boring lovemaking routine. Try mixing it up and having sex at a new time or a new place, whenever you feel like it.
 One great way to love a man is to be happy and secure with who you are. This will make him appreciate you more and feel like your relationship is good for both of you, not like he has to spend all of his time building you up. Work on loving yourself, your body, what you do, and who you surround yourself with, and all of your relationships will benefit from this. Nobody's perfect, and it's important to be aware of your flaws so you can address them, but the sooner you can accept who you are, the better you and everyone in your orbit will feel.


Show him that you don't need him to feel good about yourself. You should be happy pursuing your own hobbies, hanging out with your girlfriends, and having a great time without him. You can't bank all of your happiness on your relationship, can you?

, Give your man an intimate touch from time to time. Whether you're putting your hand on his arm, draping yourself across his lap, kissing him on the cheek, or playing with his hair, it's important to touch your man every single day to develop your bond. Even if you've come home from work feeling tired, just a little bit of touch will make you two feel more connected, even if you're too tired to have a real conversation. Try a little bit of cuddling in the morning, holding hands, or just playfully touching each other as much as you can. This will definitely show that you love your man.


Sure, a lot of guys aren't into PDA or don't love cuddling, but touching him will be better for both of you!

, If you really want to love your man, then you have to always keep up the romantic chase in your relationship. Don't get all cozy and settled in and think that you don't have to work for anything anymore. Get dressed up on your date nights. Write him little romantic notes before you leave for work. Send him cute text messages. Buy him a small gift just because you're thinking of him. Have exciting sex and get pleasure just from sharing a simple kiss with him. Remember that you should take nothing for granted in this world, and if you really want to love your man, then you always have to work for it -- and to make him work for it, too!


Though you don't have to play too hard to get if you're really happy together, never get complacent in your relationship. Always keep things exciting, new, and special.
Keep your relationship fresh by doing new things together, from traveling to new locations to trying new hobbies. It's important to keep things feeling new if you want to really love your man!

