 Your first step in researching the issue is to form a proper understanding of the original diagnosis or opinion. Without understanding the original opinion, you won’t be equipped to search out a second opinion.


Let the person know that you either don’t understand or you feel they did not adequately explain their position.
Ask the person who gave the original opinion to explain it in detail. Say something like “can you explain your opinion in more detail?”
You should also ask them to explain the long-term consequences of the problem. Ask: “Please tell me what this means in the big picture?”;
, After you’ve listened to the original opinion, you should begin the process of educating yourself extensively about the problem. Educating yourself is important, as since you are concerned about the original diagnosis, you should do everything you can in your power to understand it.


Search the internet for relevant articles on the problem. If your mechanic has told you that your transmission is totally blown, look up information about the transmission in your car model and year it was made. If your doctor has given you a diagnosis that seems inappropriate, read about whatever disease or disorder you’ve been diagnosed with.
Consult books, magazines, or other print media., Once you’ve educated yourself about the problem, you should take all of the information you have and come to an informed opinion about the diagnosis. Forming an opinion on the diagnosis is important in looking for a second opinion, as you’ll need information and an opinion when locating and communicating with another specialist.


Weigh the opinion against all of the information you’ve found on the internet and in print.
Use the information you gather to better understand the opinion of the specialist or professional.
Begin to formulate questions to ask the second professional.
 One great way to locate a professional to get a second opinion from is to ask other professionals in the same or a related industry. Professionals are ultimately the best people to ask because they’re familiar with the field or industry and they might know someone they trust to offer you a second opinion.


Depending on your specific problem, you may want to ask the person who provided the original opinion for a referral. For example, if a general practitioner diagnosed you with some sort of medical problem, you should ask them for a referral to a specialist if they have not already given you one.
For some problems, like mechanical issues on a car, you may want to contact a professional you’re already familiar with in related industry for a referral to a second specialist. For example, if a mechanic says that your car needs a new transmission, you may want to ask the dealership where you bought the car for a referral to a second mechanic (if they are unaffiliated)., You can also search the internet for specialists in your area that may be able to provide you with a second opinion. Ultimately, the internet is a great resource because it will help you find a wide variety of specialists.


Search for the type of specialist you need.
Pay attention to reviews on websites like Yelp.com.
Call several of the specialists to see which one you are most comfortable with.
 A great way to find a specialist for a second opinion is to ask your friends or associates. The referral of a friend or associate will be useful because that person will likely have personal knowledge of the second specialist’s abilities.


Say “I received an opinion from Dr. X about my melanoma, but I think I need a second opinion. Can you recommend someone?”
When your friend or associate recommends someone, ask them for more information. Say “Oh, thank you for the recommendation. Could you tell me what sort of positive experience you had with Dr. Y?”, Depending on the particular issue and the integrity of the person who gave the original opinion, you may want either a blind or informed second opinion.


A blind second opinion is one in which the second professional has no idea about the original opinion. Blind second opinions are worthwhile with things like car repairs, computer repairs, or estimates on mechanical things or construction work.
An informed second opinion is one in which the second professional knows about the original opinion. You’ll likely want an informed second opinion if you have a medical diagnosis you are worried about. An informed second opinion will allow the second doctor to work with all of the data that the original physician gathered.
When seeking a second medical opinion, you should seriously consider informing the original physician. This’ll might be useful because the second physician may need to contact the original one for your medical records. Very often, the original physician won't mind that you are seeking the opinion of another., The first thing you should do when communicating with a professional about a second opinion is to explain the original opinion. By explaining the original diagnosis, you’ll give the second professional an idea about what they need to do to confirm or refute the diagnosis.


Provide any documentation about the opinion to the second professional. For instance, if you have an estimate for work from another mechanic, provide that to the second professional. However, consider withholding the estimated cost that they want to charge you.
Verbally explain the original opinion or diagnosis. For instance, if a physician diagnosed you with melanoma, tell the second physician, “Dr. X told me that I have an advanced case of melanoma that will require immediate surgery.”, After you’ve explained that you’ve already received an opinion or diagnosis about the problem, you should ask for a second opinion.


Say something like “while I respect the professionalism of the person who gave me their opinion already, I think it is worth my time to get your opinion.
Explain your reason for requesting a second opinion. Say something like “the original diagnosis was so extreme that I think the professional may have overlooked something.”
Request that the professional does extra tests or diagnostics.
Based on your research on the topic, prepare a list of questions to ask about the condition, diagnosis, or problem.