 Make sure you have the minimum amount of money required to start and maintain an account. E*Trade, for example, requires just $500 to open an account. Federal regulations require that you have at least half of the cost of the stock you’re purchasing in your account, and that your equity percentage is no less than a quarter of your total investments.
 Remember that the market changes quickly, and the quote you’re looking at may not be up-to-the-minute. Find a service which allows you to look at real-time prices so that you can get the best deal possible.
 Stock tables are a great way to evaluate stocks, but they can be difficult to read. You will have to learn how to interpret them and which numbers are the most important, so you can set your priorities and make the best decisions. , The conventional wisdom is to buy when stocks are at a low price and sell them at a high price later. This is great in theory, but it's difficult to put into practice. There’s no way to know how a stock will move in the future. Instead, look for stocks with great momentum. The idea, of course, is to try to buy at the beginning of an upswing and sell before a big decline. Easier said than done.
 If you have unreasonable expectations, you will have a very hard time buying and selling your stocks. Ask only what is reasonable to ask and don’t expect anything well above or below market value.
 Consider the entire company. Look at profits and performance. A stock might seem expensive, but if the company continues to make bigger and bigger profits, the stock might actually be cheap. , Blue chips are stocks from companies that have an excellent performance record, and their stocks are known to perform well. These are good stocks to start with if you’re just learning. Common examples include IBM, Johnson and Johnson, and Procter and Gamble.
 You may have seen movies showing stock traders rising to lavish riches with a little determination and smarts. The problem is that investing also requires a certain amount of luck. Don’t get caught in the romanticism of fiction by believing the first start-up company you invest in will be the next Microsoft. Make good decisions and take safe options if you want to succeed in the long run.
 There are lots of people in everyday life and on the Internet who would love to sell you bad stocks. Use your judgement: if something sounds too good to be true, it probably is. Make safe bets, rather than getting caught in some get-rich-quick scheme.

