 Visit your dermatologist and discuss your complexion problems. Based on your specific issues, your dermatologist will be able to prescribe different medications to help even your skin.Some medications may be taken as a pill and help control hormonal imbalances which can lead to poor skin complexion.
Medicated creams are available through your dermatologist to apply to your skin. These can deal with problems such as age or sun spots and acne or acne scarring.
Be sure to ask your doctor about possible side-effects from medication for your skin.
 Facials, from either a local spa or your dermatologist, greatly improve skin clarity and complexion over time. See what types of facials are offered in your area.


Facials often differ depending on your specific skin problems. Look for facials that target acne, sun damage, skin disorders, or aging depending on your needs.
Facials can be expensive, but it is better to pay a bit more for an esthetician you trust than to try to be cheap. They aren’t particularly dangerous, but for the best results it is worth a higher price.
 These help fight age spots and wrinkles, but can only be performed by a dermatologist. Keep in mind that this might be a bit expensive and may not be covered by insurance.


A laser treatment works by sending short, strong pulses of light to remove layers of skin. Because of this, it is sometimes also called a laser peel.
Avoid getting a laser treatment if you have acne, as this could worsen the condition.
Recovery from a laser treatment takes up to two weeks. This is the time in which the skin will regrow and all discoloration or scabbing has disappeared., This is a combination of a peel and exfoliant that helps to remove dead skin and discoloration. These are available from your dermatologist and some spas.


Microdermabrasion is essentially “sanding” away skin with a peel and a special brush or tool. Therefore, it works best for dark spots and dull skin.
Dermabrasion, similar to microdermabrasion, works primarily to remove scarring. It is only safe for people with fair skin however, as it can worsen scarring in dark skin. Only consider dermabrasion as an option if you struggle with scarring from a skin disease, significant acne, or accidents.