 You can purchase many of these rubs are sold pre-mixed right out the store, allowing you to mix new flavors into your meats. However, you can also make your own easily, starting with salt and pepper before adding 1/8 teaspoon of each ingredient from the following lists:


Dried thyme, oregano, rosemary, and garlic powder
Onion powder, chili powder, paprika, and garlic powder
Chili powder, cayenne, Mexican oregano, paprika, garlic powder/saltBrown sugar, paprika, chili pepper, garlic, and ground coffee., You'll need to get this started the night before, but all it requires is mixing the steaks with the following ingredients in a freezer bag and refrigerating overnight (at the very most). The acidic ingredients in each marinade will break down some of the meat proteins for a more tender cut.


1/3 cups of soy sauce, lemon juice, olive oil, Worcestershire sauce. Then add 1–2 tablespoons (14.8–29.6 ml) garlic powder, dried basil, parsley, rosemary, and crushed black pepper.1/3 cup red wine vinegar, 1 cup vegetable oil, 1/2 cup soy sauce, 3 tablespoons (44.4 ml) Worcestershire, 2 tablespoons Dijon mustard. Then add 2-3 cloves minced garlic and 1 tablespoon (14.8 ml) ground black pepper.
 Rich golden butter will seep into the meat to help keep it juicy, tender, and flavorful. For an even better finish, try to make a simple compound butter by mixing 5 tablespoons (73.9 ml) of room-temperature butter with one of the following ingredients. Then, before serving, re-chill the butter in the fridge so that it is hard.


1 teaspoon fresh thyme, sage, rosemary, basil, chopped.
2-3 cloves of minced garlic or 1 teaspoon garlic powder.
1 teaspoon chili powder, cayenne pepper, cilantro, and/or lime juice

, The right topping can take your steak to the next level, adding a bit of crunch, a savory compliment, or a little bit of sharp, pungent flavor to balance the buttery delicious meat. Try out:


Onions
Peppers
Mushroom
Crispy fried onions
Bleu cheese
Fresh parsley
Dollop of sour cream

A quick pan sauce.