 Read biographies, watch documentaries, and study the works of your role model. Read interviews and essays about her as well. Study her greatest challenges and her greatest triumphs. Practice telling people what it is you admire about her—what she did, or is doing, to make her your role model.


Embrace the flaws and errors of your role model. All great women have said and done some unworthy things.
Think about those of her choices you disagree with and how you can avoid them in your own life. For instance, if she was a brilliant composer but gave up her career to make television commercials, you can make a pact with yourself to never sell out.
 Get to know the woman you admire better. If she makes public appearances, attend her lectures or performances. Set up a meeting if she is within your social reach.


Write her and ask for an interview. Tell her exactly why you are her fan, and make a specific request. For instance, you might write, "I am inspired by the way you shut down corporate opposition to the new traffic lights. My aunt is deaf/blind and she benefits every day from the tactile vibration you fought so hard for. Could I interview you for my school newspaper some day next week?"

, Is your heroine brave? Is she kind? Is she an exceptionally diligent worker? Is she an original thinker? Write down the character traits you perceive as being central to her character. Describe the ways her life shaped these traits, and the way these traits shaped her work.


Keep in mind that it is okay to be different from your role model. You do not have to share all of the same traits as her.
 Do you feel like you could be braver? Would you like to advance the cause your role model works on? List traits you could imagine emulating. Make a separate list of works you would like to do that cause you to admire this person. See if you can use these achievements to help you accomplish your own goals. Your path to success should be something that is right for you. Then, write a plan for following through.


For instance, you might write, "my aunt Maria is my role model because she is observant, funny, smart, and artistic. I can be more like her if I listen to others, pay more attention to my surroundings, and get up the nerve to make jokes in public."
If your role model is an accomplished heroine, you might write: "I would like to be more like Gertrude Stein, who wrote many artistically challenging books, volunteered with anti-fascist efforts in Europe, and had the courage to live openly with her female partner. To be more like her, I will continue to work on developing my own artistic style, I will volunteer with anti-fascist groups in my home town, and I will never pretend to be anyone I'm not."

