 If you are trying to recover from an awkward silence, you will want to kill the silence, not just wound it so it is temporarily out of order. If you ask yes or no questions, there's no guarantee that the conversation won't just stop in its tracks again as soon as the person answers it.For example, rather than saying "do you like dogs?" you might ask "do you like dogs or cats better and why one over the other?"

, People have opinions, sometimes that are quite strong. The nice thing about opinions is that they come to mind easily because they are well-formed and well-known to the speaker. This makes for very fluid and easy conversation.Unless you know the person well, it may be best to avoid asking for opinions about controversial or personal topics, e.g., politics and religion.
 This could be mutual interest in music, fiction, history, work, exercise, really whatever comes to mind that you think you two might possibly share some overlap on.Ask open-ended questions about your mutual interests. For example, if you find out you both like the same kind of music, you might ask her to tell you about a concert she has recently been to.
 Look around and comment on the things that you both see about you. This could be the construction of a nearby building, or something about the traffic, or a nearby festival, farmer's market, really whatever is around you that you can both see.Try to make sure that you ask open-ended questions in this context though. For example, rather than saying "hey do you see that farmer's market over there?" you might ask "what's the most tasty thing you've ever gotten from a farmer's market?"

, Most people have some kind of thing they do for fun outside of work or school. Not only is asking about her hobbies a great way to break the awkward silence, but it can be a great way to get to know someone you aren't that familiar with, better, too.If she states that she doesn't have any hobbies, you might follow up with asking about hobbies that she has done in the past or whether she is hoping to try anything in the future.
 If you know some things that the person you are in an awkward silence with cares about, ask her about that. For example, if she has kids or a cat, you could ask her how they are doing.People like to talk about what is important to them and what is familiar and easily comes to mind, so use that to break the awkward silence.

