 Though sometimes a slight sheen is possible, yet in most cases authentic piece will bear a matte appearance. In case it has a sheen check how much it is. Slight in amount is fine but if it a whole lot of it, you didn’t pick the right fabric!;
, This is one of the best ones. In some markets, it has been made essential. In fact, an authentic manufacturer will surely mention it and if it isn’t mentioning then it isn't authentic. It is that simple. So, how much should it be? The best grade ones are available for 14-15.5 microns. Don’t buy anything above 19 microns for better quality. The lower is the micron count the lighter and softer will be the product.
 A pure cashmere pashmina shawl will always be woven on a handloom. As a result, it will have an irregular weave. Hold the shawl against light and the irregularities will easily show.
 This is a tough one, as you’d not like to spoil your shawl but you can always pick one thread out of the fringes, it won’t harm the material nor will ruin the design and at the same time you’ll be able to conduct the purity test. Now you’ll simply have to place the fabric piece on some ceramic or steel pot without covering it with lid, you can also use a microwave safe plate for the purpose. Once you have placed the fabric piece on the plate, simply light a match and let it burn. You’ll have to see it burn and smell the odor as well as check the ashes with your finger tips. If you get a burnt-hair kind of odor and the ash turns out to be a powdery material, it is more likely to be pure. But in case it smells the way burnt leaves would do and there are bigger flames consuming it up, oops you’ve been cheated, it is viscose. Again, if it gives a vinegary odor or smell like burning plastic, with the ashes forming small lump, it too is the wrong stuff. It can be acrylic or polyester.
 Dimensions are really important. The higher are the dimensions the heftier will be the price. If anybody tries to sell bigger dimensions at cheaper price, you are surely being cheated. For shawls, standard dimension of thirty-six by eighty inches is followed. Wondering what is ply? Well, it is the strand of the fabric woven together. When multiple strands are used, you need to check the ply. 2-ply uses 2 strands, 3-ply uses 3 strands and so on. It is something that makes the clothing thicker. For shawls, stoles, and scarves they always keep it lower.
 This is the easiest possible test to check the authenticity of the clothing. You’ll simply have to rub the stuff and you’ll know if it is pure or not. But you need to know the logic behind it to know how it works. Acrylic or polyester fabrics accumulate static electricity within them. So, when you rub them, they give out spark. You can even see it in the dark and it is quite audible. And clothing with plastic material used in the making will use up the same static electricity in attracting hair or dust or some kind of tiny particle. When you’ll rub your garment it will show what it is. If it is acrylic or polyester, you’ll hear the spark and if it is plastic, it will attract tiny objects.
 This is again an easiest possible thing to do. All you’ll have to do is see if there is some pilling taking place with the product. If a product is offering 100% fabric you’re going to find a lot of pilling on it after you bring it to use, this is a natural characteristic of the fabric but if there is no pilling at all, you've bought a fake product.
 Only a fake material will come with some kind of label or tag glued on it because it is not possible otherwise. You can never stick a thing on real cashmere. Glue won’t stand on it for long.

