 Before you begin the steps to apply for a restraining order, make sure you have a safe place where you will not be hurt or threatened by the person you're trying to restrain.


If you are a victim of domestic violence, Maryland has several hotlines available that you can call. The state-specific hotline, provided by the Maryland Network Against Domestic Violence, is 1-800-MD-HELPS.;
, In Maryland, protective orders are available generally for domestic violence situations, while peace orders cover anyone to whom you're not related.If you're filing the petition for yourself, you want a protective order if you need a restraining order against your current or former spouse, are related to the person by blood, marriage, or adoption, or had a romantic relationship with the person within the past year.You also qualify for a protective order if you have a child in common with the person you want restrained.Similar requirements for protective orders apply if you are filing on behalf of a minor child, although the relationships are to the child rather than to you.If you have none of those relationships with the person you want restrained, or haven't within the past year, you may qualify for a peace order. The essential difference between a peace order and a protective order is that a protective order may do other things in addition to keeping the person away from you, such as awarding you temporary possession of a shared home or temporary custody of a child., You will need sufficient documentation that the person you want to restrain is harming or threatening you.Generally, to get a restraining order in Maryland you must prove that the person committed an act that caused you bodily harm or placed you in fear of imminent bodily harm.This includes assault of any degree, false imprisonment, or any sexual offense. If you have police reports of any such acts, these can be used to prove your need for a restraining order.If you're requesting a peace order, you also can use evidence of criminal harassment, criminal trespassing, or malicious destruction of property.If the person has not been charged with one of those crimes, you may need to review Maryland law to determine the legal definition of those acts.
If the person has physically harmed you, take photos of any visible bruises or injuries. These may fade with time, and you can use the photos for evidence later.If anyone saw the acts of abuse or aggression, talk to them and see if they would be willing to appear as a witness and testify on your behalf., The court where you'll file your petition for a restraining order depends on the type of restraining order you seek.


If you're seeking a protection order, you can file your petition with either a circuit or District Court clerk.If you're seeking a peace order, you must file your petition with the District Court clerk nearest you.A map to locate the nearest District Court is available at http://www.mdcourts.gov/district/directories/courtmap.html. If you plan to file a petition for a protective order in circuit court, you can find the court nearest you at http://www.courts.state.md.us/circuit/.
 The Maryland courts provide access to fill-in-the-blank forms you can use to apply for a restraining order.


All forms for either protective orders or peace orders are available at http://www.mdcourts.gov/courtforms.
Paper copies of these forms can be picked up at any circuit or District Court clerk's office, or from a District Court commissioner. Circuit courts only have petitions for protective orders available., Make sure you've filled out all portions of the petition truthfully, accurately, and completely.


Make sure you include every instance of abuse or aggressive or threatening behavior. You also should include any previous or pending court actions between you and the other person, as well as criminal charges, if any, that have been filed against him or her.Keep in mind the person you want restrained will receive a copy of your petition. Although the form requires your address, you don't have to disclose your home address if you are concerned about the other person knowing it. You can provide an alternate address (such as a friend or family member's address) or instruct the clerk to keep it confidential, and it will not be revealed to the other party., There is no charge to file a petition for a restraining order in Maryland.


Normally you must file your petition during regular business hours. However, if you need to file a petition and courts are closed, such as on weekends, you may get an interim order from a District Court Commissioner. The interim order will remain in effect only until a judge can review your petition and grant a temporary order.You can find the nearest District Court Commissioner station by using the map at http://www.courts.state.md.us/district/directories/commissionermap.html.
When you take your petition to file, be ready to appear before a judge. You don't have to dress up, but you should try to wear clean, conservative attire.Bring with you all the documents, photos, or other evidence you collected to support your petition, as you will need to show them to the judge., Provided courts are in session, you will be called to appear before a judge as soon as possible after you file your petition.


The judge will ask you questions under oath, which you should answer completely and truthfully.Address the judge as "your honor," and only speak when the judge asks you a question. Don't interrupt the judge when he or she is talking.
Keep in mind that since you're the one asking the judge to do something, you carry the burden of proof. You generally must show that there are reasonable grounds for the judge to issue a restraining order.If you received an interim order because courts were closed when you filed your petition, the commissioner's decision is not binding on the judge who reviews your petition for a temporary order – you still must show the same evidence to the judge that you showed to the commissioner., If the judge finds reasonable grounds, your temporary order will be granted.


Reasonable grounds means the judge believes the person has committed the acts you alleged in your petition, and that those acts constitute a legally sufficient reason to have the person restrained.If you're applying for a peace order, the judge also must find reasonable grounds to believe that the person will commit similar acts against you again in the future., The temporary order does not go into effect until it is served on the person you want to have restrained.


If the judge issues a temporary order, he or she will hand it over to law enforcement, who will serve the person you've requested be restrained.Keep in mind that the order will not go into effect until service is completed, so you want to make sure you've provided a good address where the person can be found and served with the papers.
Temporary orders typically only last for seven days, although a judge can extend them if necessary., Organize your documents and outline what you plan to say to the judge at your hearing.


Typically your hearing will be scheduled within seven days of the date the temporary order was delivered to the person you want restrained – so you may not have a lot of time to get ready for the hearing.Get all the documents you showed to the judge when you got your temporary order, together with any other you've found since then that relate to your case.If you have witnesses you want to talk, try to meet with them before your hearing is scheduled so you can go over the questions you plan to ask as well as think about questions they may be asked on cross-examination., Although you don't need an attorney to get a final order, you may feel more comfortable at your final hearing if you have a legal representative.If you are a victim of domestic violence, you may be able to find free legal assistance through a number of different government and nonprofit agencies. If you're interested, ask the court clerk when you file your petition. You also can call the House of Ruth at 1-888-880-7884., If you don't appear for your hearing, the judge will dismiss your petition.


If the person you're trying to restrain doesn't appear at the hearing, the judge may grant your petition provided you are able to demonstrate good cause for doing so.It is also possible (although probably unlikely) for the person to consent to the restraining order after receiving your temporary order. If he or she consents, the final order will be issued and there won't be a hearing.Keep in mind that the person you want to restrain may be present at the hearing. You will have the protection of the bailiff and other court officers, but you may want to bring along a friend for moral support or if it would make you feel safer.
 Since you filed the petition, you will have the opportunity to tell your story to the judge first.


The judge who hears your case may not be the same as the judge that issued your temporary order, so make sure you include any details that were in your petition.Keep in mind that this is a formal court hearing and the same rules of evidence apply as would in any other civil court case. If you've brought documents as exhibits, make sure you have enough copies for the judge and the other party to review as well.Speak slowly and clearly, and try to stick to the facts. Don't speak to or argue with the person you want restrained, and keep your eyes on the judge. The other person may make faces or attempt to antagonize or distract you if you look in his or her direction.
Keep in mind that the person you want restrained will have the opportunity to cross-examine you as well. He or she may ask you questions that are difficult or make you uncomfortable, but you must trust the judge to maintain order in the courtroom and keep you from harm., After you've presented your case, the person you want restrained will have the opportunity to respond.


Avoid interrupting, even if he or she says something that you know to be a lie. You will have an opportunity to cross-examine the person and any witnesses he or she calls to the stand.
Keep in mind that if the person you want restrained shows up to the hearing, he or she is there to contest your request and try to disprove your case – and has the right to do so.If you have sufficient evidence, the judge probably will rule in your favor.
 Once both sides have presented their cases, the judge will decide whether your temporary order should be made more permanent.


In most cases, your final protective order will be in effect for one year. You can get it extended for another six months if necessary by asking the judge to renew it when the year is over. You must prove that you remain in fear of imminent bodily harm.A final protective order can be granted for as long as two years if you previously had a final protective order against the same person and he or she has committed another act of abuse against you within one year of the expiration of the previous order.Peace orders last up to six months and can be extended for an additional six months if good cause is shown at a hearing for which the other party has received legal notice.After you've received your final order, make copies for security or other officials at your school, place of work, or other places from which the person has been restrained. If the person violates the restraining order, call police immediately.