 You should have at least some of the following:


A large 3 ring binder to organize your work and notes in. If there is a rule that you have to have a small binder for each class, just ignore this.






6 pocket folders. Label one side "Homework" and label the other "Corrected".






Lots of pencils and pens.






Scissors, rulers, glue sticks, glue bottle, markers, crayons etc.






At least 3 spiral and composition notebooks for different classes.






Notebook paper. Some schools require College Ruled or Wide Ruled, check with your school first.





;
, You don't want to wear the same thing every day, right? You don't have to have the coolest American Eagle clothing but at least have some of these. If your parents are very strict, just say, "Hey Mom, I saw this really cool tank-top on the American Eagle website" and maybe go to the mall and check it out. You should have a variety of tees, tank-tops, jeans, hoodies, sweaters etc. Accessories look good too. Cheap places to get clothing are Forever 21, Target and Boscov's.
 Brush your teeth at least twice a day. Shower everyday, wash your hair at least once a week. Use shampoo on the top part of your hair, and use conditioner for the bottom. Floss everyday. You can wear perfume and body spray because no one will like a girl that smells stinky after gym right?

, Use mascara, light skin color eye shadow, concealer, and lip gloss. Don't use any more than this. If you use too much, it distracts from your natural beauty. You're young!

, You can get top brands like UGGS, but they are very expensive. But some other brands have their own "uggs". Converse shoes are in fashion right now. If you can't offer Allstar, you can get some cheap airwalk. Flipflops and sandals are musts. Flats are also okay.
 If you slunk in the classroom, others will be like, "oh my god, she is so not confident." Walk in like you are walking on the red carpet. They'll know that you aren't scared even if you are on the inside. Also, smile. Really smile. Your smile will always look great.
 Aim for all A's or B's. Social networking sites such as Facebook can be disruptive, so just check your page once every week.
