 Get some excitement in your life. Don't be a couch potato. Exercise for at least 20 minutes a day. Go for a jog once in a while, do some extra sit-ups, or just a walk.;
, With friends, you'll feel more important and like you always have someone to rely on. Make sure these are true friends who like you for you -- not two-faced ones who are shallower than a kiddy pool. Go out more often instead of being a shut-in.
 Help your community, volunteer to help work with a charity or two, and always lend a helping hand to someone in need.
 Not only are you helping save a poor animal's life, but you also can build a long-term friendship with your pet. Instead of buying one from a pet store or breeder, go to your local pound and adopt one. If nobody adopts an animal, it will be put to sleep.
 Not only will you get paid, but you'll be helping make people's lives easier. If you've never had a job before, it is best to not jump-start into something big that takes up all of your time.
 Do you eat 5 fruits and vegetables a day? Do you drink 64 oz. of water a day? Or do you stuff yourself with chips and soda? If you are overweight, consider going on a diet to get in shape.
 Some people find more fulfillment in their life when they have a romantic partner to share it with. You're still a teenager, so don't fall head-over-heels in love and make plans to get married. Take it at an easy pace that you feel comfortable. Don't rush into things. And remember, it's okay to date more than one person at a time as long as you have only one steady boyfriend or girlfriend at one time.
 Haven't you ever wondered what you would look like with bangs? What about if you cut your hair short? Hair is a great way to express yourself and if you refresh your hairstyle, you could refresh your self-image, too. You could also get some new clothes, if you can afford it. Donate your old ones to charity instead of throwing them out and buy some new ones. Try looking through shops at the mall. Try out some new clothes without changing drastically in one day.
 Okay, so you're filling out a survey. It has a space that reads, "What are your hobbies?" And you're sitting there staring at the question as if it was a question on your math test that your teacher forgot to teach you, and you can't figure it out on your own because you forgot to study. You don't have to be like that anymore! Find something fun by trying out some new activities -- just nothing dangerous. You'd be surprised how many fun things there are out there that you haven't tried yet! Spend all of your time on the computer? Try cooking or sewing. They may sound boring, but they can be a heck of a lot of fun if you just give them a chance instead of immediately sticking your nose up toward them.
 Why can't life be fun? Oh, that's right, it can! Be optimistic. Talk to someone you trust when you have a problem and when you get sad, smile anyway--it could be way worse. Be grateful for what you have and never give up.

