 Therefore, in the initial stages of online dating keep your phone number and all your personal information to yourself. Once you get to know your date you can determine how much information you would like to provide. Think of it this way; you wouldn't put your phone number in the local paper or walk around in a t-shirt with it written on - so don't put it on your profile page! Remember, if someone discovers your real first and last name they can potentially track you down on social websites.;
, You can create an automatically generated phone number from Skype. Using an anonymous phone service such as Paginglist.com means you never need to give out your number again, it works on any phone, you don't need to be in front of a computer to make calls, it's free to create a tag, costs nothing to receive a call and only costs roughly the same as regular prepay to make a call, calls made never appear on your bill - and best of all you at all times have absolute control as to who can and who can't call you! So if someone turns out to be a person you'd rather not stay in touch with - you just delete them from your friends list and they can't call you again - ever!

, Sometimes you just know when something is not right! It is always important to use common sense, as your instinct is a powerful tool when dating and great way to measure when to build a relationship or turn and run. As you begin to read personal profiles, respond to emails or speak on the phone your instincts will help tell you if something is right or not. If you are in any doubt, be careful, back off, or proceed carefully!

, Should you decide to move your date from the anonymous email provided by the majority of online dating services i.e. hotchocolate@oceanlovers.co.uk to providing an email address that isn't your regular one. Sign up for a free Gmail, Hotmail, or Yahoo account that you use just for online dating. Don't put your full name in the "from" field, only your first name or your "tag". This will protect you from anyone trying to search your normal email address to find out more information about you on social websites.
 As you chat on the phone or on email you may be able to start to pick out characteristics of the other person. Do they seem to be short tempered? Are they controlling? Do they avoid some of your questions? Ask how long ago was their last relationship and how long did it last? If you ask a range of questions can tell you if they are Mr or Mrs Right or if it's time to move on. But try not to be too personal too soon as you don't want to scare them off! Remember our team recommends that you talk on your phone without giving out your number by using a "paging tag" from paginglist.com - as you stay in absolute control as to who can and importantly who cannot call you.
 If your contact does not have a photo on their profile request a recent one. It's important for you to get a good look at the person you may eventually meet. Plus your instincts from your communications and their photos may provide you with valuable insight into the person. If a person lies about their photo or profile then that is a red flag to no longer pursue the relationship.
 Free online dating services provide a greater opportunity for potentially dangerous individuals. They don't ever have to provide a credit card or other information that identifies them. There is definitely truth to the saying, "you get what you pay for". Use safe dating websites recommendations on facebook or twitter. Alternatively search online for recommended sites from dating magazines.
 Never accept an offer to be picked up from your house on the first date. Make sure you tell someone ie a friend, where you are going. Your first meeting will tell you a great deal about the other person. Be thinking about what questions to ask your date en route!

,