 There are several types of foot soaks that can help keep your feet soft. Unless otherwise noted, mix the ingredients into 1-1.3 gallons (4-5 litres) of warn water in a tub or bucket (large enough for both of your feet to be covered with water). Soak your feet in the mixture for 10-15 minutes at a time. Follow-up the soak by removing dead skin using a pumice stone or foot file, then apply foot moisturizer.


Baking soda - use 3 tablespoons of baking soda, plus 2-3 drops of lavender oil (optional).Lemon juice - use lemon juice instead of water. The acid in lemon juice helps remove dead skin.Liquid soap - use 2-3 pumps/drops of mild liquid soap, plus 2-3 drops of your favourite essential oil.Epsom salts - use ½ cup of epsom salt.Vinegar - use ¼ cup of white vinegar., Remove one foot from the foot soak and apply approximately 1 tablespoon of the a foot scrub mixture to the foot. Use your hand or a cloth to scrub the mixture all over your foot, then rinse the mixture off in the water. Repeat the same process with your second foot.


Wild Orange and Honey Foot Scrub - Combine 1 cup of epsom salts to 1 cup of sugar in a bowl. Slowly stir in 1 cup of liquid coconut oil until the mixture is smooth (you may not need to use a full cup of coconut oil). Add 2 tablespoons of honey and 8-10 drops of wild orange essential oil to the mixture. Stir. Store the mixture in a glass jar for future use.Salt Scrub - Add the following items together - ¾ cup of fine sea salt, ¼ cup of coarse sea salt, ¼ of olive oil, ¼ cup of coconut oil. You can also add your favourite essential oil and/or vitamin E oil to the mixture if you want. The essential oil adds a nice scent to the scrub, while the vitamin E oil adds extra moisturizing power. Store the mixture in a glass jar for future use.Vanilla Chai Sugar Scrub - Mix the contents of 5 chai tea bags, plus ½ cup of brown sugar, plus ½ cup white sugar, and ½ teaspoon of ground cinnamon in a bowl. Once mixed, add 6 tablespoons of coconut oil (at room temperature), plus 1 teaspoon of honey, and 2 teaspoons of vanilla extra to the dry mixture and stir. You may need to use a fork to mash the coconut oil into the mixture until it’s broken up. Store the mixture in a class jar for future use., Foot cream should be used after you’ve soaked and scrubbed your feet, and removed any dead or excess skin. Apply the foot cream all over your feet, including on the tops and on your ankles. To prevent yourself from slipping on tile or hardwood floors, wear socks immediately after you apply the cream.


Olive Oil and Lemon - Add a spoonful of olive oil and 2-3 drops of lemon or lavender oil to a small bottle. Shake the bottle until the liquid turns milky. This mixture can be in the bottle to be used again. Just shake the mixture before each use.Coconut Oil and Shea Butter - Mix ¾ cup of coconut oil and ½ cup of shea butter in a saucepan on low heat. Once melted, remove from the heat and add 15 drops of lavender essential oil. Stir. Store the mixture in a glass jar for future use.Honey Heel Cream - Stir together 1 cup of honey (warmed), plus 1-2 tablespoons of whole milk, plus the juice of 1 orange (approximately 2-3 tablespoons of orange juice). Store in a glass jar - in the fridge - for future use., Before bed, moisturize your feet using your normal foot cream. Next, coat your feet in the mixtures outlined below. Then wrap your feet in plastic wrap, and put a pair of sock on top of the plastic wrap. Go to bed. In the morning, take off your socks and the plastic wrap. Wipe off any excess mixture that may be left on your feet.


Coconut oil.Vegetable oil.Petroleum jelly and lemons - mix 1 tablespoon of petroleum jelly with the juice from 1 lemon. If you’d prefer not to juice your own lemon, use 1-2 tablespoons of lemon juice from a bottle.
 Melt paraffin wax in a large bowl in the microwave. Add an equal amount of mustard oil for add moisturizing power. Dip one foot, then the other, into the bowl and coat your whole foot with the wax. Allow the wax to dry, then wrap your feet in plastic wrap. Wait 15 minutes, then remove the plastic and wax.