 Studies have shown that taking at least 20 – 30 minutes to eat your meal may help you eat less. Hormones secreted from your gut have time to reach your brain and signal satiation or satiety.If you're a faster eater, you'll most likely benefit from taking some extra time with your meals. You may notice, that the slower you eat, the more satisfied you are.
Put your fork down between each bite. This can help force you to slow down and take your time when you're eating.
Talk to friends or family members while you eat. Instead of focusing on eating your food, talk to family and friends and engage in conversation to help slow you down.;
, Many times we have large bites on our forks and are loading up the fork the second we take a bite. This speeds up how fast we're eating and how much we're eating in that time.


Take small bites when you're eating. Pay attention to how much you put on your fork for each bite. Try to reduce the amount of food by half.
Also make sure to chew well. This will also force you to slow down. In addition, taking more time chewing will help you taste and enjoy your food more.
 Drinking while you're eating can have a variety of positive benefits for your eating time and waistline.


If you're putting your fork down in between bites to help slow yourself down, take a sip of water.
The more you sip on water throughout your meal, the more full you will feel off of a no-calorie liquid.
In addition, the more you drink with each meal, the more water you consume overall throughout the day. This can help you reach your daily goal of eight to 13 glasses of water., One thing that eating slowly can help you understand is when you're satisfied versus when you're full. This is also called "intuitive eating;" you listen to your body and eat when it's hungry and stop when it's full. This can help you with your weight loss.


When you eat more slowly, you're more likely to eat less food overall. This is because your brain and gut communicate when you've eaten enough food to be satisfied. If you eat really fast, you're more likely to eat until you're full.Stop eating when you're satisfied instead of when you're full. This will help you cut out any unnecessary calories in your meals.
Satisfied feels like a lack of hunger, a slight disinterest in your food or knowing you could have a few more bites but then you'd be full.
Being full feels more like a stretching, stuffed feeling. Try to avoid eating to this point as much as possible.
 In addition to trying to slow yourself down, remove distractions from your surroundings when you're eating. It can help you concentrate and focus on how fast you're eating and your meal.Like eating slowly, studies have shown that when you're distracted you may end up eating more and this could cause weight gain long-term.Try to take 20 – 30 minutes to eat your meal free from distractions. Turn off cell phones, close laptops, and computers and turn off the TV.
 If you've been practicing slower eating, you may notice that when you're really hungry or starving, its much harder to control the speed of your eating.Manage your hunger to help support slower eating times.


Learn your hunger cues. If you get cranky, lightheaded or a light nauseous when you're starving, be mindful of these symptoms. These should signal a immediate need for fuel to help prevent you from overeating at your next meal.
Also pay attention to the timing of your meals. For example, if lunch is at 12 and dinner isn't until 7:30 pm, you most likely won't make that length of time without becoming overly hungry or starving.
Plan a snack or a small meal in between meals that are far apart to help you manage your hunger levels more appropriately.
 Many people are on autopilot during their meals. Not paying attention and grabbing food and eating on the go may make weight loss difficult.Eating on autopilot and not paying attention to meals may cause you to overeat and not feel satisfied with the food you've eaten. Your brain was never cued into the meal.
Try to avoid eating in the car or in front of the TV. These types of distractions may make it more difficult to pay attention.
Also force yourself to concentrate on your meal. Think about what the food tastes like: What are the textures? What are the flavors? How does this food make you feel?

, Diet plays a huge role in weight loss. However, if you're only focusing on slow and mindful eating, adding in some physical activity can help support your weight loss.Most health professionals recommend doing at least 150 minutes of moderate-intensity aerobic activity each week.You can also increase this amount to 300 minutes a week. You may see increased weight loss with higher amounts of physical activity.Also include a day or two of strength training where you work each major muscle group. Resistance training helps round out your workout., Even when you're eating slowly and possibly eating a little less, it's still important to eat an overall well-balanced diet. This will help support your weight loss.Eating a well-balanced diet high in lean protein, fruits, vegetables and whole grains in addition to eating slowly can help you lose weight.Eat appropriate portions of each food group throughout the day. In addition, choose a wide variety of foods within each food group.
Follow appropriate portion sizes as well. Measure out 3-4 oz of lean protein, 1/2 cup of fruit, 1 cup of vegetables, 2 cups of leafy greensand 1/2 cup of grains.
 Even small portions of higher calorie foods (like fast food or sweets), most likely will not promote weight loss.These foods pack on calories without really keeping you full. Remember that you're better off eating foods that are nutrient-dense, not calorie-dense.


You do not need to completely avoid these types of foods — especially if they're some of your favorites — but limit them to help lower your overall calorie content.
Watch out for high-fat foods like: fried foods, fast food, fatty cuts of meat and processed meats.
Also watch for higher calorie foods with added sugars like: sweetened beverages, candy, cookies, pastries, ice cream and other desserts.

