 Downward facing dog typically is one of the first yoga poses you'll learn. This pose also stretches your spine and back muscles, particularly the back extensors. You use these muscles when you stand or lift things.Get on all fours in tabletop position, just as you were with cat and cow. You might want to move your hands forward slightly. On an exhale, lift your hips up toward the ceiling. Roll over onto your toes and straighten your arms to come into an inverted "V" shape.
Hold the pose for 5 to 10 deep breath cycles, pulling through your heels to lengthen your legs as you lift up from your wrists, creating a balance point at your hips. Then lower back down into tabletop position.
 Just as cat and cow poses stretch the spine in opposing ways, extended cobra is the opposite of downward facing dog, giving your spine a good counter-stretch.From downward facing dog, lower your hips towards the floor as you lift and open your chest. Make sure your shoulders are rolled back. Your shoulder blades should fall straight down alongside your spine.
Hold the pose for 5 to 10 deep breath cycles. With every inhale, focus on opening and expanding your chest to hold more air. As you exhale, sink your hips into the floor and arch your back.
You also can create a vinyasa with this pose and downward facing dog, moving between the two poses fluidly with a breath for each movement.
 The seated twist increases flexibility down your entire spine and massages your abdominal organs to improve your digestion. As the name implies, you'll start this pose from a seated position.Extend your legs in front of you, placing your hands at your sides. Sit up straight, shoulders back, and adjust your weight so that you are sitting firmly on your sitting bones, not on your tailbone. You may want to place a rolled towel behind you to support your lower back.
Bend your right knee, placing the foot on the outside of your outstretched left leg. As you inhale, reach your left arm straight forward. Then exhale and reach your left arm across your body, bending your elbow around your knee. Place your right hand on the floor behind you.
Look towards the right, drawing your chin towards your shoulder. Hold the twist for 5 to 10 breath cycles, trying to twist further with each exhale. Don't crank or force the twist. Then release and repeat the movement on the other side.
 The deep forward bend is a classic yoga pose to stretch your entire back, including your muscles and your spine. It also increases circulation to your back muscles and spine.Start in a seated position with your legs extended in front of you. Make sure your weight is evenly balanced on your sitting bones.
On an exhale, fold forward over your legs from your hips, extending your arms overhead and then out in front of you. Try to keep your back as long and flat as possible.
Relax your neck and fold as far forward as you can without pain or discomfort. If you can, you can rest your forehead on your shins. Hold the pose for 5 to 10 breath cycles, then return to an upright seated position.
 Many yoga practitioners end their sessions with child's pose, an easy and calming pose that also stretches your entire back. Typically it's best to move into child's pose from tabletop position.Keep your knees apart, but bring your feet together so that your big toes are just touching. On an exhale, lower your hips until you are sitting on your heels, extending your arms forward so that you fold over your thighs.
You can hold child's pose as long as you are comfortable, breathing slowly and deeply.

