 Do things that fix your flaws, like if you have dry hair start washing your hair once every other day, or if you have an insane amount of blackheads use Biore Pore Strips. Also try to get hair products that are focusing on fixing a certain thing, like getting rid of dandruff or making your hair softer. Paint your nails once a week with 2 coats of clear polish over it and grow out your nails so they are long and pretty. Moisturizer every time you get out of the shower to prevent scaly, dry skin. Also wash your face with Clean & Clear products and moisturize your face with non-irritating lotion to help hydrate your face but not make you break out. Coconut oil is perfect for moisturizing and making your face like bright and awake. Also buy Fitness Buddy and a yoga app that can help you get more fit and beautiful.;
, Massie rarely pigs out on sweets, so try to eat healthy. Fruit gives you a trim figure and glowing skin at the same time. Do a sport like tennis, yoga or pilates.
 Wear brands. If you can't afford these brands, it doesn't matter. Just make sure that what you're wearing looks expensive and hot. Some ideas are Zara, Forever XXI, or Nordstroms Rack.
 Massie Block has amazing hair. To achieve this, you will need to use a good quality shampoo & conditioner. Massie uses Bumble & Bumble. Redken is great, too. If you can't afford expensive shampoos, try Herbal Essences. They have different shampoos for different hair types, and it smells great. Massie Block has chestnut hair and caramel highlights. Try a temporary chestnut dye at home and see if it suits you. You don't have to have the exact same hair color, though. Just make sure it's shiny and smells delicious.
 Massie's perfume is Chanel No.19. Juicy Couture & Britney Spears do some nice perfumes. Victoria's Secret has ah-mazing ones at ah-mazing prices. If you're bold, go for a line from Secret Garden, or one of their perfumes like Bombshell, Noir, Sexy Rocks, Dream Angels, etc. If you're softer, try their natural line or pink. They're inexpensive and a 10. Just make sure you're totally committed to it and people can smell you when you're coming. Massie's signature piece of jewelry is a charm bracelet. Try to get one from Tiffany & Co. If you can't afford their jewelry, try Juicy Couture or Pandora.
 Maybe it's perfume, or a necklace, or anything. Wear it all the time, never go out in public without it. Massie always wears her charm bracelet, so it would be great if you always wore your special item too.
 Try brand names. Your handbag is like your bedroom, only smaller. Always carry your cell phone lip gloss with you. An alpha never ignores a text.
 Massie's is white with touches of purple You can choose your own signature color and decorate your room accordingly.
 Don't make it too flashy like sequins or excessive amounts of animal prints and patterns. Also don't be overly organized but messy. Massie doesn't have to worry about keeping her room clean because she has Inez, but I'm pretty sure mostly everyone doesn't have their own maid, so be sure to clean your room constantly and make it pretty.
 Remember, even the LBRs don't deserve to be teased. If you aren't nice, nobody will like you.
 Please keep it private! If it is public, jealous people can use it to scheme against you. .
 Blog weekly about your life. Do not give the website address to everyone at school. Soon they'll all start reading it, and call you a poser. However, if it is a fashion blog/ something glamorous that people will feel the need to read, go for it. If you partied it up in Beverly Hills, give the details, but leave some to the imagination, and don't post secrets or things you wouldn't want others to know if it were you. Exposing people is so wrong. If you don't want a real life blog, try a roleplaying blog. Roleplaying is when you write a blog about a fictional character.
 Massie is extremely popular at school. This may take a while. Try changing schools if possible. This is an easier solution because you can start over. Hold a lot of parties, and always make sure your birthday parties are grand and exclusive. Only invite popular people, no LBR's allowed.


Now that you're a popular alpha, don't get carried away. For example, don't majorly break someone down into tears if they bump into you, instead just give them a glare, a comeback, flip your hair in their face and walk away before they can say anything. Also, be nice to teachers and your parents and get good grades. Even though popularity may seem like everything at this time of life, you will regret not caring about school when trying to apply for college. Finally, if someone was mean to you or excluded you, get revenge, but do it subtly because if you do something major and get caught you could be in big trouble e.g. i you say, someone accidentally spills something on you don't fill their bag with goo cause if you get caught you'll be in big trouble







, Massie Block's clique is called The Pretty Committee. Unless absolutely no one at your school reads The Clique, (highly unlikely) then choose a different name. Suggestions include the Glossy Posse, Glam Clan, Glamourous etc. Make sure your clique has no more than 6 girls. An alpha isn't necessary, but if there is one, make sure it's you... Also, to get invited to parties, try playing hard to get. For example, if your friend Sara is having a party but "forgot" to invite you, just say "Oh, whatever." My other choice would be getting mani-pedis with (clique name), and that's more fun than your party will be. Later." The person will get jealous and invite you to their party. Also have a weekly sleepover with your clique, read fashion magazines and keep caught up on the latest fashion trends.


Gather up a group of friends and slowly create a clique. Don't tell them "I want to make a clique with you all and I will be the alpha," because 'clique' sounds tacky, and telling them that you will be the leader might make them feel offended by how bossy you are. Instead, make some new friends (preferably popular girls) and plan all the get togethers and everything, then soon sit at you own table and make sure you are in the middle. If you want to use your current group of friends be sure to overthrow the current leader by not inviting her to as many things and sitting in her spot (make sure everyone else in your group doesn't want her to be the leader as much as you do too).
 Make sure there's always at least one set of eyes on you. Flirt a little bit, but only with people you like, because then people will call you a flirt.
 If your clique members are already popular and have a good sense of style, there's no need to change their wardrobe. But if your friends shop at Justice or Gap, go shopping ASAP. Go to places like Aeropostale, Hollister, American Eagle, Sephora and Victoria's Secret PINK. When shopping, be the one to tell them what they would look adorable in. Give them little beauty tips too, like "This is perfect, green is so you," and "Don't buy that, yellow doesn't compliment your skin tone,". Try to buy a ton of stuff and encourage them to start shopping there if they don't shop at the popular stores.
 Try to get your friends to take turns, like have one girl have this weeks sleepover, then another next week's, and so on. This way you aren't stressing out every Friday making sure everything is perfect. When it is your turn to host one, make sure it's perfect. Have the sleepover somewhere where your parents can't hear you, like the basement (only if its finished). If you have soft little mattresses to sleep on, make sure there is enough so everyone has their fair share of comfort. Arrange the mattresses in a flower and put snacks in the middle with cups of water and fancy curly straws in front of each mattress. When you watch movies arrange the mattresses in a half circle so everyone can see the movie without having to turn around to watch it. Make sure there is plenty to do and there are all the supplies to make crafts or anything is in the same room as you. Also, even though its fun to pull all-nighters, try to get to bed by midnight so your friends aren't too tired the next day.

