 The most important thing to remember is that everyone has his or her own creative process. The steps shown below are a starting point, but eventually you'll find a method that works for you, and it's perfectly all right (and even encouraged) to follow that method.
 This can be anything from a picture online, one of your own personality traits, to a song on the radio. Use anything that gives you an idea. Once you have the first aspect of your character, a name, appearance, or personality trait, you're ready to expand on it. In some cases, you'll have such a clear insight into your character that you might find you don't need the rest of these steps at all.
 This is easy enough if you think about it. Consider your setting and which gender will be more appropriate for your story. For example: William Golding, the author of the classic "Lord of the Flies," explained that he wrote a book about boys because he thought if he included girls and boys, there would be a sexual aspect that he didn't want to include, and he thought boys alone would be a better model of society.
 Personalities can get really fun and creative. There are so many. You could just use a three word personality like loud and fiery or quiet and shy or tough and confident. Just looking at stuff will give you ideas. For example, you look out the window and see a pink flower. Then you may get an idea for your character to be pink and girly. Consider adding one or two of your own personality traits so you can better understand your character. Once you have a personality, expand on it and really develop it. Characters with deep, realistic personalities, with endearing characteristics and annoying flaws, are the most beloved characters of all.


When you are creating your characters personality, you need to ask yourself a variety of questions: "Is my character kind?" "Is my character wise?" "Is my character smart?" etc. If you are having trouble with creating a whole new personality, why not just base the character's personality off of your own? That shouldn't be too hard.
 This is important. Eye color, hair color and skin tone are important, along with maybe height or weight or even shoe size, if you wish.


Does your character look like a supermodel? Is your character butt ugly? Is your character muscular? Is your character skinny and weak? You should have fun with this, but you need to make it believable, so that people can relate to your character.






How your character dresses should reflect on the personality.
 Some writers use really strange names, or unique. It's always a good idea to have a first and last name, and maybe a middle name. Don't be afraid to be unique. Jacqueline Wilson's well known Tracy Beaker may have a strange last name but we don't really think about that much. Is their first name going to be a normal name, common, unusual or possibly ethnic? Rhiannon, Tanya, Monica, Mindy or Andi for a girl are some of those uncommon names, but some writers use classic names like Mary, Jane, Nora or Emily. For boys, some unusual ones would be Kenny, Zeke or maybe even Terry. Some common ones would be James, Tom, John, Michael, Patrick, or plenty of others. Keep in mind that just because a name is common, it's not necessarily boring. Some names are popular for a reason, and sometimes a common name works better anyways- there's a reason why very few characters in modern literature have names like Aloysius or Apollonia. But the most important thing to remember is the character's personality and setting.
 Think about his or her hobbies, likes and dislikes, and favorite things. Your character could like sports, cooking, music, fashion, reading, animals- the possibilities are literally endless.


Your character may be transgender, no gender or a gender bender. Don't get hung up on pronouns.
 If your character just drifts through the story without showing any emotions whatsoever, it will be a dull tale. The emotions are catalyst's for your character's reactions. Your character needs to show more than one emotion, or the story will be humdrum.
 Whatever happens in your story has to have at least a little bit. For example: If your character's best friend moved away, how would they react? Giving your character good reactions will make the character seem more natural.
 Use this to guide you as you write. You can add to it or subtract from it as you write the story.

