 It may seem counter-intuitive, but the best time to leave you job is when it is going well, because having accolades to discuss will make you a more attractive job candidate. So if you can’t see a long-term future at your job, or have a dream you want to pursue elsewhere, then prepare to leave, even if you’re successful.If you don’t like your job, it’s easy to not give it 100%, but remember that especially if you are planning on leaving, it is important to excel as much as possible, whether that means working extra hours or taking on extra projects. In the long run, it will be worth it.
Even if you love your job, you should consider leaving if it is not exactly what you want to do. Having a good job that you like and succeed at breeds confidence, which is vital for landing a new job or starting a new business.;
, Leaving a job too quickly can raise red flags when you look for future jobs.


Be careful about leaving a job you just started, as it will upset the people who hired you and might damage future job prospects. Remember that it can take several months to adjust to the people, systems, politics, and hours of a new job.If you are still unhappy after two months, discuss your concerns with your manager. If you are working longer hours than anticipated, or if the nature of the work is not what you thought it would be, then discuss ways to adjust the work. Working through the situation is preferable to quitting.
Age and responsibility matter when deciding how soon you can quit. Generally, the younger you are and the less responsibility you have, the quicker you can walk away. For example, if you hate waiting tables at your new job, then don’t be afraid to tell your manager after a couple of weeks.
If you are an experienced professional like a lawyer at a new firm, there will be a stigma to walking away quickly. If you are a CEO, then the stigma will be even greater. Make a good faith effort to work through any problems. Then, if you do decide to walk away sooner than anticipated, your efforts to make it work will soften the blow., If you’re not heading to work with a feeling of excitement most days, then you are not passionate about your job. And if you lack passion, your job will eventually come to feel like a grind.Don’t stay in a job if you don’t feel like you have a future there. Remember, it usually takes up to a year to find a new job, so start preparing to leave now.Being passionate means that means you need to buy into both the company mission and the nature of the work. Remember: a great job for one person might not be the job for you.If you feel like your company is not providing true value to its customers, or if you want to change the world and instead feel like a cog in a machine, move on.
If your job requires you to travel more than you would like, or does not offer enough upward mobility, move on.If your pay is the primary reason that you are working, then it is time to consider leaving your job., If you dread going to work every day, then it is time to move on.Does thinking about your job make you anxious?
Do you feel like you are working too much? Do you lack the work-life balance you desire?
Is your job impacting your mental or physical health? Are you gaining or losing weight? Are you suffering from depression? Do you feel constantly tired and run down?

, If you don’t enjoy and respect the people you work with, or if you have problems with the corporate culture, then you need to get ready to move on., If you have been passed over for promotion, your attempts to take on more challenging assignments have failed, your ideas are not being heard, your contributions go unrecognized, or you are no longer growing and learning, then your career has stagnated.This may mean it is time to look elsewhere, but first, you’ll want to make an effort to revive your career.


Make sure you know your stuff. Focus on the skills that the company needs and you are passionate about.If you’re a software developer, that might mean being the best at writing code. If you’re a salesperson, you need to be skilled at closing sales. If you’re a lawyer, you might focus on knowing the ins and outs of the law in a certain field, arguing cases in court, or on bringing in clients.
Spend informal time with the leaders and co-workers you most respect to find out about the company’s most important priorities, the most critical challenges and how you can help achieve the company’s goals. Don’t just be eager to contribute, be eager to contribute where your help is needed most.
Make yourself the person others come to for advice. Being open and helpful to others is a great way to show your value to a company and to build a network of people who are committed to your success.
 You will be a more attractive job candidate if you can move on before your company fails.Recognizing a failing company is easy if you're in the accounting department. If not, look for these subtler warning signs you’re your company, or your position, might soon disappear:


There are cut back on the little things. Has your usual coffee been replaced by a cheaper brand? Are you running shot on office supplies, which are now only replaced after you complain? Has the training budget been slashed? Are travel expenses and perks being more tightly scrutinized or only paid at the last minute? Is the HR department suddenly more concerned with how accurately you record your hours worked? These cost-cutting measures are often the first sign that a company is struggling.There are multiple resignations – or perhaps a mass updating of LinkedIn profiles – in the accounting and finance department. These people are typically the first to know when the company is struggling. If they are leaving, you should probably get out, too.The company is looking to the payroll to save cash. Maybe you are not paid on time, or your superannuation (or 401K), although deducted from your payslip, is not actually being placed in your superannuation fund. Or maybe raises have ceased or there is a hiring freeze.The company is struggling to pay its bills. You might notice that suppliers will now only do business on a cash-on-delivery basis, or hear that the company has received demand letters from legal firms chasing bill payment.The company is restructuring. If you or fellow employees are frequently being shuttled between different departments of bosses, this may be a sign that the company is struggling to find its footing. A new CEO or president is often the catalyst for such structural changes.There are lots of closed doors. If your boss or CEO appears stressed and is frequently in closed door meetings, this may be a sign that trouble is brewing., If you are being bullied, criticized publicly in a demeaning fashion or sexually harassed, you should leave if you cannot resolve the situation in one of these ways:In a large company, consider changing departments or locations, if possible.
Consider taking time off. Workplace trauma can be overwhelming. Take time off so that you can approach your situation with a clear head, and decide if you want to leave or try to resolve the situation.
Research your options. Talk to an attorney, particularly if you feel like discrimination plays a role (it does in a quarter or workplace bullying cases). Look at your company’s internal policies for violations to report.
Expose the problem. Go to the highest level person you can reach and make your case. You will be most likely to succeed if you focus on the economic cost of the bully.

Bullying and harassment creates turnover, which means money and time spent recruiting new employees, paying hiring bonuses and moving costs, training them, etc. The cost is generally around 1.5 times the annual salary of each new hire.
Bullying and harassment drives talented people from work, resulting in the loss of their contributions.
Targets of bullying and harassment often take more time off, resulting in lost productivity.
A real or even potential lawsuit against the firm that allowed the bullying or harassment can result in expensive legal costs.
 It is generally better to keep your job while looking. This will keep you in touch with industry contacts that can help you get a job, and most firms prefer to hire people who are currently employed.However, there are reasons to quit without another job lined up:


If the stress of your job is so great that it is compromising your ability to seek employment, then you may be better off quitting to focus on your job search.Quitting for family reasons – to care for a newborn or raise children – is generally seen as an acceptable reason for a career gap.If you are planning on starting your own business, then you will usually need to quit your current job to devote adequate time to the new venture., In most cases, you will want to keep your search a secret even from your boss, and especially form your coworkers. Don’t let them know until you are ready to leave, as this will create tension in your current workplace and often lead to a search to replace you as soon as possible.The exception is if you have a very close relationship with your boss, of if he or she has warned you about upcoming layoffs and offered to help in your job search., Even co-workers who are not part of your online social networks may be checking your profile.Instead, use your professional network more discretely:


Don’t wait until you are searching for a job to develop a network.
Keep your LinkedIn profile up to date, but don’t mention you are looking for a job. LinkedIn is one of the first places hiring managers will look when weighing your application for a job.Increasing your visibility is key. Join LinkedIn groups with people in your profession, preferably those one or two stations higher. Like their comments, and then reach out privately to say you liked the comment they made and ask to connect.
Catch up with contacts you have made through your work. You don’t need to ask for a job. Focus on their work and the needs of their company. Again, the key is increasing visibility. If they happen to need someone in your field, then you can mention that you are interested. Be sure to ask that they keep your search confidential.Use professional organizations. Annual meetings are a particularly effective place to network, but again, be sure to ask that your search be kept private.
Stay positive. While it is tempting to bemoan your current situation, it is also counterproductive. Focus on the future: your ideal job, your talents, and your results. If asked why you are leaving, simply say you want a position where you can use more of your talents., You don’t want your boss learning about your search from someone calling to check a reference.If your only references are from your current job:


Direct your potential employer to a recommendation or endorsement on your LinkedIn profile to show success at your current job.Emphasize to potential employers that your search is confidential, and tell them that upon receiving a signed offer letter, you will happily let them check with your current management and coworkers.If you do decide to list references at your current job earlier in the hiring process, choose people you trust not to reveal your search, or people who have recently left the company. Be sure to speak with your managers or coworkers before listing them as references., Don’t use company phones, email or internet. Don’t look for jobs while at the office. And schedule interviews during non-work hours., If you dress business casual and need a suit for an interview, then change outside the office., It is easy for enthusiasm to slip once you begin a job search, but if you do not continue to work hard and complete work on time, people will take notice., By lying, you will ruin your credibility and the chance of your boss serving as a future reference., Finding a new job takes time. Schedule regular hours outside of work to conduct your search., Consider what you are looking for in terms of responsibilities and company culture.Compensation and benefits are important, but focus on the job more than the money., Favor quality over quantity, and don’t waste time sifting through huge job sites.Use your business network. Referrals are 5 to 10 times more effective than applying directly. Accordingly, you should devote at least 50% of your time to networking and consulting your network.Look for companies rather than jobs. Set up informational interviews at companies you would like to work at. This sort of networking will put you in a good position to land a job if one does open up.Consider job sites that regularly email you job listing that fit your criteria, or sites specific to your field., Avoid over-used terms and phrases: motivated, innovative, dynamic, detail oriented, team player, excellent communication skills. Show, don’t tell: let the work you did and what you accomplished show that you are a motivated, dynamic worker., Especially if you applying directly instead of through a contact in your network, your cover letter needs to grab the hiring manager’s attention. It is your chance to expand on your résumé and show why you are perfect for the job.
 Now that you’ve found a great job and used your contacts or stellar résumé to get noticed, you need to shine at the interview to seal the deal.


Dress appropriately. If you’re not sure what to wear, then call the companies Human Resources department, tell them you are coming for an interview, and ask about the dress code.Project positive body language: no nervous ticks (jiggling a leg or touching your face); don’t slouch or sit to rigidly.
Prepare answers to commonly asked questions. You don’t need to memorize anything, but do know generally how you will respond and come prepared with a few sound bites for questions like:What is your biggest weakness?
Where do you see yourself in five years?
What interests you about this opening?
Why did you / are you leaving your last job?


Present your answers as short stories. Use your résumé as a platform to tell a compelling story about your career path, and always be sure to validate your statements about your skills, attitude, etc. with specific examples from real job situations., All of the advice below falls under this broad category. You can’t be sure you won’t have to work with the same people later in your career, or need their recommendation for another job.Be sure to tell your most valued coworkers – the people whose contacts you want to continue to cultivate – as soon as possible after you give notice. Thank them for their support at the company and tell them you will stay in touch.Be honest and straightforward about your plans. Your coworkers will find out about your new job as soon as you update your LinkedIn profile. Keeping them informed yourself will help to preserve relationships.Don’t give different reasons for your departure to different people. For example, if you tell your boss you are leaving to pursue a better opportunity and a coworker that you are leaving because you hate your boss, it’s only a matter of time before the discrepancy comes to light. Tell one story, one way., Schedule a meeting to let your boss know. This shows respect and self-confidence on your part. Don’t feel obligated to explain your reasons at length.Make it clear that your departure is not a criticism of the company, but rather a pursuit of personal opportunity.Try something like:“I have recognized the need to move on with my career and have found a good next step.”
“I’ve been happy here, but have found an offer I can’t refuse (e.g. shorter commute, exceptional money, greater responsibility).”


Be ready to answer “Why are you leaving?” Keep it simple: “It is an offer I could not ignore to further my career” or “I have an opportunity to…”Be ready to answer “Where are you going?” You are not required to tell your boss where you are going. If it is to a competitor, then telling them may upset them. Simply reiterate that you have a good opportunity elsewhere, thank them for all you have learned at your current job, and move on in the conversation, perhaps by discussing ways in which you are willing to help with the transition.
Be appreciative. Thank your boss for the support and opportunities you have received.Offer to help to minimize the impact of your departure. Bring a list of ongoing projects with status updates and suggestions for completion. If willing, offer to train your replacement.Make sure you clarify details such as your leave date and how you will inform others – both colleagues and clients.
Ask about references. Making sure you leave with a good references can be vital in subsequent job searches., When you resign, your boss may be angry. Or, he or she may try to persuade you to stay. You need to be ready for either eventuality.


Your boss’s initial reaction may be anger. Be prepared to wait it out without losing your cool. Remember: you are not doing anything wrong by leaving. This is business, not personal. If you handle yourself with grace, your boss is more likely to give a positive reference once they have recovered from their surprise.Your boss may ask why you did not mention your desire to leave before. Remember to focus on the positives. “Thank your for the opportunity here, but I have received an offer that is too good to pass up.”Your employer may ask you to stay on until they find a replacement. Decide beforehand if you are willing to do so, and stick to that decision.Your employer may offer you more money to stay. If your boss goes to the trouble to find more money to keep you, and you still leave, this can make him or her angry. To avoid this situation, be very clear about your intention to leave when you first inform your boss, and make it clear that money is not the primary reason – i.e. it’s your dream job or it comes with certain opportunities that aren’t available in your present position., After informing your boss in person, you will need to formally tell your manager and human resources that you are resigning. Keep it simple. Save the more detailed discussion for your conversation with your manager.


Include today’s date, your manager’s name, title and the company name. Keep it simple: “Effective , I am resigning my position as in the .”You may also include a sentence thanking your employer. I.e. "I have enjoyed working here and particularly appreciate/would like to thank you for..."Finally, you may include a statement of your willingness to help with the transition. I.e. "I will do my utmost to complete existing projects and to assist where possible in the hand-over process.”, Two weeks is the minimum. If your are in a position with a special skill set, it is better to give more advanced warning and to offer to train your replacement. If you are a vital part of a project that is ending in a few months, offer to stay on until the project is completed., It may feel good at the time to dress down your boss or an annoying colleague, but it can come back to bite you if you work for or with them again. Be professional and polite.


Even if you hate your boss, letting then know when you leave is self-defeating. They will get over it quickly. All you have done is destroy a relationship you may someday need and eliminated a potentially important reference. When you attack your boss as you leave, they win.If you are leaving because you were harassed or bullied, it can be difficult to keep your emotions at bay. Be sure to have a scripted, positive answer for when people ask you why you are leaving.
If your boss becomes abusive when you inform you are leaving, be prepared to simply walk out. Say something like, “I wanted to offer two weeks to help transition my work, but I’m not willing to be yelled at or treated this way, so today will be my last day.”, This will leave a good impression and win you the respect of coworkers, who you may need as future references. If you have nothing to do, then offer to leave earlier., Make sure those replacing you or taking over your projects are up to speed. Transfer information and contacts to those who need them. Clean out your inbox., Pen a note to the people who you worked with most. Even if you had a difficult relationship with your boss, thank him or her. It is always best to leave a positive impression., Again, you don’t want to burn any bridges; you may end up working with the company again. If you are going to bring up issues, try to frame it as constructive criticism., Contacts you made within your office or with clients may prove vital in future work and in helping you get future jobs. Don’t lose them. Here are some tips for staying in touch:


Keep a list. Before announcing you are leaving, make a spreadsheet with the contact info of people you respect and would want to work with professionally in the future. Depth is more important than breadth. Save these spots for people who want to help you as much as you want to help them.Let contacts know that your old work email will no longer be operative. Notify them that you are on LinkedIn and suggest they connect with you there.Schedule follow-up. Put entries in your calendar reminding you to follow up with contacts every two or three months. Ask them how they are doing, and if you can help out in any way.Stay in touch in other ways. Pass along blogs or news stories you think your contacts would like. Connect to them on LinkedIn and keep track of their status. If they are promoted, congratulate them. If they are laid off, offer support. If you have a recreational activity in common, send them articles about it. Thank them if you take their advice and it helps.