 In smaller towns, the demand for taxis usually isn't so high, so considering a different location to start a taxi company might be a wise choice.;
, Though most taxi companies cater to all types of customers, there are those that cater to high-end clientele such as politicians, diplomats, and executives. Other taxi companies offer adapted vehicles for the physically impaired, while yet others provide green taxis for environmentally-conscious customers.
 Have an accountant review it for additional advice.
,, Also apply for an employer's identification number or EIN if you plan to hire other drivers.
 Purchase taxi meters and top-light signs.
 Unless they are licensed for commercial use, you may not use them as taxis.
 Make sure it has easy access to all major routes in your area and enough parking spaces to safely store all your vehicles.
 Insurance will protect your company in the event of damage, theft, accidents, or lawsuits.
 The GPS should be up-to-date, such as Waze.
 Add your taxi company to tourist websites, and other informational sites.
, For example, you could hand out key chain loyalty cards which customers simply scan and their details are kept on file.


Having group discounts and special members only discounts are another possibility for promoting your company.
 For example, Facebook and Twitter. Share updates and information regularly. Reward customers for sharing information, liking your company or entering competitions your company runs.
 You could also consider special advertising, such as "company of the month".
 Hire people who are reliable, polite, and possess their commercial driver's licenses.
 This helps to establish your taxi services as coming from a distinct and reputable company. It can be simple, such as a white shirt with blue or black pants.
 Rules about behavior, use of the taxis and treatment of customers are important, along with ensuring financial accountability. Rules might include:


Being drug- and alcohol-free when driving, along with turning up to work sober or not job that day. You might include a breathalyzer in each taxi.
Keeping cars clean inside and out. Decide where the responsibility for this should rest.
Uniforms to be in good condition, drivers to be well groomed.
 For example, how tips are to be handled, minimum pay and benefits, etc.

