 According to Google, search engines value distinctive and descriptive domain names and subpages. URLS with identifiable words not only help bots crawl and index your site, but it also makes it easier for users to remember, type, and link to your pages. In a search result, it is important to note that your blog’s url will also appear under the HTML title tag and snippet s—choose words that might interest one of your target audience members.


Make sure the URL is related to the content displayed on the page.
Only create one URL per page. This URL should be used in internal links., Well-organized pages are easier for users to navigate. There are a variety of methods you can use to make your site more user-friendly. Google recommends that you:


Place your blog’s content into a hierarchical organization structure. The structure should be based on how you think users will move through your blog.
Provide users a standard navigation bar on each and every page. This will allow users to easily navigate between pages of your blog. The link to your home page should appear on the left, followed in descending order by links to the most popular sections of your site.
Include a site map, a single page that shows your blog’s hierarchy of pages. If users are having trouble navigating through your site with the “breadcrumb” links, they can use the site map to move through the blog. , Thinking through the hierarchy of your blog’s pages will also make your site easier for search engine bots (also called spiders) to crawl. A well organized site will make it easier for bots, like Googlebot, to move through your site and determine how a single page relates to the entire website. Google suggests:


Submitting a XML Sitemap to search engines to make it easier for bots to find, crawl, and index your blog.
Make sure your navigational links are text-heavy. If possible, do not use images, animations, or drop down menus—these may prevent bots from accessing your entire site.

Block Search Engines from crawling unnecessary parts of your site, like comments sections and links to sites that may damage the reputation of your blog., Errors in your blog’s code may prevent search engines from crawling and indexing your site. You can avoid this situation by making sure your code validates, or conforms to accepted standard of the programing language. There are several free code validators that you can use to check your site for errors.