 Adults with ADHD generally benefit from psychotherapy.This treatment helps individuals accept who they are, while at the same time helps them seek improvements to their situation.


Cognitive behavioral therapy directly geared toward treating ADHD has been useful for many patients. This type of therapy addresses some of the core problems caused by ADHD, such as time management and organizational issues.If the person with ADHD is reluctant to seek professional help, you can explain it as building skills. Exactly like going to an extracurricular learning activity, Sunday school, or school itself, the goal is to learn specific skills, techniques, and ideas.
You may also suggest to family members to visit a therapist. Therapy can also provide a safe place for family members to vent their frustrations in a healthy way and work out issues with professional guidance.
If a family member is reluctant to go to seek professional help, you can phrase it as them helping you. For example, you might say, "Hi, Mom. I would like for you to see my therapist because it will help me improve at understanding the greater needs of the family." It will actually help your therapist give you useful, relevant techniques for navigating situations.
 Numerous organizations provide individual support as well as networking amongst members who can get together online or in person to share problems and solutions. Search online for a support group in your area.


Support groups are particularly good venues for people who do not think they need help, or who successfully handle their ADHD. These individuals can take on leadership roles and teach what they know while still learning from others.
The support group you like the most might be for ADHD individuals only, or for different groups of people and interests. Consider joining a hobby group or club regarding one of your passions or interests. Examples include a dance club, book club, women's business group, gym class, animal shelter volunteering, and soccer team.
 There are numerous online resources that provide information, advocacy and support for individuals with ADHD and their families. Some resources include:



Attention Deficit Disorder Association (ADDA) distributes information via its website, through webinars, and via newsletters. It also provides electronic support, one-on-one live support, and conferences for adults with ADHD.

Children and Adults with Attention-Deficit/Hyperactivity Disorder(CHADD) was founded in 1987 and now has over 12,000 members. It provides information, training, and advocacy for persons with ADHD and those who care about them.

ADDitude Magazine is a free online resource that provides information, strategies, and support for adults with ADHD, children with ADHD, and parents of persons with ADHD.

ADHD & You provides resources for adults with ADHD, parents of children with ADHD, teachers and healthcare providers who serve persons with ADHD. It includes a section of online videos for teachers and guidelines for school staff to work more successfully with students who have ADHD.
 You may find it useful to talk about concerns whether you have ADHD with your family and trusted friends. These are people who you can call when you find yourself depressed, anxious or otherwise affected negatively.

