 Preheat a charcoal or gas grill for high heat. If you can set the temperature of the grill, set it to a minimum temperature of 450 degrees Fahrenheit (230 degrees Celsius).If you are unable to set the temperature, carefully hold the back of your hand 4 inches (10 cm) from the grate. You should only be able to comfortably hold it there for one second or less once the grill is hot enough.;
, Brush the clean grill grate with enough vegetable oil to lightly coat the surface. Doing so will help prevent the meat from sticking as it cooks.


Note that the grill grate must also be clean before you oil it; otherwise, the steaks may still stick to the surface. If you didn't clean the grill the last time you used it, do so now by scrubbing the grate with a heavy-duty grill brush.
 Lightly brush both sides of the steak with vegetable oil, then sprinkle both with salt and pepper.


The steak should be room temperature before you work with it. Otherwise, the meat may cook unevenly and could become tough.
Wait until you're ready to start cooking before you add any salt. Since salt can draw moisture out of the meat, letting it sit for too long can cause the steak to become dry and tough.
 Transfer the steak to the grill, placing it over direct heat.


Ideally, you should hear the meat sizzle as soon as it hits the hot grill.
Keep some space in between the steaks and do not overcrowd the grill. Overcrowding can prevent the steaks from cooking evenly.
 Using long-handled pincher tongs, turn the steak after 1 to 3 minutes, or once the meat easily lifts away from the grate.


You should only turn the steak once as it cooks. If you turn it too often, it may not form the trademark barbecue "crust," and may lose some of its juices as a result.
Use tongs instead of a barbecue fork. Forks will pierce the meat and cause its juices to run out.
 The remaining cooking time will vary depending on the thickness of the steak and how thoroughly you want it to be cooked, but most steaks will finish within 2 to 8 more minutes.


The best way to determine doneness is to check the internal temperature of the steak with a meat thermometer.

Rare: 120 to 125 degrees Fahrenheit (49 to 52 degrees Celsius)
Medium-Rare: 130 to 135 degrees Fahrenheit (54 to 5 degrees Celsius)
Medium: 140 to 145 degrees Fahrenheit (60 to 63 degrees Celsius)
Medium-Well: 150 to 155 degrees Fahrenheit (66 to 68 degrees Celsius)
Well-Done: 160 degrees Fahrenheit (71 degrees Celsius)


The texture of the meat can also indicate its level of doneness. Rare meat will be soft when pressed with the back of your tongs. Medium meat will be springy yet slightly firm. Well-done meat will be very firm., After the steak reaches your desired level of doneness, remove it from the grill and let it rest on your cutting board for roughly 5 minutes.


During this time, the juices will redistribute themselves more evenly throughout the meat. Cutting into the steak too early will cause you to lose these juices.
Loosely cover the steak with foil as it rests to prevent the loss of heat.
 At this point in the barbecuing process, the steak should be done and ready to enjoy.

