 If you begin having problems with a co-worker, immediately begin fixing your relationship. Don't wait for the issue to clear up on its own or it may worsen and become a conflict.Waiting and dwelling on issues only worsens the problems. Before you know it, you might have blown the concern out of proportion, making it harder to resolve.
 Face-to-face is a considerate way to address problems, especially when compared to emailing or texting. Deal with problems or concern in person. It's a lot easier to say something hurtful or argumentative when communicating electronically.While you may not be able to avoid electronic communication, just be aware of your tone and word usage, since things like body language and gestures can't be used to interpret your meaning., This is a pretty well-known one. Conflict is often unavoidable in a workplace with lots of people. Daily squabbles, tiffs, and arguments can spring up over a variety of issues. You need to determine what is important to you and your job. Resolve conflicts before they harm your job and work environment.


Minor problems can simply be annoyances. Learn to disregard this little issues, before they start piling up and bothering you., Don't let problems linger. While you may have confronted the issue as soon as it came up, you also have to be sure that you're satisfied with the resolution. Make sure you and your co-worker respect one another and are both happy with the conclusion of the conflict.


Remember that you'll need to maintain a professional relationship with the other person. As soon as the issue is resolved, let it go. Don't dwell on past problems or it will continue to affect your working relationship.
 Don't be afraid to reach out to your Human Resources department for assistance. Sometimes having a third party can diffuse tension and make the conflict less emotionally charged.


You don't have to go straight to HR. If you both would rather speak with a manager or another co-worker, try that first. The main thing is that you're both comfortable and prepared to talk.