 One way to lead a more enriching life is to learn to forgive others more easily. Though some things are unforgivable, if you’re regularly in the habit of holding a grudge, spending hours seething with bitterness, and resenting many of the people around you, then you won’t be able to live an enriching life. Learn to move forward and to accept that some people make mistakes—or to end the relationship if someone has truly betrayed you. If you let yourself get stuck being resentful all the time, your life will feel difficult and drab.


If someone has really hurt you and it will take time to process that person’s apology, then be honest about it. Don’t pretend like you’re okay and then go on to complain about the person to your fifty closest friends. This won’t get you very far.
You can forgive someone and still ask for some space before you start spending time with that person again. If you can’t be around the person without being angry or bitter, then don’t force yourself to do this just yet.
 If you spend a lot of time around people who make you feel bad about yourself, are incredibly negative, or who influence you to do things that aren’t true to your character, then it’s time to cut them loose—as much as possible, that is. Evaluate your friendships and think about which people make you feel awful about yourself, which people are always bringing you down, and which are actively making your life worse. Though your friends will have low periods, if they are bringing you nothing but negative energy, it may be time to rethink your friendships.


Sometimes, it may not be possible to fully end a toxic relationship if you’re stuck seeing the person regularly. Still, you can make an effort to be around the person less or to not let the person get to you when you do have to talk.
Think about the people who make you feel the best about yourself and the most excited about the world, and try to spend as much time with those people as you can.
 Eating three healthy, balanced meals a day, making sure you get enough rest, and making time for regular exercise can make you feel happier and more capable. If you feel too busy to give yourself too much attention, then it’s likely you’ll be more negative, more sluggish, and less motivated to make big changes. Here are some things you can do to make efforts to live a healthier life:


Exercise for at least 30 minutes a day. This can mean running, swimming, biking, hiking, or playing a sport with friends. Yoga can also make you feel more mentally and physically capable.
Be more active. Take the stairs instead of the elevator. Walk as much as you can instead of driving. Move to other side of the office to talk to your coworker instead of communicating by email. If you’re talking on the phone, do some stretches or move around instead of sitting in one place.
Get at least 7-8 hours of sleep per night and try to go to bed and wake up around the same time every day so you have an easier time falling asleep and waking up.
Get a healthy mix of lean proteins, fruits and veggies, and healthy carbs in your diet. Avoid foods that are overly fatty or greasy or they will make you feel less energetic. Make yourself a smoothie now and again to enjoy your veggies in a different way.
 Taking the time to process your life and to plan your next steps can help you live a more fulfilling, meaningful life. If you feel like you’re just rushing from one activity to the next, trying to catch your breath, then you’ll never be able to slow down and to appreciate the world around you. Make an effort to have some down time between activities, to unwind before bed, and take contemplative walks to plan your next move when you have to make a big decision. If you slow down more, your life will feel more enriching.


Meditate. Just find a quiet spot and a comfortable seat and focus on relaxing your body as you concentrate on your breath. Just 10 minutes of meditation a day can make you feel more focused and well-rested.
Stop multi-tasking. Though you may think this will help you get things done more quickly, it will actually make it harder for you to fully immerse yourself in any single task. Write in a journal. This is a great way to slow down, to pause and reflect on your day, and to get your brain to process your experiences. You may discover new ideas and thoughts just by giving yourself time to write before moving on to the next task.
 If you spend too much time focusing on making other people feel happy or getting all of your work done, then you won’t have time for personal fulfillment or growth. Make sure that you have at least thirty minutes a day to yourself, and at least a few hours a week to do whatever it is you want to do, whether it’s learning French, perfecting your lasagna baking skills, or just relaxing with a new novel.


Not all of your “me time” has to be productive. Sometimes you just need to unwind a bit and to take time to rest. That’s fine, too.
Protect your “me time” like it’s the hot date of your dreams. Don’t let last-minute plans or favors make you have to reschedule with yourself.
Try waking up half an hour earlier just to have some time with yourself before you start your day. This can make you feel less rushed and hectic as you begin the usual grind.
 Volunteering is a great way to step out of your comfort zone and to give back to your community. Not only will volunteering be beneficial for the people around you, but it will make you feel happier and more balanced; you’ll be able to put things in perspective and to appreciate your life even more. You’ll also be able to connect with different people who can impact your life just as positively as you can impact theirs.


You can tutor adults or children at your local library, work at a homeless shelter or soup kitchen, or help table for a worthy cause.
Just making a habit of volunteering a few times a month will make you more compassionate and less self-obsessed.
 Another way to have a more enriching life is to focus on being less wasteful. Use paper instead of plastic products. Make sure to always recycle. Use cloth instead of paper whenever you can. Don’t use too many napkins, plastic utensils, or products that can’t be reused. Walk or bike instead of driving. Making an effort to not be wasteful can help you be more self-aware and to appreciate your environment even more.Being less wasteful can also help you cultivate more gratitude and to really appreciate the world around you more by trying to cause as little damage as possible.
 Cultivating healthy relationships with your friends and family members has been proven to enrich your life.Having friends and family members who care about you can give you more of a sense of purpose, can help you feel less alone, and can make you feel less lost when you have to make important decisions. No matter how busy you are, you should make a habit of spending time with your loved ones and letting them know how much they mean to you.


Write “thank you” cards to your friends and family members just to let them know how much they mean to you.
Call up your parents or grandparents regularly. If you’re not living in the same place, then making an effort to call just to say hi—not because you want something—can help you maintain strong bonds and to enrich your life.
When you do spend time with friends and family, make sure to make a real effort to ask how they really are doing; don’t just spend time with people to get things off your chest.

