 Advanced math and science courses are necessary for your college classes in engineering and biology. Make sure to do as well as possible in these courses so you’re ready for the subjects at the college level.Take at least one year of biology, chemistry and physics. If possible, take AP or Honors versions of these classes. Advanced classes in biology, chemistry, or physics can be beneficial as well in preparing for college.
Choose as many algebra, geometry, trigonometry, and pre-calculus classes as you can at your high school. Calculus is especially useful in biomechanical engineering, so take these courses as well if available.
Find advanced math and science courses at a local community college. Your school may have a partnership with a local community college where you can take classes. Take these classes are part of your preparation for the biomechanical engineering program.
Audit classes in math or science at local colleges. Even if you can’t get credit, it is worthwhile to begin learning some of the more difficult concepts before going to college.;
, Computer programming is essential your job as a biomechanical engineer, since you’ll be doing much of your work on a computer using advanced computer programs. Additionally, drafting or computer-aided drafting courses can be useful to get a head start on using computing tools.Join an introduction to computer programming course. Many high schools offer basic computer programming courses. Start taking these classes now so you’ll know what to do before you have to use more advanced computer programs and systems.
Take a drafting or computer-aided drafting course. While many schools may not offer these courses, find ways to start learning how to draft, since it’s an important part of an engineer’s job.
Look for college classes on drafting and computer programming. There may be prerequisites for these classes, so you may not be able to take them for credit. However, sitting in on the classes can also be valuable.
 Biomechanical engineers focus on a wide range of issues. They are first and foremost problem solvers, so it’s important to have a well-rounded high school curriculum to best prepare you for a degree program in biomechanical engineering.Do well in your English and communication courses. Communication is very valuable for biomechanical engineers, since they are talking to all kinds of people. It’s good to be able to write well and talk effectively with others in the field.
Consider taking a foreign language. Biomechanical engineers can often communicate with people in other countries. Being able to speak another language can be a valuable asset.
Look for ways to work on your problem solving abilities. Problem solving is a key attribute of biomechanical engineers. You can hone your problem solving abilities in a variety of classes, clubs, and athletic teams while still in high school.

