 Assassins requires at least 5 people to play, but more people allows increased possibilities in regard to strategy

All players should have at least some experience with Nerf, as it streamlines gameplay.
All players must be unafraid of the dark.
If you are planning to invite a large group, it is helpful to include at least a few people who've already played Assassins before.
A good group size for the average game is 15, as it provides varied and interesting gameplay, but is not so large as to be uncontrollable.
Don't be afraid to invite a diverse group: A variety of personalities can improve team interaction and strategy.;
, Everyone needs a weapon, but many people prefer to use different weapons for different game roles.

A diverse collection of guns is important: different roles require different weapon choices.
An easy way to get enough weapons for everybody is to ask people to bring their own guns.
Melee weapons can work, but house rules may not allow them, due to the danger of broken furniture.
 This game requires that you reload your gun from whatever is around you, so a fair number of darts is required.

A good rule of thumb is that you should have enough darts to load each weapon 2-4 times.
Your dart collection should reflect your weapon diversity- if half your weapons use Mega darts, then you should have extra of these available.
 This game is designed to be played inside and requires at least 2 rooms: a staging area, and arena room or rooms.

The staging area can be as large or small as you want, but the arena's total area needs to be at least the size of a standard living room
As the game is played in the dark, either choose an area with few windows, such as a basement, or play at night.
If the arena is one room, then set up obstacles and furniture to use for cover.
 "Assassins" involves three roles, Assassin, Guard, and Target.

To choose roles, you can let people volunteer, or you can simply use random chance to decide.
Guards should outnumber assassins by a 3:2 or 3:1 ratio.
There is only one Target.


The Target chooses their weapon first, then the Assassins, followed by the Guards.
The type of weapons you can use depend on your role.
The Assassins aren't allowed to use automatic or semi-automatic weapons.
Guards are allowed to use any weapon, but should generally avoid sniper-type guns, as these are ineffective in this role.
Depending on house rules, the Target can either use any weapon, or can only use pistols.
 The room needs to be in complete or near-complete darkness. If you are playing during the day, block all windows in the arena room(s).

If you have them, use blackout curtains to block the windows
You can also tape cardboard over the window, or hang up sheets or blankets.
Don't turn off the lights just yet: The Assassins do this at the start of the game.
 Take a small object, such as a ball or stuffed animal. (It helps if it is translucent.) Place the object next to or on top of a small light source

The light should be visible from anywhere in the room, but not enough to illuminate the area (pointing it up towards the ceiling helps with this).
After the game has begun, no one but the Target may touch the goal object.


The Guards and the Target should now enter the staging room and close the door.
They may enough darts to load their weapons once or twice (once for large capacity guns, twice for small).
The Guards can discuss their strategy and make plans, but they are not allowed to leave the staging room until the game begins.
The Assassins remain in the arena while the guards leave.
The Assassins may move obstacles to create outposts and hiding places, so long as a clear route remains open from the staging room to the goal object.
 The Assassins must turn off the light before the game can begin.

Once the light is off and the Assassins are in position, they must shout to inform the Guards that they are ready.
The Guards and Target may now emerge from the staging room at any time. However, they are not required to enter immediately.
The entire team must emerge together- no one can remain in the staging room.
 If you are hit anywhere on your body, you are dead/disabled. Finger shots, hand shots, friendly fire, etc. all count as an elimination hit.

If you get hit, you immediately must fall to the ground and go limp. You are permitted to shout as you fall, but afterwards may not say anything.
Once you are out, you can move slightly to avoid being stepped on, but may not continue to grip your weapon or make any other muscle motion.
Both your teammates and your opponents are allowed to take your gun and/or ammunition. You are not permitted to take any action to prevent or encourage this.
Honor code applies here. If you get hit, don't pretend that it missed, as that just makes the game less fun for everyone. Gameplay typically only lasts a few minutes, so you'll be back in the game before long!

, When the Target touches the door, the Guards/Target immediately win.
Guards: Protect the Target, and eliminate the Assassins. If the Target succeeds in retrieving the goal object, or all Assassins are eliminated, Guards and Target win.
Assassins: Eliminate the Target. If the Target is eliminated, the Assassins immediately win

, Once one of the three game objectives is met, then turn on the lights as quickly as possible to prevent injury.

Return all guns to the center, but leave the darts scattered around the room.
You can now choose new roles, and begin the game again.

