 The best indicator of how a leotard should be washed is the care tag. While these are usually attached to leotards, some come separately.


Many care tags will say “Dry clean only.” Although this can be a bother, you should adhere to the instructions on the tag, as this will ensure your leotard performs optimally.
 Fill a large basin with cool-lukewarm water. You should be able to place your hands in the basin without discomfort.
 To clean your leotards, place a quarter-sized amount of detergent into the basin, avoiding powders. Powdered detergent may not be able to break down fully in cool water and may snag your fabric, so liquid detergent is a must.Gentle detergents such as baby detergent are best for leotards, as the fibers present in leotards are quite delicate and easily damaged.
 Using your hands or a spoon, stir the detergent in the water until you see bubbles on the surface of the water, and all of the detergent has dissolved. If your hands or the spoon still feel slimy, continue to stir.


If the slimy feeling persists, you may have used too much detergent. You can dump out ½-⅔ of your mixture, and refill the basin the rest of the way with water.
 Lower your leotard into the water, stopping along the way if you notice any of the color fading or bleeding. If the color continues to bleed, make sure it does not stain any other suits by washing each of them separately.If you have a multi-colored leotard and see the color running, wash each side of the leotard separately, if possible.
If the color continues to run and washing each color separately is not possible, you may need to have your leotard dry cleaned.
 Swish the leotard through the water in circular strokes, then agitate it between your palms to apply the detergent. Do not bunch your leotard during this process; instead, place the fabric between your palms and rub your hands together. Keep moving down the fabric until the entire leotard has been washed in this manner., Once all of your leotard has been covered in soap and water and thoroughly cleaned, remove it from your basin and rinse it in fresh, cool water--again, avoiding hot water. Rinse until the water runs clear of both soap bubbles and color.


Removing all of the soap from the fabric will help your leotard last longer. Leaving soap behind can result in the breakdown of fabric, and a loss of vibrant color.
 Gently press your hands together, but do not wring your leotard. Instead, press the water from the fabric using a towel or your hands, keeping the leotard in its original shape.Wringing your leotard can cause it to lose its shape and can damage the elastic and spandex in the fabric. If you are having trouble removing water on your own, you can hang your leotard to drain water over a bathtub or sink.
 Using either a line or a hanger, hang or lay your leotard to dry, avoiding the sun and spots directly beneath or beside a heater vent.If you are using a hanger, pin the leotard to the hanger to avoid making “dents” in the fabric.
If you are laying over a drying surface, quickly wipe it down to make sure you do not deposit dirt on your freshly-cleaned leotard.
If your leotard has multiple colors, it should be laid flat to dry to prevent the colors from running together.

