 In many cases, when you’re playing a character who dies a violent death, there is a fight that precedes the actual death. Whether your character is killed by a knife, gun, or some type of beating, you may need to engage in a struggle prior to the moment of death. It’s important to understand the action that will lead up to that moment, so neither you or your co-stars are injured.In most plays, the director usually takes care of the details of fights and other choreographed action, but make sure that you understand exactly how the scene will play out and run through it with your co-stars.
Not all violent on stage deaths are preceded by a fight. Your character may be stabbed without warning or shot from across the stage. In some cases, your character may be taking his or her own life by violent means, so there isn’t an altercation with another character. It’s still important to ensure that you understand the actions that you must take before the death occurs, so the moment is believable.;
, Depending on the method used to kill your character, the actions that you take can differ. For example, if you character is stabbed, it might be more believable for you to fall forward onto the person stabbing you. On the other hand, if you are shot, the force of the bullet would probably propel you backward. Consider the nature of the death carefully, so you can come up with the most convincing way to react to the death blow.Your director probably has an idea of how you should react at the moment of impact, but make sure that it’s something that feels authentic to you. You won’t be able to sell a convincing death if you don’t believe in the performance yourself.
Poisoning is a violent death that doesn’t necessarily have a moment of impact. However, you may want to cough or wretch to sell the death as the poison is starting to take effect. In general, though, less is more, so don’t go overboard with gagging and coughing if you want to be convincing.
Certain types of death, such as a hanging, may require special stage directions and effects at the moment of impact. It’s important that you understand all of the technical aspects, so the death is convincing but also to ensure that you don’t hurt yourself.
 After your character has been shot, stabbed, beaten, or otherwise injured, you’ll need to collapse to convey that you are dying. In some cases, you may be in another actor’s arms, so your co-star can guide you to the stage. However, if you are standing by yourself, there is no one to slow your fall and you run the risk of injuring yourself. To minimize the impact, consider collapsing in stages. For example, drop to your knees first and then collapse to the stage so you aren't falling as far.Depending on where you are on the stage during the death scene, you may be able to use a piece of scenery or a prop to ease your fall. For example, you might collapse against a table or a column to help slow down the fall.
The most convincing way to fall is to allow your body to go limp. Avoid convulsions and other distracting gestures because they usually seem over the top.
 If you have lines to recite just before your character dies, you want to deliver them in a convincing way. With a violent death, such as a shooting or stabbing, the trauma associated with it would likely make it difficult for your character to speak. Try to simulate labored breathing and recite the lines in a halting manner before closing your eyes.It’s almost important to consider who your character is saying the final lines to. They should probably come out harsher if you’re speaking to the murderer, as opposed to a friend or loved one.

