 Red meat contains protein and iron, both of which help with nail health. Healthy nails are strong and help prevent breakage, which encourages nail growth. Try incorporating red meat into your meals during the week for stronger, healthier nails.Do not go overboard on red meat, however, as it's high in saturated fat. Go for a lean cut of red meat once a week for your nail health.
 Blueberries have been called a superfood due to their antioxidants. Antioxidants help your body, including your nails, fight off damage. A diet high in blueberries can help your nails stay strong and avoid breakage, allowing you to grow them longer. Try snacking on blueberries throughout the day to promote nail growth.Darker fruits and vegetables in general tend to be high in antioxidants, so incorporate things like spinach and other dark berries into your diet as well.
 Biotin is a dietary supplement that some studies indicate helps strengthen nails. If you're having difficulty growing out your nails because they're brittle, ask your doctor if biotin is right for you.While you can get biotin without a doctor's prescription, it's never a good idea to take medication without consulting your doctor first. This is especially important if you're on existing medications, which could be adversely affected by biotin.
 Almonds, walnuts, and brazil nuts are rich in vitamins like magnesium, selenium, vitamin E, and omega-3s. These nutrients help you maintain healthy, strong nails. Try snacking on nuts or adding them to salads to promote nail growth.Nuts are high in calories, so be sure to limit the overall amount of nuts you eat each day.
 Protein is important for your body's overall strength and can help with nail growth. Opt for healthy, lean sources of protein if you want long, healthy nails.Salmon actually contains biotin in addition to protein, making it a great option for strengthening nails.
Eggs also have biotin and contain a high amount of protein.
Oysters contain zinc, which can help grow hair and nails.

