 Generally, Retin-A is used daily at bedtime, or once every two to three days. For best results, use it at night.Make sure you confirm with your physician and the pharmacist as to the correct dosage as well as the appropriate method and frequency of use. Feel free to ask the doctor or pharmacist any questions you may have.
 Wash your hands and face thoroughly with mild soap and water. Try not to use abrasive soap or anything with "microbeads" or other exfoliants. Pat your skin dry.Make sure your skin is completely dry. Wait 20 – 30 minutes before applying Retin-A to ensure it is dry.
 You could also use a cotton swab or cotton pad, especially if you are using Retin-A in liquid form. Use about a pea-sized amount of Retin-A (whether it be the liquid, gel or cream) or enough to cover the entire affected area lightly. The coverage should be thin and sparing, rather than slathered on the skin. In general, you shouldn't need much more than a pea-sized amount if you're applying it to a specific area. Wash your hands after application.Apply the medication to the affected skin only. Do not apply to your entire face and/or neck.
Take caution when applying Retin-A. You don't want it to get into the areas around your mouth and directly under eyes.If you do get it in your eye flush with water. Use clean lukewarm water, and flush for 10 to 20 minutes. If irritation persists contact your doctor.Wash your hands thoroughly when you are done applying. This will help you avoid transferring residual Retin-A to other people, on other parts of your skin, or accidentally rubbing into your eyes or in your mouth, all of which can be harmful.
 It's important that you use Retin-A regularly in order to receive the most benefits from it. Try using it at the same time every evening. This will help make it part of your nightly routine. Retin-A won't work as a one time treatment when you have a pimple. Its action is a long-term remodeling of the skin.Note that your acne may worsen during the first seven to 10 days, but should improve in the first few weeks after continuous use. In some cases, it takes even eight to 12 weeks to notice improvement.Never double the dose or application. If you miss a dose and are using it everyday, skip the missed dose completely. Do not double the dose. Similarly, don't apply more Retin-A than the pea-sized amount or use it more than once a day. This will not improve your skin, but only increase the likelihood of experiencing side effects., Retin-A can make you more sensitive to the sun. Take care to avoid prolonged sun exposure as well as things like tanning booths and sunlamps. Use a sunscreen daily of at least SPF 30 to prevent sunburn or irritation during the day. Wear protective clothing, like a hat, long sleeves, and pants, when outdoors and in the sun.If you get a sunburn, wait until your skin has completely healed from the sunburn before using Retin-A., Consult your doctor about which moisturizers to use if your skin does become too dry due to using Retin-A. Generally water-based moisturizing creams, gels or lotions work best if you are using Retin-A for acne. If using Retin-A for wrinkles or sunspots, oil-based creams and lotion are fine to use.


Do not apply any creams or topical medications until one hour after using Retin-A., Note that most people do not experience serious side effects when using Retin-A; however, if you experience any of the following, you should get in touch with your doctor immediately:Blistering, crusting, burning or swelling of the skin
Dizziness, headache, confusion, anxiety or depression
Drowsiness, slow speech or facial paralysis
Allergic reaction, including hives, swelling, difficulty breathing
If you become pregnant while using Retin-A

