 Don’t pretend to be someone you are not in order to be liked by others. This does not convey confidence; rather, it indicates insecurity. This is easier said than done, of course, but here are some suggestions to help you be who you are:


Be comfortable in your own skin. Embrace your inner nerd (or band geek, or jock, or hippie) and love what you love. Nothing shows confidence like a person enjoying who they are.
Have a sense of humor about yourself. If people are making fun of you for being involved in all the school plays, for example, you can laugh and say, “Yes, that’s me! The drama queen!” Add a dramatic gesture for increased effect.
Don’t pretend to be someone you are not. Not only will people be able to figure it out, but you will feel miserable.
Trust your intuition. Listen to that “gut feeling” that gives you the sense that maybe you are not doing what is the best for you.For example, your discomfort around hanging out with a boisterous crowd at the football game is not a personal failing. It could be your intuition saying, hey, this isn’t your scene.
 Tell the truth about who you are and the mistakes you’ve made. Making yourself vulnerable and sharing the “real” you can give you confidence. People will be impressed with your strength in sharing your feelings, which may help you feel good about yourself. You will see others accepting you in spite of your “flaws.”You’ll also see that sharing your vulnerabilities is not the worst thing in the world; in fact, it can often help grow relationships with others. You will find that the people who matter most will most likely accept you for who you are no matter what.
For example, say you feel upset about your dad’s remarriage. You could say, “I feel like I am going to be left out of his new family.” While your friends may not be able to relate to a parent getting remarried, everyone can relate to the feeling of being left out. This statement gives others the opportunity to share their own experiences.
 Adolescence is the time to figure out who you are.Give yourself permission to try something and fail. You’ll realize that if you fail, it’s not the end of the world.


Make a point to do something that you have always wanted to do, but it is also something you find daunting or even terrifying! For example, you could ask out your crush, perform in the school talent show, or make your un-athletic self join the track team.
It might be hard and frightening, but think of the sense of accomplishment you will have. Also consider how much easier it will be to do the scary thing again.
 Writing in a journal is a great way to keep track of your feelings, work through your problems, and watch yourself evolve. You will look back on previous pages and see how the thing you thought was such a huge deal really wasn’t. You’ll learn to not sweat the small stuff.


You’ll get to know yourself better -- self-awareness boosts confidence.You’ll also have a personal record of your life as a teenager to keep as you move into adulthood. Looking back on it as an adult may help you empathize with younger generations one day!

, Being a teenager is not an easy time. You are figuring out your identity, exploring new freedoms, and learning about the world… and so is everybody else! Take confidence in the fact that your feelings and struggles are normal.


Be gentle with yourself as you navigate adolescence. Give yourself permission to make mistakes and not know everything. Remember, no one has it all figured out (that goes for adults, too)!
Don’t put unnecessary pressure on yourself to know who you are or what you want to do with your life. Learning who you are is a lifelong process. It won’t happen overnight, or even in your teens. Be confident that you are normal, and that you’ll find your own answers in your own time.

