 In the United States, this is called the American Rabbit Breeders Association (ARBA) Standard of Perfection. This book describes every recognized breed and what it should look like. Having the standards for every recognized breed will allow you to figure out what breeds you like best and what they should look like.Having the standard will also help prevent you from getting a rabbit that will not do well on the show tables.
Breed standard books are typically available on the websites of breed appreciation groups, such as the American Rabbit Breeders Association.;
, The small-sized breeds (3 ½ - 6 lbs) are typically easy to handle for beginners. They also use less cage space and eat less food than the bigger breeds, so they are cheaper to care for and are a good choice to start with. Some of the small-sized breeds include:


Dutch
Mini Rex
Britannia
Holland Lop
Polish
Lionhead

, Do not get a dwarf breed rabbit unless you are experienced at showing rabbits or you are located near a competent breeder who can help you. These rabbits require skills to handle, breed, and pose. Overall, they can simply be more challenging to the beginner despite their smaller size.


If you really want to show dwarf rabbits, get some skills with small-sized rabbits first. Once you have some experience, you will then be able to care for and show dwarf breeds more successfully.
 Find a breeder online by looking at your state’s rabbit club website or the website of a national breed appreciation group. Try to find breeder listings for your area, as you will need to visit the breeder to assess the quality of their operation.If you are looking for a rare breed, you may need to travel to get one. Take this into consideration when contacting breeders.
 Once you have identified breeders in your area, or a breeder of a rare breed that you are willing to travel to meet, then you should contact them. Call them or email them and ask if they have rabbits available for sale. Be prepared to tell them why you want a show rabbit and why you want the particular breed that they specialize in.A good breeder will have as many questions for you as you have for them. They should be invested in the well-being of their rabbits. This means that they want to place them in the best, most suitable homes possible.
You may have to wait until the breeder has young rabbits available before scheduling a visit.
 A reputable breeder should be able to give you references of rabbit owners who have bought rabbits from them in the past. If a breeder cannot provide references, then you should look elsewhere for your rabbit.Once you have received the contact information for the breeders references, be sure to be professional when contacting them. Call them during daytime hours and ask questions about the person's interactions with the breeder, how satisfied they are with the rabbit that they purchased, and whether they would purchase a rabbit from that breeder again.
 When you talk to a potential breeder you should ask if you can see where they breed and take care of their rabbits. If they don't want to let you see their operation, then find a different breeder. If they agree to let you visit, then they probably have a relatively ethical and sanitary breeding operation.


However, first impressions count. When you visit, assess whether their rabbitry is clean, organized, and well-kept. If it is dirty, smelly, and full of unhealthy rabbits, then do not want to buy from the breeder.
 Ask about how the breeder shows their rabbits, how they condition them, and how they breed them. This is extremely valuable information learned over many years of trial and error. It can save you much time, money, and heartache to buy a rabbit from a person that is skilled at breeding instead of someone who it not experienced.If the breeder is calm, knowledgeable, and is prepared to stay a long time to see if this is the rabbit for you, chances are you have found a good rabbit breeder!

, When selecting a show rabbit, you should be able to choose between at least several rabbits. Interact with all of the rabbits and narrow down your choices by feeling the rabbit's bodies, noticing their personalities, and identifying ones that you generally like the look of.Oftentimes, if you are offered just one specific rabbit, this is the last of a litter and it may not be up to the breed standards of others that were in the same litter.
Make sure that the rabbits the breeder is selling are at least 8 weeks old. Rabbits that are younger than that should stay with their mother.
Some questions to ask yourself when assessing the rabbits for sale include: Is it friendly? Does it come and greet you or does it run and hide? Does it bite or scratch you? Will it allow you to flip it over? These will help you to assess whether a rabbit has the potential to be shown.
 Pet the rabbit and inspect its fur. In most breeds, the fur should snap back into position when you stroke it backwards (tail to head). The fur should also be soft, free of knots or mats, and there should be no bald spots on the rabbit.


Check the Standard of Perfection or the ARBA website for rules on fur for the breed you are getting before you pick a rabbit. The rules could include coat length, color, and pattern requirements. Check that the under-color (color of its belly) is correct, and that all markings are the right size, shape, and color.
 A good show rabbit should have eyes that are clean, free of discharge, and bright. The color of the eyes should also conform to the standard for the breed. The nose should not be runny and its top teeth should overlap its bottom teeth. Also, its ears should be parasite and wax free, so look inside them while assessing a potential rabbit to bring home.Any sign of illness should be enough to eliminate a potential rabbit. You want to bring home a rabbit the is in perfect health, so a runny nose or gooey eyes should not be tolerated.
 Its back should be strong and firm, not bony, lumpy or crooked. The rabbit’s body should be firm, not soft and flabby. The legs should be straight. Every rabbit should have five toes on the front feet and four on the back feet and all the toenails should be present.Some rabbits have different shaped backs and may feel skinnier than others, so check the Standard of Perfection (SOP) or ARBA website for the details.
There should be white toenails on white breeds and varieties and colored toenails on colored breeds or varieties.
In a very young rabbit, the body might not be very firm, but it should not be flabby.
 Listen to the rabbit's breathing. The rabbit should have very quiet breathing. It should also have firm, dry stools, so try to inspect its feces as well. Overall, there should be no signs of illness or injury.Rabbits do sometimes get urination stains on their feet. This does not mean they're sick.
It is important not to buy a sick rabbit. It can infect your whole rabbitry and can lead to heartbreak down the road if the rabbit doesn't survive or is in pain due to illness.
 If everything with a rabbit looks good, ask to see the rabbit’s pedigree and its parents and litter mates, if possible. Ask about any Best in Show, Best of Breed, or Best of Variety wins. If there is a history of winning in the pedigree, odds are you have a rabbit that could win.


Just because you get a rabbit that has show winners in its pedigree, that doesn't automatically mean that your rabbit will be a winner as well. However, it does increase your chances of having a winner.
You will need to have a pedigree for your rabbit to register it for shows. Make sure to get a copy when you purchase your rabbit., Once you decide to buy the rabbit, ask the breeder to tattoo it in its left ear. Most breeders do it themselves. You must have a tattooed number or letter sequence if you are to show in ARBA shows. This gets written on the pedigree so you can identify your rabbits easily.At rabbits shows, there may be eighty rabbits of the same breed and color, and you don’t want to get yours swapped up with someone else’s. The tattoos help to keep the rabbits straight.

