 Writing is a powerful tool to process your emotions. You may be feeling many different emotions, including anger, sadness, confusion, disbelief, or guilt. You may even feel numb or overwhelmed by the discovery. Take a journal or write on a computer. Set aside fifteen minutes a day to write out your emotions.If you’re having difficult starting, you can write, “Today, I am feeling ______.”
If you have difficult or unresolved feelings towards the abuser, you can write them a letter where you get to say everything that you couldn’t in life.Allow yourself to write whatever pops into your head. Do not stop writing until your time is up or you are out of ideas.
Consider that you might be feeling very upset or emotional after this exercise, and have a plan in place for how to care for yourself afterwards. Maybe have a phone-date set up with your friend to talk after the exercise.
 Ignoring your emotions may only cause them to bubble up later. When you are feeling upset by the news, take some time to process your emotions.Crying is a natural part of grief, and you should not feel ashamed for crying. This is difficult news about someone you loved, and even if you grieved in the past, this discovery may cause you to grieve again. That said, everyone processes such news in different ways. Do not feel guilty if you don’t cry or feel sad.
Sometimes pain can happen when you least expect it. You might suddenly feel panic at work or start crying while doing the dishes. Excuse yourself to a private place, such as a bathroom or car, and give yourself a few minutes to grieve alone.
 While you may be feeling angry, confused, sad, or afraid during this time, it is important that you maintain your physical health as well as your mental health. By caring for your body through proper diet, sleeping habits, and exercise, you can help strengthen both body and mind in this difficult time.Get plenty of sleep. Go to bed early and wake up early if you can. Avoid sleeping all day. If you are finding that your grief is disrupting your sleeping habits, consult a doctor for help.
Eating a healthy diet and drinking plenty of water can help you feel better physically, which may be able to help you cope mentally.
Try to exercise to boost your mood when you are feeling down. You can go on a run, take a walk, do yoga, or swim at the beach.
 Some people may feel as though there was something they could have done while the abuser was alive to prevent their abuse. If you feel this way, try to avoid blaming yourself. The actions of your loved one had nothing to do with you. If you only found out about the abuse after they died, there was nothing you could have done in the past to change things.If it will help provide you some relief or closure, consider talking to the abuse survivor and expressing your regret that you never knew and were not able to help. However, be prepared if the person does not wish to talk about it and respect this decision.
 This discovery might cause you to feel ashamed or guilty about any good memories that you have of the deceased. Even if you were not a victim, you may still feel as though it is not right to remember them fondly because of the things that they did. Repressing your good memories may only worsen your pain. You can still remember the good times that you had with them while acknowledging that they treated other people poorly.