 If you have a big moment coming up, it's highly likely that you will be feeling nervous and anxious as it draws closer. You may not able to completely get rid of this feeling, but you can take steps to control your nervousness. Deep breathing slows your heart rate and reduces your blood pressure. Sit up straight and breathe deeply in through your nose. Place your hand on your abdomen so you can feel your lungs filling with air.


After holding it for a few seconds, exhale slowly through your mouth. Repeat this until you feel your heart slow and you become more relaxed. Try to clear your mind and just concentrate on your breathing.To maintain a regular rhythm when breathing count from one to five as you breathe in and then again from one to five as you breathe out.;
, If you have something like a presentation or a job interview that makes you nervous, practising can help make the event seem more familiar. Have a trusted friend sit through your presentation or ask you common interview questions. Practice also helps if you’re planning to confront someone about something awkward.


Tired of your roommate leaving dirty dishes in the sink? Rehearse your grievances privately and then address your roommate with confidence.
Rehearsing for more unstructured events like parties can be difficult. Still, the process of rehearsing a few jokes and stories could help calm your nerves.
 If you are nervous about a job interview or a presentation, think "what's the worst that could happen?" You could have an interview that goes horribly wrong, but really it's not the end of the world. It's completely normal to nervous about a significant event in your life, but remember there are plenty more opportunities to come, even if it doesn't feel like it at the time.If you are able to adopt a slightly more rounded appreciation of these events you may find new confidence and be able to present yourself more successfully.
 If you feel the nervousness gathering, take a few moments to try and visualize something calming and soothing. Close your eyes and picture something that makes you feel safe. It could be anything from a calm sea, to your cat, or a happy childhood memory., Listening to some slow, mellow music or even some nature sounds can help you to relax and lower your heart rate down and make you generally calmer. Listening to more uptempo music, and singing your heart out along with it, can be cathartic too.