 Whether you're making a movie, writing a horror novel or just telling a story, a solid premise is key. Whether it's caused by a spider or a dark room with a sense of dread, fear lives in the brain. Horror movies, suspense novels, or scary campfire stories are all good ways to give people a fright. Watch a scare movie or read a spooky tale for inspiration.


Don't just create your story on the spot. Though you can surely improvise, it's important to have your story set before you begin. If you hesitate while you're telling the story, then you will lose your audience.
 Even if your story is wildly untrue, just say it's a true story -- that it happened in your town many years ago, that it happened to your cousin, or that you actually saw it happen. Saying something is actually true will get people to pay attention and will make your story sound more probable.You can even tell people that it's so secret that you can't even read about it online. Say you read about it on microfilm at the local library. Tell people they can do the same to confirm that the story is true -- obviously, no one would do that, but it'll lend more credibility to your tale.
Before you jump into the story, you can ask, "Are you sure you want to hear this?" Act like the story is so scary that you don't know if you should proceed.
 From the long walk up the attic stairs to the slow opening of a door, a good scare needs to be built up and anticipated. Don't just give it all away, or your audience won't be interested. Build anticipation by acting like you're telling a normal story, and let the creepy details slowly make their way into the story.


Keep your readers on their toes by saying things like, "But that's nothing compared to what happened later." Or, "She thought that was the worst pain in the world, but that was only the beginning."
Talk slowly and carefully. Don't just rush to the scariest parts of the story. Make every word count.
 Show people your appendectomy scar and say it was where you were stabbed by the killer in question. Bring some old grainy photos of your grandparents and say they're pictures of the victims. If you've brought any other visual aids, just pass them around casually, like you always keep them with you.


The fake blood-stained clothes of the victim are also a nice touch.
You can even use something ordinary, like the baseball card collection of a little boy who disappeared.
 The effects can be simple. If you're talking about something knocking on a door in the middle of the night, knock on the floor. Have a friend help out by creating other spooky sounds, like a creaking opened door, raindrops falling on the ceiling, or the wind blowing through the trees.


You can also crumple a plastic bag, which creates a great rustling effect.
 Just like the spooky atmosphere of a haunted house, the details of a scary story help set the scene. Describe the sounds of the abandoned warehouse or show the decaying teeth of the murderous clown. The more specific your scary story is, the better.


For example, a man whose hand was severed is scary enough, but a man with a severed hand whose veins leave a trail of blood wherever he walks is even more frightening.
Ground the story in history. If it was before World War II, casually mention who the president was, or bring up a detail from that period to make the story sound more realistic.
 Don't reveal the ordinary details that people would expect to hear in any scary story. Sure, everyone has heard the story of a ghost who haunts the woods late at night, but how about the story of a ghost who makes people eat their own eyeballs, or a ghost who inhabits the body of a little girl's pet rabbit?

, When the story gets really scary, slow down or even clam up, like you can't bear to finish the story. Take a deep breath and wait for people to ask what happened next. Finally, make your voice absolutely calm as you reveal the gruesome ending.


The spookiest endings are unresolved. Don't solve the mystery. Leave your audience to wonder if the ghost or scary person in question is still alive -- maybe even wandering in the woods nearby.
When the story's over, go absolutely silent, like you were so overwhelmed by the ending that you can't possibly go on.

