 May you had a few cables running into the baseboard; or perhaps those nails we talked about earlier are in need or covering up.


To make a wood paste, mix sawdust with a small amount of white glue to create a paste. Apply paste over the nails with a putty knife and allow to harden before sanding flush with the rest of the floor.
Find small wooden plugs for larger holes. If necessary, drill into the floor to enlarge the hole so that the plug will fit nicely inside. Apply a small amount of wood glue around the side of the plug, fit the plug into the hole so that the grain of the plug and the grain of the floor match well, and hammer down lightly. Allow to dry completely before sanding flush with the rest of the floor.
 You want your entire floor cleared of any sawdust, debris, or stripper before you apply the new coat. Make sure also that your floor is completely dry before applying the new finish.
 Make sure that before you actually start to apply the coat to your floor, you have the windows open for ventilation, you're wearing a mask to keep the fumes from bothering you, and you've spot tested the finish so you reasonably know what it's going to look like on your floor.


Also use gloves and a synthetic bristle brush when applying the finish. Start with the perimeter of the floor and work your way in. A 3-inch band is all you'll need for a perimeter.
Use an applicator pad to do most of the work for you. You can use a watering can with a bit of cheesecloth on top to pour the finish onto the floor, and then use your applicator pad to mop the finish into the floor evenly and cleanly.
Make sure that you leave yourself an area to exit once the finish has been applied. You don't want to have to walk over the newly-stained floor with your dirty shoes when you want to let the finish dry.
 Use the same techniques as described above, and be sure to take proper safety and handling guidelines into consideration.
 It is much easier to use a long-handed roller rather than a brush, and it gives a nicer finish. It is important to lightly sand after each application with 220 grit sandpaper. Clean after each sanding with tack cloth. It may take 24 hours between applications for the polyurethane to dry.

