 When you have IBS, you may need to have a bowel movement more often than normal. To help you not have to do this at work, consider getting up 20 to 30 minutes earlier than you would normally in order to make time to have a bowel movement before you go to work.


This can help you feel better about having it over with early in the day and relieve any stress about the possibility of having to have a bowel movement at work.;
, When you have IBS, there may be times when you need to be away from your desk in order to have a bowel movement. You should tell your boss, supervisor, or human resources department about your condition. Most people will be understanding since it is a medical condition you can’t help.


Explain that you’ll be gone from your area of work from time to time.
If you have to, you can work out a cover schedule with a few trusted coworkers so your work area is covered when you have to leave.
If your boss or supervisor does not believe you, you can get your doctor to write a note explaining your condition and the symptoms that require the special treatment.
If you can, try to arrange your work hours around your IBS patterns. Even ask your boss if possibility of working some days at home., If you have IBS, you may need to get to the bathroom in a hurry. To make it easier at work, ask your boss or supervisor to move your desk closer to the bathroom. This will help you get there faster.


If your desk is close to the bathroom and you don't have to walk across the department or past all your co-workers, it's less likely you'll be stopped on your way to the bathroom., You may need to take your medication or supplements at work. You may also have diarrhea or an accident at work. You should have wet wipes to clean up or an extra change of clothes to be prepared for anything.


This will make you feel less self-conscious in case something happens at work., Stress plays a major role in aggravating your IBS. This can be problematic when you are at work, because your job may be a major point of stress. You need to learn to cope with the stress of your work to help cope with your IBS while you are there. There are many different types of stress management that you can undertake, with or without the help of a counselor. These stress techniques include:Mental health methods, such as behavioral therapy, hypnosis, or psychotherapy

Deep breathing techniques
Meditation

Tai chi or yoga

Additional lifestyle changes (Eating small frequent meals, weight loss, making dietary changes by avoiding foods that trigger symptoms)

