 Pop music is a complicated genre because it really isn’t a genre: it’s just whatever is the predominant form of music at the time. For now, pop music is heavily influenced by rock. To write songs like what we consider pop now, you will need to take certain things into consideration.


Form: Pop and rock songs are both very formulaic and put a heavy emphasis on the chorus, which will usually be repeated several times. Choruses also tend to be shorter and catchier, so try to capture those aspects.
Instrument choice: Many of the same instruments are popularly used in rock and pop. Examples would include guitars (though many pop songs will make use of acoustic rather than or in addition to electric guitars), synthesizers/keyboards (in pop music, they are a bit obvious while not commonly used in rock music), bass, drums, and occasionally pianos. Some pop and rock songs will use classical string instruments in the background to add dramatic effect.
Tempo: The tempo associated with pop and rock music will largely depend on the emotion meant to be conveyed in the song. Sadder or more heartfelt songs will need to use a slower tempo, while ones meant to rouse your audience should be faster.
 Country and folk music are related genres which use very similar instrumentation. These genres place a heavy importance on live shows, local musicians, and reasonably low levels of audio editing (preferring the “acoustic” sound and using little autotuning).


Form: The song forms tend to be the same as with more popular music, with an emphasis on the AABA structure. Folk music usually uses more complex, complicated lyrics, however.
Instrument choice: There are a number of instruments which are common to both genres. These include the heavy use of acoustic guitar, dobro, mandolin, a single classical string instrument as backup (such as a fiddle or bass), autoharps and pianos.
Tempo. As with pop and rock, the tempo will largely be determined by the mood of the song. Country music tends to be faster than average while folk tends to be slower than average.
 These related genres are different from the previous ones in that they tend to use different instrumentation and tempo. Forms vary widely, however. Be sure that you are taking these things into consideration when writing this type of song.


Form: While hip-hop and rap both make use of the verse-chorus dynamic, it is much more common to see the AAA structure in these genres than it is in the others. Emphasis is certainly placed on verse, rather than any type of chorus which may be included.
Instruments: Both rap and hip-hop focus very heavily on percussion, rather than instruments like guitars. Certainly, the emphasis is placed on digital methods of making the musical backup to the more central focus on the lyrics. Turntables, samplers, and computers are frequently used, in addition to synths, snares, cymbals, and drums.
Tempo: The tempo for rap and hip-hop music is generally in the range of 90-100 beats per minute. Slower songs are generally categorized as more lyrical and is more commonly seen in hip-hop, while faster songs are considered better for dancing and are more commonly played in clubs.
 Jazz music is extremely complex to play, though technically simple to write. Tempos tend to be slow and the form can vary widely. What is, however, definitive about the genre is the use of call and response and improvisation. When writing a jazz song you will need to leave in room for both of these aspects.


Instruments: Jazz makes more use of brass and wind instruments than the other genres do, often soloing saxophones or oboes. It will also make use of pianos, bass, drums, and guitar.



Form: Usually hooks and riffs in this kind of genre are incredibly catchy but can cause a bit of earworm so let's just skip that. Anyway, vocals are sometimes processed with phase vocoder effects to give a robotic feel or some dance songs use samples.
Instruments: So basically the common used instruments are: Vocals, synthesizers, keyboards, and drum machines. Sometimes guitars are used but only if the producer wants the dance song to start out as folky and acoustic.
Tempo: The tempo for dance music is in the range of 90-140 beats per minute. The slow, low-tempo (90-105 beats per minute) songs sometimes includes melancholy for it's lyrical content and is played for happiness. The upbeat but midtempo (110-125 beats per minute) songs are danceable for some people and includes little to no melancholy. And the fast and uptempo (125-140 beats per minute) songs are played in raves, clubs, parties, and Coachella so basically anyone in the world could dance to it.

