 It's not easy breaking up. However, know that your reasons are right and that it's not you - it's him. Convince yourself you have done the right thing. Although you have completed your mission, you still may feel hurt and angry. The recovery process will depend on how much you love him, but don't worry - you will feel better one day soon.


Missing him does not change any of your issues and it is not a reason to get back together. Your bigger issues, the ones you broke up over, will still be there when the dust settles.
 Once you've let go of the one you love, it's going to hurt. You'll miss him at random times, feel like you've made a mistake, and want his advice on what to do next. But you have to resist the urge to text, call, or see him. You can move on and get your life back together, but only if you commit to moving on. Resist the urge to talk to him and work on sorting through your emotions on your own. It will be difficult, but you'll be able to do it with time.You may be able to be friends one day, but that day is in the future. You need to be completely over your romantic feelings, and the only way to get there is to not see each other.
Packing away photos and items that bring painful memories is a good way to start the healing process.
 As painful as a breakup can be, it also comes with a sense of liberation. You no longer need to make decisions for two -- you can make them only by yourself. You'll notice you have a lot more free time all of a sudden, and events and activities that were difficult to coordinate with a partner are now easily available. Don't spend your time trying to recreate the feeling you had in a relationship -- go out and try something new. Enjoy your newfound liberation and explore the single world.Do things for you. Take the time to take care of yourself for a bit.
 Having a great network of other people reminds you that, even without a boyfriend, you are not alone. Spend your time with other people you love to help heal the inevitable hole in your heart.


When you feel like calling or texting your ex-boyfriend, call your best friend instead. Let them know, briefly, that you are still kicking old habits chat out your problems.
Most people are happy to help you move on, but that doesn't mean they want to hear about your ex-boyfriend all day. Avoid bringing him up, instead moving on to other topics.