 If you're forming a dance routine, you'll need to choose a musical accompaniment. Choose a song that you like, first of all, as you'll dance better if you're enjoying yourself. You're more likely to have fun dancing to a song you love. Also, keep in mind the style of the music and how it matches the routine you're creating. If you want to do a graceful, ballroom style routine choose a slow song. If you want a fun, peppy routine look into dance music and club music.
 Dancing is like any other practice. You can learn a lot through simple observation. If you want to create a dance routine, spend a lot of time exploring dance routines online.


You can explore dance routines on YouTube. Simply typing in "dance routine" in the search bar should yield a lot of results. You may even find tutorials on how to to do specific moves on YouTube and other video sharing sites.
Consider attending a dance class just to watch. You can catch a lot in terms of form, choreography, and dance moves simply by observing a class. Talk to a local dance instructor and see if he or she would let you come watch a class.Watch for events in your town or area that involve dancing. If affordable for you, consider buying tickets to events that involve dancing. This can help you find inspiration.
 Dancing is an art and people study for years to dance properly. Even if you're just forming a dance routine for fun, studying dancing can help.


Enroll in a dance or choreography class. Learn about the art and style of dance from trained professionals.
Go to your local library or bookstore and find books about dancing and choreography.
 After getting inspired and studying a variety of dance styles, put it all together. Using the moves you've learned, altered, or created, put together a fun routine for yourself. Remember to pay attention to the beat and style of the music. It might be a good idea to record yourself dancing and watch the recording. This way, you can see where your routine might need improvement.
 Dancing requires a certain level of mastery that can only be achieved through practice. Try to make time each day to dance. Work practicing your routine into your schedule as you would brushing your teeth or eating dinner. Set aside an hour each day to work on your routine.

