 Bad equipment can cause serious injury.;
, A good resource for such information is Wikipedia.
, The metal can be turned on only one point, but only if the piece short enough to not wobble. Typically, about seven inches is long enough to make several rings, and to allow for some error in work.
 This is necessary for a flat end surface to work with. Center the cutting point of the tool to just barely below center of the workpiece, and lock into the tool rest. Activate the lathe so that it is turning the metal counterclockwise when looking at it from the right of the stock. This will feed the metal in the correct direction as to cut it.
 Once completed, run the bit directly back out, paying close attention not to make the bit traverse laterally toward the metal by turning the incorrect operation knob. If you like, you can move the bit away from the stock first, then back it out.
 This refers to making the piece spin truly round on the axis. This is achieved with a tool bit that has been ground to the correct shape for performing the operation on aluminum, you can obtain this information in a metal-working book, or some stores may sell pre-ground bits; when in doubt, contact a professional or a person with experience.
 If not, or if you prefer, simply feed it slowly by hand, as evenly as possible. Set the tool bit at centerline of the stock, and move it to a position a few inches before the end of the stock. Then you can activate the lathe to turn in the same manner as before. Don't start the lathe with the tool touching it; feed the bit into the metal just a few thousandths of an inch. There should be little markings on knob that indicate thousandths of an inch. Engage the automatic feed or begin feeding it by hand; if the feed is too fast, the surface will look rough after cutting, so slow the feed by shutting down the lathe and adjusting the feed transmission. Or, just turn the knob slower if you're doing it by hand. Continue this operation until the desired size is achieved; this can take a while if you want it really smooth. Once finished, disengage the feed mechanism from the transmission via the switch on the tool-holding assembly.
 Or, if you like the flat finish, you can proceed to the next step.
 If it does not have a Morse taper on the back, (a locking taper), you will need a keyed chuck attachment to insert into the tailstock. Once you have the bit, insert it into the tapered tube in the tailstock if it has a Morse taper, or insert the bit into the chuck and put the chuck in the tailstock.



Slide the tailstock into position, with the bit fully drawn back, close to the end of the stock.
Lock the tailstock in place.
Activate the lathe in the same manner as before and slowly feed the bit into the stock, the turning of the workpiece replaces the turning of the drill bit.



Back the bit out and shut down after the bit is clear from the workpiece.
, Position it for where you want the ring to end. Follow the parting operation; odds are, once you break through the ring, it will drop into the pile of aluminum leftovers from all the cutting. Just leave it there for a bit until it cools. Shut down the lathe or repeat the parting operation on another ring that is bored if you prepared enough metal for another ring.
 It might be sort of rough; always check for sharp edges and sand them off. Now that your ring is complete, wear it around and show it off to your friends; make more with different textures, finishes and designs.

