 It's important to pay close attention to the instructions and alerts given by the local government and emergency services. Remember the emergency services are fully trained to deal with the situation, and will most likely have access to more information than you. If you are told that you need to evacuate, do so swiftly, calmly, and according to the instructions given.


When you evacuate, only take essentials with you, such as your emergency kit and your car emergency kit. Be sure that you have a supply of any prescription medications that will last at least a week.
If you have time, be sure to switch off the gas, electricity and water in your house.
It's also advisable to disconnect your appliances before you go. This reduce the chances of an electric shock when the power is turned back on.
If you are driving, you should follow the designated evacuation routes, and be prepared for heavy traffic. Other routes may be blocked so stick with the given evacuation routes.
If you evacuate, avoid low-lying areas and valleys. There is an increased chance of encountering a mudflow in these areas. If you come to a river, look upstream before crossing. Do not cross if you see a mudflow approaching., In the event that your house and property are directly impacted by the volcano, your animals will not be able to escape. Do what you can within reason to ensure their safety. Be aware that most emergency shelters will be unable to accommodate them. If you're keeping your pets with you, you'll need to be sure that you have planned ahead and have enough food and water for them.


Place your livestock in an enclosed area or make arrangements to transport them as far offsite as possible.
 If you are not told to evacuate, but are advised to stay at home and take shelter, keep listening to the TV or radio so you can move quickly if required. When you are at home you should take extra measures to help ensure your safety and health. Start by closing and securing all of the windows and any doors that lead to the outside. Close your fireplace damper, and then make sure that your heater, air conditioner, and all fans are turned off.


Run extra water in the sinks, bathtubs, and other containers as an emergency supply for cleaning (use as little as possible) or purifying and drinking. You can also get emergency drinking water from a water heater.
Get your family together in a room above ground level that does not have windows in it, if possible.
Keep listening to updates, but stay indoors until you are told it is safe to go out. This is the best way to avoid potential respiratory damage from volcanic ash.
 Whether you are advised to evacuate or take shelter, you should think of others around you, who may need need extra assistance. If you have neighbors who are elderly, have disabilities, or infants, be sure to help out in any way you can. If you are evacuating and have space in your car offer to take an elderly neighbor. If you are sheltering at home invite him to sit in with you, or make sure he is fully prepared in his own home., You should avoid going outside unless given the all clear. If you do need to go out to help somebody, however, try to protect yourself as well as you can. If you have them, wear safety goggles to protect your eyes, and a respirator to protect your lungs. Cover as much of your body as possible, and wrap a scarf around your head.Even swimming goggles and clothing can be used to protect your eyes and breathing if that's all you have.When entering a building after being outside under ash, remove your outer layer of clothing. The ash is difficult to remove from anything it falls on.If you're going outside, remove contact lenses and wear glasses instead. If the ash gets in behind contact lenses, it can cut into your eye, causing corneal abrasions.

