 You can download the program from the Mac App store or download it directly from the Snowfox website. If you download it from the Snowfox website, double-click the DMG file that you downloaded, and then drag Photo Collage Maker icon into the Applications folder.;
, Once you launch Photo Collage Maker, you will be given the option to pick your collage layout. You can choose from six different collage styles:


Classic
Grid
Focus
Free Style
Circular
Heart

, You can entire folders of images to your project by clicking the folder icon with a “+” in the bottom-left corner of the window. The images in the folder will be displayed in the photo preview frame, and the collage will be populated by random photos from the folder


You can also add individual photos by clicking the Add button at the top of the window.
 You can add or remove individual photos from the collage to make sure that only the photos you want are included. You can also drag and drop the photos around the collage so that the arrangement is how you want it.
 You can click on each individual photo and resize, move, and rotate it as you please. To rotate a photo, right-click on it and select Rotate. Specify how much you would like it rotated.
 Once you have the photos where you want them, you can add text, frames, and change the background color. You can even use another image as the background of the collage. Use the buttons in the top toolbar to make these adjustments.
 Once your collage is perfect, it’s ready to be saved and sent out to your friends and family, or uploaded to your blog. Click the Export button to save the collage. You can choose between JPG, TIFF, or PNG formats, and there is a slider for image quality. You will get the highest quality, smallest image with the PNG format.


You can also print your collage by clicking the Print button next to the Export button.
 Once the file is saved, you can upload it to your Facebook account, or use an image hosting service such as Imgur or Photobucket to share it through Twitter. You can also attach the file to an email.

