 Make a tight fist with each hand, and then stretch your fingers out as far as you can. Repeat this 4 or 5 times. Then make a loose fist with each hand, and roll your wrists in circles 5 times in each direction.You can continue to do any other stretching movements that make your hands feel good, for as long as you like.
 Use smooth, rapid strokes to warm up the muscles, and massage the oil over every surface of each hand. Don't forget the back of your hands, your wrists, and between each finger.You can also do this massage without oil or lotion, as you prefer.
 Beginning with your right hand, pinch the tip of each finger of your left hand firmly between thumb and index finger. Squeeze from front to back, and from side to side. Don't forget your thumb!Now switch and use your left hand to pinch the fingers of your right hand in the same fashion.
Try to relax the hand that is on the receiving end of the massage for best effect.
 Begin with your right hand, and massage each finger of your left hand. Start at the base (near the knuckle) and gently twist and pull on your finger, as you massage to the fingertip.When finished, massage the fingers of your right hand with your left.
 Use your right hand to pinch the webbing between your left thumb and index finger. Grip the skin firmly and pull, sliding your fingers down until your skin snaps free from your grasp. Then repeat the process with the rest of the fingers on the left hand.


When you have finished the left hand, massage your right hand with your left.
Only use as much pressure as is comfortable.
 Hold the palm of your left hand in the palm of your right (it should look like you are shaking hands with yourself.) Then use your right thumb to massage the back of your left hand. Begin at the knuckle of your pinky finger, and using short, firm strokes, massage upwards toward your wrist. Repeat the process for each finger, and your thumb.Spend extra time on any areas that need extra attention.
When you finish with one hand, switch, and repeat with the other.
 Cradle your left hand in your right, and use your thumb to massage your inner wrist, using a circular motion. Then switch hands and repeat., Hold one hand in the other, and massage your palm using small, circular, firm motions. Begin in the center, and work your way to the sides, paying special attention to any sore areas. Finish each hand by pressing firmly on the center of your palm for a few moments. Then switch hands and repeat., When you are done, gently shake out your hands. Swivel your wrists a few times, and then clench your fists and stretch out your fingers. Your hands should feel rejuvenated and refreshed!

