 When you learn that you are going to need hip replacement surgery, you need to get your house ready for your recovery. You should plan this before you have your surgery because you don't want to have to deal with it during your recovery.


You may also need to go ahead and hire someone to help you for the two to four weeks after you return home.
 When you come home from your surgery, you are going to need some extra support to get around areas of your house. You should install safety bars in your bath, shower, and toilet. These are the areas where you will be the most likely to fall, which means you will need extra support since you won't be firm on your feet.


Make sure the handrails on any of your stairs are secure. This is true for inside stairs and those on the outside of your house. If you don't have any on your stairs, install them.For those areas without handrails, you will need to use a walker or crutches., In addition to extra railings, you need to put in some extra safety precautions in your bathroom. Get a raised toilet seat that will make it easier to sit down on your toilet. If you have severe mobility problems, you may need to get a portable urinal or toilet chair, sometimes called a potty chair.


For your shower, get a plastic chair to put inside so you can sit down instead of stand.
You should also replace your stationary shower head with a hand-held model so it will be easier for you to rinse off in the shower., When you have your hip replaced, you will need some extra help sitting as well. This means you need to get a firm seat cushion for the chair that you sit in all the time. Your chair should also allow your knees to be lower than your hips to aid in the healing process.


Also make sure that the chair has a firm back support as well., You will need some help getting dressed while you are recovering, since it will be hard for you to bend over and reach certain parts of your body. To help with dressing, buy a dressing stick, a sock aid, and a long-handled shoe horn. This will help you put on and take off pants, socks, and shoes.


These can be found at medical specialty stores and many shoe stores., You will have trouble getting around easily when you get home from surgery. This means you need to clear the way. Remove any objects that may trip you up in these common areas. This includes electrical cords, carpet edges, pet toys, or errant furniture.


So you don't have to move around as much, set up an area near where you will likely spend a lot of your time where you can keep your phone, chargers, drinks, books, computer, TV, movies and snacks that is convenient for you to get to., While you recover, you will have to take care of your post-surgery wounds. You or the person you hire to take care of you will be advised by your doctor of how to take care of them. You may have stitches or staples, which need to be kept dry and clean at all times.


These will stay in your skin for about two weeks after surgery.
 While you are recovering from your surgery, you will need to eat the right things. When you first come home, you will need to eat light broths and soups at first. After a day or two, you can start eating small amounts of normal food and eat more frequently.Surgery can cause constipation, so make sure you get lots of fiber to prevent this.You also need to drink plenty of water, which will keep you hydrated and help with constipation.
 Your doctor will likely prescribe a blood thinning medication for you to take after the surgery. It is important to take blood thinners to reduce your risk of blood clots and pulmonary embolism following your surgery.You may also receive a prescription for pain medication to help control your pain after the procedure.

Get these prescriptions filled as soon as possible and follow your doctor’s instructions for use.

