 When you purchase a vehicle, you may want to purchase that vehicle with someone else in certain situations. You may not have enough money to buy a car on your own, you may want to share the responsibilities of ownership with another, or you may simply want to split the costs associated with purchasing and owning a vehicle. A co-buyer is someone who shares an ownership interest in the vehicle with you, the primary buyer.When you and another party purchase a car together, both names will be included on the vehicle's title.In this case, both you and the co-buyer will be mutually responsible for financing the vehicle, maintaining the vehicle, and insuring the vehicle.
It is important to recognize the difference between a co-buyer and a co-signer. Unlike a co-buyer, a co-signer does not receive any ownership interest in the vehicle.They simply promise to repay the debts of another., If you choose to move forward and purchase a vehicle with another, you should choose your co-buyer carefully. A co-buyer should be trustworthy, financially stable, and close to you.


A co-buyer should be trustworthy because of the relationship you will be creating with them. An untrustworthy co-buyer may create legal problems if they try to sell the car without your knowledge or if they stop making payments on the car when they were not supposed to.
They should also be financially stable, as you and the co-buyer will be mutually responsible for paying for the car, paying for insurance, and paying for maintenance. Make sure your co-buyer can handle the financial responsibility before allowing them to be a part of your deal.
Your co-buyer should also be close to you physically and mentally. Physically speaking, a co-buyer is likely going to want to use the vehicle, and if they are not geographically close, this relationship may make little sense. For example, most co-buyers are close family members (e.g., spouses, children, or siblings). Mentally speaking, you should not be mere acquaintances with the person you are co-buying a car with. As stated before, co-buyers have a number of shared responsibilities and you should feel comfortable with the person you are entering into this relationship with.
 Once you have found a responsible co-buyer, you and the co-buyer will simply purchase a vehicle. Look at this wikiHow article for instructions on purchasing a car. When you and your co-buyer are ready to sign the paperwork, be sure the dealership (or the private seller) understands that you are buying with another.


If you are purchasing a vehicle from a dealership, they will know how to handle a purchase with multiple buyers. Simply let them know that both of you will be purchasing the vehicle and they will ensure the right forms are signed.
If you are purchasing a vehicle from a private seller, you should be prepared to have your own sale contract ready to present to the seller. Try this template, which you can use and simply add two buyers names' and add another signature spot for a second buyer. Also, read this wikiHow article if you are going to make your own contract.
 When you purchase the vehicle with your co-buyer, the vehicle's title will list both of you as owners of the vehicle. When the title is being written, be sure the language of the title conveys the type of legal relationship you wish to have with your co-buyer. Consider the following:


It will not matter who is listed first on the title. There is no need to request having your name placed first on the title, or requesting that the co-buyer have their name placed second.
When your names are joined by "or," you or the co-buyer will have the ability to unilaterally make decisions without the other's consent.For example, if the title to the vehicle states that it is owned by "Bill Johnson or Ted Smith," either one of those people could unilaterally sell the vehicle without the consent of the other.
When your names are joined by "and" (or a "/"), you and the co-buyer will have to make all decisions regarding the vehicle jointly.For example, if the title to the vehicle states that it is owned by "Bill Johnson and Ted Smith," if Bill wants to sell the car, he will need the consent of Ted in order to do so., After the vehicle has been purchased and the title has been delivered, you and the co-buyer should consider entering into a car-sharing agreement. A car-sharing agreement will work out the details of who will be responsible for what during your time as co-owners of the vehicle. Some of the questions you should tray and answer include:


What will be the schedule for using the car?Will one owner get to use it more than the other?Will you need to get permission from the other owner to take the car out of town or on long road trips?Who will be able to ride in the car and who will be able to drive it?Who will own certain accessories inside of the car (the phone charger, jumper cables)?Will there be any rules about pets or smoking in the car?