 Eating foods that are high in fiber is a simple way of decreasing the likelihood of hemorrhoids.In particular, the following foods are good high-fiber options:Berries and other fruits, especially those with an edible skin, such as apples and grapes.
Dark, leafy green vegetables like collard, mustard, and beet greens, as well as Swiss chard.
Other vegetables such as broccoli, spinach, carrots, cauliflower, brussel sprouts, artichokes and green beans.
Beans and other legumes such as kidney, navy, garbanzo, pinto, lima, and white beans, as well as lentils, and black eyed peas.
Whole, unprocessed grains. An easy rule of thumb is that if it is a light color or white, it is probably processed. Cereals like granola tend to have the highest fiber. If you are buying boxed cereals, read the label to make sure your choice is high in fiber.
Seeds and nuts such as pumpkin, sesame, sunflower, or flax seeds, as well as almonds, walnuts and pecans.
 While foods that are high in fiber can help prevent hemorrhoids, other foods may make them more likely to occur.


Try to avoid “junk food” such as chips and other unhealthy snacks as much as possible. This is a good choice in general, but when you eat processed or salty junk food, you also increase the risk of hemorrhoids.
Avoid spicy foods. Many spices may feel just as “spicy” on the way out as they do on the way in.
 Increasing the amount of water you consume helps to keep stools soft. This reduces the amount of strain needed to pass stools.Experts do not have a hard and fast rule about how much water you should drink each day. The most common recommendation is to drink about eight 8-ounce glasses. Use that as a starting point and find what works best for you.Get some exercise. Increasing your exercise can help hemorrhoids. It also does not have to be a great amount of exercise. Just choose a parking space further away from your destination, or walk to the corner store more often.
Even simply decreasing the amount of time you spend sitting can be helpful. If your work allows it, get up every half hour or so and walk around a bit.