 If you already have some extra cash on hand, you can earn even more by lending it out and charging interest on your loans. There are many companies, the largest of which are Prosper and Lending Club, that match prospective lenders with prospective borrowers. Although the industry has been shifting away from private investors, there are still opportunities to be had.If you wish to become a money lender, be sure to abide by any and all applicable laws in your area.
 Instead of letting the money you have languish in checking account (or under your mattress), put it into an interest-earning account, like a money-market account, a certificate of deposit (CD) account, or a 401k. These types of accounts pay a higher rate of interest than normal savings accounts. Ask a professional at your local bank for help placing money in these types of accounts.Note that these types of accounts may require a minimum balance to start generating interest. They also may require a long-term investment, during which time you will not be able to access your money without paying a penalty.
 One way to make money without working is to play the stock market to your advantage. Stock trading is by no means risk-free, but if you're smart, careful, and a little lucky, you can stand to make lots of money on the stock market. Whatever investments you choose to make, never invest any money in the stock market that you can't stand to lose.Low-cost e-trading platforms are ideal for investors who don't want to pay to have their investments managed for them.
There are tons of different investment strategies out there, so do your research and find one that works for you. No matter what your strategy, it's important to keep a diverse portfolio and stay up-to-date with changes that happen in the market.
 Investing in a successful business is a surefire way to become wealthy, although finding such a company is more challenging. If you are lucky enough to find a business that you really believe in, make sure to do your research before investing.It's very important that you have faith in the leadership of the company. Even if the concept is great, a bad CEO can destroy the business.
You should have a very good understanding of the company's expenses and potential profits, as well as of their brand and image, before you invest.
Make sure there is a clear contract that outlines your rights. You should also understand what your options are for exiting the agreement.
Don't invest all of your money in one business. If it goes south, you could be left with nothing.
 "House flipping" refers to the process of buying cheap, run-down property, increasing its value (either by adding improvements or simply by waiting for the market to perk up), and then re-selling it for a profit. With smart choices and practical know-how with regards to home repair, you can stand to make thousands of dollars per flip, although unexpected expenses and a bad real estate market can leave you in the red.Make sure you really understand the local market before investing in real estate, or you may lose money when you try to sell.
Unless you have enough money to hire contractors to do all of the work for you, flipping real estate will require a tremendous amount of work. Even if you do hire others, you will likely need to supervise them.
If you don't have the money to invest in real estate, there are lots of other things you can flip, including furniture and cars. Anything you can buy cheap, fix up yourself, and sell for a profit, can be flipped.