 Simply use a marker to draw on rocket features, such as windows, rivets, a door, even a person waving through the window. You might also like to add a flag of a country, a name for the rocket and other distinguishing features.


Not sure what to draw? Do an online image search of real rockets for suitable images to inspire you. You could even print off decals, etc., and glue them on the rocket tube.;
, Also decide on the amount. Two to three fins is about standard for a rocket, so choose how many you prefer.


Measure the fins up against the size of the paper towel tube and draw fin shapes on cardboard. Then cut them out.
Glue against the sides of the tube, checking that they're firmly held in place. (Alternatively, make slits and push them upward, then glue in place).
Check that the fins are balanced each side before gluing; they should all reach down the same distance.
 Its diameter should match the circumference of the paper tube. (Use your judgment or a compass.)

,,, Pack it tightly to help the cone keep it shape. Tape it in at the base, so that it can't fall out.
 Check that it fits snugly; if not, continue to add tape on it until it does. If it's too big, you'll have to make a new, smaller cone.
 Do this twice. Cut out the circles and check they are able to slide inside the tube.
 Angle them slightly, for the rocket's internal engine.
, Trace around a round object such as a can, onto paper. Cut out the circle for the template.
 These holes become the rocket windows and sitting areas for toys.


Keep the holes away from the top and base of the rocket, as these areas will have the rocket cone and fins added to them.
 Use a large drill bit.
 Gently guide the jigsaw to cut out the circle design you've marked. Repeat for each circle on the tube.
 Use a strong craft knife to cut three slits at even places around the base of the tube. These may need to be adjusted later, but for now, just begin them.
 You can either paint with a paintbrush or spray paint the whole tube. Either way, ensure that you have adequate ventilation and that wherever you're doing the painting is covered for spills.
 This will form the fins at the base of the rocket, so measure the fin height against the tube, to ensure it will be stable enough to hold the rocket up. Cut out the fin shape and use this as a template.
 Repeat three times, then cut out the fin shapes with a craft knife or a box cutter.
 These are best done in a contrasting color to the color used for making the rocket colorful.


Alternatively, cover the fins with colored paper or colored duct tape.
 Draw a large semi-circle on the poster board. Its diameter should match the circumference of the tube. (Use your judgment or a compass.)


Cut out the semi-circle.
Twist into a cone shape and tape in place.
If you didn't use colored poster board, it can be painted or use colored duct tape.
, Make adjustments as needed; stand the rocket on the fins and see if it is level or needs changes.


It might help to glue the fins in place.
 The rocket can be played with imaginary beings or dolls/stuffed toys can be put into the holes of the rocket and sent skyward (just be sure to advise the kids to hold onto it still, as although it's strong, it's not suitable for throwing).

