 If people have a good time when they are around you, feel relaxed, and feel like they can be themselves, they will want to spend more time around you. Try to have a positive attitude when others are around.Avoid talking badly about other people and gossiping, complaining, and repeating your problems.


Being a positive person does not mean that you ignore problems. You instead look for the bright side of every situation.Even if you have are having a bad day, think of one thing good that happened to you. If someone asked you how your day was, you might say, "My day wasn't that great, but I read the funniest article today. Would you like to hear about it?" You can acknowledge that your day wasn't great, but still have something positive to discuss.
Always compliment and encourage people when they are around you.
 People will enjoy being around you when you take an interest in what they have to say.When someone is talking to you, do not interrupt or think about what you will say next. Focus on what the person is saying to you and make eye contact with them.


When someone is talking to you, listen for the "why" and the "what." Why is the person talking to you? What message are they trying to communicate?"Let the other person do the majority of the talking. Nod your head, say "yes," or "I understand" to let the person know that you are truly listening to them.
If someone is talking about an unfamiliar topic, ask questions to push the conversation forward and allow you to learn more. You can also try saying, "That's really interesting. How did you hear about that?"
Asking questions and making the conversation about the other person can be really helpful if you are having a low self-esteem day and do not want to talk about yourself.
 Everyone appreciates a good sense of humor. People love to be around people who make them laugh and do not take life too seriously.This does not mean that you need to go around telling jokes all of the time.


Look for humor in your everyday life instead of getting upset about something.For example, if you tripped on the stairs, make a joke about being clumsy or the floor moving instead of becoming upset of embarrassed.
Watch funny movies and television shows, spend time with funny people, or read a humor book to help you develop your sense of humor.
 Do not change who you are to get people to like you. You are a unique individual with something to offer. Changing who you are can be stressful and keep people from liking the real you. Be honest about your likes and dislikes and the type of person you are.People can often tell if you are not being genuine and may actually be turned off by it.
The things that make you unique (e.g. your sense of humor, personal style, weird laugh, etc.) are often the things that draw people to you.
 While you do want to become popular, your complete focus should be on becoming popular. If you focus solely on popularity, you will begin to do things to please and impress other people. This tactic may work at first, but you will not be successful in the long run.Use strategies that incorporate your natural self.
You will end up lonely and feeling worse about yourself if your self-esteem becomes tied to how other people view you.

