 The type of soil under your lawn, as well as the climate and time of year, will dictate how often you need to water your lawn. If you live in an area that is prone to heavy rainfall during parts of the year, for example, you will not need to water as frequently. Certain yards may not reap the full benefits of rainfall, however, depending on the yard's composition and layout.Certain soil types absorb water better than others. A high composition of clay, for example, will prevent water from absorbing into the soil.Clay tends to retain an average around 1.5 inches of water per foot of soil, while fine sand and loamy sand retain the least amount of water at 0.7 and 0.8 inches of water per foot of soil, respectively.Silty loam, clay loam, and silty clay loam have the highest water retention of all soil types, averaging 2.4 inches of water per foot of soil.The layout of the yard is a factor as well. A sloped lawn will not be able to absorb much excess water. Any moisture not readily absorbed will most likely run off downhill., Certain times of day are better than others when watering your lawn. Timing will also vary depending on your climate. It may come as no surprise that where you live may be the biggest factor in when and how often you need to water your lawn.


If you live in a humid climate, you should water your lawn between 10:00 PM and 6:00 AM for optimum results.In hot, arid climates, it's best to water lawns in the still hours of the early morning, before sunrise. This will help reduce the amount of water that would otherwise be lost to daytime evaporation and winds.In cooler temperatures, it's best to water your lawn before 10:00 AM or after 6:00 PM. This will minimize evaporation., While some may feel that the lawn should be watered on a daily basis, oftentimes this is not necessary. Many factors influence how often you need to water your lawn. In drought-prone Southern California, for example, you may need to water your lawn anywhere from 20 minutes per week to 200 minutes per week, depending on the region, time of year, and hourly sprinkler output.Use the minimum amount of water necessary to maintain your lawn. Using too much water will run up your monthly water bill, waste vital resources, and may end up damaging your lawn with over-saturation.The best measure for determining how often to water your lawn is to check the lawn itself. If footprints or lawnmower tracks remain indented in the grass for longer than 30 minutes after passing through your yard, it is a good sign that your grass is getting dry.Check the color of your lawn. Turf grass that is dry will often turn to a blueish-gray shade, rather than a lush green.You can also check the soil moisture to see if your lawn needs to be watered. Drive a six-inch screwdriver or stake into the ground. If the screwdriver breaks through the soil easily and without much effort, the soil is likely retaining enough water and you can hold off on watering., One important factor in determining how often to water your lawn is how much water your sprinkler system puts out. You can measure the output of your sprinklers by arranging empty and cleaned tuna cans or cat food cans across your lawn. If you do not have empty cans, several coffee mugs will also work well. Then run the sprinklers for 20 minutes and use a ruler to measure the water depth across the yard.


After 20 minutes, add all the depths together from each container in your yard and divide by the total number of containers to obtain an average for the whole yard. Then multiply that number (the total yard measurements over 20 minutes) by three to average your total sprinkler output per hour (60 minutes).Compare your yard's sprinkler output with your region's recommended monthly watering time. You can find a chart for your region by searching online.
 Each lawn will have its own ideal amount of water necessary for its grass to grow and thrive. This amount depends on factors like the kind of grass growing, soil composition, climate, and so on. You'll need to replenish water that leaves your lawn to keep it healthy, which is best determined by the evapo-transpiration rate (ET).The process of calculating the ET can be complex for some. For a complete explanation on how to find the ET, visit the United Nations Food and Agriculture Organization's (FAO) page on calculating it.To make the process of calculating the ET easier for laypeople, the FAO provides ET free calculators on their site.If you've exhausted your wits trying to figure out the ET for your lawn, you may want to inquire about it with a master gardener at your local nursery or greenhouse.

