 Trust is an essential aspect of a healthy relationship. The ability to trust your partner and be trustworthy can make or break your relationship. The elements of trust may include:

Being able to open up and be vulnerable
Being there for one another
Being consistent in your actions
Doing what you say you will

, Communication is another fundamental component of relationships that last. Being able to communicate your thoughts, opinions, needs, and ideas to your partner effectively and be willing to actively listen as your partner does the same. If you and your partner often run into barriers to communication, this must be addressed in order for the relationship to survive long-term., Even though you are a part of a romantic relationship, you still have individual rights that must be respected. It’s necessary to set boundaries in any relationship to ensure that each individual has a framework in place that protects them from being manipulated or abused by others.If you and your partner do not have boundaries in place — or those boundaries are not being acknowledged and respected, you need to enforce them in order for the relationship to work. Signs that your relationship lacks boundaries may include:Allowing your partner speak to you in ways that are disrespectful or uncomfortable
Having difficulty saying “no”
Acting against your personal beliefs or values
Giving excessively to feel useful
Being unable to communicate your needs
Being repeatedly touched in ways you have asked not to be touched, or asked to perform sexual acts that make you uncomfortable (i.e. after you have established said act as a hard boundary)

, Touch is important for maintaining intimacy and connection in romantic relationships. Sometimes, partners think their relationship is perfectly fine simply because it is not characterized by arguing or tension. Not having these issues doesn’t mean a relationship is built to last.


If you and your partner do not touch (i.e. hold hands, hug, caress, etc.), it can signal a bigger problem. The main issue lies in touch not being reciprocated. A relationship with good emotional intimacy and satisfaction is demonstrated by whether your partner reciprocates touch when it is given. For example, if you hug your significant other and they don't make a move to return the gesture, your relationship could be suffering in the intimacy department., By now, you understand that being able to communicate your emotional needs is important for long-term relationship success. In the same vein, being able to identify and empathize with what your partner is feeling is equally integral.An empathetic partner will express their feelings over the other partner's situation, try to see things from their partner's point of view, ask questions, restate what's being said, and validate their feelings.
If you and your partner have reached a point of not seeming to care about one another’s feelings, this could be a sign that your relationship is dying a slow death.

