 Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F (180 C). Grease two large baking sheets with cooking spray. You could also line the sheets with parchment paper or a silicone mat.Any of these things will keep the cookies from sticking and help them cook evenly.
 Place 8 tablespoons (113 g) of room temperature butter, 1/4 cup (50 g) of granulated sugar, 1/4 cup (50 g) of packed light brown sugar, and 3/4 cup (3 ounces) of the graham cracker crumbs into a large mixing bowl. Beat the ingredients on medium until they're combined, light and fluffy.It will take 2 or 3 minutes to cream the ingredients well.
 Add 1 large egg and 1 teaspoon of pure vanilla extract to the wet ingredients in the mixing bowl. Stir the ingredients until the egg is completely mixed into the wet ingredients.If you don't have vanilla extract, you could substitute almond extract.
 In a separate bowl, add 1 1/4 cups (156 g) of all-purpose flour, 1/2 teaspoon of baking powder, 1/4 teaspoon of baking soda, and 1/4 teaspoon of salt. Whisk the ingredients for about 30 seconds.Whisking the ingredients ensures they're completely incorporated. This will help the dry ingredients evenly absorb the wet ingredients.
 Add the dry ingredients to the wet ingredients in the large mixing bowl. Turn the mixer onto low and beat the ingredients until the dry ingredients are just combined with the wet ingredients.Over mixing your batter can make the cookies tough and dense.
 Portion out the dough into tablespoon-sized lumps. Roll each lump into a ball using the palms of your hands. Place the remaining 1/4 cup (1 ounce) of graham cracker crumbs in a small bowl. Roll each ball in the crumbs so they're lightly coated.You can use your fingers, spoons, a cookie scoop, or an ice cream scoop to portion the dough into balls.
 Place each ball onto the cookie sheets so there are 12 on each sheet. Bake the cookies for 8 to 10 minutes. They should just be starting to crack, but still be soft when they're finished baking. Remove the cookies from the oven and let them cool for a minute on the sheet.If your oven bakes unevenly, consider baking one sheet of cookies at a time.
 Turn on your broiler and set your oven rack about 10 inches below the broiler. Place half of a marshmallow on top of each cookie. Set the sheet of cookies with marshmallow tops under the broiler for 30 seconds. Remove the sheet of cookies and push an unwrapped Hershey's Kiss into the middle of each toasted marshmallow. Let the cookies cool before you serve them.You'll want to do one sheet of cookies at a time. This way, the toasted marshmallows won't harden too much before you set the Hershey's Kisses in place.

