 Journaling can be a great way to process your thoughts while your partner is away. You can also easily keep a journal if you're deployed. Write in a journal a few times a week, chronicling your thoughts and emotions regarding your partner's absence. When you and your partner are reunited, share some of the most heartfelt sections of your journal with your partner., While distance is difficult, it can sometimes provide the opportunity for self-exploration and personal growth. While your partner is away, take this as a chance to explore some of your own interests and passions. Join a book club. Take a cooking class. Take up a new hobby, like running or knitting. Try to make the most of the time you have alone to better get to know yourself and your interests.If you're deployed, it may not be difficult to keep busy. A particularly active deployment should keep your mind engaged. However, some deployments are less hectic than others. While it may be hard to, say, join a cooking class when deployed, you can look into solitary pursuits. You can try reading and writing, for example. Try to explore subjects that interest you by reading books on these subjects during your spare moments away.
 During your separation, you and your partner should both have access to healthy support networks. People are social by nature, and even if your partner is gone you need people you can reach out to.If you're being deployed, do not hesitate to get close to your fellow soldiers. Open up to them about your struggles and stress, and talk about how you're managing your long distance relationship.
If you're staying at home, reach out to friends and family members. You should also reach out to your partner's friends and families. Spending time with people close to your partner can help you feel close to him or her from a distance.
 It's important to keep things in perspective while your partner is away. Have friends and family members you can talk to when you feel frustrated or afraid in your partner's absence. If you know another person with a partner in the military, this person may be able to help you keep things in perspective. While this time is difficult, keep in mind it will not last forever. Try to keep in mind that things are temporary, and your relationship may be stronger after your partner returns.If you're deployed, some of your fellow soldiers have probably also left partners at home during deployment. Try to talk to fellow soldiers about how you're feeling, and ask them for advice on how to cope. Some soldiers have probably been deployed multiple times, and may have advice for you on how to keep things in perspective.

