 If you aren’t interested, or don’t have the time, to make your own lotion, you can simply buy some.If you have a great facial lotion that you use religiously, stick with that one. It’s great to use one that you know won’t make you break out or cause any unfortunate side effects. If you don’t have a trusted moisturizer, head to your local pharmacy or beauty supply store to pick one up. A lotion with shea butter is great for your skin, and works well to make liquid foundation.If you aren’t sure which lotion to choose, make sure you buy the smallest available bottle. That way, you won’t waste money (or lotion) if you discover you don’t like it.
 It's simple to put it into whatever container you'll be storing your foundation in, so put it in anything with a tight lid. Make sure there is adequate room for mixing as well. Decide how much liquid foundation you want to make, and add that much lotion to the container. Just remember that if you add a lot of lotion, you'll need a lot of powder foundation as well.
 Feel free to use whatever powder you like. If you have a powder that matches your skin but simply prefer a liquid foundation, go ahead and combine it with the moisturizer to quickly turn it into a liquid.Picking the perfect powder for your skin tone can be tricky. If you've never purchased powder before, it might be smart to head to a cosmetic store or a beauty counter in a department store and ask a professional for help finding your shade.
If there is no one to ask for help, make sure you test the powder before buying it. The right shade should blend naturally on your jawline. Make sure that you check the color on yourself in natural light, because the bright lights of stores can be deceiving., Add one teaspoon (4.93 mL) and stir, another another, stir, and so on. Continue doing this until you've reached a color and consistency that you like for your liquid foundation. When the color and consistency look good to you, test it on your forehead to ensure you like the product you’ve created. The great thing about making your own product is that you can always tweak the ratios, make new batches, and find the recipe that works best for you.

