 This may not look as professional as other cases, but it will protect your phone while preserving its functionality. You will need:


Duct tape. You will not need much. Feel free to use classic grey duct tape or to spice up your design with more colorful duct tape.
A plastic CD slip case. Make sure that the case is flimsy, clear plastic; this will cover the screen of your iPhone, and you want to be able to use your screen through it. If you don't have a CD case,you can use a small sandwich bag or any other thick, transparent plastic.
Scissors or a craft knife.
A ruler.
A sharpie.
 Put your iPhone into the CD slip case. Push one long side of the phone up to the sealed bottom of the case, and use a sharpie to mark how far the other side extends into the case.









This will ensure that your screen cover perfectly fits your particular iPhone. You will cover up most of this plastic with duct tape.
 Use a ruler to draw a straight line through the sharpie mark you made, parallel to the opening of the slip case. Cut along this line, carefully, with a pair of scissors.









This should cut the slip case roughly in half. Keep the half with the sealed bottom: this will become the screen cover for your iPhone case.
 On the plastic slip case, mark out the edges of the iPhone screen. You will want to cover up everything but the screen with duct tape, so it's important to know where the screen sits.









Take the iPhone out and draw a rectangle on the slipcover to mark exactly where the screen fits.
Consider marking the circular "Home" button as a reference for how your iPhone will fit. Don't worry about the marks; you will use the other side of the slipcover for your screen. These marks are only for measuring purposes.
 Lay them out with the sticky side up. Overlap these pieces to form a rectangular "sheet" of duct tape.









It is important that your duct tape sheet is no higher than the height of your phone. When you stick your slip case to this duct tape, no duct tape should protrude over the top or bottom of the case.
Make sure that each side of the sheet is perfectly straight. Use scissors to trim the duct tape where necessary.
 Turn the slip case over so that the sharpie marks face downward. Carefully stick the sealed edge of the slip case to the edge of the duct tape sheet.









Align the edge of the duct tape sheet with one of the lines you drew to mark the vertical edge of your iPhone's screen. The duct tape should not cover the screen.
 Trim the duct tape sheet on the long end: the remainder of the sheet should be about 5 millimeters longer than the uncovered edge of the slip case.









Fold this five-millimeter length of tape over the open edge of the slipcover so that it fits neatly inside. This should give you a neat edge where the duct tape ends.
 This sheet should be roughly 110 mm (4.33 inches) long on one side, and only a couple of millimeters shorter than the height of the slip case on the other side.









Neatly trim this sheet so that each side is perfectly straight.
 Align the edge of the duct tape sheet with the other line that you drew to mark the vertical edge of the screen--this should be the side that's closest to the open end of the slip case.









Make sure that the duct tape sheet doesn't overhang on either the top or the bottom of the plastic slip case.
Turn the entire case over so that the sticky side of the duct tape sheet is facing upward. The "window" for the iPhone screen--the front of the case--should be facing down into your work surface.
 It's time to fold the duct tape sheet together. Take the right-hand edge of the duct tape sheet and stick it just inside the slip case, aligning it with the line you drew to mark the iPhone's screen.









This flap will hold your iPhone in place inside the case. Make sure that the flap is long enough.
Use the iPhone screen marking as a reference only. Stick the edge of the duct tape sheet to the opposite side of the slip case opening--the bottom edge of the opening, if the marks are on the top.
Be methodical. Before you press the sticky insides of the folded duct tape sheet together, make sure that the end of the sheet is tucked securely into the case. Make sure that the end of the sheet is perfectly lined up with the opening of the slip case.
Try to make the fold as neat as possible. A few wrinkles and creases will not impair the function.
 Stick a piece of duct tape along the line that you drew to mark the top of the iPhone screen.









Half of the tape strip should stick up above the slip case.
Align the left-hand side of the duct tape strip with the "sealed" left-hand side of the plastic slip case. Trim the duct tape strip to match the right-hand edge of the flap.
Flip the case over. Cut the duct tape strip into two parts, along the line created by the opening of the case, and then fold each side of the strip down against the back of the case. If you do not make this cut, then the duct tape strip will block the opening of your case.
 Stick a piece of duct tape along the line that you drew to mark the bottom of the iPhone screen.









Half of the tape strip should stick out below the slip case.
Align the left-hand side of the duct tape strip with the "sealed" left-hand side of the plastic slip case. Trim the duct tape strip to match the right-hand edge of the flap.
Again, flip the case over. Cut the duct tape strip into two parts, along the line created by the opening of the case, and then fold each side of the strip down against the back of the case.
 If you creased and wrinkled the flap of your case while you were folding it, an extra layer of duct tape will cover up the creases. Extra duct tape will make the flap more substantial.









Simply wrap another strip of duct tape along the length of the flap. Trim any overhanging tape away from the strip so that the flap still tucks neatly.
Do not make your flap too thick--make sure that you can easily fold it into the case!

, You will punch small holes into the case to allow the use of these functions. Turn the case so that the plastic "window" is facing up, and lay your iPhone on top of it.









Microphone: On the bottom of your iPhone, look for two oblong, mesh-filled holes on either side of the charging connector. The hole on the right is the microphone. Using a sharpie pen, place a small mark on the bottom edge of the case where the microphone will sit.
Headphone jack: Find the hole for your headphone jack on the top of your iPhone, and place a small mark along the top edge of the case where the jack will sit.
 Use a hole punch for a clean cut; in a pinch, consider simply poking a hole through the duct tape with a sharp object. Punch out each marking that you made--one for the microphone and one for the headphone jack.









Try to punch the holes such that you only bite a semi-circle out of the edge of the case. This way, you'll punch out the back and the front of the case at once, creating a clean, round hole.
The essential thing is that the microphone is not muffled, and that you are able to fit a headphone plug into the headphone jack.
 You should be able to see the screen clearly through the plastic "window", and the flap of the case should extend to the right of the front of the phone.









Tuck the flap into the back of the iPhone case to secure your phone in place. If you made the flap long enough, it should stay in place on its own.
Enjoy! You should be able to use the touchscreen of your iPhone while it's inside the case.

