 Let the butter sit, covered, at room temperature until it’s soft and can be easily spread with a knife. Put the softened butter into a medium-sized bowl.









For a dairy-free alternative, try margarine.
Olive or coconut oil can also be used. Coconut oil has a very strong coconut taste, and olive oil is liquid so it will not become whipped and fluffy.;
, Press the garlic through a garlic press, or mince finely with a knife. Add the garlic to the butter.









Garlic powder can be used instead of fresh garlic. Substitute one to two teaspoons of garlic powder.
 Add salt, pepper, and Italian seasoning. You can substitute the seasoning with fresh herbs, but they will give the butter a different flavor than the dried herbs.









Rosemary, parsley, and thyme all go well with butter. Basil or sage could also be used.
For an extra decadent garlic butter with some zing, add one-quarter cup of Parmigiano-Reggiano cheese.
To add heat, add chili flakes or powder.
 Use a whisk or electric beaters to combine all the ingredients. This will help incorporate air into the mixture and make it light, fluffy, and whipped.
 Spreadable garlic butter can be used right away, or it can be covered and refrigerated for later use, though it will be harder to spread when it’s cold.









While butter can safely be stored on the counter, unused garlic butter should be refrigerated. Garlic-in-oil is best used immediately, but unused portions must be refrigerated, and should be used within a week to prevent botulism.Garlic butter can be spread on bread, toast, corn on the cob, burgers, or anything else.
Substitute garlic butter for any savory recipe that calls for plain butter to add some extra zip, such as scones or biscuits, cream sauces, or to cooked vegetables.
 Put the garlic butter on wax paper and roll it into a log. Chill in the fridge until it has started to harden. With a knife, divide the butter log into disks that are one-half to one-inch thick. Once it’s frozen, these can be pulled out individually and used without thawing the whole log. Cover the butter in the wax paper and freeze for two to three months.







