 Scatter sunflower seeds or peanuts around the trap to entice the chipmunks into the trap. Then remove the chipmunks from the trap according to your municipality's animal control ordinances.;
, Lean a wooden plank against the side of the bucket.


Scatter sunflower seeds on the plank, in the water and on the grass around the bucket. The chipmunks will walk on the plank to eat the seeds, fall into the bucket and drown.
If you only want to get rid of chipmunks and keep squirrels alive, be sure to squirrel-proof your homemade trap or put it in a place that squirrels don't normally go. Curious squirrels might end up finding the traps, eating the bait, and drown.
Check with your town or city animal control agency to find out how to dispose of the dead chipmunks. Always wear gloves when handling dead animals, and always wash your hands afterward. Many times, they are infested with fleas, mites and other unpleasant critters.
 Slather a mix of peanut butter and oatmeal on the trap. While this will kill the chipmunks, the method is quick and spares them pain. Again, dispose of the animals according to the rules of your town or city.Be sure to keep checking on the mousetraps throughout the day; squirrels might try to eat the bait and/or carry them away.
 Place mothballs around the foundation of your house, near your plantings and around chipmunk holes. Mothballs won't eliminate chipmunks, but they will push the critters back to the perimeter of your yard and away from your landscaping. Be careful as they are toxic.
 Try sprinkling blood meal around the roots of your plants. You can also place un-chewed sticks of fragrant gum near chipmunk holes., Having your dog or cat in the yard will often frighten chipmunks away.
 Alternatively, you can sprinkle cayenne pepper on your plants. Doing this will keep the chipmunks from chomping on your landscaping.


Note that capsaicin, the active chemical in cayenne is toxic to bees and other beneficial pollinators, so if your garden depends on these pollinators use something other than hot pepper spray., At the same time, close any doors or entrances to your interior rooms so that the chipmunk has nowhere to go but out.
 A board will give the chipmunks something to climb so that they can run out of the window.
 If the chipmunk climbs the blanket, don't panic. Just gently roll up the blanket, take it outside and dump the chipmunk out.
 If a chipmunk has gotten into your attic or in the walls of your house and has died, let a professional deal with the problem.

