 Let your personal preferences guide this decision. Pants with a simple fold-down waist and legs that hug your ankle will fit into many styles, and stay in the background while other parts of the outfit draw attention. If you're confident you can achieve a good look despite scrutiny, consider flared bottoms or a patterned waist.


Avoid yoga pants that don't reach the ankles. These belong in the gym or hidden underneath knee-high boots.;
, Black yoga pants fit right into many fashionable outfits. You might be able to pull of a neutral, solid-color shade, but the pants should not be the focal point.
 When in doubt, go for the smaller pair. Baggy yoga pants tend to be unflattering, and a small pair will stretch to a comfortable size over time.
 Achieving a classy outfit is tough if people can look through your pants. Bend over and squat next to a mirror to test how sheer the fabric is. If they become transparent when stretched, look for a different pair.
 Look at your rear in the mirror to make sure the outline of underwear is relatively hard to notice. For a more shapely appearance, wear thin underwear or a seamless thong — or go commando if you're feeling brave.
 Accessories might be the last stage of your dressing routine, but plan around them from the beginning. The contrast between casual yoga pants and fancy accessories can make a fantastic outfit. Draw attention upwards with one or more of these ideas:


A bright scarf
Jewelry: either bold and colorful with a simple top, or simple and subtle with a lace top
Bold makeup, within reason

, There's nothing wrong with a simple button-up shirt or blouse, as long as they don't clash with the yoga pants. Since yoga pants can look minimalist, contrast them with something more textured or flowing. For instance, try a trapeze top, drop-shouldered shirt, gathered top, Dolman sleeves, or cowl neckline.
 In cold weather, a quality cardigan adds pleasant contrast to your sleek leg silhouette. Waterfall cardigans are particularly versatile and comfortable.
 Wear boots for a classy look, or a nice pair of athletic shoes if you're going for casual chic.


If the yoga pants are flared, consider simple footwear to keep attention off the pants and onto more formal portions of your outfit.

