 To remove dust or debris from acrylic windows, use a blow dryer on the coolest setting. Hold the blow dryer 3-4 inches away from the window and cover the surface evenly, going from side to side. Be sure not to heat the plexiglass as doing so might damage.Use an extension cord to ensure that you are able to use the blow dryer evenly in front of your windows.;
, To clean acrylic glass, use a mild, non-abrasive solution of dish washing liquid and warm water. For a ratio that will leave plexiglass streak-free, add 3 drops of dish washing liquid to a gallon of water (approximately 3.8 L). The solution can be made in a bucket to use for cleaning right away, or poured into spray bottles for easy cleaning down the line., To clean acrylic windows, use a microfiber cloth or another soft, lint-free, non-abrasive cloth. Either wet the cloth directly in the mild detergent solution, or moisten it completely before using it with the cleaning spray.Always use a new, clean cloth to wash acrylic windows as any build up, debris, or dirt residue remaining from other cleaning jobs can causes scratches to acrylic very easily., When cleaning acrylic windows, apply minimal pressure while you clean. Gently dab the surface with the cleaning cloth to avoid scratches. Since dirt does not cling to acrylic, this gentle cleaning should be enough to remove residue or dust from your windows., After cleaning, gently blot windows dry with a clean cloth or chamois. This will prevent water spots from forming. Avoid using the cloth to wipe down the surface of acrylic windows, as this motion might cause scratches., Dampen a soft cloth with isopropyl alcohol and gently run it over the part of your acrylic window where fingerprints appear. Once the fingerprints are gone, quickly rinse the alcohol off of your window with a clean, wet cloth. Do not use isopropyl alcohol as a regular cleaning agent for windows, as it can cause a number of tiny cracks on the acrylic's surface over time., To remove difficult stains like oil, tar, or grease from acrylic windows, purchase kerosene at your local hardware store. Dampen a soft cloth with kerosene and apply to the stains, passing the cloth over the surface as lightly as possible to avoid scratches. Rinse the area thoroughly with a clean, wet cloth to remove all traces of the solvent.Be sure to use kerosene in an open, well-ventilated area.
 To remove small scratches from the surface of your plexiglass windows, use floor wax, car wax, or car polish. Using a soft, clean cloth apply one thin, even layer of the wax or polish to your acrylic windows. Buff gently with another clean, damp cloth.For stubborn scratches, use an abrasive polish approved for acrylic surfaces.
 If scratches are too deep to remove with regular buffing, sand the area with fine sand paper (e.g. 600 grit sandpaper, available at hardware stores). Coarser sandpaper will leave scratches. Use small, circular strokes to sand the scratched area, gradually widening your scope and you go., When cleaning acrylic windows, avoid ammonia-based cleaners that you would use on glass windows (e.g. Windex). The chemicals in such cleaners can damage acrylic windows, leaving them looking cloudy and dull. Avoid using any commercial window cleaning sprays unless they are non-abrasive and specifically recommended for acrylic., To reduce the static buildup that can cause dust and other debris to stick to acrylic windows, purchase an anti-static cleaning spray (e.g. Novus Plastic Clean and Shine). Apply the spray to a soft cloth and gently dab it onto the window surface. Buff the window gently with another clean cloth., When cleaning acrylic windows, use only soft cloths to avoid damage to the surface. Even paper towels can leave scratches on plexiglass. Prolonged use abrasive cleaning items can ruin acrylic windows entirely, making them cloudy and unusable.