 WiFi has a huge list of over 100 million Wi-Fi hotspots around the world, including rural areas you might not expect. They've also got apps for iPhone and Android, so you're never without a search engine to find yourself a connection.

If your device still isn't cutting it, there is software you can download (for free!) to enhance your network-finding capabilities. Even the hidden networks will turn up. For Windows, NetStumbler, InSSIDer or Ekahau Heat Mapper are good bets. For Macs, iStumbler or KisMac; for Linux, Kismet or SWScanner.Just don't do any banking or online purchases on this connection; you're going through an unencrypted connection. Please note that this may be illegal in some areas.

;
, It's not the most ideal situation (your data will get used, the battery will drain faster, the connection won't be super fast), but it gets the job done. That's really all that matters.


If you're on an iPhone, you can make use of the Personal Hotspot feature, located in Settings.
On Android? Then it's Settings - Wireless & Networks - Portable Wi-Fi hotspot; and make sure it's checked on.
 You're in for a big surprise: If you have internet through your cable company, you may have access to tens of thousands of hotspots you don't even know about. Check your provider's web site for a map of nearby hotspots, or if they have one, download their mobile app from your app store of choice and find them that way.


Even better, cable companies are starting to get friendly: There are five major providers that allow each other's customers to use their hot spots for no extra charge and those are Bright House Networks, Cox, Optimum, Time Warner and Xfinity. You'll have access to over 100,000 free hot spots nationwide. This CableWiFi project, as it's called, could solve your WiFi woes.If you were thinking about changing cable companies, now's the time!

, In exchange for this service, offer to routinely do yard work, repairs, or take out their trash. You each may have something the other needs.


If that's not an option, try Internet Service Providers (ISPs) that offer free access. For example, NetZero offers a free connection, though with a lot of banner ads. You can also use AOL free for one month provided that you’ve never had an account with them before.

