 Sometimes, a bug problem can be more than just a few bugs; insects can quite literally take over an article of furniture or an area in your house. In these cases, it is most effective to tackle this specific area, which is where bugs and their larvae are living.


Fleas infestations often occur in carpeting. If there is a flea problem in your house, vacuum the carpet multiple times, disposing of the vacuum bag each time outside of the house. Bed bug infestations occur mostly, as the name suggests, in mattresses. To kill bedbugs in your bed, purchase a mattress cover made specifically for bed bugs. You can find such covers at Walmart and Target. Even though these covers are also intended for prevention of bedbugs, they work by isolating the bedbugs which will eventually kill them. There are several types of insects that target house plants and can cause an infestation. There are many preventative measures to stop this from happening in the first place, such as using sterile soil as opposed to garden soil and immediately removing dead leaves and stems. If the infestation has already happened, the best method of elimination may depend on what kind of insect is afflicting it. Identify the insect with a magnifying glass and do your research. Many insects are killed with insecticidal sprays so if in doubt purchase and use an insecticidal spray to spray your plant. , After you have targeted the area of infestation, it is important to clean the surrounding area as well as anything that may have come into contact with it. Although it is likely that you have killed most of the infestation, it is likely that a few insects have spread to surrounding areas and could cause another wave of infestation.


Vacuum the area around which you've already cleaned. This includes the carpet as well as any cushions or soft objects. After vacuuming, make sure to immediately dispose of the vacuum bag outside of the house, as bugs may be present inside.
Wash and dry clothing. This is an essential step, as many times insects like bed bugs spread and live in your clothing. To kill bedbugs, do a wash of all of your clothes, making sure to dry every item for at least 30 minutes on high heat. Wash your pets. Pets are often the carrier of bugs, especially fleas. Combing your pet with a flea comb as well as washing and drying your pet's bedding can eliminate pests. , A bug bomb, also known as a total release fogger, works by releasing a cloud of pesticide into a single area. This type of treatment should only be a last resort, because bug bombs can pose health risks to humans as well as being toxic to insects. Be sure to follow the instructions on the label, and to only use a bug bomb in an area with adequate ventilation.