 We are truly what we eat. We eat heavily of heavy food, then we will become heavy. Nothing can compensate for the intake of excessive greasy and heavy food. As one's body become healthy and fit, the cravings for junk food disappear too. Healthy body comes from and is maintained by healthy mind.;
, I have taken diet pills and followed various types of diet plans and nothing works more effectively or fast than exercising. I am not going to say do 15 crunches a day and walk a mile a day to start...because I know that we want to see the results. Start small but start well to prepare yourself to overcome yourself; don't put yourself to get disappointed with workouts that do not match what you desire. For an example, if you want to burn fat, start off with cardio workouts with yoga (passive, stretching your muscle type of yoga) - running (walking fast at first for 3 minutes) continuously for 35 to 40 minutes a day to start and dedicating to 20 minutes of stretching afterwards. You will find that running outside can be a much more enjoyable experience but running on a treadmill can be good if you have weak knees or ankles. Lifting light weights (for women - it should be 3 pounds max) twice to three times a week and no more. Work your oblique muscles to slim down the waist and whenever you walk/sit/stand or do whatever, always consciously make an effort to suck in and hold your stomach in. Do 2 cardio workouts - one in the morning and one in the afternoon AND stretch before and afterwards for 10 minutes each.
 It's a simple process, if you take in more than you can take out, you will burst. But the majority of what we're made up of is fluid and 'elastic' layers.., therefore, we'll not burst (sometimes we do..) but we get big and we begin to manifest and nurture all types of dysfunctions of organs - diseases. How do we know how much is too much for one person? When one sees or thinks of food (whether it's sitting inside the fridge or in your mouth/stomach) as a trigger to continue on a conversation or to keep up the mood; or catching yourself thinking of food when someone or something pops into your head; and when you 'initially' feel like you are 'stuffed.'

, Love the water and admire it and drink it with love. Buy a beautiful water bottle that you will love and something that can be easily carried around that will be with you. Drink and drink throughout the day but do not think 'I must drink 1L or 1.5L at least.' Enjoy drinking the water when you drink it and don't even think about certain level of consumption you have to reach per day.
 Capture yourself when in a great dress and heels on camera and look at the image and admire it sincerely. LOVE IT! Put on a nice dress or even cute sweatshirt when eating a salad dish by yourself at home. Do not put up diet or weight loss goals and pressure yourself mentally and subconsciously disappointing yourself from not seeing the result right away. Just pick a good role model (anyone around you in your immediate network or a celebrity whose body seems healthy and glamorous/beautiful to you) and always look at the image of that person and envision yourself in that image. In a simple term, love the qualities and image of a person sincerely to be comfortable and accustomed to accept that part into your life. To achieve anything in life, we aim at preparing ourselves to achieve the goal(s); not to view right now - the present moment as black-and-white win or lose.

