 Back pain can be a sign of shoe wear and tear. Joggers should replace their shoes at least every year, even if they appear to have little wear and tear on the outside.


Use running shoes for jogging and use cross-training shoes for other exercise. There is a great deal of variety in athletic shoes. Running shoes are meant for forward motion and do not provide much support for side-to-side motion. If you are jogging on uneven trails or during a team sport, you will need a shoe that also has side support to prevent injury.
Make sure there is a thumb-width between your longest toe and the end of the shoe. This wiggle room will ensure you have enough space for each footfall. Always buy the right size that is not too tight or loose.;
, This will increase the cushion on the bed of the shoe and prevent fallen arches and other injuries. Foot injuries can also cause low back pain because the structures that support the back are weak.
 This will prevent injury by making sure the feet aren't too flexible.
 The hamstring runs from the back of your thigh and connects with your buttocks and lower back. Runners often have very tight leg muscle, which can cause pull on muscles in the lower back.


Do the knee to chest stretch 3 times on each leg. Lay on your back with your knees bent. Lift 1 knee toward your chest and grasp it with both hands. Pull it lightly toward your chest for 10 seconds. Switch legs. Increase the stretch slightly with each repetition.
Do the single leg stretch 3 times on each leg. Lay on your back with your knees bent. Raise your right leg and grasp it on the back of the thigh. Straighten your left leg onto the ground and try to straighten your right leg up in the air. It can remain slightly bent. Pull your leg gently toward your chest and hold for 10 seconds. Switch legs.
Do a piriformis stretch if you have pain in your buttocks and lower back. Stand next to a tall counter or surface that is approximately at hip height. Rotate your right leg and place it atop the surface. Make sure you are very close to the counter. Lean forward with your back straight. You should feel a deep stretch in your buttocks and hips. Hold for 30 seconds and then switch sides.
 Choose a rubber track or soft earth over concrete. Jogging is a high-impact sport that causes shock waves to travel up your spine every time you hit a hard surface.
 Walk for 1 to 2 blocks before you start to jog. Start slow and slowly build up speed after the first half of a mile.
 Alternate your jogging sessions with Pilates or yoga to strengthen individual muscles throughout your entire body. Train with light weights or resistance bands 2 to 3 times per week.


Jogging mainly trains your legs, heart and lungs. It is not a total-body workout that will protect your muscles from injury. In fact, if you only jog and do not tone your abdominal, back, shoulder and buttock muscles you are still at risk for back pain and injury.
 Ask a friend or expert to watch you while you run, in order to ensure the source of your back pain is not incorrect running posture or footfalls. The following are things to watch out for:


Do not land on your heels. A proper running motion should strike the ground mid-foot. Striking the ground on the heel will jar your spine.
Ensure your body is aligned directly above the feet. You should not be leaning forward while you run. Check that your hips, trunk and shoulders are all aligned.

