 Close all tabs on your computer besides the ones you need. This would include any and all social networking sites or just anything besides what you need for research. If quiet music helps you concentrate, you can use Pandora, as long as it's a good classical or choral station you won't find yourself distracted with and singing to it.;
, Most likely, you will be using Microsoft Office Word or Google Drive. If you are in MLA format, set all the margins to 1 inch (2.5 cm), use Times New Roman font, 12 point. Set your spacing to 2.0, and do justify to avoid having to double-space each sentence. This will save any confusion later. Keep entering down on the page until you have 3 blank pages. Enter your full name, teacher's name, course name, and the date it's due (tomorrow, in format Number Month Year). Title the third page Works Cited. Now you know what you're up against.
 After doing a quick Google search with your topic, you will find many websites. Choose the best and most interesting-looking websites. Most papers you need to have 3-5 sources, so choose accordingly. Don't use anything like WikiAnswers, ChaCha, Yahoo Answers, blog posts or especially Wikipedia. Only use trusted sources from official companies; usually if they end in .edu or .org they are okay.
 Copy and paste the URLs into your third page on the document. Now that you have some base information, go ahead and get started.
 The introduction paragraph and the conclusion paragraph is always the worst. It's best to do it later, unless you already have some super good ideas on what you need to do.
 Usually the best thing to do is just start. Stop staring at the blank page. Read more websites if you need more information to work with, but you should be able to get in at least a paragraph or two with 2 or 3 sources.
 Plan accordingly. If you have to have 2 pages of content, then plan for about 5 or 6 full, good, paragraphs. If you have 6 paragraphs, you need 6 subtopics. Go ahead and type out 6 or 7 subtopics you want to cover, and place them on your paper. If you must, do research on each subtopic to encourage you to write. Start writing, and don't let yourself take breaks until you have reached 2 pages.
 Remember to copy and paste each Web link you use onto the Works Cited page.
 Fix any spelling or grammatical errors. If you aren't doing in-text citations, double-check and make sure you used your own words. If you are doing in-text citations, be sure to add them in now before you forget.
 Go back and read each topic sentence per paragraph. If you need to, copy and paste each sentence into a messy paragraph together above where your conclusion paragraph will be. Reword the sentences, use conjunctions to combine some topics. Fix any grammatical or spelling errors and polish it up. Delete the topic sentences above your conclusion paragraph.
 Go and re-read your entire paper so far. Using what knowledge you now know of your topic, write an introduction paragraph which introduces each topic without giving too much information away. Anything that is in the introduction paragraph definitely should be covered in the paper, and also should be in the conclusion paragraph, reworded yet again.
 The title should always be last, not first. Sum up your entire project into one good title which will entice your reader in. Don't make it extremely long, nor too short. Use concise adverbs and adjectives to state your point, but don't use very descriptive words on a PhD level then use the vocabulary of a kindergartener for the rest of the paper.
 MLA formatting can get tricky, so go to a good website like citationmonster.com. Go to each link you currently have on your Works Cited page, copy and paste into your browser, and fill in the required information you need to have it automatically cited for you. Copy and paste, put in alphabetical order, fix the alignment, and you're done!

, If it's not too late, get a sibling or parent to read through it and give you some tips on some minor changes you might want to make. Save your work, and email it to your teacher or print it out. It's always best to print it out, in case your internet happens to not work or theirs doesn't work.
 You just wrote a paper better than half the class did in one night!

