 Have more than seven? No problem, as you can change this plan each week to suit your needs. Next week you can have a different list if need be. Don't put more than 7 on your list though. If you set your sights too high and fail, the tendency is to stop trying. Rather set your goals within reach and increase them as you succeed. Many small wins equates to good feelings and ongoing effort. A good goal is to spend a minimum of 15 to 30 minutes each on action item.;
, That is, nine columns across and nine rows down. If you prefer it can be created on a computer using excel or many other programs. At the top of each column put a day and/or date representing one week, leaving the first block blank. IE: Left to right - Blank/ Mon 11-2/ Tue 11-3/ Wed 11-4/ Thur 11-5/ Fri 11-6/ Sat 11-7/ Sun 11-8/ Total. At the front of each row (far left) list your seven planned 'to do' items, leaving the top (first) block empty. IE: Top to bottom - Blank/ Read/ WebSite/ Planning/ Vacuum/ Write/ Basement/ Calls/ Totals. Just in case this is not coming across clearly you may view and/or download the PDF file here: http://www.studentofwinning.com/chart.pdf .
 As you do any of these things place a check mark in the corresponding box for that date. Example: If you vacuumed on Wednesday, look down the list to Vacuum then follow the line across to the Wed column and place a check mark there.
 If the goal is to vacuum two times a week, then hopefully in that Total box at the far right of the vacuum row the total will meet or exceed that. Simple, right? The Chart example provided has a Goal Total of 28. If your goal for each item is seven times a week then when you add the Total column you are looking for a 49. Some weeks you may hit lower, so next week work to beat the previous Total.
 Shirt pocket, in your planner, wherever you will see it several times a day. If you tuck it away where it does not JUMP out at you - you are wasting your time. Notice that one of listed 7 things was planning? It is very important to actually spend some time each day planning what you will do the next. Experience as taught successful people this. When we don't plan, we don't do. That's it, period. You could be different, but likely not. Do not use this as a flail, or even a burr under the saddle. This should be part of the reward system. On the reverse side if the list write one or two small thoughts reminding you of the benefit from meeting the goal. We do things because we want to. We do not do things we don't want to. If this process makes you uncomfortable you will not do it for very long and for this to work you must. That is, in order for these little things to add up to meeting the big goals we have, there must be prolonged effort. Keep it simple, create a habit, remind yourself of the reasons and the rewards and you will change your life.

