 Whether or not you can care properly for your dog depends largely on the specific needs of the dog breed you choose. There is a lot of variety between dog breeds. Ask yourself the following questions to help you narrow down to a specific dog breed:How much space will it need?
How much attention will it require?
Do I want a lap dog or an energetic dog?
Do I want my dog to fetch?
Is the breed good around children?
Will the breed be comfortable in my regional climate?
Will the breed get along with my other pets?
How dangerous is the breed??
How many years do dogs of a certain breed normally live?;
, This can be a great help in narrowing down your decision. Veterinarians interact and work with all kinds of breeds on a daily basis and can give you some helpful insight before making your decision.Dog trainers can help clarify the nature of certain breeds, looking beyond a breeds cute exterior to their needs and general characteristics.
Consider getting a mixed breed dog. Whether a mutt from the pound or Humane Society, or a specially bred mixed breed dog, such as a puggle, mixed breed dogs can have lower chances of having an inherited congenital disease and can be just as great of a companion as a purebred dog., It costs more to feed a larger pup, but other things like spaying and neutering, heart-worm and flea medications, grooming, and boarding fees also cost more the larger your puppy is.


You should also consider how much of the breed you want cost. Some specialized breeds can be extremely expensive.
Along with these, you will also need consider and budget for the cost of routine vaccinations, training classes for your puppy, annual vaccinations, dental care, and routine blood work throughout their life.
Other potential costs, that can come unexpectedly and should be planned for are injuries, illnesses, and emergencies.
 Once you have weighed your options, pick the dog breed that best suits how you currently live your life. You may have the intention exercising more or going hiking once you get a dog, but if you get a dog that needs a lot of activity and your lifestyle doesn't change, you could be setting yourself, and your puppy, up for failure.

