 The most important information for a landlord is a potential renter's credit history. To check that, you need the prospective tenant's name, address, date of birth, and SSN (or another tax I.D. number).At the same time, gather general information like current employment and wages, cars, work hours, past landlords or employment, etc. You might also ask about any arrests, convictions, or incarcerations.


If you run background checks on potential tenants, you should run them on ALL potential tenants. Cherry-picking the people you want to research opens you up to discrimination lawsuits.
 Print and present this release separately from other application documents. Make sure applicants are fully aware they are signing a consent form, not just another application form.
 Credit checks cost money. Most states let you collect a reasonable fee to cover the cost of running a check. (Some require you pay it as part of your operating costs.) If the applicant pays for the credit check, make sure they understand what you'll be doing with that money. Also make clear that it's not a refundable deposit.


You may want to give applicants a discount on the fee so you don’t scare them away from even applying to rent with you.
 You will likely have to get approved by the credit bureau or Credit Reporting Agency (CRA) as a landlord. Provide them with proof of your identity and that you own a rental unit. The CRA may even send an inspector to your property for a site inspection.
 You can get a credit check directly from one of the three major credit bureaus (Equifax, Transunion, or Experian). You can also contract with a third-party CRA. CRAs often give you the option to add a “Criminal Background Check” and an “Eviction Report” to the “Credit Report” for a fee. But in most cases, you won't need anything beyond a credit check.
 It will show late payments on car loans, educational loans, credit cards, medical bills, and many other debts. As a landlord, you're looking for a debt load too high to manage with the applicant’s income. Remember that a credit report will only have information from the past seven years (or, ten years for some things). Some reports will also contain a "FICO" Score ranging from 300 to 900. The higher the score, the better. Anything above the mid-600s is usually thought to be low-risk.


If you reject an applicant due to information on the Credit Report, you should give an “Adverse Action” notice.This letter should provide contact information for the agency you used to get that report.
The tenant can choose to dispute the information the agency provided. Applicants can receive a free copy of the Credit Report from that agency so long as they dispute the information within 60 days.
 You are not legally allowed to keep a copy of an applicant’s Credit Report after you have no more legitimate use for it. However, you should keep them for at least 2 years because applicants can file a fair housing claim against you within 2 years of claimed discrimination.


Note that some states allow a fair housing claim to be filed past the two years, in which case you should keep the reports longer.

