 If you make an effort to show your love once a day, whether with a good-night "I love you" or by simply putting his toothpaste on her brush for her, you'll keep the relationship strong for a long time. If you're worried about showing your affection, just think about finding one time a day where you can. Even an extra-long, passionate kiss is a great way to slow down time with her for a half-second. , Some people don't mind cuddling up any chance they get. Others prefer to save intimate moments for intimate times. Communication effectively is best way to show affection and express your love in a way everyone is comfortable with. That said, you should feel comfortable expressing your love in public in some capacity:


Hugging and/or kissing goodbye
Holding hands
Light joshing around, flirty pushing and shoving
Telling her you love her around your friends or strangers., Complete one of her chores for her or scramble eggs for breakfast in bed on Sunday. When you show her that you're thinking of her when it's not a special occasion, she'll know that you love her without having to hear it.


This is especially important when she is stressed out. What can you take off her plate to make her life a little easier?
Don't do these favors to get anything in return — just do them to make her a little happier and show your love.
 Take time and effort to splash some color into your life. This doesn't mean blowing your whole paycheck on her; it means setting aside time each week or day for couple time. When you set aside your schedule to be with her and spend some blissful hours together, the message is clear — you love her, and you're willing to express it.


A date night can be take-out and a movie or a fancy restaurant. Maybe you'd rather go camping, in the backyard or a national park. Perhaps you just want to go to a museum and wander for a few hours. The time and thought is the important part.
Though you can't do it every time, surprises are a great way to express your love on a special day.

Remember important dates and events — attention to your relationship on these days makes a big impact. Unfortunately, so does forgetting them., Trusting and allowing her to have fun on her own is key to a strong, healthy relationship. Just because you love her doesn't mean you need to become her shadow. If you really love her, you can happily set her free, counting down the minutes until she comes back.When you are apart, it's okay to want to talk or text. Just don't "hover" over her every action or moment. Let her have fun and you'll have good stories to share when you're reunited.
When you know you're in love, you don't have to be jealous. She'll come back.

