 Explain that no matter how old you are, it is natural to have negative emotions and selfish thoughts. However, in order for us to develop friendships, we need to take control of these thoughts and replace them with love and empathy. Start talking to your children at an early age about emotions and self-control, and show them how to practice taking control of your emotions by acting as a positive role model on a daily basis.Children who are taught early about emotional self-control, and are exposed to positive role models, are better able to maintain that self-control, empathy, and problem-solving skills. This will ultimately help them to establish long lasting happy friendships.
 A large part of teaching kids about friendship will include talking to them about what it means to be a friend. When you talk to them, explain that being friend means sticking with the people you care about and sometimes even taking up for them.For example, you could say, “A good friend doesn’t stop playing with someone just because someone new comes around. They try to play with everyone.”
Or, you might tell them, “Sometimes friendship means standing up for the people you care about if someone else is bothering them.”

, When you explain what friendship means to kids, it can be useful to discuss how to be there for someone and support them.Let the kids know that friends are there for one another when things are fun and going well, but also when things aren’t going so well.


You might tell them, for instance, “Friendship means holding your friend’s hand or just listening to them when they’re upset.”

, It’s hard, if not impossible, to be a good friend If you aren’t being truthful with the people close to you. Explain to kids that a big part of friendship is being honest with others about how you feel, who you are, and everything else.For example, you might tell your kids, “Friends trust each other and are honest with each other about who they are, the things they do and don’t like, and more.”

