 Heat 1 tablespoon of olive oil in a saucepan on medium heat. Add the minced garlic and cook for 1 minute. Add tomatoes and juices to the pan. Increase the heat to bring it to a boil. Then, reduce the heat to simmer it for 15 minutes. Add salt and pepper to taste. Remove from heat and add the minced basil.
 Wash and dry your eggplant. Cut into 1/4 inch to 1/2 inch round pieces.
 Before you cook your eggplant, you need to preheat the oven to 425 degrees F. Coat the bottom of two baking sheets with 1 tablespoon of olive oil. Set aside.
 Combine breadcrumbs and 1/4 cup of Parmesan cheese in a shallow bowl or pan. Place the flour in a separate dish. Beat the eggs and place them in a third dish. The dishes should be arranged with the flour first, the egg in the middle, and the breadcrumb and cheese mixture last.


Your dishes need to be shallow enough to dip the eggplant in.
 Dip a piece of eggplant into flour and cover both sides. Next, dip the eggplant slice into the egg and fully coat each side. Last, dip both sides into the breadcrumb and cheese mixture. Lay the coated slice onto one of the baking dishes. Repeat on all slices.
 Drizzle some olive oil on the tops of the eggplant slices. Place in the preheated oven for 18-20 minutes. Turn over the slices halfway through. Cook until they are golden brown.


Once you take the eggplant out of the oven, let them cool enough that you can pick them up.
Reduce the temperature of the oven to 350.
 Spread 1/2 cup of tomato sauce on the bottom of a 9x13 inch casserole dish. Place a third of the eggplant along the bottom of the dish in an even layer. Lay half of the fresh mozzarella on top of the eggplant. Sprinkle 1/3 cup of grated Parmesan cheese on top.


Layer another 1/3 of the eggplant on top of this. Spread 1 cup of the sauce on top of the eggplant. Layer the remaining mozzarella slices on top of the sauce. Sprinkle 1/3 cup of Parmesan cheese on top.
Layer the remaining 1/3 of the eggplant on the top. Top with the rest of the sauce and the last 1/3 cup of Parmesan cheese.
 Place the dish in the oven. Let it cook for 35 minutes, or until all the cheese is melted. Let sit for 10 minutes and then serve.