 If you find an injured bird on the road, turn on your vehicle's warning lights to warn other drivers to slow down. Check in both directions for oncoming traffic and, when clear, cautiously move toward the bird. If you move suddenly, most birds will try to fly away, which will probably cause greater injury.;
, If the bird is in the middle of the road, the best thing to do in the meantime is to get it off of the road, as this will prevent it from getting hit again. If the bird is on the side of the road, evaluate the bird without causing it too much distress.
,


Using a box: Open the box and get as close to the bird as you can without especially disturbing it. You want the box to lie on its side, with the opening facing the bird. Use you feet to guide the bird into the box, but make sure not to kick it! Once the bird inside, lift the box and close the lid while leaving a small gap in it for air.
Using a blanket: Spread out the blanket and hold it up using the upper corners, lower your hands and approach slowly. When you get close to the bird, slowly open the blanket and toss it over the bird. If the bird escapes, get even closer and toss the blanket a little faster than before. If you don't have a blanket, a shirt or sweater will also work.

Using your hands: Form your middle and index fingers into a V shape, slightly bending forward their tips. Kneel behind the bird and move your hand toward the back of its head. Encircle the bird's neck with your fingers, firmly enough to hold it but not strangle it. This position will stop the bird from moving its head around and biting you.
Using gloves: Following the above method, move slowly toward the bird. Using both hands, place one above the bird, ready to hold the bird across the wings on its back. The other hand should be placed under the front of the bird, so as to support its bust. Bring both hands to the bird and hold it that way until you can put it in a suitable container.
 Get a box that will easily contain the bird; the bird will need to be able to stand in the box without bending its tail or having to duck its head. Crack closed the lid of the box and place it in a quiet room or on the back seat of your vehicle.
 They know how to care for injured animals, including wild birds. This is where your job ends. However, if you live too far away from an animal clinic and the bird is not injured badly, there are more steps you can take to save it.
 Stress, like in humans, can be treated by keeping the patient warm with nothing to bother it. Place the bird, leaving it in the box, in a room with a heater or a fireplace, or place a blanket over the box. Don't place any food or water in the box; water, though good for helping with dehydration, can also give the bird pneumonia in the early stages of stress. You also want to keep the bird dry; if you place water in the box, you may cause the bird to stress out and bash around.
 After about 12 hours, check on the bird. The bird may have passed away due to stress, but in good cases the bird will still be alive. At this time, if the bird is still panting or looks to be in stress, leave it covered for another 12 hours. Birds can take a while to recover from stress. If the bird is fine, get some bird seed and place it in a corner of the box, and leave the bird alone for a while. When the bird is not stressed, you can more safely take it out and place it in a larger box or cage. This will allow you to see what the bird's injuries are and how severe they are. Sometimes, you will need to nurse the bird back to health, if you do not want to do this take the bird to an animal rescue centre and they will provide for it.
 If the bird was rescued near your house and is not injured, you can try to release it. Birds that cannot fly usually pass away due to cold and being killed by predators. If the bird cannot fly away, capture it again and keep caring for it until it has fully recovered. When you release it, find a place with adequate tree and canopy coverage, as this will protect the bird from any predators. But if there are native flowering plants around, the bird may decide to stay a while longer!

