 Keep a low profile for the first few weeks and don’t do anything that might single you out. Older students sometimes give freshmen a hard time for the simple fact that they’re new and are usually too timid to stand up for themselves. When you’re getting started in high school, keep your head down, get a feel for the place and gain some confidence navigating your new surroundings before you start to explore social relationships.Though it can be hard at first, your best bet for blending is to act like you already know how things around your school work. Try not to walk around staring in wide-eyed wonder; this will make it obvious to upperclassmen that you’re new and overwhelmed.
Stick closely with your friends that are carrying over from middle school. They can be a great comfort while you’re all trying to get used to a new school and grade together. Get a sense of your classmates’ character before you attempt to make a new friend.;
, Everybody likes nice people. If you're friendly toward every fresh face you see, they'll feel comfortable being around you and will have no reason to try to belittle you. Smile and introduce yourself to your new classmates, even the older ones. This is a good way to break the ice and get off on the right foot, since being the new kid at school can be a little awkward at first.Make an effort to be nice even when people aren't being nice to you. Returning negative feelings doesn't help anything. If someone is mean to you for no reason, don't bother with them. It's their loss!

, Pay close attention to where things are and how things are done so you can learn your way around your new school. Chances are, you won’t have to spend a lot of time dodging taunting juniors and seniors if you always know exactly where you’re going and move around with your group of friends. Finding your way around will make you feel more at home in your new school, which will give your confidence a boost.Take the time to map out the quickest routes between all your classes, your locker, the cafeteria, gym and anywhere else you have to be on a daily basis, and don’t deviate from these routes until you feel comfortable getting around.
 Some unfriendly upperclassmen will take any opening they can to make fun of you, from the clothes you wear to the people you hang out with. Don't pay any attention to their insults. If you just ignore them, they'll have no reason to continue. Bullying is usually based on insecurity, so if someone is making fun of you, it probably just means they don't think much of themselves.When ignoring a bully doesn't work, don't be afraid to speak up. You have the right not to be harassed at school. Bullies most often target kids that are younger or too timid to stand up for themselves, so if you stand firm, they will back off.
If you stand up to a bully and the situation escalates to aggression, calmly find a faculty member and have them break it up. The bully will be dealt with and will think twice about bothering you in the future. You have more important things to do than deal with spiteful people who are always trying to start a problem with someone else.
 Some upperclassmen are more mean-spirited and will take any opportunity they can to bully and put down new students. Don’t give them the chance. Whenever you feel that ridicule or confrontation is imminent, quietly but quickly excuse yourself or move to another part of the room. Keep away from these students as much as you can—they’ll only try to make you feel bad about yourself.If at all possible, choose a desk on the other side of the room from a trouble-making student. If you come across them in the hallway, just keep going. Don’t hang around and give them an invitation to start slinging insults.
Arguing with a troublesome student will get you nowhere. Stand up for yourself by all means when you have to, but don’t engage in a back-and-forth verbal debate. This will get you nowhere. Most of the time, a bully’s motivation is simply to provoke and irritate their victims. If you deny them this satisfaction, they’ll have no reason to continue bothering you., Another way that older students might try to have fun at your expense is encourage you to do things you shouldn't be doing that could embarrass you or get you in trouble. If this scenario arises, just smile, say a simple "no thanks" and move on. Giving in to peer pressure might temporarily make you feel more involved, but it's hardly ever done for your own benefit. Know the right way and the wrong way to act, and have the self respect not to let others influence your decisions.When you have to say "no," do it like you mean it! A classmate attempting to pressure you into doing something likely won't be discouraged if you sound unsure of yourself, so make sure that they get the idea the first time.Try to avoid situations where you think negative peer pressure might come into play, like house parties where no parents are around.
 If an instance of bullying or peer pressure ever gets so bad that it becomes detrimental to your studies or your ability to enjoy the social side of high school, let an authority figure know. Your first course of action should always be to ignore taunts and aggressive behavior, or respond with a good-natured dismissal, but if it gets out of hand, you may need a little backup. There’s no shame in getting a teacher, principal or coach to step in on your behalf; sometimes it’s the only way to get an antagonizing student to lay off.Ask a teacher or other faculty member for assistance discreetly so that it doesn’t look like you’re telling on another student. Being too obvious about making a complaint might just get you made fun of more.
 The more anxious or uncertain you seem, the more likely you are to attract negative attention. Be positive! Freshmen are more likely to worry about how they’re perceived, so if you hold yourself like you don’t have a care in the world it will become much harder and less rewarding to try to pick on you. Don’t let unkind remarks phase you. After all, they’re just words.Wake up every day with the goal of making a new friend, learning something useful or finding a way to succeed. Going to school shouldn’t have to be something you dread. Take this opportunity to make the most of your new circumstances.
Remember: no one has the final say on the way you feel but you. Feeling out of place as a new student in high school can be discouraging, but it doesn’t have to be. You’re the only one in charge of your attitude.
 Despite the age gap that exists between you and students of other grades, you all actually have a lot in common: you go to the same school, you’re forced to take the same kinds of classes and you all have your own individual interests. Be mindful of this kinship when trying to form friendships with new people. It shouldn’t matter what grade you’re in if you find joy in the same things.Take note of the things the other students around you like and play up on these similarities. If you notice that another student has a certain band sticker on his or her notebook, for example, strike up a conversation about music and your favorite bands.
Everyone feels more or less on their own in high school. Highlighting the things you have in common with your classmates will help break down the walls that keep people from becoming friends.
 While it’s true that you have a lot to learn when you first start high school, being a freshman shouldn’t be an ingrained part of your identity. You’re an individual first. Be comfortable being yourself and you’ll attract other comfortable people who want to get to know you. They may not even realize you’re a freshman if you don’t feel obligated to play the meek “new kid on the block” role.


Figure out solutions to novel problems yourself rather than always asking for help. Becoming more capable will give you a confidence boost, as well as keep you from looking like a helpless freshman.
 Why not? Become friends with anyone who you like that interests you, no matter what grade they might be in. If you make friends with older students as an underclassman, they might introduce you to their own friends, which will help you develop a reputation as a “cool” freshman. After that, being a couple grades younger won’t seem like such an issue anymore.If you have an older sibling that attends the same school, see if they’d be willing to introduce you to some of the upperclassmen friends. That way, you’ll have someone to help you find your way around, show you the ropes and shield you from ridicule from the older kids.
Students of different grade levels often wind up taking the same classes together in high school. Get to know some these older students so that you don’t feel confined to only being friends with other freshmen.
 It’s easy to leave people with a good impression of you when you feel like you’re at your best. Think of the things you most like about yourself and let those be the traits you show to people. Put a little effort into your appearance, grooming and clothing choices so that you can show up to school looking as good as you feel. Confidence is often the sole difference between standing out and fading into the background.Practice confident thinking. Focus on the good parts of your appearance and personality, not what you lack. Don’t be afraid to make mistakes and laugh off failures. Nobody’s perfect, and as long as you remember this and have a good attitude, you’ll never have a reason to fear judgment or criticism.Wake up early enough to start the day with a solid breakfast, wear clothes you like that you can be comfortable in and get a little exercise periodically to keep yourself looking and feeling good. These are all habits of self-assured people., If you have a particular skill, passion or set of interests, make it known. People like people who are good at things. Having a special ability is a great way to distinguish yourself not just from other freshman but among students of all grade levels. Sharing these skills and interests can also introduce you to new friends who like the same things you do.Look for productive outlets to exercise your passions, like trying out for a sports team, band or social club. Most schools offer these types of extracurricular activities, and they can be a great way to connect with talented, like-minded classmates., Being cool is not defined by your grade or the kind of people you hang out with. Someone who is truly cool knows how to talk to everybody, is confident being themselves and likes to have a good time with others. Put your best side forward and be the kind of person that people like to be around.A lot of people make the mistake of thinking that they have to put others down in order to be cool. This couldn’t be further from the truth. Cool people are always approachable, friendly and take an interest in others.To be cool, you have to be able to stay composed under pressure. Don’t let little things get to you, and, when in doubt, just smile., You’ll never be able to impress everyone, so why try? Instead, concentrate on doing well in school and enjoying the time you spend with the old friends you’ve kept and the new ones you make. Ignore the older students and anyone else who tries to belittle you for being new—they obviously have nothing better to do. High school should be an exciting time of learning about yourself and growing as a person. Spending too much time fretting over what other people think about you will just hold you back.

