 A debt buyer will start a lawsuit by filing a complaint in court. In this document, the debt buyer explains the factual circumstances of the lawsuit and why the law allows the debt buyer to sue you.The debt buyer will also send you a summons along with the complaint. The summons will tell you the deadline for responding to the lawsuit.;
, To make your strongest defense, you should schedule a consultation with a lawyer. Only an experienced lawyer can help you understand what defenses you have available. To find an attorney, you can contact your state’s bar association, which will run a referral program.


Costs could be a concern. However, you should realize that many states now allow lawyers to offer “unbundled” legal services. Under this arrangement, the lawyer does not take over your entire defense. Instead, he or she will do the tasks you give them. For example, you might need a lawyer solely to draft a court motion. Or you might want a lawyer to offer you advice for trial. When you call to set up a consultation, ask if the lawyer provides “unbundled” legal services.
You can also see if there is a nearby legal aid organization. These organizations provide free assistance to people with low incomes. You should visit the Legal Services Corporation’s website at www.lsc.gov to check if a legal aid organization is near you.
 The costs of legal assistance may be beyond your budget. However, you should realize that many people are currently representing themselves in creditor lawsuits.Even if you choose to represent yourself, you can still meet with a lawyer, if only for a half-hour consultation. During the consultation, the lawyer can give you good tips about how to defend yourself.
 A copy of the contract between you and the original creditor should be attached to the contract. If none is attached, then the debt buyer might not be able to prove that the underlying contract exists.You can get the lawsuit dismissed if this is the case.


Sometimes debt buyers will attach other documents—like a terms and conditions mailer—and pretend that this is a legal agreement. It is not. You can defend yourself by claiming that the debt buyer has not proved a valid debt.
 You can get the case dismissed if the creditor waited too long to file the lawsuit.Every state has a “statute of limitations” for debt collection lawsuits. This statute sets the maximum amount of time someone has to file a lawsuit against you.


You can find your state’s statute of limitations by searching the Internet for “statute of limitations debt collection” along with your state.
Figuring out the relevant statute of limitations can be complicated. You should check the contract you had with the original creditor. If the debt is credit card debt, then check the cardmember agreement. These document should tell you which state’s law applies.Look for the “choice of law” provision in the contract or cardmember agreement.
If the creditor did take too much time to sue, you can use this as a defense in the answer that you file with the court.
 In some cities and states, the debt buyer must be licensed in order to operate. You should check to see if the debt buyer is licensed. If not, you can raise this as a defense.You can search for “consumer collection license” and your state on the Internet. Often, there is a search engine on your state’s Department of Banking or Department of Financial Regulation.The complaint also should contain a license number. If not, mention that fact in your answer.
 In addition to arguing that the plaintiff waited too long to sue, you can also raise other defenses against a debt buyer who sues you. Some of the more common include:


Argue that the complaint was improperly served. Each state has strict requirements for how you must be served with a complaint. In New York, for example, the debt buyer should try to serve you in person. If not, then he can leave a copy of the complaint with someone who lives in your home so long as he also mails you a second copy. If the debt collector makes service in another way—such as just mailing it to you or leaving it with a neighbor—you can have the case dismissed.Claim that the debt buyer doesn’t actually own the debt. In order to sue you, the debt buyer has to show that the original creditor legally gave it the right to sue you.Typically, debt buyers do not have adequate paperwork to prove this.
Allege that you have paid the debt. The debt buyer might not have gotten a history of payments from the original creditor and therefore is not certain how much you have paid. Again, the debt buyer must prove this in court.
Claim that the debt amount is inaccurate. Similarly, you can claim that you owe less than the debt buyer alleges. The debt buyer has the burden of proving the amount you owe.
 To respond to the lawsuit, you need to file an answer with the court. Your court may have a fill-in-the-blank answer form to use. Ask the court clerk or look on the court’s website. If the court does not have a form, then they may have a sample that you can use as a guide.


In your answer, you respond to each allegation the debt buyer raised in the complaint. Each allegation should be numbered. Take out your copy of the complaint and read each allegation. You can either admit, deny, or claim insufficient knowledge to admit or deny each allegation.#*At this point, you do not need to tip your hand about what facts you will bring up a trial. Ideally, you should avoid arguing your case in the answer.However, you should raise affirmative defenses.For example, you might allege that the original creditor did not properly sell the debt to the debt buyer. Accordingly, you can raise the defense that no contract exists between you and the debt buyer.
It is important that you file an answer by the deadline listed on your summons. If you don’t respond to the lawsuit, then in many states the debt buyer can get a “default judgment” against you.This judgment allows the debt buyer to garnish your wages or put a lien on your property. Accordingly, you want to make sure to file your answer on time.
 In your answer, you can also state any counterclaims that you have against the debt buyer. You should certainly bring counterclaims if the debt buyer has used abusive conduct toward you while trying to collect the debt. Abusive practices can include:threatening to send you to jail
using abusive language
contacting your employer
suing you when the debt buyer knows the statute of limitations has expired

, After you finish drafting the answer, make three or four copies. Take your copies and the original answer to the court clerk. Tell the clerk you want to file. The clerk should stamp all of your copies with the date.


The court might charge a filing fee. This will depend on the court. You can ask the court clerk if there will be a filing fee when you pick up your answer form. If you cannot afford the fee, ask for a fee waiver.
 After you file your answer, you should send a copy of your answer to the debt buyer or its lawyer (if it has one). Ask the court clerk for acceptable methods of service.
 After you serve a copy of the answer on the debt buyer, the lawsuit enters the “discovery” phase. During discovery, you and the debt buyer request relevant documents from each other or ask each other questions. The questions can be submitted in writing (using “Interrogatories”) or orally (in a “deposition”).You should use your document requests to ask the debt buyer to turn over copies of the original contract between you and the original creditor. Also, you should request all documents that show the original creditor gave the debt buyer the right to sue. Often, debt buyers do not have these documents., To successfully negotiate, you need to estimate how much you can reasonably afford to pay on the debt. You don’t want to finish negotiation but still not be able to pay the debt.Take some time to sit down with your bills and figure out how large of a payment you can make.


First, add up all sources of income from jobs, benefits (such as disability or retirement benefits), or child support.
Next, add your monthly expenses. Be sure to include all expenses:

mortgage or rent
heating costs and other utilities
food
healthcare expenses
childcare expenses
transportation costs
other debts



, A typical debt buyer will purchase a large number of debts for pennies on the dollar. If you owe your original creditor (such as a credit card company) $1,000, then the debt buyer might have purchased that debt for $30.


For this reason, the debt buyer might not be motivated to try too hard to collect the debt. Instead, the debt buyer might be willing to settle.
Start with a low initial offer—for example, 5-10% of the face value of the debt. If you have $1,000 in debt, then offer between $50 and $100., Many debt buyers do not want to sue if they know you have a lawyer. Asking an attorney to call the debt buyer to discuss negotiation could lead to the debt buyer dropping the lawsuit.


If you want to negotiate, then avoid negotiating in the hallway outside the courtroom on your trial date. Some debt buyers try to intimidate debtors by approaching them outside the courtroom and offering to cut a deal., The debt buyer might want you to sign a new payment agreement. You should avoid doing this.


Bad debts fall off your credit report after seven years of non-payment. However, if you form a new payment agreement, then this is basically a new debt. Should you miss payments on the new debt, then the debt buyer can report you to the credit bureaus.Your credit can be damaged even more.
 The debt buyer might be willing to settle if you can offer a lump sum payment in cash. A lump sum payment is attractive because the debt buyer can get at least some money immediately without having to go through trial.
 Courtrooms are conservative places, and a judge expects to see you dressed in a conservative manner.


For example, men should plan on wearing suits (if they have one) or dress slacks with a button-up dress shirt and tie.
Women should wear a skirt or pant suit. Otherwise, women can wear slacks with a blouse or nice sweater. Women can also wear a conservative dress.
For more information, see Dress for a Court Hearing.
 You will not have a jury if you are in small claims court. However, you can probably have a jury hear your case if your case is heard in regular civil court.


During jury selection, the judge calls up a panel of prospective jurors and asks them questions. For example, the judge will ask if the jurors know either party and if they can be impartial. If you think a juror is biased, then you can ask the judge to excuse the juror for cause.
The judge will also ask them questions about their jobs and hobbies. Listen closely to this information. If a juror has worked for a bank or a collection agency, then you should think about excusing that juror. Although you can’t excuse them for cause, you can use a “peremptory challenges.”
The judge will probably give you a certain number of peremptory challenges, which you can use to excuse a juror without having to give a reason., The trial starts with the debt buyer’s attorney delivering an opening statement. You will be able to deliver an opening statement second.


If you are in small claims court, then the judge will probably just ask the debt buyer what the case is about. As the party bringing the lawsuit, the debt buyer will go first. You should not interrupt but listen closely to what is said.
 You might have to testify at trial. If you hired a lawyer, then he or she will question you. In small claims court, you will simply tell your side of the story to the judge, who may ask you questions.


If you have to testify, then remember these tips for giving effective testimony:Don’t guess if you don’t know an answer. Instead, tell the lawyer, “I don’t know.”
Speak clearly. You want the jury to be able to hear you. Sit up straight and look the jurors in the eye as you answer.
Don’t volunteer information. Instead, listen to the question and answer as briefly as possible.
Always tell the truth. A skilled lawyer can trip you up in half-truths, so always be upfront and truthful in everything you say.
 After all evidence has been submitted, the debt buyer will give a closing argument. You go second. Your purpose in closing argument is to convince the jury that the debt buyer doesn’t have a valid legal claim and that you do not owe the debt buyer any money.
 When all evidence has been presented, the judge will give the jury instructions. The jury then retires to deliberate. If you are in small claims court, then the judge will rule on the case from the bench.
 You might want to file an appeal if you lose at trial. However, you should talk this over with a lawyer. Appeals can take over a year to complete. In the meantime, you might have to pay the debt buyer the money owed as you wait for the resolution of the appeal.


If you want to appeal, then you should file your Notice of Appeal form quickly. You typically do not have a lot of time. Depending on the state, you might only get 10 days from the entry of the final judgment in order to file for an appeal.