 Mowing your lawn is a one way to keep it in good health. Try to mow your lawn at least once every two weeks, but try to aim for mowing your lawn once or twice a week.Sharpen your lawn mower blade once a year, as a sharper blade will cut your lawn without tugging at the grass.
Try to avoid cutting the grass too short, especially when the weather is very hot. During hot weather, your lawn has to put a lot of energy into regrowing grass shoots.;
, Most lawn fertilizers can be applied after mowing. Consider feeding your lawn once a month over the summer to help it stay healthy during the hot summer months.
 Grass can turn brown quickly during dry periods. Watering a lawn can use up a lot of water, especially if you are using processed tap water. Instead of using the hose, try to capture rainwater in buckets and use this to water your lawn in the summer.


In addition to this practice being environmentally friendly, lawns often prefer rainwater to tap water.
 If you have to water your lawn, then try to only do what is essential to keep it from turning brown and avoid running sprinklers too regularly. When watering it is preferable to give the lawn a good soak rather than a light sprinkle so turn the sprinklers on for a full night once a week, rather than misting your lawn every night.


Too little water encourages roots to grow at the surface. This makes the lawn less drought resistant.
Try to water your lawn during the cooler parts of the day, such as at dusk. This will allow the grass to soak up the water before the sun dries it up.
 While a brown lawn is less attractive, keep in mind that if your lawn does turn brown, it is very likely that it will return to its healthy green color when cooler and wetter seasons begin.


However, if you have just laid or reseeded your lawn, it may not become green again if it is allowed to turn brown. Make an effort to water these sorts of lawns during dry spells.
 At the end of summer, consider whether your lawn has any bare patches. If it does, you will have to decide if you want to reseed your lawn in the fall.


Reseeding helps to control lawn weeds because the thick, lush grass of the lawn can crowd the weeds out.
 In particular, look at the areas that are walked on relatively often. These areas are usually found near gates or doors, or where children play. Aerating your lawn helps gases circulate and promotes better grass health. There’s some evidence that it also revitalizes growth on an established lawn.


You can get special shoes with spikes on them to help aerate your lawn, or you can get a walk-behind tool with tines that poke holes in the soil.

