 The veterinarian will check the eyes using an ophthalmoscope, which looks at the retina and inner eye.Typically, a cataract blocks the passage of light and so the lens now casts a shadow on the retina when the bright light of the ophthalmoscope is directed at it.


This test helps differentiate a cataract from a condition called nuclear sclerosis, which can mimic the condition but is subtly different. Nuclear sclerosis is just part of the normal ageing process of the lens and light is still able to pass through, meaning the cat's eyesight is not impeded.;
, Your veterinarian may need to do more than look in your cat's eye. This will cost you more money but it will allow your veterinarian to give your cat a more specific diagnosis, which can help him or her figure out the most effective treatment.


For example, if diabetes is suspected, your vet will run blood tests to monitor blood glucose levels and reach a definitive diagnosis., The veterinarian will likely prescribe medication to reduce the pressure in the eye. If the eye is inflamed secondary to trauma with a viral infection, then the vet may prescribe eye drops. These contain an anti-inflammatory, either from the non-steroidal anti-inflammatory family or containing steroids.


Reducing inflammation within the eye helps decrease the drive for the cataract formation, but will not reverse any changes that have already taken place., The glaucoma may be at least partially caused by an underlying medical condition. In many cases, the underlying cause of the glaucoma is diabetes.


Treatment of diabetes is done with insulin and dietary changes.
This is an integral part of treating the cataract because insulin therapy will not reverse any changes already present, but it will help slow the deterioration and maturation of the cataract., If the cataract is already well established, then removing it and replacing the diseased lens with an artificial lens can restore the cat's vision. This is a specialist surgery performed by a veterinary ophthalmologist.


Surgery means your cat will go under anesthesia. The vet will use a magnifying operating loop to make a small incision in the cornea (the outer layers of the eye) and in the front capsule of the lens.They will then remove the lens and put an artificial replacement lens in its placeWhether or not to have your cat undergo surgery is a decision you will have to make by weighing the pros and cons. For example, if your cat is very old, or you don't have the money to pay for surgery, then you may forego the surgery. However, if your cat it relatively young, you may want to go ahead with the surgery.
 The veterinary ophthalmologist will want to carefully screen the cat prior to operating to make sure they are strong enough for the anesthetic. The veterinarian will also make sure that the retina is still healthy and working, otherwise the surgery is pointless.Surgery carries a high success rate and it is possible to operate on both eyes during the same surgery., Your cat will need some recovery time after surgery. When it is released after surgery, be gentle with it and make sure it is comfortable.


Follow your veterinarian's suggestions for after care. This may include giving your cat medications and caring for its wounds.
 A cat with cataracts may be less sure of its footing when jumping, and may become clumsy. It may have a hard time finding its food dish and litter box. As a result, its habits may change and it may spend more time sleeping than it used to.Cataracts affect the lens and reduce the amount of light passing through to the retina, and blur the image. The effect is similar to wearing a pair of very dark sunglasses indoors with the lights off.
However, the behavioral signs of cataracts may be to subtle to notice, especially if your cat is very familiar with its home and can move based on memory.
 Use a bright light and check for a white, milky, or blueish haziness in the pupil. In the early stages of cataract formation, this is a subtle change.However, as the cataract becomes more mature, the whiteness within the eye becomes more noticeable.
 Bear in mind that cataracts are commonly associated with diabetes or with eye trauma. If you identify the signs of these medical problems, then it may signal cataracts as well.Has your cat been more thirsty and has it lost weight? This can be a sign of diabetes.
Has your cat had a sore red eye? This could be a clue it has knocked its eye and caused inflammation.

