 If you already hold a permit to carry a handgun in Minnesota, you do not need a separate license to purchase or transfer a gun. The permission to purchase or transfer a gun is already included within the permit to carry. However, if you do not already have a permit, and you wish to buy or sell a handgun within Minnesota, you will need to get this permit.In Minnesota, the word “transfer” includes any sale, gift, loan, assignment or other delivery of a handgun from one person to another. Any of these would require a permit.
 You can download a copy of the application form at https://dps.mn.gov/divisions/bca/bca-divisions/administrative/Pages/firearms-permit-to-purchase-transfer.aspx. You can also get a copy of the application form at any sheriff’s office in Minnesota.


You can find a list of all the sheriff’s offices in Minnesota at https://netforum.avectra.com/eWeb/DynamicPage.aspx?Site=MSA&WebCode=MNsherifflist.
 You must fill out the application form, neatly in ink or by typing. If you are applying to make a transfer of a handgun, you will need to complete all the sections of the application form. If you are only applying for a permit to purchase, you will skip the first section of the application form and then complete the remaining sections. The complete application will require the following information:Dealership name, address and federal licensing number, and date of sale or transfer (this only applies to a sale or transfer of a handgun).
Personal data. This includes your name, birth date, current address, physical description and any identifying physical characteristics (tattoos, scars, etc.), and your driver’s license or identification number.
Previous residential addresses for the past five years.
 As part of the application form, you must sign an authorization statement that will allow the licensing agency to conduct a background check to verify your eligibility to hold a firearm permit. The Minnesota Department of Human Services, which includes the Department of Public Safety, will check whether any of the following applies. Any of these could disqualify you from receiving a permit:Committed by a court as mentally ill, developmentally disabled, or dangerous to the public.
Committed by a court as chemically dependent.
Found incompetent to stand trial or found not guilty by reason of mental illness.
Informally admitted to a treatment facility for chemical dependency (applies only to peace officers).
 For a permit to purchase or transfer, you will submit the completed application to your local police department. If you live in an area with no local police department, you will need to submit the application to your county sheriff’s office.There is no fee for a permit to purchase or transfer a handgun., The police or sheriff’s department will accept your application and then conduct a series of background checks and other verifications to make sure that you are eligible to purchase or transfer a gun, subject to Minnesota law. You will be notified by mail of the decision on your application. If you are applying specifically for a permit to transfer, you will be notified within seven days.