 Place 4 cups (500 g) of flour, 1 1/2 teaspoons of salt, and 1 teaspoon of sugar in a large mixing bowl. Stir the ingredients and add 1 3/4 cups (400 g) of very cold and cubed butter. Use a fork or pastry cutter to combine the butter so that the mixture looks like coarse breadcrumbs. Mix in 3/4 cup (180 ml) of ice water, 1 tablespoon (15 ml) at a time. Stop adding water once the pastry dough starts to come together in a large ball.If you add too much water, the dough will become sticky and hard to handle.;
, Cut the ball of dough in half so you have two even pieces of dough. Flatten each piece a little and form it into a disk about 1-inch thick. Wrap each disk in plastic wrap so it's completely sealed. Refrigerate both of the disks for at least 2 hours before you roll it out. You can chill it up to five days.If you want to make the apple slab pie with the crumble topping, you'll only need to use one of the disks. You can freeze the remaining disk to use for another pie.
 Preheat the oven to 375 degrees F (190 C). Peel, core, and chop 4 to 5 pounds of apples so you end up with 10 cups. Put these in a large mixing bowl and stir them with the other filling ingredients. You'll need:2/3 cup (135 g) of sugar
1/4 cup (31 g) of flour
2 tablespoons (30 ml) of fresh lemon juice
1 teaspoon of vanilla extract
1 1/2 teaspoons of ground cinnamon
1/4 teaspoon of ground cloves
1/4 teaspoon of ground nutmeg

, Remove the chilled pastry disks from the fridge. Sprinkle a little flour on your work surface and use a rolling pin to roll the dough into a rectangle. It should be 18x13-inches in size. Lay the pastry in the bottom of a 10x15-inch jelly roll pan. There should be dough hanging over the sides of the pan. Roll out the other disk as well and set it aside.Turn the pastry rectangle as you roll it so it doesn't stick to your work surface.
Roll out the top pastry disk into another 18x13-inch rectangle.
 Scoop the spiced apple filling onto the pastry in your jelly roll pan. Spread it so that evenly covers all of the pastry dough. Gather the remaining rectangle of rolled pastry dough and place it on top of the filling. Pinch together the edges in order to seal them. Cut a few slits in the top of the apple slab pie and brush the beaten egg over the pastry. Sprinkle coarse sugar over the top, if you like.The slits will help steam escape as the pie cooks. This will prevent the pastry from becoming soggy.
 Instead of using a pastry crust topping, you could use a crumble topping. Mix together the crumble ingredients and cover the apple filling with it. You'll need to mix together:1 cup (90 g) of quick-cooking rolled oats
1 cup (200 g) of packed brown sugar
1/2 cup (65 g) of flour
1/2 cup (110 g) of diced butter
1/2 cup (65 g) of chopped pecans

, Put the apple slab pie in the preheated pie and bake it for 40 to 45 minutes. The crust should turn golden brown. You should also see filling bubbling around the sides and through the slits of the pie when it's cooked. Use oven mitts to carefully remove the pie from the oven and let it cool for at least an hour.Cooling the pie will make it easier to cut. If you cut the pie while it's still hot, the filling may spill out of the crust.
 You can make the glaze while the pie cools. Place 3/4 cup (90 g) of sifted confectioners' sugar, 2 tablespoons (30 ml) of pure maple syrup, and a few teaspoons of milk or heavy cream in a small bowl. Use a fork or a whisk to combine the glaze. Drizzle the glaze over the apple slab pie before you're ready to serve it. Cut the pie into squares and serve them.If you want the glaze to harden, drizzle it over the pie once it's completely cooled. Drizzling it over a warm pie will make the glaze soak into the pastry.
You can store and refrigerate the leftover pie in an airtight container for three to four days.

