 A level 82 Typhlosion won't do any good when trying to catch a level 5 Caterpie, now would it?;
, There are 26 different Poke Balls for a reason. Using the correct Ball can really speed up your progress.



Great Balls have a catch rate of 1.5x, while Ultra Balls have a catch rate of 2x.
The Master Ball has a catch rate of 255x, which will capture any Pokémon without fail.

Level Balls vary:

1× if the player's Pokémon is the same level as or a lower level than the wild Pokémon
2× if the player's Pokémon is at a higher level than the wild Pokémon but less than double it
4× if the player's Pokémon is more than double but less than four times the level of the wild Pokémon
8× if the player's Pokémon is of a level four times or more than that of the wild Pokémon



Lure Balls will work 3x better if used on a Pokémon hooked by a fishing rod.

Moon Balls have a 4x multiplier when used on a Pokémon belonging to the Nidoran, Jigglypuff, Clefairy or Skitty families.
A Love Ball is 8x better if the wild Pokémon is the same species as, but opposite gender of the Pokémon currently in battle.

Nest Balls are weird. Their catch rate is (40 - Pokémon's level ÷ 10)×.

Net Balls work 3x better if used on a Water- or Bug-type Pokémon.

Dusk Balls have a catch rate of 3.5x when used at night or in a cave.
 Every Pokémon game has version-exclusive Pokémon, meaning that some Pokémon can only be obtained in one version of the game. However, they still appear in the Pokedex. Without friends who just happen to have the counterpart to your game, you can trade online. Beware of people who ask for legendaries in return for common Pokémon.
 Through Pal Park (Generation IV) or Poke Transfer (Generation V) you can use dual-slot mode to transfer Pokémon from your Generation III game. Note that this isn't possible on a DSi or 3DS, and there is no way to get the Pokémon back once transferred.


Generation III games cannot trade with Generations I and II.
Generation II and Generation I can trade with each other.

