 For many dyscalculics, doing any math or arithmetic mentally is a serious challenge. To help reduce the difficulty of mental mathematics, it's a good idea to carry a calculator with you. Your calculator will help you to remember the numbers you are working with and produce an accurate solution to the problem you're solving.A simple pocket calculator could help with basic, daily math.
Most cell phones will have a basic calculator app.
 If you find it difficult to keep track of the parts of an equation, you may want to use graph paper. Using graph paper can help keep each part of your equation in order and can also help you to isolate difficult sections. Try using graph paper whenever you are doing arithmetic or mathematics to make the problems a bit easier to work with. Keep each number or operator in a square on the graph paper.
Keep equations in the same row.
Keep numbers in the correct column, aligning them with the value place.
 If you need some help keeping track of your equations, try getting a box of colored pencils or highlighters. Color coding your math problems can be a simple way to help you keep track of the various elements in the problem. You can use whichever colors you like, so long as they help you remember the parts of the equation.Each operator should get it's own unique color.
Number groups can be given a color. For example, 1 and 2 in the equation 1+2=3 could be colored red, while the sum of 3 could be blue.
You can make a small color key to help remind you of which colors you've assigned.
 Many dyscalculics have difficulties memorizing formulas or parts of the equations they are working with. If you have trouble remembering how certain numbers, equations or operations act, you can try making some reference cards. These cards can help you quickly recall how to handle a difficult part of your mathematical work. You might try creating a large sheet that contains many references.
You could make smaller reference note cards that contain single references to specific formulas.
You can carry these reference cards with you to provide quick help to math problems.
 Although you may be able to create some useful reference cards, you might not be able to write down everything you need on them. Because of this, it's a good idea to have a few mathematical references or textbooks handy. These books will allow you to look up any issues you may be having trouble with and can help you to solve difficult problems., There are many mathematical tools and learning opportunities available online for you to use. These tools will help you practice your existing math skills and acquire new ones. Whatever level of skill you are currently at, try using online tools and courses to help you overcome dyscalculia and build your mathematical capabilities.Many online tools and courses are free.
The wide range of courses will allow anyone at any skill level to practice.
Some courses and tools are developed specifically for people with dyscalculia.
You can find a list of courses and tools at http://www.dyscalculia.org/math-tools


, If you are having trouble with a concept or specific problem, looking at it from another perspective might help you get past it. Seeing the problem in a new way can help you rethink the question and find the solution. The next time you're stuck on a math problem, try thinking about it a bit differently to help you successfully solve it.Memorizing formulas or tables can be a serious challenge for most dyscalculics.
Focusing on the concepts behind mathematical operations can be more helpful.
For example, memorizing a multiplication table might be extremely difficult. It might be easier to understand the underlying concept behind multiplication. Take the example equation 5 x 2 = 10. If the 10 was doubled, that would mean 5 x 4 = 20.

