 If you make the lifestyle changes suggested above but see no change in symptoms, it's time to see a doctor. Long-term GERD can cause esophageal injury and is associated with other severe health problems. Prolonged inflammation and repeated injury can also increase the risk of developing esophageal cancer. Don't hesitate to seek medical treatment if lifestyle changes don't fix your stomach acid issues.;
, Many of medications are available over-the-counter (OTC). You should still consult your doctor to ensure a proper treatment regimen. If he or she can write you a prescription for an OTC medication, you might even be able to get it covered by insurance. Follow the dosage and timing instructions carefully for each different drug to prevent potentially severe side effects.


For mild to moderate GERD: Take antacids as needed (Tums, Maalox) to neutralize acid if your symptoms occur once weekly or less. They provide relief within minutes, but only last for about one hour. Take surface agents (sucralfate/Carafate) to protect esophageal and stomach lining and promote healing. Take histamine 2 receptor antagonists (Zantac, Pepcid) to decrease acid secretion.
For severe or frequent (2 or more episodes per week) GERD: take proton pump inhibitors (omeprazole, lansoprazole, esomeprazole, pantoprazole, dexlansoprazole, rabeprazole) to prevent acid secretion in the stomach.Some of these are available OTC, and the standard dose is one pill daily for 8 weeks. Side effects include: bacterial infections and diarrhea, anemia and osteoporosis, and interactions with other medications.
 In a screening upper endoscopy, doctors use a camera on a flexible tube to look at the throat, esophagus, and stomach. During the procedure, they might take biopsies to assess inflammation, check for H. pylori (a type of bacteria), and rule out cancer.Discuss whether your symptoms call for an endoscopy with your doctor.
 One surgical approach (fundoplication) wraps the upper part of the stomach around the esophagus, then sews it in place to reinforce the esophageal opening. A second approach wraps a string of magnetized beads around the point where the esophagus meets the stomach. This closes the lower esophagus, but lets it expand when swallowing so food can get through.


Young people who will suffer from life-long GERD symptoms can also consider surgery.

