 Look at the top of the screen. When Driving Mode is enabled, you should see the Driving Mode icon near the center of the screen.The Driving Mode icon resembles the back of a car.
Note that once Driving Mode has been set up on your phone, the setting will automatically be enabled when you connect an associated Bluetooth device if the screen of the phone is off. If the screen is on, Driving Mode will only be enabled if you agree to enable it.;
, Go to your App list and tap on the Settings option.


From your phone's Start screen, swipe the screen to the left to reveal your App list.The Settings option should be near the top of the list, but you may need to pan up or down to find it.
Alternatively, you can tap the letter "S" on the phone's keypad to jump to your "S" apps and navigate to Settings from there.
You can also identify your Settings by finding the gear icon in your Apps list.
 Locate Driving Mode on your Settings menu by swiping up or down. Tap on Driving Mode once you find it.


As soon as you tap on Driving Mode, the settings for that feature should open. You should notice that the current status should be listed as "On."

, Look at the bar beside the word "Status." Slide the bar from right to left to turn Driving Mode off once.The status bar should change from blue to gray when you do this, and the status itself should change from "On" to "Off."
When you turn it off using this method, Driving Mode will stay off until the next time it connects to a Bluetooth device previously linked to your phone's Driving Mode.
 If you want to permanently disable Driving Mode for a particular Bluetooth device, you will need to unlink that device.


Tap the Add Devices button from the Driving Mode menu.
Locate the name of the Bluetooth device you wish to remove and tap once on the device name. The device will still remain on the list, but the words "Ready for Driving Mode" will be removed from beneath the name of the device.
If you want to completely disable Driving Mode, you will need to tap on each device name to unlink all Bluetooth devices.

