 When babies take their first steps, they are never sure if they shall reach the next side, but they believe in themselves and hope to reach it and slowly and gently they do. When they arrive at their destination, they smile innocently and you can feel they joy of success in their beautiful eyes and smile achievement. Relationships are similar; take the baby steps, feel the calm, and take the chance.


New relationships are the most fun in the beginning stages and it's during this pivotal time when it's easy to take unnecessary leaps. Try your best to keep a logical head and take those baby steps. It'll help you from getting too overly emotional and watch out for future you.
 It's easy to find a new love and want to devote all your time to them. Unfortunately, sometimes this results in relationship burn out. You become clingy or desperate and don't even remember how to function without the other person. To avoid this, make sure you maintain your friendships. They were there before, they're there during, and they'll be there after if you need someone to help you pick up the pieces. Don't let them go!


What's more, they'll keep you balanced and rational. Not only with good advice, but by simply spending time with different people. Your thoughts won't be fixated only on this other person and you'll still be that complex, interesting person you've always been with strong relationships to prove it.
 If you're the type that falls in love too quickly, it can be helpful to don your "rational" hat once in a while (if not more often).This is when you take a look at your life (or life in general) and aim to think logically. Here's a few thoughts that can keep the crazy lovelorn-ness at bay:


This person is great, sure, but realistically they're no greater than other fish in the sea. Humans, overall, are pretty similar creatures.
Love comes and goes. Your previous relationships have faded, and this one might, too, at some point. Might as well make the most of it while it lasts.
Emotions are fickle little things. You only think you feel them; if you change your mind, you won't. So while you may feel overwhelmed with emotion, that's just your mind playing temporary tricks on you. Just little hormones going off in your head; it's no more real than that.
 Instead of stalking this person outside their house at night, sending them flowers to work, leaving notes on their car, or asking them to hang out 24/7, let's take a moment to focus on staying cool, calm, and collected. You'll be more attractive if you just chill, and you'll probably feel better about yourself, too. When the emotions attack, recognize that they're attacking. Then you can make a logical decision on how to react.


If you feel yourself losing your cool, take a step back. Breathe, and come up with a plan to distract yourself. Pick up a video game, call up a friend, or go shopping. Recognize that you're getting a little too emotional and that it's not in your best interest right now. If you need, call up a friend, say you're feeling a little anxious/love torn/crazy, and let them distract you. After all, that's what friends are for.
 Sometimes people get so wrapped up in their complexes that they try to make reality fit their definition of what life or love should be like. They say "I love you" too quickly, get married too quickly, or even end things too quickly. Take some time to know yourself and what behaviors you're compelled to do and why. Do you actually love this person, or do you just want someone to say "I love you" to?


When it all feels right, when it all feels compelled by a force you can't withstand, that's letting it grow naturally. Forcing it into a box is getting wrapped up in an idea or feeling and letting that determine your behavior. Instead, go with the flow. When the timing's right, it's right.

