 Does the speaker talk in a way that makes you want to keep listening, or is it easy to tune out? A great speaker knows when to pause for effect, as well as how fast to speak and at what volume. There’s no one perfect way to deliver a speech, since everyone has their own style. However, all great speakers share in common a capacity to keep their listener’s attention. Here are a few things to keep in mind:


A person who is speaking too loudly may seem aggressive, while one who is speaking too quietly may struggle to be heard. See if the person seems to have a good sense of how loudly to speak.
Many speakers tend to speak too quickly without realizing it. See if the person is speaking at a pace that sounds natural and easy to understand.
 The way the speaker holds him or herself should project confidence and charisma, making the audience feel engaged and included. Someone less skilled at public speaking might look down, forget to make eye contact, and tap his or her foot, while a great speaker will do the following:


Make eye contact with audience members in several different spots in the audience. This helps each part of the crowd feel included.
Stand up straight without fidgeting too much.
Use natural arm and hand gestures from time to time.
When appropriate, walk around the stage instead of leaning against a podium.
 Too many “ums,” “likes” and “uhs” take away from a speaker’s credibility, since they make him or her sound a bit unprepared. Listen for these words and make a note of how many times you hear them. While saying a few filler words is natural, they should not overwhelm the speech or be noticeable in any way.
 A great speaker should have memorized the speech long in advance. Using a typed page of notes or using powerpoint to jog one's memory is acceptable, but glancing down too many times can be distracting for audience members.


It was once acceptable to carry a series of notecards and read from them, but this is no longer the case.
Memorizing the speech allows the speaker to engage with the audience through eye contact and body language, and prevents the speech from sounding like it’s being read from a book.
 Most people suffer from stage fright. Public speaking is the second worst fear in North America, ranking above death. Great speakers might be nervous on the inside, by they’ve learned ways to hide that from the audience. Look for signs that the speaker is nervous so you can offer a critique that will help him or her improve next time.


Note any repeated movements or gestures that take away from the content of the speech; these could be signs of nervousness.
A shaky voice or tendency to mumble are also signs of nervousness.

