 The cotton on Q-tips and cotton balls can become worn if they touch other items in your bathroom drawer. Store some vanity items in plastic Easter eggs to keep them in good condition and ready to use.This can be particularly helpful if you’re going to be traveling. Create a mini vanity kit with a Band Aid, a couple Q-tips and any other small bathroom items you need on the road.;
, Use Easter eggs to organize buttons, thread, yarn, and any other sewing supplies that are prone to unspooling or knotting. Eggs can make excellent containers for needles or other sharp objects you don’t want lying out, too.
 Crafting can get messy. Easily contain craft supplies such as beads, sequins and ribbons with Easter eggs for a neat workspace. You can even make a system organized by egg color to make finding crafting glitters or sequins of a particular shade easy to find.
 Keep your desk clean by storing office supplies, such as rubber bands, paperclips, erasers and loose change, in plastic Easter eggs. You can write on the outside of each with a permanent marker so you know what’s inside., Whether for travel or every day, use Easter eggs to organize small accessories, such as earrings, rings and hair ties. Keep an Easter egg on your nightstand, so you can take off any accessories you might have on before going to bed and store them safely. You can also keep an Easter egg in the kitchen, if you like to take your rings off while cooking., Screws, bolts and nails can skitter away from you while working on assembly projects. Use a plastic Easter egg to hold any small pieces of hardware so you don’t lose them while you are working. You can also use the eggs to store hardware in your toolbox so you can find like-sized items easily.
 Easter eggs are the perfect size to store snacks for kids or babies and are a fun addition to lunch boxes. The eggs can also make a great snack container on the go for those who have low blood sugar or other health conditions that require frequent but discreet snacking.