 If at all possible, do not swim or spend time on the shore in areas known to be frequented by jellyfish. Choosing a lower-risk area is the easiest way to reduce your chances of being stung by a jellyfish.


You can ask lifeguards, beach officials, or local residents if you are unsure whether or not jellyfish are a danger in a given area.Learn what kinds, if any, are common, and how to treat stings.;
, Jellyfish may range near shore when there are strong winds.They can also appear in large numbers (known as a jellyfish blooms), so avoid the water when these occur., In areas were jellyfish are known to be a common threat, you may see permanent signs. Swim with caution in these areas, if at all.
 At many beaches, officials will fly purple flags during times that jellyfish or other dangerous marine animals are present.If you see these flags flying, this is a signal to stay out of the water to avoid getting stung.
 By wearing rubber-soled shoes when you walk on the beach, you will avoid accidentally stepping on them with your bare skin and getting stung., Some evidence shows that protective lotions such as Safe Sea may protect against jellyfish stings. Applying one of these lotions before you go in the water can be a good additional precaution.Look for protective lotions at pharmacies, and shops that sell diving and beach gear.

Some stores that sell diving equipment also carry special “stinger suits” that you can wear to prevent being stung by a jellyfish.Even if you wear a wetsuit, you should still practice caution and avoid jellyfish, as stings through wetsuits have been reported., Even if the jellyfish is dead, its poisonous cells can still cause a sting. Some varieties have very long tentacles (such as the Portuguese Man-of-War, that has tentacles up to fifty feet long), so it is best to stay far away from jellyfish.There are many different kinds and forms of jellyfish, and when they are washed ashore they may look like plastic bags or other debris. If you are not sure whether or not something is a jellyfish, it is best not to touch it at all.
Tell a lifeguard or other beach authority when you spot a jellyfish on the shore, so that it can be safely removed by someone trained to handle the creature.
 They will also be able to alert you when jellyfish are spotted.
 If you shuffle your feet when walking in shallow water, you may disturb and drive away some jellyfish or other creatures that have the potential to sting you., Often, you can see jellyfish in the water. They may look like a plastic bag or balloon floating at the surface of the water, and may come in groups.If you see a jellyfish in the water, calmly but quickly return to shore to avoid stings.


Tell a lifeguard or other beach authority when you spot a jellyfish in the water, so that a warning can be issued.

