 Study hard and get good grades in all your classes and on standardized tests in order to improve your chances of getting into your preferred schools.


Physics, chemistry, and biology will all help prepare you for a college premedical program. If possible, take AP science classes. This will give you a head start in college and allow you to progress to higher level classes faster.Look for after school work or volunteer opportunities in the medical field. Any experience will be extremely beneficial to you, even if you aren’t able to have any contact with patients. This experience may also help you write more confidently about your interest in medicine when it is time to begin applying to colleges.;
, Many universities offer premedical undergraduate programs, which are designed to prepare you for medical school. This may be a good choice for you, but keep in mind that you do not need a premedical undergraduate major in order to be admitted to medical school. Choose a major that suits your interests, while also keeping in mind the prerequisite requirements for the medicals schools you plan on applying to.It is best to have an idea about where you would like to attend medical school when you choose your undergraduate program so you can be prepared to complete all of the necessary prerequisites. Contact your top choices for medical school and ask them about the undergraduate premedical courses that are required for admission into their programs. The Association of American Medical Schools maintains a complete list of U.S. and Canadian medical/osteopathic schools, along with information about their programs and admission requirements.
Decide what kind of degree is best for you. If you are completely sure that you want to attend medical school after college, you can look into B.S./M.D., B.S./D.O., B.A./M.D., or B.A./D.O. programs. These are special programs offered by some universities that allow students to complete both their undergraduate degree and medical degree at the same institution without having to apply to medical school separately.Alternatively, you can choose to pursue a traditional undergraduate degree at any university, and then apply to medical school at another institution.
 Get good grades in all your classes, especially those related to your major. Take the most advanced premedical classes available to you.


If you do choose an undergraduate premedical program, take courses in the humanities as well. Medical schools prefer applicants who have excellent written and verbal communication skills and an appreciation for diversity.In addition to performing strong academically, you should show your interest in the medical field by joining clubs for premedical students and continuing to seek out employment, volunteer, and internship opportunities in your field.
 (A separate application is not necessary if you are already enrolled in a B.S./M.D., B.S./D.O., B.A./M.D., or B.A./D.O. program.) Ask your adviser how to best handle the paperwork involved in medical school applications.


Check application deadlines carefully, and give yourself plenty of time to prepare your applications.
Applications will require personal statements and most likely interviews, so be prepared to talk about your passion for the medical field.
You will need to take the Medical College Admission Test (MCAT) at the end of your junior year in college. Be sure to familiarize yourself with this test, study hard, and get tutoring if necessary, because your score on this test will be an important factor for your admission into medical school., When you graduate, you will receive your Doctor of Osteopathic Medicine (D.O.) degree or Doctor of Medicine (M.D.) degree.


You should expect to spend the first two years of medical school taking a wide variety of science classes that will teach you all about the human body, as well as some classes that will help prepare you to interact with patients. You will continue taking classes for the next two years, but will also start clinical rotations. This will give you the opportunity to learn about about many different fields of medicine. Depending on your program, you may have the opportunity to choose some of your rotations based on the fields that most interest you. If you choose a B.S./M.D., B.S./D.O., B.A./M.D., or B.A./D.O. program, you may finish both degrees in less than eight years, depending on the specific program.
 You will not have to commit to your specialty until you begin applying for residency programs. Use medical school as an opportunity to explore different fields of medicine so you will be sure that neuropsychiatry is really right for you.


Make sure you have a genuine interest in treating patients who are experiencing psychiatric symptoms, keeping in mind that this requires compassion, patience, and empathy.
You should also have an interest in the brain and nervous system, as well as strong diagnostic skills, to perform the neurological requirements of the job.
Keep in mind that it is perfectly fine to choose to focus solely on neurology or psychiatry, or to change your focus entirely.
 You will begin taking the three-part United States Medical Licensing Examination (USMLE) and/or Comprehensive Osteopathic Medical Licensing Examination (COMLEX-USA) while attending medical school. Most students take the first part of the exam after their second year of medical school, the second part during their fourth year of medical school, and the last part during their residency., You should begin the application process in your third or early in your fourth year of medical school. This is actually on-the-job training for which you will receive a salary.The residency application process involves a personal essay and recommendation letters, both of which are weighed very heavily, so be sure to prepare yourself accordingly.
Talk to an adviser or the residency director at your medical school about your desire to pursue a career in neuropsychiatry. You should also try to talk to as many neuropsychiatrists as possible. The goal is to learn as much about the field as possible before you decide for sure that this is the career path you want to take. If you are interested in other medical fields as well, talk to people in those fields and carefully weigh all your options.
Apply to a variety of residency programs at different tiers. Remember to take geographical location into consideration, as you will be living in the area of your residency for several years.
You will receive interview request letters in response to your applications. After you have completed your interviews and maybe even gone on second visits to some institutions, you will need to rank the programs in order of your preference. You will then be matched to a program by The National Resident Matching Program (NRMP)., The American Board of Psychiatry and Neurology The American Osteopathic Board of Neurology and Psychiatry does not offer medical boards in neuropsychiatry, so you will have to pass individual medical boards in psychiatry and neurology in order to practice in both fields.
 Each state has different licensing requirements, so do your research to make sure you qualify for licensure in your state. The American Medical Association provides lots of helpful information, as well as links to State Medical Boards.
 Don’t forget to congratulate yourself for committing yourself to your education and achieving your goal of becoming a neuropsychiatrist.


In order to maintain your board certification, you will need to fulfill the continuing educational requirements established by the American Board of Psychiatry and Neurology. This includes taking an exam every ten years for each certification you hold.