 Most people enjoy talking about themselves. People tend to have a better impression of the listener when the listener gives them lots of opportunity to share their stories.Find out about her background and let her tell her favorite stories.She will likely enjoy retelling a favorite story for a new audience.
 When some people get nervous, they have a tendency to blab on and on. If you are one of those people, find a way to keep yourself in check.


For example, you may want to have your boyfriend pay attention to your conversation, and come up with a signal (coughing, pulling his ear) if you are talking too much.
You can also keep an eye out for behavioral gestures that indicate the listeners is losing interest, such as looking away, or gestures that indicate the listener can't get a word in, like them opening their mouth to says something but then stopping.
 Learn about her hobbies ahead of time from your boyfriend. If you have something in common, come prepared with some stories of your own.


Do you both love to travel? Have her share some of her trips with you, and ask for her advice. For example, “Mike told me you went to Italy last year. I’ve never been there. Which cities did you visit?”
If you both enjoy watching football, talk about your favorite team or recent games.
 Now is not the time to be the authority on everything. Do your best to keep the peace and maintain a positive impression.


Stick to neutral topics. Now is not the time to bring up religion, politics, or your ex-boyfriends, for example.
Try building on the statement you disagree with in order to continue the conversation. Maybe you don’t agree with her assessment that “everyone is glued to their phones these days.” Instead of disagreeing and letting her statement hang there, you could say, “I always feel like I need to have my phone with me. I have so much important information on it!”
Change the subject if you are worried you will get into an argument.
 She’ll enjoy telling stories about him, and as a bonus, you both share a common interest!


Have her tell you stories about what he was like as a child.
Ask her about family traditions, like holidays and favorite recipes.
 Don’t be a know-it-all when it comes to your boyfriend. She’s known him his whole life, and you’ve known him for a few months.Don’t correct her about his preferences. If his mother serves him scrambled eggs, and you know for a fact he only likes his eggs poached right now, don’t say anything. He can let her know.
Keep your nose out of your boyfriend and his mother’s relationship. They have their own dynamic and their own ways of relating. You might not like her nitpicky criticism of her son, but that is up to him to address with her, not you.
 Make sure it is not directed at her and that it doesn’t cross the line into inappropriate territory. You will have to figure out her sense of humor and how far you can stretch yours.


Jokes about sex, religion, and politics should be avoided. Jokes that are overly sarcastic or put people down will likely not leave her with a favorable impression.

