 You will need to be running Minecraft PE version 0.11.0 or later in order to select custom skins. This applies to both the iOS and the Android versions of Minecraft Pocket Edition, and the process is the same.


You can update your Minecraft Pocket Edition app using the iOS App Store or the Google Play Store. Select "Updates" in the App Store, or "My Apps" from the Play Store menu, and then look for Minecraft Pocket Edition in the list.
 With version 0.11.0, Minecraft Pocket Edition uses the same skin files as the computer version. This means you can download any Minecraft skin and have it work for Minecraft Pocket Edition. If you have access to a computer and a creative bent, you can also edit your own skin. To download a skin, try some of the following Minecraft fan sites:


MinecraftSkins.com
MinecraftSkins.net
PlanetMinecraft.com/resources/skins/
Seuscraft.com/skins

, Either tap the Download button or press and hold the image and select "Save Image". This will save the PNG skin file to your device.
 You can find this on the main Minecraft PE screen. If your game was already running, exit back out to the title screen, as you can't change your skin while in-game.
 This button looks like small character portraits, and can be found in the menu on the left.
 The button will depend on whether you are using iOS or Android.
 If you are using iOS, the Camera Roll will open and your downloaded skins will be in the Downloaded album. If you are using Android, the Gallery will open and you'll be able to find your skins in the Download album.


The skin files will look odd when viewed in the Camera Roll or Gallery. This is because the skin file is wrapped around the model, which makes it look right in-game.
 After selecting your skin, you'll see the skin applied to both the Steve and the Alex model. Tap the one that looks best to select it.
 Once you've selected your skin, you can start your game back up to see the changes. Toggle third-person mode in the Settings menu to get a good look at your model in the game.