 There are certain sizes that work best when it comes to team work. The number of people will affect how easily they are able to communicate and how clearly roles and responsibilities are defined. Keep your team size balanced to help maintain effective teamwork.The ideal size for a team is between two to five members.
A five to ten member team is possible. However it may prove difficult to manage.
Any teams larger than ten members will likely need to be divided into smaller sub-teams.
 Although your team will likely have an ultimate deadline for the total project, breaking the goal down into smaller goals and deadlines can help the team stay on target. Try making the larger team goal into smaller goals each with their own deadlines.For example, you might create a planning phase where the team coordinates their efforts by a certain time.
Each phase will have a sequential due date, culminating in the final project and deadline.
Breaking goals down can help the team keep track of their progress.
 Your team will need to work well together and creating proper protocols and inter-team responsibilities can help facilitate this. By making these instructions clear your team will effectively be able to communicate and achieve their goals together.Set deadlines for responses to phone messages or emails.
Make attendance to meetings mandatory.
You might offer a form for your team mates to sign indicating they have read and are committed to the team policies.
 A good team will have clear cut and very well defined roles and responsibilities for each team member. These will help them to focus on their specific tasks as well as understand what other members are currently working on. Delegating work in this way lets everyone work effectively both individually and as a team.Without clear goals team members may overlap and perform redundant tasks.
Clear goals for each team member will help the effectiveness of the entire team.
Objective goals allows for evaluation and improvement of performance on both individual and team levels.

