 It is normal to not do everything right the first or the second time in a new church.;
, The first part of the service has to do with "the word," in other words the Bible. The second part of the service has to do with "the table," and usually involves Eucharist (communion). Identifying these two major divisions in a service can be very helpful if you feel completely lost. In churches who do not celebrate communion, it is just "the word" part that you will experience most Sundays.
 Make special note of which books are used by this church (the Bible, a hymn book or two, any extra books, bulletin inserts). Look around and find all of the extra books or materials used during the service so that you can quickly grab them later. You can even mark the first couple hymns in the hymnal for easy flipping later.
 Sometimes these are hard to catch as they are written in italics or boldface without clear directions. Identify how this church marks what the congregation is supposed to do. If the only variation in movement is standing or sitting, some churches will only have an asterisk or other symbol beside those items in the service during which the congregation stands. It might be good to ask another person sitting close if it is not clear when you are supposed to stand, kneel or walk around the church.
 It might be a response to a reading or a prayer. Typically, the order is for someone at the front to do something and then for the congregation to respond to what has been done.
 Should you choose to go up during communion, ask if they encourage a new person to do that and exactly how it would be done. Some churches only allow baptized persons or members to receive communion. If this is the case, you can hang back in the pew or you can walk up with everyone and indicate that you would like a blessing. You can usually do this by crossing your arms in front of your chest.
 Attending a couple of times at the same church will make you feel like a pro. Unfortunately, every church is different so trial and error is typically the way to know how to behave in a particular church.
 Know that you will feel self-conscious and that while this is unintended, it is normal. Try to enjoy the service as much as you are able to until you get used to everything going on. Wait a beat before you make any moves and Try to follow others when you can.

