 Next time, instead of waiting for a conflict to boil over, try nipping a developing problem in the bud. Know your relationship ‘triggers’—that is, things your friend does which annoy or anger you—and share them with each other. This knowledge of one another’s pet peeves will help you change your behavior and preserve the friendship.If you find yourself getting annoyed with your friend, think about your options for addressing it. You could take a break from each other, or you could talk it out right away, or you could try writing a letter asking your friend to stop the behavior. The most important thing is to address it in some way rather than ignoring your feelings until they boil over., One of the best ways to maintain a healthy friendship is to adjust your attitude regarding fault and hurt feelings. Just because you’re hurting, does not mean that the other person is solely to blame. Acknowledge that, as a partner in the friendship, you are partially responsible for keeping the relationship healthy and for any rifts which ever develop., Whether it’s your BFF or your significant other, it can be tempting to spend every second with those closest to you. It’s wise, though, to resist this impulse and take some time apart periodically. It will help prevent future tiffs and make your friendship more enjoyable as a whole.This can be especially helpful if there’s already some tension between the two of you. Giving each other some space will help cool off any simmering resentment and remind you how much you miss each other., Friendships change with time and conflict, and often times friends who were once close lose touch, but studies have shown that relationships can be preserved through communication and dedication. The tightest friendships remain so because the parties involved commit time and energy to one another, so take some time to connect with your friend on a regular basis.If you live far away from each other, this can be more difficult, but sending a quick email, e-card, or text can still be meaningful. Show your friend you’re thinking of them and resolve to touch base over a long phone or Skype conversation as soon as you both have time.
 While you shouldn’t be quarreling constantly, remember that conflict can be a healthy and productive element of friendship. Instead of thinking about it as something awful which you should avoid at all costs, think about it as an opportunity to build better understanding and trust between each other.If you acknowledge that fighting isn’t the worst possible scenario, you’ll be more willing to confront your friend at earlier junctions. Since you’re not avoiding conflict, you won’t let existing problems languish and worsen over time. You’ll also find that your fights take on a different, more positive character.
 If the fight was over a boundary that was crossed, or if you just feel like you and your friend need to have better boundaries, then setting boundaries is a good idea. To do this, you will need to identify what your boundaries are and then tell your friend what types of conversations are off limits.


For example, if you feel like your friend is crossing a boundary when she says negative things about your boyfriend, then you might say something like, “I feel upset when you say negative things about my boyfriend, so in the future, please don’t say those things.”

