 Dieting properly is a great way to start living a healthier lifestyle. However, you'll see the best results if you also begin a healthy exercise regimen at the same time. Studies show that combining diet and physical activity will have positive benefits for your overall health and for weight loss.Aim to be active for at least 60 minutes per day. You can break this up into small sections to make it manageable. For example, try walking to work and taking the stairs instead of driving and taking the elevator.
Go outside. People who exercise outside report that they enjoy it more. Explore your neighborhood, or go hiking in a nearby state park.
Call a friend. When you make plans to exercise with a friend you will be more likely to stick to the plan. Ask a buddy to join you at yoga or go for a long walk with you after work.
 If you're not getting enough sleep, you might be more susceptible to weight gain. When you're low on rest, your body produces more cortisol, which is the stress hormone. This can make you more likely to reach for comfort foods instead of making healthy choices.Try to get seven to nine hours of sleep per night. People who do tend to have a healthier body weight than people who clock only five to six hours per night.
Avoid using devices that emit blue light, which can keep you awake, at least 30 minutes before bed. These devices include smartphones, tablets, laptops, and televisions.Get on a schedule. If you try to go to bed at the same time each night and wake up at the same time each day, your sleep will be more restful and effective.
 There is a clear link between stress and weight gain. When you are stressed, your body releases more cortisol, which causes your body to retain more fat. This tends to happen especially in the abdominal region. To get the most out of your healthy diet, you need to work on reducing your stress levels.A great way to reduce stress is to make sure that you are exercising regularly. This releases endorphins and generally improves your mood.
Take deep breaths. Focusing on your breathing is a very effective method for reducing stress. Breathe deeply in and out, slowly inhaling and exhaling. This will slow your heart rate and help clear your mind.
 Part of living a healthy lifestyle is knowing how to set realistic goals. Avoid making impossible demands of yourself, such as "I will lose 15 pounds this month." Instead, set smaller, more achievable goals. Healthy weight loss is generally considered 1 – 2 pounds per week.Give yourself manageable goals, such as "I will exercise six days this week." That progress is easy to track, and you can reward yourself for achieving these mini-goals. Avoid food-based rewards — instead, your rewards might include buying new exercise outfit or shoes,

, You may be tempted to try and boost your weight loss by skipping meals, or you may simply get so busy or distracted that you forget to eat. Whatever the reason, skipping meals only serves to sabotage your diet. It may cause you to overeat later in the day or it may cause your body to cling to fat and slow down your metabolism.Aim for three meals with one to two snacks every day or four to six small meals.
 Eating while watching TV, looking at your phone, or while running out the door is common practice these days, but it may cause you to eat more. When it's time to eat a meal, remove all distractions and take a seat at the table. Focus on the food in front of you and take in it's smell, how it looks, it's taste and texture. Try setting your fork down between bites to ensure you take your time and chew thoroughly.>

