 A tea tasting party could be a fun way to celebrate a marriage, birthday or "just because". By following a theme for your party, you can make it even more special. Suitable themes that still focus on the tasting aspect include: floral garden, Japanese, Russian, tropical, winter wonder, Southern style and Moroccan. Each of these themes could easily incorporate a range of tea varieties for tasting.


Fantasy themes are also a great choice. For example, if you are a huge Alice in Wonderland fan, try a “Mad Hatter” tea party for a bit of an edge.
The time of day may influence your theme. For example, mid- to late-morning could be brunch, mid- to late-afternoon could be an early light dinner, etc.
 During the colder months, it will have to be indoors or in the morning room/conservatory. For warmer weather, the garden provides more opportunities, from the patio to the rose garden or herb patch. If you'd rather hold the party out of your house, try renting a room in a suitable clubhouse, hotel or restaurant, keeping an eye on your budget of course.


Your choice of where to hold the tea party will also be determined by your ability to boil the water for tea (and keep it warm). If you hire a place, check that they'll do this for you, or provide a space for you to do it.
Think about whether you'll need helpers; if you're hosting and serving, it can be a bit hectic. Friends or family may be willing to do some of the organizing and tea serving with you.
 Handwritten is nicest, it has something in keeping with the centuries-old art of tea drinking. Let guests know that this is a tea tasting party, and not just an ordinary tea party.


If you would like to specify any special arrangements, such as dressing up, bringing anything, etc., add this to your invitation.
Use your imagination for making the invitations. Anything from vintage postcards to teabags attached to a card will work well.
 Use your best teacups where possible––fine bone china or high quality teacups are best. If you don't have any, visit a secondhand or thrift store and purchase an eclectic set of old but beautiful teacups. Even though they may not match, the fact that they have a history and have been chosen for their prettiness will make for a great vintage tea party theme in keeping with the tea drinking spirit. Some of the things you'll likely need include:



Teapots: You'll need a teapot per each type of tea.

Teacups: As mentioned above, the best quality you can find. For Chinese or Japanese tea tasting, you'll need to use the appropriate non-handled small teacups made in China or Japan (visit local Asian grocery stores for stock).
Heatproof glasses: For Moroccan mint tea or for fresh herbal teas, if serving.
Tea strainers: Find pretty ones in good condition, or purchase new ones (they're usually inexpensive).
Milk jugs, sugar pots: Choose ones of good quality.
Teaspoons: The prettier, the better. Polish up that silver!
Dainty cake or dessert plates: For the food accompanying the tea (if any).
 The type of tea that you'll use will depend on the theme (if you have one) or on your own preference. It does pay to be a bit daring and throw in some tea varieties that are new to you, as you may be surprised to discover new flavors that please you and your guests. Consider offering teas from various regions and kinds to make the party extra interesting.


Visit a store dedicated to selling tea. Browse through the varieties on offer, chat with the salesperson about their opinions and try a few samples if possible.
Read about different tea varieties. You can find a lot of information in books and online, as people have devoted much time to writing about drinking tea.
See the brief rundown of major tea varieties set out below for more help.
 Include a wide variety of tea, with a minimum of six tea varieties for tasting. Use tea leaves, not teabags for the best taste and impact.


Six different teas may be the norm for a tea tasting party, however you can go with four or even eight depending on the crowd and the amount of time. Like a wine tasting party the idea is to soak in and appreciate the tea so, while you want to provide guests with enough tea to savor, you want them to have enough gastronomical room to accompany each flavor.
Decide how you'll present the tea. Teas will need to be in a serving container, usually a teapot (or a thermal drink container). Display ideas might include lidded mugs (see image for concept) or bowls of tea with tea leaves on small square plates.
Clearly label and provide background information about each tea. In some cases, providing a bowl of the original tea leaves can be helpful for tasters to see the original tea and smell it in its dry state.
Using your background research on the tea you're serving, let your guests know about the tea’s origin. It can also be fun to share information about the tea's health properties, historical tidbits of interest and any other fun facts.
Provide each guest with a quarter cup sample of each tea.
 Although including honey or sugar may considered to be somewhat sacrilegious by some tea drinkers, it’s always a good idea to provide condiments and some food during a tea tasting party.


Offer nearly every kind of sweetener including artificial for diet-conscious guests. Instead of sugar or sweetener in small packets consider a bowl of sugar cubes, honey in a tiny honey pot or a bowl of sugar with a dainty spoon.
Have trays of small, delicate sandwiches and cookies displayed on tables. Sugar wafer cookies and scones are considered to be traditional sweets for a tea tasting party. Also, cucumber or watercress sandwiches may be a lovely addition to your party. Keep the snacks light in order to maintain focus on the main attraction––the tea.
Don't forget to place pitchers of ice water and glasses on each table. Even though tea is not as heavy as wine, provide enough ice water for your guests in the event they want to clean their palate.
Some tea drinkers enjoy a slice of lemon with their tea. Leave some slices of lemon on a pretty plate, with some dainty tongs for selecting.
 For fun, instruct your guests on proper tea drinking etiquette. While you may not be having tea with the Royals, knowing proper English-influenced (or Southern-style) tea etiquette can be a fun way to host your tea tasting party.


Show your guests how to hold the teacup correctly. Cups with handles should be held with the thumb at the six o'clock position and the index and middle fingers at the twelve o'clock position. When tea drinkers use their pinkie it’s raised slightly in the air for balance.
Show your guests how to use the teaspoon. Instead of rapidly stirring your tea in a circular motion, tea drinkers should carefully move their spoon gently through the tea in a wave motion before placing the spoon on the saucer.
Demonstrate how to serve tea. Traditionally, tea is typically served with milk, not cream. However, in the event of a tea tasting party you should instead just serve it plain so guests can appreciate the tea’s true essence. Note that the method of serving tea changes depending on the cultural angle you're taking; for example, Japanese and Chinese tea serving ceremonies tend to be more elaborate than those of the English tea serving. Read up on the style you're planning to introduce.
Explain the proper way to drink tea. Proper ladies and gentlemen never slurp or chug their tea. Instead it should be delicately sipped and savored.
 Ask guests to rate the tea on small index cards. Help your guests describe the tea by providing questions on each index card such as, “what did the tea smell like, describe the color, how did the tea taste and did the smell and appearance match the flavor?” Hold a discussion at the end to see which teas rated the most highly.


If you like, send guests home with sample packs of the teas that they tasted during the party. If you have the time, add some notes on the tea varieties to further their knowledge.
 While there are many varieties of tea for you to choose from (and you're strongly encouraged to roam widely in your tea selection), this list provides a basic starter to help you:



Assam tea: This tea comes from the largest tea-growing region in the world. It is a rich tea, with a malty taste. It tends to be best drunk with milk.

Darjeeling tea: This is considered to be the "champagne" of Indian teas. It is the classic afternoon tea variety and has a very fine taste.

Earl Grey tea: This tea is a blend of China black tea and the essential oil of bergamot (orangey-flavor). This blend is very popular and the tea has a citrus after-taste. It is often served with a slice of lemon.

Flavored tea: There are many flavored tea varieties available, including hazelnut, rose, caramel, vanilla and more. The suitability of these teas depends on the quality of the tea, the skill of the tea blender and the personal taste of the tea drinker. Keep these to a minimum for a tea tasting party.

Formosa oolong: These teas can range considerably in flavor from a light, floral taste through to very earthy flavors for the darker varieties. This Taiwanese tea variety has a slightly spicy peach/apricot flavor, is bright golden in color and doesn't taste bitter.

Jasmine tea: This is a delicate tea with a floral flavor. Made from jasmine flowers layered in green tea, this tea is much loved. Do not add milk!

Keemun tea: This is a classic black, China tea. It has a delicate flavor, a light aroma and tastes both smooth and sweet. Adding milk can cover up its delicate floral tones.

Moroccan mint tea: This tea is a specialty of Morocco, flavored with fresh mint leaves and always very sweet. It's very refreshing and surprises even those who claim not to like herbal tea!

Russian caravan tea: Not to everyone's liking, this blend of China black teas has a smoky flavor. Lapsang souchong is often added to give the smoky touch.

Yunnan tea: This tea is strong one, with malt overtones and a sweet, molasses like flavor. Milk is suitable for this tea.;
