 Instagram is a photo and video sharing service popular among millennials. Have employees or a marketing company establish a presence on Instagram and promote your product there.


Have your marketers share pictures of your product in interesting situations. For instance, share a picture of a beverage you're marketing in the hands of people at sporting events.
Create videos to share on Instagram. For instance, if you're marketing beach apparel, video a group of people wearing your product having fun at the beach.;
, As the premier social media site on the internet, Facebook is a great place to market your product.


Create a page devoted to your product or business. Have representatives answer questions about the product there. In addition, post coupons or information about other promotions on your page.
Contract with Facebook to use their targeted-ad service. This service will show your ads to groups or people who may be interested in them. Visit https://www.facebook.com/business/ for more information.
Create catch phrases or memes to share on your Facebook page., As a favorite entertainment source of millennials, YouTube is an effective place to spend your ad budget. Ultimately, ads on YouTube are great alternatives to buying ad time on traditional cable television.


Pay YouTube to place your commercials before videos that may be relevant. For example, if you produce beach apparel, have YouTube play a short commercial before music videos.
Learn more about advertising on YouTube at https://www.youtube.com/yt/advertise/., When targeting millennials, always view mobile advertising as the new standard for advertising. This is important, as many millennials don't have cable television and are disconnected from other types of media.


Integrate ads into mobile apps.
Create content that can easily be viewed on mobile devices.
Build websites that are geared toward mobile search engines., While radio and television advertisements are great ways to reach millennials, you need to be careful as their consumption habits are different from other age groups.


Make sure to shorten your commercials and incorporate other elements that attract millennials' attention.
Be careful about when you buy ad time. Millennials don't watch a lot of television in the middle of the day or during the early evening.
Try a traditional ad push on TV. For example, you may want to buy some commercial time during TV shows that millennials enjoy, like America’s Got Talent or the CW’s The 100., While print media is expensive, a limited – and smart – investment in print media can be effective in marketing to millennials.


Make sure you target magazines and newspapers that millennials read.
Avoid traditional newspapers, as millennials don't tend to read them.