 You can help your child do their homework at home by making sure you have a copy of the child’s assignments. You may have the child’s teacher email their assignments to you or make sure the assignment is in the child’s take home folder.Having your own copy of the child’s assignments will also allow you to read them over beforehand. You can then help the child with the assignment and break it into manageable chunks for the child.
 Children with ADHD do well with constant routines and consistent scheduling. Set a homework time for the child at home so they know when it’s time to focus on school. Make sure the homework time is the same time every day so the child gets into a routine.You may set the homework time for right after school, especially if your child does well with staying in “school mode” at the end of the day. Or you may give the child a break after school and then prepare them for homework time ten to fifteen minutes ahead of time.
Some children do well with warnings a few minutes before homework time, such as reminders to “get their brain turned to homework” or “have their mind set to homework mode.”

, The child will likely be more motivated to do their homework if they have their own spot in the house to do their work. This could be an area in their room with a desk that is their homework spot. Or, you can designate a spot in the living room or the kitchen where they do homework.Keep the child’s homework spot stocked with school supplies, an extra set of school books, and folders for their assignments. You may also make sure they have a reading lamp and lots of writing utensils in their spot.
Make sure the homework spot is free from distractions such as TV, phones, or frequent visitors. A room through which other family members are constantly passing, for instance, may not be the best spot.
 You should establish a schedule for homework for the child so they stay on track. Include short, five to 10 minute breaks in the schedule so the child has time to recharge. You may write the schedule out on a board for the child to see or post it over their homework spot so they can stay motivated and focused.For example, you may block out the child’s homework in 20 minute chunks, followed by short breaks. You may schedule 20 minutes on math homework, followed by a five minute break. Then, the next 20 minutes may be on social studies homework, followed by another five minute break.
You may also set a timer for 20 minutes and place it in front of the child so they stay motivated. Once the timer goes off, you may then allow them to take a five minute break to do something else.

