 If you’re going to Washington, DC, and want to visit the White House, knowing some basic facts about public tours of the facility will help you plan your trip.


Self-guided tours are available from 7:30 a.m. to 11:30 a.m. Tuesday through Thursday, and 7:30am to 1:30pm Friday and Saturday.There are no tours on federal holidays and when otherwise noted. The tours are also subject to last-minute cancellations.There are no group tours.;
, If you’ve decided to visit the White House, there is a formal procedure for requesting tickets for the self-guided public tours.


Submit your request as early as possible. There are limited spaces available on a first come, first served basis. You may submit a request for White House tickets up to six months in advance and no less than three weeks before your desired tour date.American citizens must request tickets from their respective member of Congress.The House of Representatives offers a website where you can find the name of your member of Congress.You can access this website at http://www.house.gov/representatives/find/.
Foreign citizens must request tickets through their respective embassies in Washington, DC.The State Department has a list of all known embassies in the United States.You can access this website at http://www.state.gov/s/cpr/rls/dpl/32122.htm.
 Before you take your tour of the actual White House, it’s a good idea to acquaint yourself with it so you can identify highlights and other areas of interest for your self-guided tour.


The White House offers virtual tours of the space to help acquaint yourself with it.Visit the White House Visitor Center. The National Park Service has a visitor center open to the public daily from 7:30am to 4:00pm. It offers virtual tours of the White House, presidential artifacts and the film “The White House: Reflections from Within” and can enhance your understanding of what you see on your tour of the White House., If you have any questions or want to know if your tour was canceled, call the White House Visitor’s Office at (202) 456-7041. Representatives are available 24-hours a day., In order to take your tour of the White House, all guests over the age of 18 must arrive with an official, government issued form of identification to present to the United States Secret Service.All of the information you submitted to request your tour must match the government issued ID you present the Secret Service for your tour.American citizens may present any government issued photo identification including a driver’s license, passport, and military ID.Foreign citizens must show their government issued passport. The Secret Service will not accept any other form of foreign identification.The Secret Service will not accept forms of identification including photocopies of government issued ID or expired forms of identification., Security in Washington, DC is very tight, and no more so than at the White House. Knowing what items you may and may not bring on your tour will keep the Secret Service from denying your entry.


The Secret Service and White House prohibit visitors from bringing the following items: cameras or video recorders; handbags, book bags, backpacks, and purses; food and beverages; tobacco; personal grooming items; strollers; any pointed objects; and aerosol containers.It also prohibits weapons of any sort including guns, ammunition, stun guns, mace, martial arts devices, and knives.The Secret Service can prohibit other items at their discretion.You may take umbrellas, wallets, car keys and cell phones. You may not use your cell phone in the White House and the Secret Service could confiscate it if you do.There are no storage facilities for personal items at the White House.
 You’ll need to arrive for your tour in a timely manner either by public transportation or car. Aim to arrive 15 minutes early as the United States Secret Service can turn away late arrivals.


The entrance for White House Tours is located at 15th Street, NW and Alexander Hamilton Place, NW. National Park Service rangers can assist you if you have trouble finding it.
Street parking is limited near the White House and spaces fill very quickly. In addition, if you’re not familiar with driving in Washington, DC, which is tricky because of the city’s street plan, it’s advisable to use public transportation.Public transportation to the White House is best by Washington’s subway system, called the Metro. The closest stops to the White House are Federal Triangle, Metro Center, McPherson Square, and Farragut North.There are no public restrooms at the White House. If you need to use a restroom, do so before you arrive.
 After you’ve arrived at the White House, an officer of the Secret Service will instruct you to proceed through the security screening.


The Secret Service may request additional screening, including personal interviews, as necessary.
 Once you’ve finished your tour inside the White House, you might want to visit the land and gardens around it. This area is called President’s Park and is a great place to get pictures of yourself in front of the famous North or South Porticos of the White House!

