 Showing your child how beautiful the natural world is will make them more keen to do their bit to keep it that way.
,, Plenty of vegetarian and vegan substitute meat products exist that have become very sophisticated to the point that a child that's never eaten chicken in their life wouldn't be able to tell the difference. Nuts, beans, and pulses are all good alternatives to meat-based proteins as well.
 Dairy products such as milk have also got convincing versions made with processed soy beans. While the taste of the fake cheese may leave something to be desired, you'd be surprised how many different plant materials can be turned into more ecological sources of calcium.
 The Coca-Cola Corporation robs people in distant nations of the water that runs right beneath their feet, so it's a huge moral decision to give it up as well.
 Fruit juices may seem like a good alternative to pop, but they have their own share of faults. They take huge amounts of water and energy to be produced, and are full of very harmful natural sugars. Your best bet is to stick to good old-fashioned tap water.



A damp flannel should be sufficient to wash a child's face if they've stained it with food or outside dirt.
If they're so dirty they must have a proper wash-up, it's a tie between a 5-minute shower or a shallow bath. A power shower uses up more water than a full tub in just a few minutes, so set the head to a low-flow setting.
 If you want to be really picky, then don't use them if there's no marking saying that the product has not been tested on animals.
 Also encourage them to only flush the toilet when it's absolutely necessary.
 Some may need more store-bought items, some eat more meat, etc.


A cat might have a smaller diet and therefore fewer emissions. They are notorious back yard predators that kill dozens of birds, mice, and other mammals and reptiles in their 20+ year lifespans.
A rabbit or a turtle is a greener alternative to the latter animals, as they're vegetarian and can spend most of their time in the yard if supervised. However, if a rabbit doesn't have a strong hutch it faces threats from predatory mammals and birds, and turtles can't sustain themselves outside in the winter months.
 The most environmentally-friendly pet (post-manufacturing and shipping) is a stuffed one. A teddy bear needs no food or water, no walks, and no expensive vet bills.
 90% of all domestic waste can be recycling, but only about 20% of it currently is, with the rest ending up rotting in landfills or turned into energy at an incineration plant and lost forever.


Recycling just one steel or aluminum can will save enough power to keep a plasma TV on for up to half an hour, and power a filament light bulb for over an hour so collecting waste gives you the potential to offset nearly all your household emissions.
, Let your child put some of the waste in themselves, even if it means giving them a leg-up.
, You may be able to start a campaign that will cause them to change their ways for the better, but only if you try to make an effort. Please ask the administrators of the school first before starting a campaign, though; you may end up wasting resources for no reason when all you had to do was ask.
 Examples could be arts and crafts, taking up a musical instrument (even electric keyboards would suffice over TV), or just play through imagination.
, Turn off computer monitors if they're not being used or put on standby or to hibernation mode and turn off a TV that won't be watched for more than 5 minutes.
 99.9% of the time it probably is, but TV is an incredible tool that if used correctly can actually educate and enthrall in equal measure. A prime example of this are Nat Geo and the Discovery networks, which are brimming with eye-opening documentaries and may even have programming that relates to your green lifestyle.
 Wooden bricks and train sets are great toys for boys, and girls will enjoy a knitted or embroidered doll instead of a Barbie or Bratz.]

A battery-free toy doesn't need to be inanimate; clockwork or wind-up technology has been used to make trains, cars, racing horses and more; you just have to know where to look.
 Most girls dress up as fairies, queens, and gentle animals like cows and horses. Boys, meanwhile, prefer other fantastical things like superheros, dragons, robots, and cowboys.
 Outside there are a load of new possibilities. A sandbox full of castle-building tools can provide hours of fun for children aged 6 and under.
 Make sure you only use scrap paper, plus by drawing on both sides, you make it last twice as long.

