 If you suspect that God might be calling you to a career as an ordained reverend, it is absolutely essential that you pray and reflect on the prompting to determine if the calling truly is from God and to understand what, exactly, you will be getting yourself into.


Becoming a reverend or pursuing any call to ministry is not about you. Rather, you are being called to serve God and to serve other people in a special way. This is not a vocation to pursue as a last resort or as a way to glorify yourself.
Consider what other people have said to you in the past. If you have been especially active in church and those around you have noticed your dedication and have suggested that you could do ministry in some official capacity, that can be a good indication that your calling is true enough to be visible to those around you. Not having this approval is not an automatic reason to disregard a spiritual prompting, though, just like this approval alone is not enough to determine whether or not you really are being called by God.;
, Most Christian denominations follow the same basic procedure outlined in this article, but some may skip or rearrange a few steps while others may have additional requirements not specified here. Before you begin your journey, find out what you will be expected to do before becoming ordained.


There are a few different ways you can find out about these requirements. The simplest may be to just research your denomination online. Otherwise, you can consult with a youth leader or young adult leader at your church, or talk directly to your pastor about what to expect.
 He or she will want to know why you are interested in becoming a reverend. If your pastor deems your intentions to be good, he or she will bring it up to an official church board or committee.


Unless there are any glaring red flags indicating that you do not have the right mindset about pursuing a vocation as a reverend, your pastor will likely support you and pass you along to the next step. The talk you have with your pastor will typically be the most personal yet least formal of the interviews you will go through during this process.
 In most cases, once you get your pastor's approval, you will need to go before a board or committee at your local or home church and discuss your calling with the members there. If that committee recognizes your intentions to be true, it will likely offer you its support as you move into the next stage.


Note that this may not always be the case, though, depending on how your denomination is set up. If your church has a more official, patriarchal hierarchy rather than a small, community-oriented structure, your pastor's approval may be all you need before moving onto the next step. In these cases, you may still end up meeting with church committees and support groups, but they will be there mainly to support and guide you, rather than deeming whether or not you are worth passing along.
 Once your home church recognizes your desire, you must convince a regional denominational committee to support you, as well. Such committees will interview and screen you on a more professional level to determine if the job is right for you. If you are rejected here, the process ends, at least for the time being.


The name of such a committee can vary based on your denomination, and you might hear it called by a term like "diocese," "presbytery," "synod," or "annual conference."
The regional committee will interview you. They may also require you to get psychological screening and to pass a criminal background check.
Disclose everything to the committee during your interview, even personal problems that you have faced and resolved.
The committee will probably reject you if it feels that you are using ordination to glorify yourself, using it to run away from other life or career demands, failing to understand what ministry is about, or failing to demonstrate adequate people skills. You might also be rejected if you have a criminal record.
If you obtain the committees approval, they will approve you as a seminarian. This is required if you expect to be accepted into seminary school.
Throughout the academic part of the process, you will likely be required to report to this committee about your progress.
 If your denominational committee approves you, that committee may or may not assign you a support group or mentor to assist you through seminary school. If you are not assigned a mentor, you should consider finding one on your own.


A mentor or support group can help guide you through the process and avoid burning out. If you do not feel you will make it through at any point, they may also be able to help bail you out as painlessly as possible.
 Before you enter seminary school, you need a four-year degree from an undergraduate school. You do not need to study a specific field, per se, but a bachelor's degree in some sort of religious studies usually looks good on your application to seminary school.


Bible schools and private schools affiliated with a religious denomination are your best bets for undergraduate school. Verify whether or not the school must be affiliated with your particular denomination before attending. Usually, it does not need to be.
Consider a major in Bible studies, pastoral studies, theology, or ministry.Expect to take classes about both the Old and New Testaments, as well as courses on theology, ethics, and sociology.
 During your time at your undergraduate college, you should make it a point to involve yourself in whatever campus ministry activities you can find. This gives you a taste of what being a reverend will be like while also making your seminary application look even more convincing.


If your campus does not have any official ministry groups, you can usually start up a small Bible study group with some of your peers. Additionally, you can search out service and ministry opportunities with local churches if opportunities are lacking at your college.
 Some seminary schools have specific prerequisites you must meet before you can be accepted. These requirements may go beyond having and undergraduate degree and gaining your denominational committee's support.


Choose the right school. Most denominations will require you to choose a seminary that is accredited by the Association of Theological Schools. Some denominations also require you to go to a seminary affiliated with your denomination, while others do not.
You can also expect to need various letters of recommendation. The completion of a formal application for admission will also be required.
 It will usually take you two to four years to complete your education at seminary school. When all is said and done, you will usually gain a Master of Divinity, but you may also seek a Doctor of Ministry or Doctor of Divinity, as well.Expect to take classes concentrating on the Old and New Testaments, biblical interpretation, preaching, biblical languages, the history of Christian worship, the practice of Christian worship, counseling, curriculum development, sociology, church history, ethics, theology, and non-profit administration.
 Seminary may require you complete a certain number of internships or practicums before you can earn your degree. Find out what the requirements are and fulfill them.


During your internship, you will usually work with a pastor at a local church, charity, or hospital on a part-time basis.
You will not usually need to write and defend a thesis, however.
Note that the process can take as long as eight years for part-time students.
 While it is not always necessary, some denominations will ask you to go through additional training during or after your time in seminary school. This training will usually prepare you for the people-oriented and legal sides of the career.


Additional training will usually revolve around topics like sex abuse, clinical pastoral care, or harassment. Such training is typically mandated by the denomination's liability insurance company. To that end, you may also undergo psychological and personality testing, as well.
 After all your education requirements have been completed, you will need to write an ordination paper describing your experience and calling. This paper will be submitted to your denominational committee.


The length of your paper may vary, but you will need to cover, in full, your academic, social, and spiritual journey throughout the process you have undergone thus far. You will also need to demonstrate your personal conviction and dedication to the calling.
 The denominational committee will want to interview you one last time before deciding whether or not you are ready to be ordained. If you have completed all the steps, you will usually pass the interview, but you should still treat it very seriously.


Your ordination paper will be discussed at your interview. The committee may also ask you to clarify or describe things not explicitly disclosed in your paper.
As with your first interview, you should answer honestly and completely. Do not withhold any information.
 Once your denominational committee determines that you are fit to be a reverend, an ordination service will be set up for the sake of formally ordaining you into ministry.


Many ordination services are held individually, while others may be held for groups of people seeking ordination as a reverend at once. Find out what to expect from your denomination beforehand.
 Some denominations will allow you to jump straight into the life of a reverend or pastor, but others will require you to serve under another pastor for a probationary period to determine if you have the ability to operate on your own.


During this probationary period, you will have slightly more responsibility than you had during any internship you may have gone through, but you will still report to a church pastor or reverend whose position is higher than yours.
 While you may not need a state license to simply preach at church, if you plan to become a reverend who can also perform marriage ceremonies, you might need to be formally licensed by the state before doing so.


If you have gone through the process and have received your denomination's approval, getting a state license will usually consist of very little. You may simply need to file or fill out paperwork.
Contact your county or state clerk to find out what the requirements are.
 As with any other field, one of the trickiest parts of becoming a reverend can be actually finding work as one. Many denominations will assign reverends to certain churches, though, or at least help direct those reverends to churches in need of additional leadership.
 If you only plan to be a reverend of a small home church unaffiliated with any denomination, a shortcut can work. If you ever plan to work through a larger church or within a certain denomination, though, do not expect to be taken seriously if you took a shortcut through the ordination process.
 The most common shortcut people take toward becoming an ordained reverend is by applying online. These services usually require you to submit a fee and to fill out some brief paperwork before you gain your a “license” from them to act as a reverend.


If you do go this route, try to find a service that will at least provide you with a hard copy of your certificate instead of simply allowing you to print one out.
 While it is rare, some independent, non-denominational Christian churches will ordain someone with little to no formal training. At most, you might only be expected to take a class or two before being ordained.

