 During exercise, the surrounding environment should be calm and devoid of noise or distractions. There should be no disturbances and the environment should be pleasant.


Also, there should be no crowds nearby, because this can make autistic individuals confused and worried.
A natural environment with plants, greenery and fresh air works best.;
, Instead of giving verbal instructions, it is better to give visual guidelines like pictures, videos, or images. Some autistic people get confused by spoken directions. However, they can easily understand instructions if provided with pictorial aids.


For example, if you're going to play basketball with your loved one, show her TV programs or videos of people playing the game.
 Providing encouragement may be the most important aspect of your efforts. Get excited about exercise together. The best way you can encourage them is leading by example, getting involved in exercise and making it clear how much you enjoy it.


It may not seem fair to push your autistic family member to exercise, if you don't.
Demonstrate the activity, showing how fun it is, and then let them try.
Feeling encouraged yourself is a great start.
 Find out what kind of physical activity interests them. Many autistic people will be very open and enthusiastic about their specific interests, so maybe you can find a way to encourage them through their main interest.


Perhaps they enjoy watching sports on television, and you can get them involved in a safe, no-contact version in a sports program.
Certain exercise programs or sports may build on their interests, and lead to the development of other exercise and fitness goals.
 If you have fun with them and congratulate them on doing something good for their health, they'll feel positively about the experience, and want to do it again.


Similarly, if the exercise is done incorrectly, gently show them the correct way to perform the exercise.
If they didn't like it, tell them that it's okay, and you can try a different type of exercise the next time.
 Many caretakers have introduce their loved ones to the Special Olympics, which can be another way to encourage them. If they find a sport they love, they could even work towards a goal of competing in the Special Olympics.


Exposing autistic individuals to the Special Olympics shows them that there are successful athletes who are like them.
If they look up to a particular athlete, they may be more likely to give a specific sport a try.
Networking with other autistic/disabled people may also be encouraging to them.
 This exercise needs to be fun and exciting for it to really catch on.


Perhaps you can involve the whole family, taking a nice hike.
This could be incorporated into a science lesson, exploring nature while you hike as a family.
 Plenty of autistic people love music, so try dancing to some of their favorite songs to encourage exercise. There are are a variety of ways you can introduce dancing into the life of your loved one.


Wii Fit provides various games that can be played in the home. This provides a comfortable, familiar environment where sensory stimuli can be safely limited.
'Just Dance' is a popular dance game, providing a fun exercise option.
Check out Dance Dance Revolution games for a popular interactive dance experience.
 If you can make exercise seem like something that is a blast to do, your autistic friend will be far less reluctant to participate. There are many ways to make exercise fun.


Turn exercise into a game, once again making sure it's something they're passionate about.
Perhaps put an exercise video on and get involved. It may have fun music involved, making it seem less forceful.
For anxious or sensitive autistic people, stick with collaborative activities, because competition may make them nervous.
 Martial arts requires individuals to follow clear rules, be consistent, and display discipline. This ties into the natural strengths that accompany autism, and the mastery may build their self-esteem.


They also tend to do quite well based on the environment and rules.
 For example, after taking a half-hour walk with the autistic person, turn on the TV until suppertime. This will give them something to look forward to once it's done.
 This is a step-learning method in which you teach a physical activity by fully assisting the movement at first, and gradually reducing your assistance until independence is achieved.


For example, to help someone learn to catch a ball, hold their hands in your hands and help him catch the ball/racket. Then, hold the wrist, then the arm, then just the shoulder. Fading will occur when you don't hold anything anymore.
 Autistic individuals display remarkable focus in their passions, and frequently less focus on things that don't interest them. If an activity falls outside of their interests, it may be hard to get them involved. It's important to understand their hesitation before you try to motivate them.


Don't push too hard, or you can seem overbearing and turn off the person.
This is why it helps to incorporate their interest.
If they're disinterested, try unofficially designating exercise time as time for them to tell you about their interests. This gives you the opportunity to connect with them, and makes them more interested.
 It is not uncommon for autistic people to struggle with certain motor skills. For instance, problems with motor development can prevent an individual from throwing a ball or balancing on a bike.


Your loved one may be self-conscious about their ability to participate in certain exercise activities.
Not being able to successfully participate in activities can be very discouraging, so make sure you give your autistic loved one plenty of different options for exercise.
 Autistic individuals can be highly sensitive to certain stimuli. These sensory sensitivities may hinder their ability to take part in certain activities, even making them unbearable.


The bright light of a gym or sports field may be distracting or painful.
Consider sensory sensitivities that may not be readily apparent when motivating your loved one to exercise.
If you notice them getting uncomfortable, stop and ask what's wrong.
 Autistic individuals may struggle in terms of forming an exercise program. Unless assisted, it may be difficult for them to plan and monitor their exercise regime. Help them out by sitting down together and working it out, or by incorporating it into their daily routine.


Recording different milestones and accomplishments within the workout program can be a great way to increase motivation and continue building confidence regarding exercise.
 Many exercise activities involve teams, meaning that some level of social interaction is generally included. Because many autistic individuals struggle with social interaction, this may result in fear of team sports.


Try pursuing more individual forms of exercise, such as running, cycling, yoga, or swimming.
If they're close with a few particular people, e.g. their parents and siblings, then they may want to stick to backyard sports.
 Stomach issues are common with autistic people, who may have problems recognizing when they're hungry. This can lead to overeating or undereating, and can put their health at risk.
 Sports and exercise provide autistic individuals with an opportunity to work on social skills. There are numerous sports that are based on teamwork, but focus on independent achievements as well. These types of sports and teams will open up social opportunities, while focusing on personal achievement.


There will be social interaction, without so much emphasis on verbal communication.
This is seen in track, swimming, etc.
A basketball team may be too much to begin with, because the autistic individual may not be prepared for that social of an environment.
Social environments can be stressful for autistic people, so don't push them to do it if they don't feel ready!

, While there is nothing wrong with stimming, excessive stimming could present a problem (e.g. difficulty focusing in class, or bouncing so much during mealtimes that there is a choking hazard). This will help autistic people feel balanced without stimming constantly.


For example, swimming incorporates repetitive behaviors which may decrease repetitive behaviors outside of the pool environment.
Never try to stop someone from stimming; this is damaging.
 If an autistic individual is on medication, they may experience a number of side-effects. For instance, antipsychotics are commonly used to treat self-injury, and there can be significant side effects.
 Self-esteem is crucial to each person's sense of well-being. Getting involved in exercise can improve the way an autistic person views him or herself. You may find an activity that the individual excels at.


This can have positive effects on their self-esteem.

