 All friendships start somewhere, and that is with introducing yourself. Find an opportunity to say hello and share your name without being overly pushy.


You could do this at school. It is especially helpful when you have mutual friends with this person, and you find yourself all in a group together.
If you find yourself at a party, you can introduce yourself so that both of you have someone to talk to.
Introduce yourself if you are assigned to work on a project together or to complete a task together.;
, When you have the opportunity, take time to ask your new acquaintance questions about himself/herself. This shows him/her that you have an interest in getting to know him/her.


“Do you have any brothers and sisters? How many?”
“What do you like to do in your free time?”
“What sports do you play?"
" Do you like cooking?"
“What are your hobbies?”
“Have you always lived in this area?”
“What is your favorite type of music/band/artist?”
“Do you like to read? What is your favorite book?”

, It is almost expected that as you ask your new acquaintance questions, he/she will answer and then ask you the same question about yourself. Be sure to take the time to answer those questions and give him/her the opportunity to get to know you, too.


Friendship is a two-way street, so it is important for both of you to feel that you know each other well in order to build a good friendship.
Keep the talking balanced. When you do answer questions, try to take a similar amount of time as your acquaintance did so that you avoid talking more than him/her.
 While you are in this first stage of getting to know someone, it is best to avoid controversial and personal topics of conversation.


Keep the chat light and upbeat, talking about things you have in common or things you want to know about each other.
Redirect the conversation if it gets too personal: “I'm not comfortable talking about that right now. Have you ever been to a concert?”
Excuse yourself from the conversation or redirect it if you begin discussing a controversial topic: “I understand that we both have our own beliefs about this, but let's talk about something more fun for now.”

, Avoid bombarding him/her with a lot of questions all at once. You want to get to know this person, but you do not want him/her to feel like he/she is being interviewed.


As you cross paths with your acquaintance on different occasions, like in school or at the mall, take the the opportunity to get to know a little more about him/her.
You could take anywhere from a few weeks to a few months to get to know your new acquaintance. It does not need to happen immediately or in just a few short hours.
 When you feel like you have gotten to know your acquaintance enough to pursue a friendship with him/her, ask if you can exchange contact information.You can share any of the following, based on how you like to keep in touch:


Phone number for calling and/or text messaging
Kik username for messaging without sharing your phone number
Email address
Social media profiles, like Facebook, Twitter, and Instagram

, In order to start becoming a good friend with someone, and therefore expecting that person to become a good friend, you need to be a good friend yourself.


Reflect on your own personality and determine what your strengths and weaknesses are in being a friend. Create a goal to improve one of your friendship weaknesses to help you become a better friend. For example, maybe you sometimes forget to respond to your friends' text messages, so you could make a goal to respond within a few hours every time.
 You would not like it if you found out that your friend's true personality is completely different from what you thought it was. Therefore, you should be yourself around your friend.


Show your quirky habits. Maybe they do the same things!
Share your sense of humor and tell jokes that you think are funny.
Share your hobbies and interests, even if others think they are “weird.” Your friend might be interested in them, too!

, Your friend is a unique person, and just as you want to be accepted for who you are, so does your friend.
 There is a wide variety of things that you can do with friends. Invite your friend to hang out with you so that you can build up your friendship.Go to the movies
Go to an arcade
Go shopping
Invite your friend over for dinner
Invite your friend to play at your house
Invite your friend over to play board or video games
Join in a neighborhood game, like soccer or basketball

, When it is your friend's birthday, be sure to give him/her a card or even a small gift. They will also appreciate if you acknowledge when they do really well at something, when they win something, and when they get accepted into a group or program.


Be sure to show genuine excitement for your friend. He/She will likely be able to tell if you are not sincerely happy for him/her, which will damage the friendship.
If you also made an attempt at the same thing (for example, you also applied to get into a certain program) but did not succeed, avoid being jealous of your friend. This is unhealthy and will not allow your friendship to grow.
 Friends rely on each other for support through hard times, so let your friend know that you will be there if he/she ever needs you.


Follow through when those times arise. For example, if your friend gets into an argument with a sibling or another friend, make sure you help him/her through that.
Be reliable for your friend. A big aspect of a successful friendship is reliability, so if you tell your friend that he/she can rely on you to always be there, then you need to prove that.
 No relationship can withstand being built on secrets and lies, so it is extremely important to be open and honest.


When your friend asks your opinion on something, give it politely and honestly.
Share your perspective in a polite, friendly way.
Avoid keeping secrets from your friend whenever possible, especially if the secrets are about him/her.
 You can do this many different ways, and usually, lots of things you do will work together to prove to your friend that you consider him/her a good friend. The following are things you should always work to do:


Be reliable and dependable.
Be honest.
Be yourself.
Support your friend.
Include your friend.
Celebrate your friend's accomplishments.
Help your friend when he/she needs it.
 If your friend asks you to hang out, but you already have other plans or an obligation, let him/her know. Then, suggest another day to hang out instead.


Suggesting another opportunity to hang out proves to your friend that you do want to spend time with him/her and that you like doing so.
 No matter how much you and your friend have in common, arguments and disagreements are bound to come up at some point. Work through these bumps in the road with your friend.


Apologize when you need to do so. If you are in the wrong, then it is important to take responsibility for your actions.
Offer ideas for how you and your friend can fix the problem instead of expecting him/her to fix it.
 Even if you and your friend are very similar, you are not the same person. Sometimes, you might need to try to understand an issue or an event from his/her perspective.


Try to understand why this issue bothers or upsets him/her. What about it is upsetting?
Do not brush it off if it is something that does not bother you. Instead, try to talk your friend through it and come up with strategies for dealing with the situation.
 Sometimes, he/she might not want your help or want your involvement in every aspect of his/her life. It is important to respect that and to give your friend the space he/she needs.Even if you or your friend moves away, it is possible to maintain a good friendship. Keep in contact when you can and show your friend that you respect his/her needs.
Let your friend know that you are still there for him/her, even while space is needed.
Understand that you and your friend do not need to spend time together every day. You both have your own lives, schedules, and obligations.
 Having a good friendship means trusting one another. You cannot expect your friend to trust you if you do not trust him/her.


Always be honest and open with your friend so that he/she has no reason not to trust you.
Talk through problems with your friend and come to a resolution so that you can continue to trust him/her.
Share your feelings and dreams with your friend. This is something that lets him/her know that you have trust, because you chose to confide in him/her.
Forgive your friend's mistakes. Holding grudges is emotionally unhealthy and will not allow your friendship to blossom into a good one.