 If your senior dog is suffering from arthritis or is not getting enough exercise due to mobility issues, you should talk with your veterinarian about possible treatments. Ask your veterinarian if exercising your dog on a water treadmill would be beneficial for him. Although exercising your dog on a water treadmill can be good for some senior dogs, there are certain conditions that make this type of therapy inadvisable.For instance, if your dog also suffers from respiratory or cardiac disease, exercising your dog on a water treadmill may not be recommended. If your dog has arthritis, then using a water treadmill may not be recommended because of the increased resistance, which can be stressful on your dog’s joints.
Similarly, your dog should not use a water treadmill if they have skin sutures or cuts.;
, Many veterinary clinics are now offering water-based rehabilitation; however, it is still a relatively modern form of treatment. If your veterinary clinic does not have a water treadmill, ask your veterinarian to refer you to an appropriate clinic in the area.Ask what training the clinicians have received.
 If you have pet insurance, then this may cover some of the cost of water treadmill use for your dog. If your dog is using a water treadmill for exercise purposes, or as a result of arthritis, they may need to continue the therapy once a week for the rest of their life.Call the pet insurance company to find out if this cost is covered.


It is also possible that your pet insurance will not cover the cost of your dog using a water treadmill, so you may need to pay for this therapy yourself. Ask at your veterinarian’s office about the costs.
 It is a good idea to visit the facilities prior to allowing your dog to begin using the water treadmill. Make sure that the clinic is clean and that the staff is friendly and knowledgeable. A little bit of dog hair in the pool will not harm your dog, but it is good to know that the entire facility is clean. Bacteria and infections could spread between dogs if proper precautions are not taken.The water should be treated with chlorine each time the water is changed. For water treadmills this happens regularly.
Ask the clinician how often they change the water and what chemicals they use to clean.

