 The best way to prepare for a career in audiology during high school is to take as many science courses as you can. Though your high school probably won't offer audiology courses, you can still get a head start by taking advanced courses and electives that will prepare you for a science-based major in college.If your school offers anatomy, physics, or genetics courses, you should take those classes.
Some high schools may have after-school clubs or interest groups related to science and healthcare. Find out about your school's offerings and join any relevant groups you can.;
, You'll need a bachelor's degree to enter graduate school or a doctoral program. Most doctoral programs require you to have a bachelor's degree in any field, and there is no required major for your degree. However, some masters programs may have specific requirements for your major.Some colleges offer undergraduate degrees in speech and hearing science. Majoring in this or a related field may increase the chances of your acceptance into a doctoral program, and can also help expedite your doctoral studies.If your school does not offer an audiology-specific degree, it would be helpful to earn your bachelor degree in some scientific field, such as biology, physics, or genetics.
 After four years, you should be eligible to graduate with a bachelor's degree. You'll need to study hard and earn good grades if you want to get accepted to a master's and/or doctoral program. Graduate programs are highly competitive, so do whatever you can (tutoring, extra studying, working one-on-one with your professors) to ensure that you earn good grades.
 Most doctoral programs in audiology allow you to enter the program with a bachelor's degree. However, some may require you to have a master's degree as well. In addition, some professional certification boards, such as the American Speech-Language Hearing Association (ASHA), require you to have a master's degree on top of the required doctoral degree.If you're interested in pursuing an ASHA certification, you will need a master's degree. Certification by the American Board of Audiology (ABA) does not require a master's degree.
The decision to pursue a master's degree is up to you. It largely depends on your career goals and your anticipated certification needs.
 Whether or not you pursue a master's degree, you will need a doctoral degree in audiology in order to practice as an audiologist. In order to get licensed in most regions in the U.S., your doctoral program must be accredited by the Council on Academic Accreditation in Audiology and Speech-Language Pathology (CAA).As of 2016, there are 73 accredited programs in the U.S. and two candidate programs that are up for accreditation.You can find a list of accredited programs, listed by state, at the CAA website., Earning a doctoral degree requires great dedication and effort. You will need to do well and earn good grades, as most doctoral programs have high standards of academic excellence. You may be able to complete your doctoral program in as little as three years of full-time study, depending on your undergraduate background.However, some programs may take longer. Four years is generally considered a common duration for doctoral studies., Each state has its own licensing requirements. However, the American Academy of Audiology has compiled a checklist of general information that is usually required knowledge on a given state's licensing exam. Search online for information about your state's specific requirements, as each state is different.Certification generally requires you to complete at least 300 hours of relevant, supervised clinical experience.You will need to earn a passing score on the exam, though each state's requirements and scoring may vary.
 Though you don't necessarily need to be board certified, getting the American Speech-Language Hearing Association (ASHA) certification can increase your professional opportunities and advance your career.Getting board certified by ASHA requires you to complete and maintain a Certificate of Clinical Competence (CCC) in either Audiology or Speech-Language Pathology. For a career as an audiologist, you will want the Audiology CCC.ASHA certification is recognized by the state regulatory agency in almost every U.S. state., You will need to register with ETS in order to take the ASHA Praxis II exam (Subject Assessment in Audiology: 5342).You can find test centers and testing dates by searching online by your ZIP Code, or find international test sites by searching for the country you reside in.The exam will take two hours to complete and is taken entirely on a computer.
 The exam is a mix of multiple choice and constructed-response questions. For multiple choice questions, it's best to limit your answers to one of the given options and eliminate the answers that you know are incorrect. For constructed-response questions, you'll need to answer the question as accurately and completely as possible. You can take the practice exams online at the ASHA website to get a good feel for the types of questions asked and the general format of the exam.There are five categories: Foundations (12 questions), Prevention and Identification (12 questions), Assessment (48 questions), Intervention (36 questions), and Professional Issues (12 questions).
The Foundations section is worth 10% of your grade. It covers acoustics, anatomy, physiology, etiology, psychometrics, counseling principles, and cultural linguistic diversity.
The Prevention and Identification section is worth 10% of your grade. It covers education and prevention, as well as screening and risk assessment.
The Assessment section is worth 40% of your grade. It covers planning, behavioral evaluation, physiologic evaluation, and other methods of assessment.
The Intervention section is worth 30% of your grade. It covers treatment planning, device selection, device verification, symptom management, and rehabilitation.
The Professional Issues section is worth 10% of your grade. It covers professional ethics, legal practice, and patient advocacy.
 You will receive a raw score, which tells you how many questions you answered correctly, as well as a scaled score that adjusts your score according to the difficulty of each question. For audiology, you must earn a minimum scaled score of 170 in order to pass the Praxis exam.It may take up to 16 days after the testing window closes before you receive your score.You will be able to download your scores through the Praxis website by creating a My Praxis account online.
 To apply for ASHA certification, you must hold both a doctoral degree and a masters degree from universities accredited by the CAA. You will need to complete a four-page application (with one page being completed and signed by your program's director), disclose any ethical problems, send official graduate transcripts, and pay the necessary dues and fees., In addition to your application materials, you will need to pay to become ASHA certified. You will then have to make annual payments to maintain that certification. How much you pay will depend upon your previous professional associations and educational experience.If you are or have been a member of the National Student Speech Language Hearing Association (NSSLHA), you may be eligible for a reduced fee of $289. Otherwise, recent graduates (within the last 12 months) must pay $461.
Anyone who did not graduate recently and is not affiliated with NSSLHA must pay $455 for certification or $511 for certification and ASHA membership.
 Once you've completed the application, passed the Praxis exam, and assembled your application packet, you'll need to submit it to ASHA for review. You should send your materials through the mail and address the package to American Speech-Language-Hearing Association, P.O. Box 1160, #313, Rockville, MD 20849., After your application has been received, it can take four to six weeks for your materials to be reviewed. During busy periods, it may take up to eight weeks for your application to be fully reviewed. If you're concerned about your application materials, you can contact the ASHA Action Center by calling 800-498-2071., You may want to get ABA certified, either as an alternative to ASHA certification or as a supplement to it. Getting board certified can help give you a competitive edge when you're up for promotions or job interviews. Board certification can also help you build professional connections and improve your professional credibility.The ABA certification is developed by practicing audiologists and designed for practicing professionals.Once certified, you will need to get re-certified every three years. In order to do so, you will need to complete 60 hours of approved continuing education training.You can find a list of continuing education opportunities through the ABA website., While you won't need a master's degree for ABA certification, you will need to meet certain other professional qualifications. The ABA certification is generally reserved for candidates who have already been practicing as audiologists for some time, and who have accrued a significant amount of hands-on experience on the job.You must hold a doctoral degree from an an accredited college or university. However, unlike the ASHA certification, you are not required to hold a masters degree as well.
You must currently hold a valid license to practice in your state.
You'll need at least 2,000 hours of mentored professional experience, with documentation to prove the hours and experience you report.
You must have some recent employment in your field.
 Your completed application and fees must be sent through the mail to American Board of Audiology – Certification, 11480 Commerce Park Drive, Suite 220, Reston, VA 20191.Your application packet will need to include the following:


transcripts of your educational history
a copy of your (valid) state audiology license
the Board Certified in Audiology Application (Form A)
the Documentation of Mentored Experience (Form 1)
your application fee of $100 for ABA members, or $145 for non-members (candidates applying within six months of graduation can pay a reduced fee of $35)

, Before you can apply to a job opening, you'll need to put together a resume. Your resume should detail your education and work experience (if any). When putting together a resume, it's best to focus on quality rather than quantity; in other words, don't jam up your resume with a lot of clutter and filler. Focus on relevant and meaningful experience, and be honest about your accomplishments and abilities.The American Academy of Audiology offers free resume-review services online, which can help strengthen your resume and boost your chances of success.List your education first if you're a recent graduate and don't have any professional experience yet. You should list education in reverse-chronological order, with your most recent degree (doctoral) listed first.
List your professional experience in reverse-chronological order.
Discuss your practicum assignments on your resume. This can help show employers what kind of experience you have working with various populations and equipment.
If you list accomplishments, make sure you list them as they relate to your career. For example, don't list coursework unless you taught that class, and make sure it's relevant to the specific job you're trying to get.
Explain any abbreviations you use when describing examinations and professional organizations. Otherwise an employer might get confused.
 Once you've put together your resume, you're ready to find and apply to jobs in your field. You can find jobs a number of ways. If you belong to any professional organizations, they often have job listings online available to their members (usually listed by state and/or by specialty).If you're not a member of any professional organization, you can still find job opportunities online or through your network connections.


Try searching through the American Academy of Audiology website's employment resources section. This section is free for anyone to use, and does not require any professional membership.You can also find jobs through HEARCareers, which is managed by the American Academy of Audiology.You may also want to try searching through professional job finder websites, such as LinkedIn, Indeed, and Monster.com.
If you have a close rapport with any of your professors from college or graduate school, you can ask them if they have any contacts who could help you find a job in your field.
 Once you've applied to a few jobs, you should get a call back for an interview with one or more employers. Dress professionally for the interview (suit and tie for men, skirt and blouse or business suit for women), and make sure you show up on time. In addition, you should take some time to prepare for the types of questions that might be asked during your interview.If the interviewer asks you to tell him/her about yourself, focus on your education and professional life. Do not divulge personal interests or hobbies, as these may be distracting and unprofessional.
When discussing your strengths, talk about specific situations that demonstrate your abilities. When discussing your weaknesses (if you're asked to do so), focus on skills you wish to perfect, rather than on actual flaws.
You may be asked why a given job interests you. Do some research on the institution you're interviewing with and talk about their strengths and reputation.
Be prepared to discuss what you see yourself doing in five years. Giving a weak answer could suggest to employers that you don't have much professional direction or initiative.
If the interviewer asks you what you could contribute to the institution if you were hired, you'll need a strong response. Highlight your professional strengths and your previous accomplishments as you frame your response.

