 Write a thoughtful, accurate article about your experience with immunization and how it helped you or your family to demonstrate the importance of immunization. Talk to your local newspaper about the possibility of publishing it.


If your op-ed or article is not selected for publication, you could easily self-publish on your blog or social media page.
If you do not have time or ability to construct a full-length article, you could still educate people on the the importance of immunizations by writing a letter to your editor.
 Parents with babies should receive information that is unique from information provided for parents of teens.


Similarly, you should always provide information specific to certain diseases. If someone is considering vaccination against diphtheria, do not provide them with information about shingles vaccination.
 Immunization can be confusing, and people might have questions about what vaccines they need, when they need them, and what the manufacturing process behind vaccines is.If you cannot answer a question, be honest and admit that you don’t know. However, you should add that you’ll find out and get back to the person, or direct them to a medical professional or another reputable source that can answer their question.
 Instead of expecting people to take you at your word, you should always redirect them to other, reputable sources of information about immunization. There are a wide variety of public and private agencies and organizations that specialize in providing accurate information about the importance of immunization, including:The American Association of Family Physicians, which offers policy statements and recommendations about getting immunized. They are online at http://www.aafp.org/patient-care/public-health/immunizations/schedules.html.
Vaccines.gov, a website run by the Department of Health and Human Services that provides information on many vaccines and when to get immunized.
The Immunization Action Coalition, a nonprofit dedicated to improving public health through education on the importance of immunization. Check them out online at http://www.immunize.org.
 In many cases, more information or education that dispels anti-vaccination myths can push people -- especially those who are already suspicious about immunizations -- to more extreme positions.Go into any conversation with an understanding that some people are immune to education, and don’t blame yourself for failing to change their mind. Know when to give up the fight.

