 As all girls know, choosing the right outfit for a party is a very important task. The first thing you need to consider is the time and location of the party, as this will affect everything -- from your clothes and your shoes to your jewelry and makeup!


If the party is during the day, at a bowling alley or theme park, you probably want to go with something comfortable yet cool, like jeans and a statement tee.
If the party is at night, in a fancy restaurant or club, you will probably need to go a little dressier and wear something like a cute dress, a playsuit or a skirt and top combo.;
, When you're attending a cool party, you want to stand out -- but in a good way.


So if you want to be unique, you should come up with a cool alternative to the norm that suits your personality but still fits with the vibe of the party.
For example, if you're not the type of girl who would normally wear high heels, but you still want to look glam, you could try wearing a pair of bejewelled sneakers instead!

, Can you afford to buy a new outfit, or do you need to work with what's already in your wardrobe?


If it's the latter, consider combining your existing clothes in new and unusual ways, try layering a couple of tops on top of each other, clashing non-matching patterns or combining unusual fabric -- like a black biker jacket with a pretty silk dress.
 When it comes to jewelry, decide whether you want to go understated and classic, or bold and over-the-top.


For elegant evening parties, things like delicate diamond (or crystal) earrings and pearl necklaces are perfect.
For night parties, you can go with bold statement pieces, clash chunky gold and silver chains, or wear large hoop or chandelier earrings.
 Traditionally, women matched their shoes to their purse, but this is no longer the case -- nowadays, pretty much anything goes!


You can either pick out a color from your outfit (it doesn't have to be the main color) and match your shoes and purse to that, or you can go for a bold color clash.
For example, if you're wearing a plain black dress, something like gold shoes and a neon orange handbag could work really well.
 After you've taken care of the shoes, the purse and the jewelry, any other accessories you choose to wear are really a matter of personal preference.


Consider wearing a boho headband, embellishing your hair with fresh flowers, wearing an anklet or an upper arm band, layering on a chunky belt or rocking a funky trilby hat -- it's completely up to you!

