 As part of the screening process, you will be required to take a reading and writing test, also known as the POST Entry-Level Law Enforcement Test Battery (PELLETB). The test is a multiple-choice and fill-in-the blank written examination. It takes around 2 ½ hours to complete, and there are 5 sections.Prepare for this test by strengthening your reading and writing skills. Strengthen these skills by obtaining study guides from your local bookstore. Look for books like study guides for the POST exam. You can also review your basic grammar and vocabulary skills by obtaining books or study guides that assess you on your skills and offer ways to strengthen these skills. , An oral interview is also part of the screening process. The goal of the interview is to gauge your problem solving, oral communication, and interpersonal communication skills. Obtain a general list of interview questions from the Internet, and ask a friend or a family member to quiz you. Practice this several times. You will not get the exact questions until the day of your exam. You will be given 5 minutes to review the questions before the oral exam begins.Typical questions that are asked during the oral interview are:Can you tell us about yourself?
What are your career goals and where do you see yourself in 5 years?
Why do you think you are the right person for this position?
What kinds of experience do you have for this position?
What have you done that shows initiative and/or problem solving?
What do you know about this organization and/or position?
What makes you qualified for the position?
Tell us how your education will benefit you and help you succeed in this position?

, Because being a police officer means dealing with people on a regular basis, and comes with great responsibility, you will need to pass a psychological exam. The psychological exams includes an appointment with a psychologist, as well as a pencil and paper test.Prepare for this examination by getting a good night’s rest and by eating a healthy breakfast. The pencil and paper test will consist of 300 to 600 questions, so you need to be prepared for several hours of answering questions. Therefore, make sure you get at least 7 hours of sleep and eat eggs, fruit, and grains for breakfast. Try to stay away from sugary breakfast products.
 The majority of applicants pass the medical exam. However, applicants who do not pass are applicants who have serious physical or mental conditions that would significantly interfere with their job performance. Some examples of these ailments are PTSD, hearing or vision impairment, a recent seizure, a severe heart or lung condition, and other debilitating problems.If you have any of these problems, or a similar problem, before investing the time and money to apply, contact your doctor to see if your ailment will interfere with your job performance.
 Once you have completed and passed all the examinations above, you will be ready to enroll in the POST regular basic training. This course will be either offered at a police academy affiliated with the department, or you can look for POST-accredited academies in your area.