 A bachelor's degree in philosophy provides a good base for pursuing a degree in fields that correspond to specific occupations. This will make your eventual transition into the workforce easier. Research the areas that interest you and find out what education you will need for specific careers in which a philosophy major can be beneficial; start by considering broad career types, rather than specific positions.
 The legal field demands clear and critical thinking, the ability to write well and analyze and present arguments. A philosophy degree will have prepared you for each of these challenges. Some philosophy electives link directly to law, such as ethics, philosophy of jurisprudence, and political philosophy.
 Philosophy graduates are well-represented in healthcare, both in administration and medical practice. With specialized education, you will be able to enter a profession that will utilize your analytic skills, clear thinking, and ethical reasoning.. Medical schools tend to look favorably on students with philosophy degrees.The medical paths that philosophy alumni take are as varied as neurology and ophthalmology, orthopedics and cancer research.
 A philosophy degree can prepare you for work in local, state, and federal level government. This is due to a philosophy student’s practiced analytical thinking skills and their ability to present clear, rational arguments. A graduate degree in public administration or international relations will prepare you to apply your critical thinking and argumentative skills to matters of the public good.
 A degree in philosophy can open many doors to careers in business. Many successful business men and women started out with philosophy degrees and developed careers in marketing, venture capitalism, stockbroking, and real estate brokers. In the case of some companies, especially technology start-ups, a humanities degree is a sought-after qualification.With a business administration or economics degree, you can make a transition into this career more easily.

